Sep 17 2019
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
SHELLEY COOK: --Financial Administration and Audit Committee, and would note that Chair
Mihalik is absent today. So I'll be standing in his stead. And I'm hoping to measure up there. So
anyway, we have several recommended actions.
The first one is the adoption of the 2025 Mid-Term Fiancial Plan. And the recommended action
on the agenda is, it's recommended by the Fiancial Administration and Audit Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors adopt the 2020 to 2025 Mid-Term Fiancial Plan. It supports General
Managers' core goal number three-- strong fiancial management-- and task goal number one. Mr.
Chair, do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, if I may, I'd like to move the table the adoption of the 2020-25
Mid-Term Financial Plan so that the Board may have the opportunity with advice of staff to
address various issues that have come up that, I think, deserve addressing before we consider the
matter. So that's my motion to table.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second that motion.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. We have a motion by the Chair and a second by Director Williams. Is
there any discussion of the motion?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Cook, may I ask to clarify that the motion to table is not indefinitely,
but to a date-DOUG TISDALE: I apologize. I did not state specifically, table for one month to the next
meeting of this committee. Thank you very much for the clarification. It was my error in not
reciting that in the first instance. It is to table for one month.
SHELLEY COOK: Is that debatable?
DOUG TISDALE: No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All right. Then let's just go ahead with the vote, if that's OK. The mover
was Director Tisdale, and the seconder was Director Williams. I can't vote yet.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Is there a discussion?
SHELLEY COOK: I thought it was not debatable.
NATALIE MENTEN: It's just to move.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.

ROLF ASPHAUG: It is. It is debatable.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, it is. OK. I misunderstood you then. I'm sorry. We can have some
discussion if you would all like. I don't mean to force that.
NATALIE MENTEN: And thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: You're very welcome.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah.
ROLF ASPHAUG: I apologize. This is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. The motion to table by
a month is debatable. The underlying motion is not debatable. So it's simply whether to table it
for a month or not.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, OK. Got it.
SHELLY COOK: So are we pulling the vote, or-SPEAKER 2: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So any discussion or questions? We're taking the vote is what we're
doing. OK. I guess I'm with it. Patience, everybody. So Director Folska, are you on the phone?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes. Yes, Chair Cook, I am.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Cook, I apologize again. This is Rolf Asphaug. Just for the purpose of
a clean record, what's showing up there is adoption of the Mid-Term Fiancial Plan. But what is
being voted on is a motion to table it by one month.
SHELLEY COOK: Right, yes. OK. Correct. So are you saying-- forgive me, everybody. Are you
saying then we need to proceed to a vote? Or you're saying that we have already voted on that
item?
ROLF ASPHAUG: No, it sounds as if-- I don't know if it's showing up on the screen, but if it
already was voted on-SHELLEY COOK: It did. It did show. OK. So Director Folska, are you voting in favor or
against?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm in support of it. Thank you, Chair Cook.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you, everybody, for bearing with me. OK. So let's move on to the
second recommended item-- the approval of the contract for sales force licenses. Let me read the
item first here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have to vote.
SHELLEY COOK: Again?
BARBARA MCMANUS: They zeroed it out. So you have to vote. Director Lubow was not
signed in. We've canceled the vote you were debating. And now what we have to do is vote to
postpone to a date certain, which a month from now. So hold on. Just a moment.
KATE WILLIAMS: He still moved, and I still seconded. Director Folska voted for or against?
ANGIR RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, for.
SHELLEY COOK: She voted for. Yeah. OK. We have the mover and the seconder. OK,
everybody. Please, once again, cast your vote.
VINCE BUZEK: It says adoption of the plan.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order. It does say adoption. The motion is to table. The record
reflects that the motion is to table for one month, despite the heading. It's just that it comes under
the subject matter of the motion to adopt the 2015 Fiancial Plan. But it is a motion to table for
one month.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. So everybody, please cast your vote with that clarification. OK.
And once again the vote is 14 to 1, with Director Folska's vote in favor. 14 to 0, excuse me, in
favor of tabling.
OK. Next item-- the approval of the contract for the sales force licenses.
The recommended action is, by the Fiancial Administration and Audit Committee, that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary
to award a contract to Carahsoft for licenses, for the Sales Force Licenses, in Customer Care
Case Management/CRM for an amount not to exceed $2,200,000 over four years. Subscriptions
for the Customer Care Case Management/CRM will be paid annually. This supports the General
Manager's goal number five for communication.
So do I have a motion?
OK. Director Walker made the motion and Director Broom in second. Any discussion? Director
Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I just have a question.

SHELLEY COOK: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: With the software for the service management, case management, digital
marketing management, and social engagement, umm- management specific to that one, is that
an opportunity for us to be able to better reach out to customers, to better have contact with
customers? I'm just trying to understand is this more for internal use? Or is it for external
marketing?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer. So my
understanding is it's an internal customer management system. So right now we have Trapeze
that's being replaced by a previous vote of this Board to go with MTRAM (MAOIR) . When we
get rid of that, our current case management system, how we log the calls, how we log the social
media inquiries, how we then respond to them through that process, is going away in the current
system.
So this is to replace that. So it's able to give us more ability through the Salesforce platform to
manage those, respond more quickly, and catalog them, and make sure also that, if we're seeing
similar complaints, that we can address them on a more systematic basis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. But this is not a tool to be used for proactive engagement. This is just
in response to what-HEATHER MCKILLOP: I can double check on that for you. But my understanding was more
internal than the external. But it will help us manage those complaints better.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you. You don't have to check, by the way. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Any other questions or discussion? OK. I think we're ready for a vote. The
mover was Director Walker, and the seconder was Director Broom. Director Folska, we'll ask
you verbally. Are you in favor or-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So with that the votes are tallied. And it passes 14 to 0, with Director
Folska on the phone.
So next item. This is the approval of the 29th and Welton property. And let me get my-- here.
OK. This is recommended action by the Fiancial and Administration and Audit Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors extend by two 90-day terms for a total of six months the option for
the sale of the real property located at 2907-2915 Welton Street, Denver, Colorado, called the
property, including execution of any deeds and other property conveyance documents.
This action addresses one of the General Managers' goals for 2019, task goal number three,
which is ensure fiscal sustainability. Do I have a motion to approve?
KATE WILLIAMS: Move.

SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
SHELLEY COOK: And a second by Director Catlin. Any discussion? OK, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'll be voting in opposition to this, having researched this
property for a long time. What I see is that we bought this property for a certain amount of
money. And we've kept it as a parking lot, which still to this day is being used as a parking lot.
And we've given this developer two years-- this hand-picked developer-- two years to come up
with financing, and they have not done so yet. And now they're asking for an option.
And there is the potential that this developer, through negotiations with City and County of
Denver, would get a substantial amount of taxpayer money, whether it's Denver, to me it's
taxpayer money, and even potential for loan forgiveness. I think when this property was acquired
some 20-plus years ago, and now it's being handed away to a select developer, it's contrary to the
best interest of the Regional Transportation District and the taxpayers.
If we are not willing to offer it back to the original owners for some sort of formulated price,
which I've mentioned in a previous Board meeting, even if this was a friendly acquisition, I think
when we abandon, as far as I'm concerned, our original public purpose, that should be a
consideration, to go back to the original owners. And if it is not, and the original owners, for
whatever reason, voluntarily don't want to enter into a purchase for it, then it should go to the
market.
And any kind of hand-selected developer to me begs a lot of questions and research, especially if
it is somebody that has been involved in the Denver system for a long time. And I'm not going to
mention any names. But I don't think we should be offering the option to start with. And the
market's going to be changing.
So I know some people like to know why there's a no vote. And that's where I stand. And I
would be happy to share some more information with others in more of a off-the-record
discussion about this. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you Doctor or Director Menten and-NATALIE MENTEN: Doctor?
SHELLEY COOK: Promoted to there. And its Director Chair Tisdale is next.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. General Manager wanted to-SHELLEY COOK: Oh. Yeah, forgive me. So go ahead, Director--

DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Chair. If I could just respond to one thing, the developer was
selected through an RFP process by the City and County of Denver that our transit oriented
communities team participated in. So there was an RFP process that selected the developer.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you for that clarification. And Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I wanted to ask a question first. If you
look at page 46 of the packet, it does indicate that DEDO-- the Denver Economic Development
and Opportunity office-- was looking for a new capital stack for the project no later than
September 11. Do we know, was that received by them?
BILL SIROIS: Again, this is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities. In
our discussions with the DEDO office today, they said they received some information but not
all the information regarding the capital stack. So they're still kind of going through it with the
developer. So they did not receive the full information that they had outlined in the letter.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. All right. Thank you. That does cause some concern, because obviously
they've been aware for some period of time that we were addressing this. And we would hope
that they would have that.
The other thing is that, I note at page 48 of the packet in the original option, we did say that the
purpose for this was that the buyer was to be providing a minimum of 25% of the units to be
income restricted. And I'm wondering, is that something that we have confirmed? And is that
something that would be included in any conveyancing documents, that there would be a
restriction that at least 25% of the units would have to be income restricted?
BILL SIROIS: We've made it very clear to the City about that being included in their deal with
the developer. Now, in terms of the conveyance documents itself, I think we had the discussion
earlier. But I believe in talking with legal we were expecting that to kind of be worked out with
the City in terms of their financing of the actual units. With their subsidy that financing would be
restricting terms of the income levels. But it would not be restituted in our conveyance of the
property specifically.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And again, I'm looking for, if we're going to sell the property and we're
trying to achieve a social goal along with an appropriate disposition of excess property, that we
make sure that we actually enforce that social goal and have an agreement with the City. Because
I think we would all feel ill-used if we end up selling this property to the City, and then the City
sells it to Donald Trump, and there is a hotel tower built on the property.
BILL SIROIS: The one thing to clarify, I do think that we need to see evidence of their deal
being finalized in terms of the closing of the property, everything else in terms of the documents
that they are working with the developer that we know that they're working with, and they're not
kind of turning around and working with somebody else. That is very clear within the
conversations with the City.

DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. And have we yet received the new appraisal? We
probably have not, because we don't want to incur the expense of an appraisal unless we know
there's a deal, right?
BILL SIROIS: Right.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And then lastly, we have attached here, too, at, I believe it's page 50,
five-zero of the packet, the resolution concerning revised strategic plan for Transit Oriented
Development. We just updated the transit oriented development plan criteria a number of months
ago, because I remember that. Why is that not included in the packet at this point?
BILL SIROIS: Again, this is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities. This
document, again, relates to the action that was taken prior to the Board adopting these guiding
principles and-- guiding principles and values. I can't remember the term we used. But yes, so
this was prior. This was what we used prior to that.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I understand that this, as presented, is the package that was originally
prepared. But what we're now being asked to do is to provide for some extensions. And I'm just
wondering if it wouldn't be appropriate to have the additional updated language also added to the
package, so that both the City and the potential buyer have fair notice of what we're looking for?
And that's my only comment. I thank you very much. And I actually will be supporting it. I just
wanted to clarify some of these points and make sure that we had addressed them and will be
addressing them going forward. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Has there been any other interest expressed in this
property in the past three years?
BILL SIROIS: Again, this is Bill Sirois. I do not believe we have had any direct interest. I mean,
certainly in that whole area there has been a lot of new development, a lot of new things. And
maybe recently saw in the paper about the renovation or the redoing of the Rossonian. But I don't
believe we have had any specific interest, because, again, we had a very open RFP process with
the City, where the land was kind of essentially spoken for through that process.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I have a couple of questions. I do recall the last time this came
before us, Director Menten asked if there had been an attempt to contact the previous property
owners. And I just want to know if there had been since that time.

BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois. We did not make any contact. I believe Director Menten was
able to contact some of the members of the family, because the original owners of the property
are now deceased.
PEGGY CATLIN: As a follow-up, were the family members of the deceased property owners
interested at all in the property? I asked Director Menten, is that OK?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, they are.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Since we don't have any transit purpose for this property, giving an
extension until we find out, perhaps, some more detail and answer to some of these questions
would not necessarily change our ability to say no to the deal later on. Is that correct?
BILL SIROIS: If they did not meet the fundamental tenets that are outlined in the original Board
action.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's what I mean.
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I have a question that I'm not sure if is answerable or not. Can we identify
the specific developer that is mentioned here repeatedly?
BILL SIROIS: Yes. Again, this is Bill Sirois. It's Burgess Development. And Denise Burgess is
kind of the president.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. OK. And so we're in a deal of some kind with the City over this piece
of property right now, because at some point in time we're happy to convey it to the City. But the
City has already indicated that they're going to convey it immediately elsewhere. Am I stating
that reasonably-BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois. we did say in the original action from the Board, by the City or
its designee. So we were fully aware that they were likely going to convey it to a developer. So
that was part of the original discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. And as it stands now, they can't convey to anybody else.
BILL SIROIS: That is correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So if we commit to conveying it to them, they have a commitment to
convey it to this group to do what they have specified they're going to do with it, which involves
some form of affordable housing. Right?

BILL SIROIS: Yes, that is correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Just wanted to make sure I was clear on all of that. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, that was helpful. Thank you, Director Williams. Director RiveraMalpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Cook. My question is, why do they need an
extension?
BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois. It's my understanding that the change that has happened in the
last few months is been related-- and I think it's explained in the Board report-- that originally
their ground floor use was going to include the Cleo Parker Robinson dance studio. And since
the original proposal they have dropped from the team.
So they have been looking to reprogram in the last few months, have come up with the idea of
reprogramming it, mainly to be more-- I believe it's more residential uses with less commercial.
And they believe that, in terms of in their discussions with the City, is more financially
sustainable than the original proposal-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BILL SIROIS: Without Cleo Parker Robinson.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Without Cleo. And then if I might ask Director Menten, so you
have contacted the previous owners, and they're interested in the property?
NATALIE MENTEN: The heirs to the previous owner.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Pardon?
NATALIE MENTEN: The heirs-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The heirs, yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: --to the previous owner. Because the original deceased in 2012.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: So before I go back to Director Menten, if it's OK I'd like to check with
Director Folska and see if she has a question.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Cook. At the moment I do not have a question.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Then Director Menten?

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I've given considerable time to this issue. I'm going back to when we
originally created the two-year deal, walked the street down there, talked to folks, lot of time in
it. There is an interest, I think, as an overall reaching policy at RTD if we have an original public
purpose, and whether it's a friendly acquisition or a condemnation.
I would like to see us have a policy in place that allows us to reach out to the original owners.
For myself, it took me roughly 58 minutes to get a hold of the original owners. It was not
difficult using the resources. So I don't think it would be difficult for our agency to do that same
thing. And it could be written into any deals moving forward, again, whether a friendly
acquisition certain level, we have to have a discussion about that, and certainly in those where
we're doing a condemnation, a taking.
And if that didn't work out, then I know just something is wrong with this deal for me. And we
don't even have-- I don't know where we've stuck "for sale" signs up. The market is definitely
different than it was two years ago. I know what this property is valued at per the assessor. And I
would like to see this tabled for a month, if we can do that. Rolf?
SHELLY COOK: it takes a motion.
NATALIE MENTEN: They're asking for their formal request. And we're right in the period
where they would need to be asking for that extension. So what's the options?
BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, sorry I didn't mean to step over-BILL SIROIS: Oh, I was going to say the option expires on September 25. So if we were not to
take action this month, that option then would be null and-- correct me if I'm right, Rolf, that it
would be null and void at that point.
ROLF ASPHAUG: The right will have expired.
DAVE GENOVA: The purchase right will have expired.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Well, after two years, and now we're going to chew up another 180
days. And I remember us going through maybe one other property deal, where we kept going
through that. Is that the one off of Santa Fe or something, where we kept coming back? I will
definitely be a no.
And I sure would love to see a policy across the state of Colorado. When a government does not
use it for its original purpose anymore, there's a true respect for property rights in families. And
we talk about gentrification and all of these different things. And I think it would be the right
thing to do, for Colorado to have that.
So there, I've said my piece. Thank you.

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted a point of clarification about something that
Chair Tisdale asked, about the affordable housing. I think that was supposed to be 25%. And he
asked whether that would be included in our conveyance document. And I believe you said no,
that instead we saw their conveyance documents and-BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois. Again, I'll defer a little bit to Rolf on this. But in terms of how
it is, I was referring to, in our deed, that we would not have a restriction on the affordable
housing, that we wouldn't do as part of the deed in terms of the transfer of property. But it would
be part of the agreement to sell the property to the City, that the developer would be required to
provide affordable housing a minimum of 25% at the rate that's defined in the Board action.
JUDY LUBOW: So it would be a contract between us and the City.
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. Thank you for that.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I have a few questions for you all. Of the 25% how many units
is it actually?
BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois. In the original model that we did when we were looking at the
property, it was 50 units total. So 25% of 50-- and I hate to do my math in my head-- 12 and 1/2
units.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That's helpful. Have you seen-- so for the income restricted piece, how
long is it income restricted?
BILL SIROIS: I'm going to-- I don't know if Chessy knows. But I believe it is-- for the term of
the financing of the City, I know in terms of the other affordable housing projects that we work
for that have had low income housing tax credits, I know that that term has been 40 years. I don't
know. I would probably have to ask and get that information directly from the City.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. That would be helpful. I think that makes a big difference for me in
particular, especially for that neighborhood. So we could talk about that.
Have you all seen examples where we've been able to see smaller AMIs? So maybe 30% or 40%,
and not the 80% to 100%?
BILL SIROIS: Again, this is Bill Sirois. The original intent of the original conversation with the
City, they have in the Five Points in Welton quarter in particular, they looked at in totality what
has been happening. There were several low income housing projects that had been built in the

last 10 years. And primary financier of those projects has been the Colorado Housing and
Finance Authority through low income housing tax credits, like I mentioned.
And they basically said that they aren't going to be allocating any more of those funds. So those
serve 60% and below. So when we had conversations with the City about this particular site, they
were suggesting that it was-- their thought was it was important to target that more workforce
element, which is the 80% and 80% to 100% income level. So that is why we put it in the way
we did.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. That 60% is for sale or for rental?
BILL SIROIS: For rental.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh. So not anything at that for sale at the 30%?
BILL SIROIS: Yeah. In my experience I think it's been very difficult to do for sale products for
60% and below. I think those have been primarily rental projects.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And the Cleo dance studio? Now, what, no dance studio?
BILL SIROIS: It's my understanding that there is no dance studio. And that's part of the new
information that we expect to see from the developer in the near future, about what expect-- that
is my understanding, it's a reduced footprint for commercial. So I can't remember the total
footprint for commercial. But it was essentially most of the ground floor.
But now I believe they've shrunk that to a much smaller portion, probably on the corner of the
building.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And then after the 180 days, does it just expire, so it all will-- OK.
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Williams, another question?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for the second bite of the apple. Hi Chessy. Hi, Bill. What do
you want to tell us about this? What do you want to just say about it?
[LAUGHTER]
I mean-- serious.

BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois. Again, there is some information about-- I mean, the original
intent with this, and we were looking at. This was during the TOD pilot program. And it is a
remnant of that. We were looking at new ways to try to do things. And so we were looking at a
new project within the Five Points area. And I think that some of the comments I would agree
with. That neighborhood has changed quite a bit since we originally engaged in this.
But we do still think it is a valid project. And we think it's appropriate to work with the City on
this. Now, again, if for some reason it doesn't work out, we think there's still an opportunity to
look at other options. And we're certainly willing to do that. And we would come back to the
Board for anything that we would want to consider.
So with that being said, I think that we are kind of taking this City's direction on this and think
it's worth giving another six months to see if the developer and the City can work it out.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. That was what I was looking for. And then I have one more
quick question. So if we don't pass this tonight, then-- September 25 is, what, a week or eight
days or so-- then the option expires. And then everything's off the table. Our partnership with the
City, any affordable housing, all that's off the table. And we start clean with this piece of
property. Is that correct?
BILL SIROIS: Correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: And do you think that's a good thing or not? So I'm just asking for your
opinion.
BILL SIROIS: Again, this is Bill Sirois. I think that giving the City's direction, because, again,
the way I looked at affordable housing-- and this is a conversation we've had with the Board over
the years in terms of how we are involved as an agency with affordable housing projects-- we
rely a lot on the local jurisdictions in terms of their ability to provide incentives to make it
happen. We don't really have that ability.
I think the one thing that I know was mentioned but I wanted to make clear, we are intending to
sell this property for appraised value. We're not intending to discount it. So we will do a future
appraisal, I think like the chair said. And it has to be a valid appraisal within six months of when
we close. So I mean, there will be a significant appreciation on that property, again, that we
would see as part of our lease with the City.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Williams. And thank you for asking. I didn't give you
the opportunity to offer comments at the beginning, so I'm glad you asked that. And Director
Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I'll be supporting the motion. So even though the housing market is
slowing, the prices are still increasing, just not as fast. But they're still increasing. And lord
knows that we need housing in this City.

I watched Denver City Council last night, just for fun. And there were two extremely
controversial housing projects on there, development projects. One was Loretto Heights, the
other was at 17th and Sheridan. And they both involved housing, though. And we need more of it
in this town, because people are still coming here, despite the insanely expensive housing. Which
is why we need more of it.
And in worst case scenario, the property is back on the market in six months, if it's not extended
for some other period. So I'll be supporting it for those reasons. And I would not be in favor of
reaching out to former property owners or the heirs or assigned successors, et cetera, unless it's
conditioned, unless it's a term and condition within the purchase and sale agreement.
I think once the property is severed, the title is severed from the owner, it's severed from the
owner. And if that person wants it, then they can approach and make an offer just like anybody
else can. But I don't think I see it as any property owner's duty to reach back into the past and
find somebody else who used to own it or somebody who was associated in some way.
So at any rate, that's a long way of saying that I'll be a yes vote on this. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Walker. And Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: I'm also going to be supporting this. This is residential infill next to a rail station.
So I think it makes sense for the district to do this. But there's no guarantees. I mean, if a
recession hits in the next 12 to 18 months, then this thing will go on the back burner, and it'll be
back here again in two years, because the developer can't proceed.
But, you know, if they are working on this in good conscience, then I think it makes sense for us
to realize the money that we can out of this property. And we won't have to maintain it going
forward, which costs us money. So I will be supporting it.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. One more question. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's a comment. I'll have to say that I'm torn with this project. Because
housing is incredibly important to me. The 80% to 100% AMI, I think that's OK. The 25%, I
think that's OK. I am concerned about the length of time of when that will no longer be income
restricted. And without having that answered, I don't think I can support this, because I don't
want to, in 40 years, be the person responsible for housing that was once affordable not being
affordable abruptly.
BILL SIROIS: And this Bill Sirois. I'll make one comment. We will provide. We will get that
information from the City in terms of the length of time. And we can provide that to the Board
before next week.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Is there an opportunity for us to-- we don't necessarily have to table
this, but to maybe give them a deadline that's not six months, and it's maybe three months or a
month, so we can get some of that information?

BILL SIROIS: I guess I'm not really understanding your question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So we talked about 180 days. Can we go with 30 days or 60 days, just to be
able to one, get the information from the September 11 comment from Chair Tisdale? Sorry, I'm
being distractive.
BILL SIROIS: You know, I'm not sure. I think they requested the full six months. We can ask
them if they would consider any less. I don't know how that would work in terms of the action
that's in front of us, how that would work. But I believe all they've come to us with is a request
for six months.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, Rolf Asphaug? Did you have a comment?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, this is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. If I understand correctly, I
thought Mr. Sirois was saying that we could find out the information about the 40 years between
now and the Board meeting next week, which would be the final action. Since this is just the
committee-- so we hope we can get that information by the time of the Board meeting next week,
was my understanding.
BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois again. My question was more of, if we changed the term that's
been requested in the Board action, which is a six-month extension-- and you were saying if we
could have something less than that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
BILL SIROIS: And so I'm not sure how that would work. If the action is requesting six months,
we had a conversation with the City, and they said they could deal with-- which, I don't know.
We have to ask them.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I have a question, Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Are you finished?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Go ahead, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Bill, you may have answered this already from Director
Malpiede. I'm not sure. Why do we need-- why do they want a six-- why do they want the
extension? Why do they need six months? And I know you said that this one group dropped out.
I mean, were they a money participant? I mean, they were putting money into this deal, and now
they need to find another source of revenue to make it happen?
BOB BROOM: It's pre-lease.

BILL SIROIS: Actually, it's a little bit different. Again, this is Bill Sirois. The real issue is that,
in terms of their pro forma for their development, when they included the Cleo Parker Robinson
use in the ground floor, it was a fairly significant amount of square feet. And my understanding
is that they were having difficulty making profit on that to have it pencil out as part of their pro
forma.
So with taking them out of the program for the building, they can recoup some of that lost
revenue in other ways. At least, that's what they have said to us. We have not seen any
information as to how that would actually happen. But that is what they have indicated to us.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, you know, I've got to say, my sense-- and I don't obviously have
hardly any detail about this-- when I think about the Montbello project, I mean, I felt like those
folks Kadisha Haynes and that group. They were ready for prime time. And, you know, when we
asked them to do stuff, they did it, and they were joining us. I just felt that there was a much
more responsive participation. And that was direct between us and them.
And so my sense is, I very much encourage affordable housing. I know that we need more
housing. And to me, going ahead with a six-month extension is extending something that wasn't
ready for prime time and won't be in six months. So I'd rather see us go directly to the market,
whoever that may be, the heirs of the original owners or not, and see what we come up with. And
I think we could do a lot better.
And I don't think we need to sell it. We could do a ground lease and, you know, have a similar
type of relationship that we have with Denver Union Station. And that's pretty profitable to RTD.
So I'm going to be voting no. I'm not even interested in an extension. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And if I might just interject, recalling my real estate days, 180 days is
kind of a blink of an eye. It's not like you can pull a deal together that quickly in real terms.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, they've had-- yeah, I'm sorry, Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, yeah. I was just sort of voicing my own comments, since most people
have had a chance to talk. I didn't mean to be replying to you, I apologize.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, great. Yeah. No, you're right. 180 days isn't long at all. But now
they've had two years, so.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Cook, for giving me another bite at the apple.
Is this the first extension they've asked for?
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. And Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll be voting yes on this. I think that, as you said, 180 days is not much.
Real estate deals can take a lot of work. City and County of Denver is a good partner of ours.
They're asking us to do this. And they're clearly interested in affordable housing. I think it's a
good project. And we're getting appraised value for it.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. I don't have any other speakers in the queue. Can we move to a vote? I
showed mover as Director Williams and seconder as Director Caitlin. Director Folska, you're
voting in opposition, correct?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. I think then the vote is 10 votes in favor, 4 votes no. And that's
with Director Folska, did I get that right?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So it passes. All right. OK. Now moving on to the next one. OK.
So the recommended action on this one is by the Fiancial Administration and Audit Committee,
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate
and execute all documents necessary for sublease of the vacant portion of the real property
located adjacent to Civic Center Station on Colfax Avenue between Lincoln and Broadway,
Denver, Colorado, the property contingent on the National Medal of Honor Museum selecting
Denver for its new museum. This would increase RTD's revenues by approximately $123,000
annually.
The action addresses one of the General Managers' goals for 2019, task goal number three,
ensure fiscal sustainability. And first, I turn it over to the staff to see if you have a presentation or
remarks you'd like to add.
DOUG TISDALE: How about a motion?
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, yes. Forgive me. I need a motion. First.
JEFF WALKER: Move.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Walker in favor and second by Director Guissinger. Thanks,
everybody. So go ahead.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you. This is Chessy Brady, Transit Oriented Development Manager. I
would just add that the sublease will be to the City and County of Denver, who will cover the
costs of the land. And then their designee, the museum would cover the security and

maintenance. And RTD would retain approval of the design in terms of safety, security, as well
as transit access and transit needs.
And in response to previous questions, we did take another look and check again that we don't
have transit needs for this site. And that is, our future needs for Civic Center Station are met on
the station or on the street, and not on this parcel.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. We have a speaker. Director Menten, go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So under financial impact, it says this amount would increase by 1%
each year per terms of the ground lease. So we are covered on cost-CHESSY BRADY: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: --with that statement. Is that correct?
CHESSY BRADY: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you. That's all.
SHELLEY COOK: No speakers in the queue? Oh, OK. Director Tisdale, next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I'd like to clarify, because I think we
have this understanding, but I think it helps to say it out loud and for the benefit of the public, as
well, prior to our discussion at the Board meeting next Tuesday when this comes forward at that
time-- hopefully I submit with a favorable recommendation-- that this would be a sublease by
RTD of this property to the City and county of Denver.
For our total actual costs, they are estimated at approximately $123,000. We would, prior to the
entry into any sublease, confirm and make absolutely certain that we are recovering every dollar
so that we are using no taxpayer dollars, are incurring no expense associated with this, but that
rather, the City and County of Denver would incur that expense.
And we, in collaboration with them, would be allowing something significant to go forward,
which is the National Medal of Honor Museum; that the actual operation and maintenance of this
property, which is intended to be merely a park, would be by the National Medal of Honor
Museum; and that we would have adequate insurance in place-- and that could be made a part of
any sublease-- that we would not incur any liability for anything having to do with that property
or any activities on that property.
If we get the chance to do something that's actually pretty good that doesn't cost us any money, it
seems to me the logical answer is, we should do that. And it seems to me that if we say, no, we
don't want to do that, there must be some other animus that's driving us. And I think that a good
motivation is to say this is a good thing to do.

Because otherwise, having confirmed we have no transit use for this property, what we have is a
very expensive non-producing gravel pit. That's what the property currently is. It's a very
expensive, non-producing gravel pit. Let's make it something nice. I urge all of you to vote yes.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank, you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I'll agree with what Director Tisdale just stated. And I think we
have a chance to bring something really nice and special to the downtown area, especially in a
part that really needs it, being across from Civic Center Park and between the State Capitol in the
City of Denver, and especially right next to a pretty major transfer point in Civic Center. And I
was fine before, even when we were just going to be getting $1 for it, because at least it brought
something to the City instead of just a gravel pit. It was some kind of attraction, and if we had
front that cost, that's fine, as long as it was bringing some value.
But once again, we see our partners, the City and County of Denver in a transaction with us,
which is why I think it's important to work with them. Sometimes we give, sometimes we take.
But ultimately, the taxpayers, the people that support us and that we support, benefit. So I'll be a
yes vote on this. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And my opposition will now somehow appear
unpatriotic based on the prior comments.
[LAUGHTER]
But nonetheless, I will voice my opposition. And once again, I'll go back to our mission
statement. It's an interesting thing. It guides everything we do at RTD. This project, this
becoming a landlord, does not advance the mission of RTD. Some people will say, yeah, but it's
money. OK. Let's set up a couple hot dog stands in that area and sell dogs, because we'll make
money. There is no relationship to our mission here.
And this shuts the door on any future possible use for this property by RTD such as, as is stated
in our report, a consolidated RTD headquarters, at that location. Wouldn't that be something, to
get out of this lovely building and go somewhere else?
So I understand there's money involved. But if our sole motivating factors, and everything we do
is, can we get money from it, I don't think that's the analysis. And just like the last thing we just
had, this property that we were talking about selling-- totally different. We're completely wiping
this off of our asset list and getting a chunk of money for it, because it's non-producing and we
don't need it. Here we're becoming landlords and getting an annual rent.
I don't see how that advances the mission. Sure, it's nice. Would it be nice to have this museum?
I guess. Would the museum not come here without this grand park-like entrance? Who knows?
No idea. Totally unnecessary to the actual museum itself. It's separated by a busy street.

So I think you can tell by my comments I will not be supporting this. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I'd like to just share that I will be unpatriotic number
two. A couple of things for me as I read this.
Let me first start with the process. Because the last time we talked about it, the entire Board said
no. And then next I'm reading that it's a recommended action. So I'm very concerned about who
made that decision. Because as part of the Executive Committee, I didn't even know this was
going to be on the agenda. And I find that very disrespectful. So let me just say that first.
With that in mind, I think that we are landlocked in the district. We are running out of land. And
we could use this property for a building for RTD. Or if we really want to do something in the
community, we could put it out for bid for affordable housing. Or we could build a community
garden, where our community members can come and get free food. But I think that using it as
an entry way to a museum for medals does not equate for me.
So I will be voting no on this. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Rivera-Malpiede. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm afraid to speak. I don't want to be unpatriotic. I think the hot dog stand
could be nutritional support to our riders. You know, I think that would work.
I think I'm the person who first said that, you know, that's a prime piece of property adjacent to
our primary transit center. And although a park is nice, I'm inclined to be less than impressed
with the National Medal of Honor Museum. I don't know how many National Medal of Honor
winners there are that they need a museum for that. I don't know.
And that's what I thought. Why don't we give them this great historic building for the National
Medal of Honor Museum, and have the City and County of Denver help us build a transit center
that we could put our offices in there? I mean, if that's a partnership that we're working with the
museum and with the City, I mean, I don't know. I'm kind of out of the box.
But it doesn't sound like a great deal. It's a break even for us, is the selling point that we have
been presented with-- that we will have no cost for the lease that we have on the property.
The other question that I have is that we are entering, we are proposing, entering into a deal, that
is for the remnants of our lease, which is 55 years. Is it possible that we could enter into a deal
for 10 years, so that we could have some future to look at? I mean, if they want to put a park
there, they're not going to spend $1 million to put a park there.
And Director Malpiede has a valid idea. We could say a community garden could be part of the
park. You know, I don't know. Some artwork. But it just doesn't feel like-- to me, patriotic or no-

- that I want to give the National Medal of Honor Museum a piece of property in the heart of
downtown Denver for $123,000 a year for 55 years.
So I'd like to see some alternative proposals. And--umm-- I'm going to vote no.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm going to support this. I think it's important-- I'm patriotic, what can I
say? I think it's important to remember that this is a lease that expires in 2075. And we are not
going to be building a building on it, because we're not going to want to tear it down in 55 years.
It is a gravel pit. They've said that it's very clear we don't have a transit use for it. $123,000 with
the 1%, it's about $7 million over the course of that lease. It's not nothing. And you know, if you
look at our numbers right now, we can use that money.
And I guess the final thing I would say is that I look at this-- I guess as chair of communications
and government relations-- I look at this in sort of the big picture of how we work with our
partners. And in this case, the City and county of Denver cares enough that they're offering to
pay the lease. I don't know that that's a set thing but they're negotiating that.
And I got a call from the Governor's Chief of Staff a few weeks ago, because he's very invested
in bringing it here. This is a big-- it's seen as a big economic development thing. And I would not
like to see RTD stand in the way.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I would not like to stand in the way. But I, too, will not be supporting this
for many reasons. I, too, have concerns. As Director Malpiede shared about how this came to us,
it was an update, and then it was a recommended action. And so we didn't get a chance to really
grapple with this as a Board.
I think there are a lot of things. I think this plays into this idea of being in a world class city. And
I that's important for some folks. But I also think we need to be taking care of the folks within
our city currently. This could be used for education. This could be used for housing. This could
be used for food access, health care. I can think of many, many uses that the people within our
communities are experiencing around issues and inequities.
And this feels like us increasing those inequities, because we aren't thinking about our folks. And
so unfortunately, I am not going to be supporting this. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom? Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I'm glad we're not voting on this on 9/11. You know, I'm
going to support this. Just the fact that you're creating some more open space in a sense that's
going to be landscaped in that part of town just adds to the amenity down there. An open space is
getting to be a very, very precious thing. And so I'm going to support this. Thank you.

SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. It's my understanding that nobody's been interested in this
before. So it's not as if people are beating down our door for this gravel pit. And in fact,
therefore, we're the ones really shouldering the $123,000. And instead it would be shouldered by
the City. So that's a plus, an annual plus of a lot of money in my opinion.
Also-- god, I'm such a history buff, and there are plenty of us. And I love the fact that it's a medal
of honor museum. I just love it. So that's one person at least who's going to go a lot. But I do
think it will, if it's a good museum, bring a lot of people to downtown with all their tax money.
And so I think that's very beneficial. And presumably they would need transit to get there. So it
would help our mission, also. And I mean I see it as a win for us. And so I will support it. Thank
you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Lubow. Before we go back around, can I ask Director
Folska, do you have any questions or comments?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, I do. I do.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, please. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Are you there?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, sorry.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I wasn't sure. I appreciate everything everyone has said very much. And
so the building that they're actually building, they're going to own forever and ever and ever. Is
that correct?
CHESSY BRADY: They will be-- this is Chessy Brady. They will be leasing the land from the
state also. And from what I've heard, that will also be a 55-year lease.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And did the state tell you how much revenue they think will be produced
from this museum?
CHESSY BRADY: No, we haven't gotten those numbers from the state or from the museum in
terms of their expected revenues.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I'd like to see that before I would vote for it. And I don't think $7
million over 55 years is a lot of money unless they gave it to us now all up front. That would be
useful. Maybe they could think of that.

And they can go ahead with their museum whether they have this entry way or not. Isn't that so?
CHESSY BRADY: That's correct. They have stated to us that the RTD parcel, the land that
would be a park-like entrance to their museum, is necessary for the project to work for them.
And as they decide between Arlington, Texas and Denver, they're looking at the whole package.
And from what the museum has told us, the RTD property is really a major part of the proposal.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, so I'd be interested in some projections on what their estimated
revenues would be and when they would be actually open for business, how long that would take
before they open the doors to the public. Do you know that?
CHESSY BRADY: I think they're expecting to do a lot of fundraising over the next six months
or so and then start construction late 2020, opening a few years later. But it will depend on their
fundraising.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So it's possible that they didn't get enough money and they never do
anything, and then our property is tied up.
CHESSY BRADY: So in that case, we will have milestones in the sublease that they will have to
meet. And if they do not meet them, then the lease will terminate.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And so we are leasing that space now from the state as well?
CHESSY BRADY: I'm sorry. Can you repeat the question?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Are we currently leasing from the state as well right now?
CHESSY BRADY: We have a ground lease on the station and the parcel adjoining it from a
family trust.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. And would we ever be able to extend that?
CHESSY BRADY: There is no option to extend in the current ground lease. But yes, in 55 years
it could be renegotiated. Or any number of things could happen.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Uh-huh.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska, I've got several people in the queue. Are you wrapping up
there?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I listened to everybody else, so if you don't mind. You know, I
thought that it would be interesting to-- so there's an organization called the Grow House in the
Swansea neighborhood. And they educate people to be entrepreneurs, and so they have food
trucks-- and many other organizations like that, that we could then partner with those kinds of
local organizations who are helping folks out and providing food, and actually lease it to them.

Just like the 16th Street Mall has leases for all those kiosks and makes money off of those. So for
now I'm a no.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's all.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow. Oh, you've spoken. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I may have missed it. But tell me again the square footage.
CHESSY BRADY: Oh. I'm sorry. Off the top of my head I don't have that. But I can provide that
to you.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I'm also wondering-- I know this will be a little bit bizarre-- but
because of this Green Initiative that City passed, voters passed, if they're putting in a building
where-- I'm talking about the proposed museum spot, which is right now parking, correct? And
they build that, do they have to build a park on top of the building or something?
CHESSY BRADY: They will have to meet the City's requirements-- all the City's requirements.
NATALIE MENTEN: Do you happen to know what-- I mean, I'm not a Denver voter. All I
could picture was trees and stuff growing on top of a building, which is strange to me.
CHESSY BRADY: Yeah, it's a good question. There are a lot of variations on how to meet those
requirements. It doesn't have to be green space. It can be solar panels. It can be a white roof. It
depends on elevations. But it likely won't be a park on top of the building.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So what I was kind of wondering is if they may have been trying to
get out of that requirement by having the park by the station. So if they really want a park, you
know, I've kind of been sold on some of these arguments-- and Director Buzek, it's your fault for
starting it, might go with you there-- but right across the street with the Capitol, they've got
green, really, unused, except for protests and rallies. And maybe that's perfect over there.
And so I'm interested in the square footage. I'd be interested in tabling this for a month. There's
been some Directors who are not quite happy that it came back. And maybe we weren't clear on
the last discussion. But, you know, I'd like to wait for transit purposes. I wonder about, yeah,
food trucks. That'd be great, for especially all the protests and the rallies, right?
[LAUGHTER]
Maybe even a partnership with those who help supplement our transportation. So we see these
scooters scattered all over the place. Maybe that would be a perfect little warehouse for them and
little shop. I don't know. But seems to me like we should be tabling this for a month.

CHESSY BRADY: My colleague did just pass me the square footage. It's about 66,000 square
feet. And that's based on our rough estimations. And we would get much more detailed when we
got into this actual sublease.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And notable Denver you can always go up, right? Up, up, up. Like,
up, up.
CHESSY BRADY: Oh, I'm sorry. You're talking about the square footage of the museum itself?
NATALIE MENTEN: No, the park. Our gravel lot, gravel pit. That's 6,600.
CHESSY BRADY: 66,000 square feet. If you were to build a building on it, there are limits.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. OK. Well, it seems to be like there's a lot of questions on the
Board. And I kind of wonder if we should be tabling this for a month. I'm more interested in
some of these alternative uses for that property. And also, I do have to agree that, for our purpose
in our mission statement, and the fact that if they really want this grand park to walk through,
they've got the front of the Capitol building that they could negotiate with. And there's grass
already there.
So I'm kind of leaning that way. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: I still have several people in the queue. If I may, I'll move on. I didn't hear a
motion yet. So Director Walker, go ahead.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. So that brings up a point. And I don't remember if we addressed it
last time. Is this parcel for which we have a lease in the view plane for the Capitol?
CHESSY BRADY: Yes, it is.
JEFF WALKER: OK. So the height is going to be limited to some amount. I remember talking to
somebody on staff. I can't remember who. But I think, if we were to house everybody from RTD
and contractors into one building, it would be somewhere around 250,000 square feet that we
would need. So we're talking 18-story building or something like that which, on this site,
wouldn't be possible, unless it was a very, very skinny building.
CHESSY BRADY: When we've massed it up, we could fit the square footage on the site.
JEFF WALKER: OK. 250,000-ish? OK. And then it'd be a very short, squat building. When we
did talk about it before, I do remember staff saying that it would come back as a recommended
action. Is my memory correct?
CHESSY BRADY: That was our intention, because we are trying to meet the museum's
deadline. The museum Board will be making a decision between Texas and Colorado on October
3.

JEFF WALKER: Right. So even though there was some-- not all, because I was still in favor of
it. Even if we only garnered $1 off of it, that's still more than what we're making off of it now. I
was still in favor of it. So there wasn't unanimous decision or opposition on the Board.
I remember when the Civic Center was redone, I'm coming in on my favorite bus line, the 0. And
I was thinking, man, it looks so much better now than it did before. We have a chance to make it
look even better than it was before.
I'm thinking it fits in with the area with the Still Museum, the Denver Art Museum, the old
museum, the museum that moved off of Pearl and 13th down to across from the Clyfford Still
Museum. I can't remember the name of it, the one with all the knickknacks in it-- History
Colorado, Civic Center, City Hall, and the state building. So it fits in there. And it seems like it's
a good fit. And you sent the Civic Center plan to me. Thank you for that.
How many jobs, do you know, would be in the Medal of Honor Museum?
CHESSY BRADY: I don't know how many jobs. But I'm sure the state of Colorado has gotten
numbers on that, since they're putting together their own package. So I'm sure we can provide
that information.
JEFF WALKER: So I think, definitely me and probably other Board members, would be
interested to know how many jobs this would support, since one of the reasons why-- anyway.
So the $123,000 that we would save through the lease from Denver, or the lease acquisition, this
potential agreement with Denver could support a bus route, could support parts of a bus route,
could support mechanics and bus drivers, or things like that.
So I feel it does go into our mission, because it helps increase our revenue. And we sell
advertising on buses that supports our revenue. We have lots of ways to get money to support our
mission and hire bus drivers, buy buses, et cetera. So I just wanted to say some things I didn't say
before, because the discussion was leading that way.
But I think there are lots and lots of reasons-- I think there are lots and lots of reasons to support
this. I think it's good for the city. I think it's-- I don't see any downside to it. I didn't see any
before, and I see a lot more benefit to it now that our partner the City of Denver stepped up and
made this offer to us. So I wish I could vote twice. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams, another question or comment?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I'll be quick. So if I do the math right, this comes down to $0.16 per
square foot per year. That's what it boils down to. And if the City and County of Denver really
was our partner, then why don't they partner with us to do a park?
Because there's a lot of green space around there. And when I go there now, I think one more
park will have one more group of homeless people on it, which is what City Park looks like now
adjacent to the library. I don't think it's going to be a beautiful entrance to their museum if it
looks like what most of the green space looks like around there now.

And then the other thing, I think, is the entrance. The park that is their entrance is across six
lanes of traffic on Lincoln. And unless they're planning on building a walkover to have their
entrance, which we will have to look at how our buses fit under there, then I think there's a lot of
things that we haven't looked at. And I'm not opposed to a park. And I'm not opposed to $0.16
per square foot per year for the $123,000 times 55 years at 66,000 square feet.
But why don't we do it? Why do we need the National Medal of Honor to do it? Thank you very
much, goodbye.
SHELLEY COOK: Just, if I could interject, because she had raised the question about a use 10
years in. My original concern had been that if some use crops up that we hadn't anticipated at this
point because of the very long time frame. So my question is, focusing on that interest but not
wanting to impede the agreement going forward, would your contract have, or could we
negotiate in that contract with regard to, some flexibility should something come up, that they
would be willing to consider that as potentially jointly beneficial?
So in that way we want to let this go forward, I can see a lot of pluses to it. It really would be in
an amenity for the city and the region and would generate some ridership. It would be adjacent to
one of our primary facilities. All the reasons that have been cited. But just in terms of that
interest, would that be a reasonable thing to, without trying to jettison the deal, negotiate with?
CHESSY BRADY: I think if we can find mutual benefits in a change in the future, I think all
parties would be agreeable to that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. So Director Catlin? Thank you for that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Cook. I'm a little bit torn. And I agree with Director Buzek
regarding our mission, our core mission. Although Director Walker persuaded me that there
might be some tangential benefits. That said, if this National Medal of Honor Museum is indeed
national, and they will be attracting people from all across the country, is there some way that we
can partner with them for them to market RTD services with an eye toward increasing ridership,
and also perhaps have them do something in there, whether it's a pass program, or if it's
something along those lines, to encourage ridership to our Civic Center Station?
That would just be my suggestion. And if we could negotiate something like that, then I would-like I said, I am kind of torn. But I would reluctantly support it.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And I'll be quick as well. And I just think it's unfortunate when this
agency believes that a break-even deal is a good deal. Sometimes it may be. But especially a
prime piece of property like this. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Chair Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First, 3,520. That's how many
Congressional Medal of Honor winners there have been since the medal was issued during the
Civil War. In terms of the process, this actually is exactly how the process works. The matter
comes to the committee, and then it goes to the Board.
The contracts that we voted on tonight have never been seen by us before. That's how it works.
We get something in committee. We vet it, we talk about it, and then it goes on. In this case, we
actually had a preview of it by talking about it when staff gave us the initial discussion.
But what we're doing tonight is exactly the process that our bylaws calls for. It comes to a
committee, and then it goes to the full Board. So there's nothing aberrational or shortened about
this process.
In terms of building a new headquarters, we've determined we can't. That's stated in the report.
We can't build a headquarters there. We don't have enough room. And in terms of our future
needs, City and County of Denver has agreed that they would include in there that they would do
nothing to impair or impede our transit needs for that parcel in terms of access and so forth, and
if we needed it in the future, to carve out a section, because maybe now we have an electric
vehicle charging station. We can certainly work that out as well.
The alternative uses just don't work. Besides which, we don't have the money to do anything.
The very first thing that I asked when I saw that gravel pit was, can't we at least put sod on it and
make it look presentable? And I was told, no, we don't have the money for it.
We're getting, I think, a wonderful opportunity to dress up Civic Center Station. I think it's a
good idea. I hope that we go ahead and recommend approval tonight and then have a final vote
of approval at the Board meeting next week. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: One more. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I would move to table this for one week and request the term
sheet from the City or whoever that will enumerate what the capital investment is going to be in
this project or estimated capital investment; how many jobs construction and then operating jobs
in the museum itself it will generate; and also an estimate of the number of visitors a they expect
to attract on an annual basis to Denver which, of course, helps the sales tax base. And of course,
we do get sales tax anytime a visitor comes to town and buys a meal or stays in a hotel. Thank
you.
SHELLEY COOK: We have a motion to table.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams. And I ask again, is this debatable?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair, my concern is the motion is to table for one week. But this is a
committee meeting. We're not having another committee meeting in a week.

SHELLEY COOK: We're having a Board meeting.
ROLF ASPHAUG: We're having a Board meeting. Could I suggest possibly instead, if you're
looking to get more information, perhaps we could try to get that information between now and
the Board meeting? If this even passes out of this committee. Otherwise, you'd have to have-- I
don't think we've ever done this at RTD-- have like a special committee meeting before a-- for
purposes of this-SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. But the fact that we have the Board meeting in which we make our
final decision, would that work, do you think? Because we wouldn't be deciding anyway.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ROLF ASPHAUG: Our process requires approval from a committee before it goes to the Board.
SHELLEY COOK: So it does sound like that doesn't work, just from that standpoint.
ROLF ASPHAUG: In addition, I would point out that since there are only 14 people present, it
will require an eight-vote majority here to go to the Board, which would also require an eightvote majority, regardless of how many people are at the Board that night.
BOB BROOM: I'll withdraw my motion and just support the original motion.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And I urge the staff, though, that they be responsive to the questions
that have arisen to the extent they can in the week that they have left before we act on it finally-if it passes tonight. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I would just, I guess, hope that we would pass it on tonight and get
those answers. We always have the opportunity to turn it down next week. I agree with Chair
Tisdale and Director Broom that this is a really unusual opportunity to bring more tax dollars in
and take something that's not nice and make it very nice.
And also, I think Director Catlin's suggestion is great. We can work with the museum to help
people come down. And again, I think this is very important to our state and city partners. And
that's something we should pay attention to.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. With that why don't we move along and go to our vote. So we had
Director Walker as the mover and Director Guissinger as the seconder. So everybody please
vote.
[SIDE CONVESATIONS]
SHELLEY COOK: And Director Folska, I'm recording you as a no in the vote. Is that correct?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: My vote is no. That is correct.

SHELLEY COOK: OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: So the motion does not carry. I can't see the votes. Let me see if I can-DOUG TISDALE: Seven to seven.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I know, but I can't see who is who. But yeah, it's 7 to 7. It's a tie vote.
So oh, I see. It's over here. OK. So voting against, Director Buzek Director Rivera-Malpiede,
Director Lewis, Director Menten, Director Whitmore, and Director Williams. And Director
Folska on the phone, yeah.
Well, OK. So I think we move on to the next item.
So here's the approval of the Manion contract extension and dollar increase. And the
recommended action by this committee, if it passes, is that the RTD Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to increase the amount
of the annual street improvements and shelter installations contract with Manion Construction
Inc by $1 million and extend the contract until December 31, 2020. Funding for this contract
amendment is provided by various RTD budget line items.
The action addresses core goal number one for successful delivery of transit services of the
General Managers goals for 2019.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
SHELLEY COOK: We've got a motion by Director Williams.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: Do we have a second? Director Whitmore, second. So go ahead, staff. Yeah.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Good evening. Henry Stopplecamp, AGM, Capital Program. So I'll
make this real quick. We will not be giving a presentation or anything. But this isn't a
continuation of a Manion contract. Manion does small work for RTD-- street improvements,
shelters, curb gutter. And we've been using them to take care of little odds and ends for the
district.
The projects are all funded, their own line items. So what we're asking is contract authority to
continue using Manion. And then we'll be putting it out on the street after this option.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Any questions of the staff? Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I have a question.

SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Cook. Henry, so is that also, when you talk about
cleaning the curbs and gutters, does that include snow removal around those areas?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: No, the snow removal is another contractor. This is curb gutters.
They build the infrastructure for us. The maintenance is done by-- we've got about three different
contractors that are doing maintenance for us.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Thank you. I'll support this.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thanks. Now is time to ask, can a normal bus shelter a three-sided,
maybe, a simple flat-- not any of the newer ones like when Colfax or West Colfax business park- just straight out. Last I checked, they were in range of construction cost $10,000 to $15,000?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That's about right. Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. That's all I wanted to know. Thank you. And we only pay for those
when it's a really highly used-- otherwise it's gotta be the City, and they go do it, it's their baby,
they get the advertiser, all of that. We're only doing those when they're just really, really highly
used.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: High usage shelters that meet our thresholds. And we haven't put
new shelters in for a few years. We're maintaining the existing shelters we have right now.
NATALIE MENTEN: School of Mines has been contacting me over and over and over the last
two weeks about how we reuse our resources. And they're looking at old buses. What happens to
the old shelters? Are they going out in that backyard over at the district shops?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Kind of. The old shelters are typically the ones, when we finally
retire them, they're scrapped. We do take the shelters down and use parts. That's one of the
advantages of having uniform shelters across the system. So if a car hits one side, we just go to
our boneyard, pull a side of the shelter out, take it out there and install it. So we don't have to go
buy new shelters.
To buy new shelters, it becomes expensive. And it's also sometimes a challenge to find matching
shelters for what we've got out there right now.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you. That's all.
SHELLEY COOK: Any other comments or questions? If not, we can move to a vote. The mover
was Director Williams, the seconder was Director Whitmore. Director Folska, how do you vote
on this one?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I will be a no vote, thank you very much.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I mean-- no, no, no. I'm sorry. I'm a yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, she's a yes. OK. It hasn't been recorded yet.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Sorry about that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So that passes 14 to 0 with Director Folska's yes vote.
I think that's our last action item. But we have some updates, including this next one on the long
term-- the second draft of the Long- Range Plan from Heather McKillop. Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop. I just wanted to
cover a few things on the Long- Range Plan. Susan Cohen's going to join me if you have
questions that I can't answer that she can probably answer. So I did want to point out a few
things as we discuss the second draft of the Long- Range Plan.
As we mentioned previously starting back when we got the forecast, that the forecasts are
coming in significantly lower in the March forecasts. We're expecting September to be probably
a little lower than that. We had looked at how we could balance the Long- Range Plan, both from
a cost perspective, as well as a revenue perspective.
As we mention in here, the reason we do a Long- Range Plan is for incorporation into the
DRCOG Regional RTP. That current plan goes through 2040. That's going to be important in
something that I mention in just a minute.
But I did want to point out-- and one of the reasons we have this in the packet is because we do
have significant shortfalls, particularly in our base system. And so one of the things that we had
offer up is a series of options in this document that could help balance that plan. I know with
conversations over the last few weeks that people have had concerns about those options, which
include not being able to maintain our existing service during the course of the Long- Range Plan
between 2026 and 2040, as well as potential reductions in service that we offered as an option.
Another one is to use the FISA and not put that into the FISA, but rather back into bus service, as
was put in the original 2004 plan.
I know none of those options are really pleasing to anybody at this particular point in time. So
one thing I would point out is that the Board does not actually have to adopt this Long- Range
Plan this particular year. We have an approved plan from last year that goes out to 2040. And so
we could keep that plan until next year, in which time we do have to go out to 2050 and adopt a
new plan.
So I do offer that up, because I know there's been a lot of concerns around how do we make this
work. We have the conversation coming up next-- well, after the 2020 budget-- on the fiscal

policy update that I know you want to spend some time on, which also would have impacts to
this Long- Range Plan depending on what direction the Board actually goes on the fiscal policy.
So with that, one of the things we just wanted was feedback from you. This is not an action item.
This is an information item. And so we'd like to hear where you want to go with this and what
we should do in the upcoming month as to whether to bring this back, what that would look like
if we did bring it back, and how the Board would like to move forward.
SHELLEY COOK: So could I offer up something right quick, just by way of putting it out there?
In an earlier discussion today we were talking about how beneficial it can be when you're
working on something like this that has so many important implications and questions, that being
in like a workshop setting might be beneficial as a way to start to get our arms around it? I still
noticed it's open to the public. But it's just a little bit different setting.
So I wanted to put that out there as one way to maybe begin discussing this sort of thing as we
want to move toward an actual adoption at some point. Does any-- go ahead, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I have a preliminary question, which is, what is the problem that
has created this hole for us?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So it's a combination of both revenues and expenditures. So we are
basically, from a revenue standpoint, back where we were in 2017. So remember those
conversations that we had about taking money out of the FISA, using that to fund FasTracks
operations, paying debt, those type of things. We're basically back in that same situation from a
revenue perspective.
I would expect next year that we would see revenues go down even further. My expectation is
we're kind of going into a flattening period. And we're going to see that.
The other thing is just expenditures. As time goes on, your operating costs are increasing. As we
discussed last year when we did the approval of the CBA, that was about a $30 million increase
to the budget. And then you compound that every year. We also had to increase our contracted
services contracts to keep pace with that also. That's probably about another $10 to $15 million a
year that's built into this Mid-Term and Long- Range Plan that you have going forward.
The other thing that we have talked about before in the expenditure side is, there's no increases in
service. So that was no different than what we talked about in 2017. That when you move
forward looking at a plan, this plan really demonstrates what we will look like in the future if we
do nothing differently than what we're doing now. And I think one of the opportunities that we
have moving forward is our T2 and Reimagine RTD. Because that gives us the opportunity to
shape the future and the vision different than what's in this document now.
But for right now, as a staff, we have to prepare it based on what the current situation is and what
we forecast that to look like into the future. And so what we wanted to show you was the reality
of if we continue along this revenue trajectory, whether it be the sales tax, because I don't
anticipate it's going into a period of sales tax increases in the double digits like we saw in 2010,

'11, to '12. So these are probably more realistic forecasts. Again, and we do not have built into
these forecasts any kind of a shortfall.
But we wanted to show you that we cannot currently fund our existing services nor our existing
assets that we have in place-- that means replacing or repairing assets-- with the current revenue
forecast that we have now and the current services that we offer now. So it's a really important
point that you understand. Because if we don't look at things differently, we are going to be in
the situation in 2026.
JUDY LUBOW: So I guess, my question is, wasn't this predictable a few years ago, then?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, this is exactly where we were two years ago when we made all
the reductions then. So this is no different than 2017. This is almost a mirror-- wouldn't you say-almost a mirror image from an expenditure and a revenue standpoint where we were in 2017.
And remember, that was a very difficult year for the Board to make some of the choices that they
made in how to reduce costs.
JUDY LUBOW: Because I guess, what's confusing me is that we're still seeing the sales tax go
up, but just not as much as we had thought. But so it seems like this shouldn't be a surprise.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, it should not. And it wasn't. I mean, we've been telling you this
was coming for a while. We had a good year last year, just from a forecast standpoint. We
mentioned that though we felt that was an anomaly, and that we shouldn't count on that forecast
going forward. And we have mentioned since March that this was coming.
And in the unfunded quarter report we presented to you in June, we mentioned we had $200-plus
million shortfall in the base system. So we've known this is coming.
JUDY LUBOW: So we are basically-- I'm trying to understand it in a bigger picture in my own
way. It's like we're living beyond our means.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JUDY LUBOW: OK. OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Very good way of saying it. And I also want to mention, this plan has
a $1/2 a billion in COPs issued in it, too, between 2026 and 2040. That was not in last year's
plan. And it's more than what was in 2017. 2017 had a considerable amount of COPs issued. So
this isn't without exercising everything that we could do to try to balance the budget.
And now we're to a point that we will have to reduce service or not maintain our assets. But it's
kind of a circular argument, right? Because if you don't maintain your assets, then you can't
operate service, because--

JUDY LUBOW: But it certainly seems like it's a core problem that we have to deal with.
Because we're just operating more-DAVE GENOVA: More services -HEATHER MCKILLOP: But that is going to be compounded by the additional conversations
that we're going to have in the 2020 budget request and the fiscal policy update, too. So that's
why I offered up. I was asked, do we have to adopt this 2026 through 2040 plan this year? And
the answer is, no, you do not. We can keep the existing plan in place from last year, because we
do have a plan that was adopted by the Board that is used feed the RTP.
Next year you will not have that option, as we will have to go out to 2050 to comply with the
RTP that DRCOG will be passing next year.
JUDY LUBOW: By that time will we have that interim plan from the reimagining?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We will be closer. We won't be there.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. By the end of next year, our milestone that we're hopeful to have is the
system optimization plan. So that'll be one big milestone. And so our alternative schedule for that
for next year is to hopefully have a Board adoption of that at around the end of the year-- so
November, December. But I don't know the timing of when we would have to approve the long
range fund.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'd have to plan for it by this time next year.
DAVE GENOVA: But we would have some interim steps. And obviously, we would have a lot
of dialogue and a lot of iterative process and discussion through our update process and through
the Board direction on where the Board wants to guide the Reimagine process.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you, both of you. I guess what's interesting to me is that it's
like the base system is not holding its own. Can you-- is that a fair analysis?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Not quite. So remember that the Board-- and I mentioned in the
document-- that the Board took action to amend, or modify, I don't know what the correct word
is, the 2004 FasTracks plan to not put that money into bus service.
KATE WILLIAMS: A portion of it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Right. So we took anything and we capped it. And so anything after
that, which is about $12 million-- $12 to $20 million depending on how far out you want to go-is staying in FasTracks in the FISA instead of using that to fund the base system. That just
happens to be almost exactly what we're off, is $11 to $12 million per year in the base system.
So that's why we offered as one of the options is not funding the FISA, but instead going back to
what the original FasTracks plan was in 2004, and use that money to fund feeder service and

another service on the base system. And the reason for that-- and I know that is a controversial
option, but from a financial standpoint it's really hard to justify having money sitting in an
account when you're having to borrow or cut service or not fund assets in another account.
JUDY LUBOW: I understand. And then, of course the au contraire is the people that want their
rail that have been promised-HEATHER MCKILLOP: That's why it's controversial.
JUDY LUBOW: Right. But I still think you could say that without the extra FasTracks money,
the base system is not holding its own.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Or you could say the FasTracks system wouldn't have enough money
if it wasn't for the FISA. Do you see what I'm saying? You could probably spin it either way. The
fact is, I look at it from a whole RTD system, right? And it's hard for me to not offer that as an
option to you as a Board, to consider the fact that one part of your system is suffering because of
another part of the system.
And so holistically, you could use that money to offset them. But it would take an action of the
Board to reverse a decision that modified that FasTracks plan to begin with. That's why I offer
up. I know this is a really tough time, where we've had a lot of conversations around what to do.
We have a Mid-Term Fiancial Plan, hopefully, next month that you will feel comfortable
adopting, that we would need to have adopted, or we would like to have adopted. We actually
don't have to adopt that one either, because we have an adopted Mid-Term Plan.
The only thing you really have to adopt and appropriate is your 2020 budget at this particular
point in time. And that will be coming up in October, November. And we have a conversation
about that later, the next agenda item.
But I did want to lay that out, because I've gotten a lot of questions about that over the last few
days in particular-- what do we have to adopt for you to move forward. And technically this year
you don't have to adopt a Mid-Term, and you don't have to adopt a Long- Range Plan right now.
What you do need to adopt is some type of budget and appropriation for 2020. And next year
you will be faced with adopting a plan that goes out to 2050.
The thought being, we may have more information through the Reimagine process and other
discussions that are going on to help better shape that discussion over the next few months.
JUDY LUBOW: I would love a lot of information about ways to live within our means in a more
appropriate manner. I'd like some help.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. Heather, my understanding is you're looking for some direction
from us, whether we adopt this Long- Range Plan or wait a year and do another one. Is that
basically--

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, I'm really looking for, is one of these options I offered in there
on how to solve the $258 million palatable? That's one question. If it's not, I'm offering you now
a third option, that you don't have to adopt it this year.
VINCE BUZEK: That would be my inclination, to wait and see and gather as much more
information as everything in the world progresses next year. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks, Director Buzek. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: It really does not make too much of a difference to me if we just go with
this long-term plan next year. But I would like to look down and say, as an example in the earlier
discussion about the FlexRide, there's $10 million annually in a highly subsidized thing. And
then we approved how much in FlexRide vehicles for tonight. Those are both two components
that are built in there.
And I am not surprised. So I've been hearing you over many times. And that's why I vote no on
budgets. Because I think-- many reasons. But because I think we're spending too much. So I'm
perfectly fine, because even if we ran the long-term tonight, I'd still vote no. So it doesn't matter
in me if we push it off to next year.
But I'd love to sit down, and I think it'd be really great if each Board director, pretty much, here's
your 258 divided by 15. Say, OK, figure out where we're going to cut it in your area. And
everybody takes a hit. Everybody has to go to their community.
And if the community wants the FlexRide, instead of that 2 and 1/2% match that we're supposed
to get from for FasTracks, which ended up being comped permits and all sorts of other little
funny accounting things-- frankly, that's the way I viewed it-- they pay for the FlexRide.
Golden's doing a good job. Others can kick in. So I guess that was a far bigger answer than you
were looking for. But at least I gave you one.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. It seems to me like we're kicking the can down the road by
not rolling up our sleeves and doing what we do every year. It doesn't get any easier by
postponing it a year. That's my thought.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you, Director Broom. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Hi. I'm not a financial person. Are we looking at, in this now, there's some
stuff going on about TABOR. Are we considering how that's going to affect us? Does that
influence us similar interested in waiting a while to make a decision?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather. So unfortunately, we have not been able to
calculate that TABOR impact in 2004, because we need to know what the assessed values of the
property is the year before that happens. And of course, we're a few years from knowing what
those assessed values look like. If we have a recession between now and then, particularly in the
year before they calculate, you know we will get ratcheted down. And therefore, we will most
likely have a refund.
Those refunds have not been built into this. Status quo has been built into this. So these numbers
are assuming we would not do any refunds.
KATE WILLIAMS: So then if we go with option three, which essentially is do nothing at the
moment in the bottom line, then I don't know if we're kicking the can down the road, or if we're
waiting to see what options arise. I'm inclined to always follow your judgment. And we have in
the past historically worked to have a budget and adjusted as we needed to. I appreciate the work
that you're doing as part of the Reimagine concept to do that.
And I would be in favor of waiting, which is not my normal attitude. So thank you for that
option.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks, Director Williams. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. This reminds me of when I was appointed to the Board back in '11.
One of the first votes I had to take-- I think at the first Board meeting-- was, we've got to cut
10%. Where's it coming from? And there was a threshold. It wasn't just all districts take a hit. We
did it based on ridership and service. So it was, I guess, fair-- fair as fair it can be. But it
definitely wasn't easy.
But I'm fine with pushing it off till next year. We do have some processes or some efforts
coming up that should inform this decision. But I think this decision is going to have to be made
no matter what. We'll just have different tools, or more tools, maybe better insight, to make it.
So I'm fine with letting it ride, or not voting on this year but next year, when we have more
available to us to help inform that decision. But like I said before, this decision will have to be
made at some point.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Walker. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I'm really loathe to push off something
that I know we actually should be doing. I do recognize, however, there is merit to the argument
that if we actually don't need to, if we're in compliance with statutory and DRCOG obligations,
then why borrow trouble?
I also think that if we went ahead and did something-- and we're not asked to do anything
tonight. This is an update. This is not an action item. This is an update. But if we were required

to do something, I could see, perhaps, that it might be appropriate to go ahead and do a difficult
decision and say, maybe we need to do a service cut.
Because in addition to the funding issues that we talk about that constrain our ability to operate
as we would like, we also have the labor issue that we've talked about. And we acknowledge that
we are in as bad a place now as we have been in the history of this agency. And so those two
things coming together to me indicate the necessity to be able to say to the public, we understand
what's going on. We have to be responsible. We are going to have to talk about some kind of
service cut.
If we can legitimately-- and if it does not impair our ability to continue functioning-- put off the
decision, I suppose that's fine, too. I do think-- I mean, as I hear-- and I'm sorry she's not present
to hear this-- but as I hear Director Menten say that she's happy to put it off, I'm going, easy for
you to say. You'll be gone at the end of the year next year. So what does it matter?
But nonetheless, I do understand that. So as torn as I am, I am prepared to say we could put it
off. But I think as we look at the requested budget update and we address that, we have to start
thinking about the fact that some service cuts may be a necessary part of that further discussion.
Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And if I could respond to the Chair's comments, I do think in the 2020
budget, and leading up to the next couple months we are going to have that discussion, because, I
think as you're painfully aware, our headcount is problematic to operate the service and i.e., why
we're dropping service and other things. So I don't think you're going to get away from that
discussion over the next couple months.
But maybe that discussion will also help influence what both the Mid-Term and Long- Range
Plan will look at for next year, depending on how those conversations go for 2020.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I'd love to say, get out of that. But you are going to have to deal
with the 2020 budget.
SHELLEY COOK: The staffing issue specifically.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And the staffing issue specific to that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Cook. I don't look at it necessarily as abdicating our
responsibilities as a Board by not adopting a mid range or long range financial plan. I think that
we have an opportunity to really look much more closely at some of the details in an ongoing,
very rigorous basis. So I don't think that that means that we're just putting our heads in the sand
and putting it off till next year, but rather, really trying to learn more about it.

So I'm in favor of-- I don't want to say postponing-- but I'm in favor of more of a process to
educate, me for one, on some of the consequences of some of these options. So thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I just wanted to go back to Director Cook's comment about
potentially having-- you call it a study session or-SHELLEY COOK: Workshop.
SHONTEL LEWIS: --a workshop. I'd be interested in that. I'm also comfortable addressing it
now, because it's here. And we should. And I'm going to say something that's probably going to
scare some folks. But I think what I've heard with my constituents is, RTD is often raising and
increasing fares and also reducing bus service. And I'm not afraid to do that, especially if it
addresses the six day mandate.
But I wonder if there is a fourth option or a fifth option that we might explore in terms of staffing
inefficiencies-- just, are there other things that we might be able to look into that we would be
able to take back to the folks who may lose service and say, these are the steps that we went
through, and this was our decision making process, and this is how we arrived at this point. So
next question.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Noted.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. OK. Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Cook. Well, I, too, was with Director Walker
when we visited this issue in 2011. And it is hard. It's hard. It's heart wrenching. And it is scary
as hell.
But I can tell you, this time, being out on the campaign trail the number one issue I heard was
budget. And I think that my constituency is very interested in the fiscal sustainability and health
of this agency. We need it to survive. And we need it to be strong.
I also think that they'd be willing to sit at the table and help me figure this out. I don't want to do
it solitarily. I agree we need to do a workshop. I think we need to do our due diligence. I'm all for
putting it off for a year so that we can really delve into it, so that when we sit at this table and
make a decision, we know that we've really worked it every way we know how to and have been
inclusive with the community. And I think that'll change the entire dynamic.
So I'm willing to do that. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And Madam Chair, if I could just respond to that a little bit. So I think
our consultants are still in the audience-- there, yes, in the back. So I invited them. They're going

to be working on the financial aspects of the Reimagine RTD. And so one of the things I asked
them to do is if they could come to the meeting today to hear some of the comments and the
concerns. Because when we go out and do those public meetings, and get the customers' input,
our stakeholders' input, I wanted them to hear some of the things we're dealing with, and how
maybe that could help them shape that conversation from the financial aspect.
So I just wanted to mention that, that we've had an in-depth conversation about how that might
look and what we need to be aware of moving through the Reimagine RTD process, from a
financial perspective.
SHELLEY COOK: So could everybody agree that not just putting it off, but actually using the
extra time to really delve into some of these issues-- so and I wanted to piggyback on something
that Director Lewis said. And in fact, some decisions we're making right now, I think, will be
important ones that carry forward and that could influence.
And one of them is the budget that we're going to be adopting. And my experience when you're
in a tough budget time is that you have to take a pretty harsh look at additions of FTEs. Because
every additional person is an ongoing and growing cost. You can't shed them easily. You don't
want to lay people off. And I know we have a number of new FTEs proposed in the budget. And
I don't think we have had a chance to talk about that.
So that's a nearer term issue I think that we'll want to address. If in fact, you all agree, and it can
be, that we'll decide that we need to do those. But just, having a chance to review the FTEs,
making sure we're comfortable with the added cost, because it does go on, and it grows, and it
becomes a significant part of your ongoing problem, if that's the case. So I just wanted to
recommend that.
I heard other issues that might be topics. This sort of ride sizing of our service based upon the
drivers that we can retain, that sounds like a near-term thing that we want to get our arms around.
Correct? And then high subsidy services, so the consultants are going to be looking at that, right?
About whether there are ways that we can address those. And I know we've had comments come
up about those already today.
And then the FISA. So am I getting everything that we talked about? The FISA and the policy
about the FISA that was already raised? Trying to summarize.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I think you captured our notes, so.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Well, that was my comment. So if anybody else has any? Yeah, go
ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: One of the things that I didn't mention was the end line and what that means
for all of this. And this conversation as we're talking about operators, and shortages, and just all
of that stuff. I just want to make sure we're thinking about all of these pieces as we are discussing
this.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Will do, yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that was a good summary, Director Cook. And I think that we've
had a lot of discussions, had a nice discussion with Heather today. There are a lot of things, I
think, that we could all look at. And I hope that we can pull those together in the coming weeks
and move it forward. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Any other items on that? Then we can move on to our next update-- talk
about budget, the 2020 requested budget update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So thank you, Madam Chair. Jannette's coming up. So we want to run
through kind of where we are in this draft of the requested budget. We will be bringing you
another firmed up budget after today's conversation for the October meeting, which is what we
have to post for approval in the November meeting. Remember, you can make adjustments
between the October and November meeting. We do.
But we do have to have a more cohesive document than what we're presenting to you tonight for
October. So it's one of the things we wanted to talk to you about. Where we are with things right
now, we still have a gap between what the requests are and what we were able to balance in the
Mid-Term Fiancial Plan you saw earlier tonight, that we have postponed to next month. But that
2020 portion of the Mid-Term is really what we lift out and becomes the starting point for our
2020 budget.
And then we have usually additional requests that come in about that. So we are still in that
process of going through and trying to whittle those costs back so we can stay within our targets
and stay within that budget that is presented in the Mid-Term Fiancial Plan. So with that, I'm just
going to have Jannette just run through some key points that we want to make sure you're aware
of for that 2020 budget.
And as we offer up-- and feel free to take advantage of this-- is, that Jannette or I or both of us
are willing to sit down with you if you have specific questions, and things that just don't make
sense, or want to know how that fits into the budget. Those type of things, we'd be glad to sit
down and have that conversation with you.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Thank you. Unusual for me, I'm not sure where to start. We are just
rolling out the 2020 requested budget. It is preliminary. This is no action item tonight. It's simply
informational. This budget is subject to further revision and balancing.
I can't say at this point in time that the base system is balanced. But we are working on it. Both
base system and FasTracks budgets will change in the final recommended budget in November.
Couple of things that we do not have in the budget right now is the capital carry-forward. It is not
updated now, because it's based on a September 30 close of our financial books. The Mid-Term

Fiancial Plan expense projects are also not in this budget, nor is the expense project carryforward in this first draft.
I talk about exhibit one from time to time. I'm not going to spend time there. Just know that we
roll up a summary of exhibit one in our Board report. And here we're showing you the summary
of the operating expenses that serve as capital expenditures or contribution to fund balances. This
is what we will ask you to appropriate. We will also show a summary of operating revenue. We
don't ask you to appropriate revenue. We simply estimate revenue.
So our major areas of focus for the 2020 budget are sources. We're looking at fare revenue.
We're actually budgeting an increase in 2020 of about $9.3 million on a combined basis over the
2019 amended budget.
Our sales and use tax, we're projecting a 4.2% increase over the 2019 projected number. And that
is from the CU Leeds March forecast earlier this year. You all know that by the time we get to
the recommended budget, we've updated the CU forecast, and we're using their September
numbers in our budget.
We're also budgeting an increase in grant revenue, but budgeting a decrease in investment
income, because of falling interest rates. As far as our uses go, we're actually looking for a
decrease on a combined basis of $17.8 million in operating expenses from the 2019 amended.
Most of this will happen in FasTracks project. Also, we are using the Mid-Term Fiancial Plan for
department targets for the base system, as Heather mentioned, for operating expenses. But even
beyond that, we may need to make further changes to that target to accommodate some necessary
items that we don't have in the Mid-Term Fiancial Plan.
Let me speak briefly about diesel fuel. We have a lock order in place at $2 a gallon. And we're
looking for budget certainty. The number we're using in the budget remains at $2.30. And I
understand that oil prices fell rather dramatically today, so we may be getting closer to our lock.
With regard to debt, we are not anticipating any new debt-- issuing any new debt in 2020. Our
debt service principle, though, will be a little bit higher by about $11.4 million due to some
scheduled amortization, the start of some amortization on some bonds and cops that we've been
carrying. We will fund fleet purchases with our own dollars or previously issued debt.
Capital expenditures on the base side, we're looking at new capital of about $45 million. This is
coming from the Mid-Term Fiancial Plan. For FasTracks new capital is very minimal, about
$850,000, because all other capital expenditures for FasTracks will be carry-forward amounts in
2020. And again, no capital carry-forward is estimated at this point.
With regard to fund balances, we will be updating them-- here I'm talking about the Board
appropriated fund operating reserve and our unrestricted year-end fund balance. We will be
updating those numbers and adjusting them for the final recommended budget, particularly with
respect to base. FasTracks is a little more solid in that fund balances total about three months of
operating expenses. And the FISA right now is projected at about $103 million.

Now, next steps. I want you to understand these. And that is that on October 15 we post notice to
the public that the preliminary budget is available for review on our website. On October 22 we
will bring necessary updates to this committee for review. On November 12 we will bring the
recommended budget to this committee. And that will be the final budget, we hope.
So that's November 12. A week later, on November 19 we will ask the Board to adopt that
budget. And I want to reiterate that we are available to meet with you individually prior to
November 19. And so please, contact us if you would like further review.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And if I could just add to that, as I mentioned previous, just keep in
mind that we're expecting to get our forecast here any day from CU Leeds School of Business.
My expectation is that forecast will be lower than what we're currently using in this 2020 budget.
So we will have to do additional trimming of expenditures to meet that.
As was mentioned previously, we have exceeded our useful life in the fleet area. And so we will
be trying to maintain those fleet purchases as we currently have them scheduled and probably
will look at adjustments elsewhere, just because fleet is quite important to our daily operations,
and to keep that going. So just expect some changes when we come back in October around the
revenue forecast and then also corresponding expenditure reductions to go along with those
changes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Chair Cook. I mentioned it the earlier committee regarding the
performance measures, and the fact that fare and other revenues are at 5.4% and 4% versus
budgeted at 14.2% and 13.6%. And it states here that the-- oh, I lost it-- that the 2020 requested
budget assumes 5.7% above the 2019 budget.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. And yes, that's why I made the statement I just made, because
of that comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's a considerable amount.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is-- yes. So what we will have to do is when we get the
September forecasts, we will look at that percentage increase, which will be less. And then we
will compare it to where we are with actuals to date, which is less. And then we will have to
benchmark that percentage increase off that lower amount that we're experiencing.
So that's where we will see a decrease in estimated revenues. Even if their percentage increase is
somewhat stable, we will see a decrease.
PEGGY CATLIN: So would it be better to assume a percentage above the actual 2019-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. And that's what we will be doing. It's just a little premature to do
that currently, because we only have sales tax forecasts through July, soon to be August. And so
with that, our largest sales tax months-- I was going to say earnings, but that's not the right word-

- but our largest sales tax months are coming as we move towards the end of the year. So we're
going to have to baseline that and then figure out-So in the financial report that you get, Doug each month does a projection about where he thinks
we're going to be at the end of the year. So as we get closer, we get that more refined. And then
that percentage increase will be off of that projected number versus the budgeted number. Yes.
That's why I know you'll see changes, because it will be less.
SHELLEY COOK: Any other comments about the draft presentation here? We're just going on
to, yeah, more and more cheery things.
[LAUGHTER]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, we don't have to issue additional debt in 2020. And we're going
to bring you a balanced budget. And so those are good things.
[LAUGHTER]
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So are we ready for the fiscal policy update?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I am so ready.
[LAUGHTER]
So in front of you you have the fiscal policy statement. And I have been alluding to this, because
we've had multiple conversations about the fare policy. And this is where it resides. And so we
bring this to you typically in the October time frame and say, can you approve this, because this
is what our budget is based on, or these policies, as well as our Mid-Term Fiancial Plan.
So this is our current approved policy through 2019. What we usually ask you to do at this time
of the year is adopt our recommended changes for 2020. But I wanted to bring it earlier this year,
because I knew there would be significant discussion around number one, which is "staff will
plan a fair adjustment every three years in the mid and long-term budgets to adjust for inflation."
And then it talks more around that process that we use when we go out and talk about fare
changes. So with that, if there is anything else that we want to talk about, that would be great in
this document, too. But the main reason I brought it in September is so we could have that
conversation now, so that we don't get to November and not know what to do.
SHELLEY COOK: Guissinger, do you want to comment? Yeah, go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure, thanks.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It's only 9:20 at night.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I know. No, well, Director Cook and I have been looking at this. And
then we had a good meeting, again, kind of impromptu, with Heather and Jannette this afternoon.
I guess, where we are-- Director Cook, you can-- is we've started drafting some things we think
were very important to look at. And it sounds like Heather is looking at many of those and is
welcoming the direction from the Board, if I understood correctly.
And so I think some of the comments tonight, taken with some of what we've been thinking
about, taking it to the executive Board, I don't really have a process in mind. But I think we all
have been saying, what else can we look at besides raising fares? And especially the last one-we're going to look at fare adjustments that achieve revenue levels established in the Mid-Term
Fiancial Plan. What we're thinking about and would like to work on with staff and the Board is
other things to look at.
For instance, looking back at the unfinished quarter's report, which I know you all have started
working on, and at the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Report in 2011, and see if there's some
things we haven't followed up on, or that you are following up on that we can help with.
Some of the other examples I think we could come up with were, we're looking at our
relationships with our local partners. We have Denver, and Boulder, and I think it's some other
cities and counties, that are talking about how they might take over some of the transit. And that
might be something that helps us with our operator and funding problems. And it probably is
something we would need to contribute towards. But it may still be a good budgetary move. And
just some of the other issues that have been raised tonight.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: If I could just add, I mean, some of the conversations have been taking
place with-- the chairwoman being our vice chair of the committee, we get to talk about this
every month, that probably not everybody else is exposed to. But I know there are concerns
about the fact that we assume that increase equivalent to inflation every three years.
I do want to point out that we're definitely open to language that directs us to look at some of the
other options that are more policy options than what we can pursue from a staff level. And I
think Dave will probably want to address that. We also talked about maybe putting some
language about her, always pursuing cost containment measures. I think that gets to some of the
things some of the Directors brought up.
But I do want to make it clear that I can't assume revenues that the Board does not have control
over. And so that's why fare revenues has been in here, because the Board has all the control of
increasing or decreasing fares, right? Other things, we don't have control over, or the Board
doesn't have control over.
But if we talked about language that said, explore fare and other revenue options that could
substitute for fares-- I mean, we came up with much more eloquent language earlier today when
it wasn't 9:30. But some way about that, of giving us the direction, but also allowing that out, if

we don't achieve it, to have that conversation as the years go on, without completely decimating
our entire program.
And so I think there's a happy medium in there. We're just not sure exactly what that verbiage
looks like at this point in time. So I don't know, Dave, if you want to-DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. Madam Chair, may I?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
DAVE GENOVA: So just to follow on some of those things. So in the FasTracks report in
particular, we listed a number of items that were possible ideas for generating additional revenue.
So we've heard some questions and some comments. And I'll tell you, we've done all the easy
things. We've done it. We've done all the medium things. We've done it.
There's a lot of hard ones. And so, as part of our update when we come back at the next
FasTracks Committee, so all those items we talked about, we're working now-- Heather and I
talked about this today-- putting together kind of a matrix. So for each one of those items, to give
the Board an idea of, OK, what's required to do these things, in kind of order of magnitude kinds
of things.
So for example, for parking. So if we wanted to do a universal parking thing, it requires
legislative action and approval. And so we would give the Board an idea of is this an RTD-only
controlled item, or is it other organizations that we need to partner with us to get this done? And
then we would also have some impacts in terms of how hard it would be in ranges like high,
medium, and low. And then the same for the financial impact-- would it be high, medium, or
low.
And then hopefully what we can do is bring that to you in a format where we can have some
good discussion. Because these are all policy things. So these are not things that the staff can
advance without direction from the collective Board-- not just a couple of Board members, or
one Board member, or others. So I think that would be really helpful, to put a few more
parameters. Because when we put those in the report, we just basically said, these are just kind of
ideas or possibilities.
So let us put some framework around that. And we can have some good discussion around that.
And then we would be looking to the Board to give us direction on the ones that maybe the
Board would like to pursue in the near-term. And then we may have some ideas on ones that we
think are good ideas to try to advance. And we'll try to mark those as well.
So that's our plan over the next few weeks in that area.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. So we postponed tonight the Mid-Term Fiancial Plan with the idea
that we would have a chance in the next month to modify this policy so that plan could be
brought in accord. I like your framework, except that there may be things that the Board

members themselves want to bring to the discussion that haven't been raised so far. So I guess
that would be just the one thing that I would say we need to insert there.
And then Guissinger said she had an idea about process. So we could maybe circulate that, too,
in terms of how we make sure that Board members have a chance to weigh in on what those
items might be. And we work toward more of a consensus by the time this comes back.
Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I wanted to put on the record that I
agreed in principle with everything that Director Guissinger said. There is an important caveat or
clarification that I would add, because I think the comment was effectively that we could, as I
heard Director Guissinger say, we could talk to other municipalities about possibly taking over
some of our services, and we would have to contribute to that.
I would turn that around and indicate that we could talk about other municipalities doing what,
for example, Boulder has done, Golden has done, Englewood has done, where they provide a
support to us for providing those services that they would like to see. Because we cannot-- as a
practical matter, we cannot abdicate our responsibility, because we're legislatively mandated to
provide transportation services throughout the district. And everyone else in the district is
prohibited from providing transportation services under the statute.
So as long as we just keep the focus clearly in mind that we are more than happy to work with
municipalities, to collaborate with them, to cooperate with them, and create the opportunity for
all of us to prosper doing a better job of providing cost effective services throughout the entire
district, I think that's a great plan. And I think if we can take away flash point words, like plan
fare adjustments every three years, I think that would help. And if we talked about exploring
other things and making that part of our plan, that would help.
So as I said, I agree in principle with everything that the Director said with the important caveat
relative to that last part. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. That was a good clarification. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. And I remember in my time on the Board, there was one year in
November-- I don't know which year it was anymore, but I think 2015 or so, when it was
scheduled for us to consider and possibly raise fares, and we didn't do it that year. So it's not a
guarantee that we will always raise fares. I think a lot of the discussion about our fares is how
expensive they are compared to other agencies. But I don't think they're that expensive compared
to other agencies.
For instance, Salt Lake City is $2.50. And they don't have a youth fare, except for a 25%
discount on their monthly pass. And it's about 1,400 square miles, so almost half of what we are- just over half of what we cover downtown. Minneapolis has $0.50 downtown fares. And we
have a free shuttle. But Minneapolis, you have to pay every bus you get on. It's also, they have a

$2.50 rush hour fare including or plus the $0.50 fare, just to get up and down their equivalent of
the 16th Street Mall.
Atlanta, they have a $2.50 fare. If you pay cash at a ticket vending machine, there's $1 charge for
that paper ticket. That's $3.50. And their service area is about 500 square miles. So there is a lot
of ways to bundle that. Our services, their services, it's not all apples to apples, which is why I
get anxious when folks say that we're expensive. Yeah, it costs money, unfortunately.
And so I do understand that in about three years, if we do raise fares, a full local fare would be
$3.30. That's a lot just to go 2 miles to work, or a doctor's appointment, or visit a friend.
So like I said before, I think staff has been very creative about finding ways to adjust for those
who need help. We have a youth fare. We have a low income fare. We have lots of service we
run until 2:00 AM, some instances. And we start up again at 3:30 or 4 o'clock. So there are a lot
of ways that we compensate for that fare, for that $3 fare that we have.
That's one thing. The other thing I want to do is to number six. On an annual basis staff will
identify under or unutilized property and equipment, and will make an ongoing attempt to
monetize such property and equipment to enhance cash flow. We just had an offer from the City
of Denver to give us $123,000 a year. $123,000 a year. And this body, this committee said, no,
thank you.
We're going against what I see as number six in our policy. We should be using that. We're not
making any money on it now. It costs us $123,000 plus whatever it costs to maintain that rock
pile. And we just turned down $123,000, plus the enhancement to the city, plus the-- and we're
still going to carry the cost of leasing it and the cost of maintaining it.
And I just want to point out to the committee that we've operated in contrary to one of our
established policies. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Cook. I would just say a couple of things. The
first thing is, I believe it was in 2013 when we did a matrix of the top transit properties close to
RTD. And we were the most expensive transit agency. So I would just counter by saying, the
perception in the community is that we are extraordinarily expensive to ride. Whether we are or
not, people are saying consistently it costs too much to ride in RTD.
I am really proud that the agency has put together products to serve literally every demographic
that we have. I think that that is amazing. In terms of this, this is our chance to actually really
take this budget and work it in a transparent methodology so that the community feels like
they're part of the process. Because the one thing that is consistent, I would venture to say,
amongst all of us is we're hearing from the community that we're not transparent. They don't
understand our budget the way that we're doing it. And they want to make sure that we're doing
our due diligence on their behalf.

And so I really like the idea of partnering with municipalities, and thinking outside of the box,
and looking at microtransit. This whole Reimagine RTD is our chance to actually really throw it
all out there, look at it, shake it up, and think outside of the box, with our constituents, and our
municipalities, our key stakeholders, from the very vulnerable to the very high key stakeholders,
so that we know that everybody bought into this process.
So I agree with everything that I voted on tonight. I think that this is our chance to really take a
look at this, take a deep dive, and really educate ourselves as well as the community. Because
we're all in it together. And ultimately, it's going to impact all of us. And so it is our job to make
sure it gets done. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I have a brief one. On item number six that Director Walker was pointing
out, I'd like to make sure that we put on the record the second half of that sentence, which is that
we make an ongoing attempt to monetize such property.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So noted. Any other comments about this item?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Can I just-- I'm sorry. Not that I want to drag it out, but can I just say,
if you review this, and you find other things that you have questions or comments on, the sooner
you could have that conversation with me, the better that would be. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. OK. So July 2019 monthly financial update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I would just offer that if you have any questions we'll answer them.
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 5: Well said.
SHELLEY COOK: All right. Then we have a LiVE update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Same thing.
[LAUGHTER]
DAVE GENOVA: There was a great one this morning at RTC, by the way. So if I may just say
that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Do we have any other matters? Mr. Manager or Mr. GM, do you have
anything you'd like to add during this update here?
DAVE GENOVA: I do not, thank you.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. I'll then call on Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Just very briefly to reiterate what the General
Manager said, that Heather offered an excellent update. And the one thing to point out about the
LiVE program is that everyone who has applied has been allowed, unless they get a better
discount for some other reason, or they don't live in the district. It's just that simple. Everybody
who applied has been allowed, unless they get a better discount, because they're either youth or
age advantaged, or they simply flat don't live in the district.
And I think that's something we should be proud of. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Good note. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I just wanted to remind everybody that tomorrow night is the joint
dinner with the transportation commission. And I believe we have 12 Directors who are
committed to going. And I would encourage carpooling, because there's not much or parking
over there.
But I just wanted to thank you all for the participation. I think, with all of the new Directors, as
well as the new commissioners there-- I think there are seven new commissioners or something
like that-- that it's a real opportunity to see how we can work together with CDOT. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I don't know who can answer. But on the G Line-- I'm going
to go back to the monthly report, if you don't mind. Just a quick question on the G Line ridership.
I know we did a lot of the projections out to be a few years after the line had opened. But did we
have some x projected amount for the G Line near the opening of it?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes. I want to say it was around 9,000. But let me double check that. Like,
9,000, 9,200, I think, was what our projected ridership was around the opening date.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. That's it. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: So if I could add onto that, the ridership doesn't reflect the addition of the
connecting services in August. So we'll see how much of a bump and see if there's still a shortfall
relative to the expected amount.
But that will be a big deal, just by way of example, the route 19 that connects at Pecos Junction,
the closest stop was 6/10 of a mile away. So previously, you know, there was no way, really, to
get at the station except for quite a trek off the bus. But now it connects right to it.
OK, are we done? So I don't remember if there's a vote to adjourn. Do we just adjourn? OK.
Here I go. We're done. Thank you, everybody. Thanks for putting up with me.
[LAUGHTER]

