1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, November 19, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Barbara Deadwyler

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Deadwyler called the meeting to order at 9:19 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
9:20 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

9:20 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Committee Co-Chair

Absent
Present

9:18 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

9:20 PM
9:19 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

9:19 PM
9:18 PM
9:19 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

9:15 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Committee Co-Chair

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

9:17 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

9:18 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

9:19 PM
9:17 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Bob Brown, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Susan
Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Lee Cryer, Bob Downes, David Genova,
Steve Gieske, Mike Gil, Lou Ha, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey, Terry
Howerter, Brian Iacono, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Austin Jenkins, Erin
Klaas, Liz Lanik, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Brian Matthews, Doug
MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Judy McMurphy, Brenden Morgan,
Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue, John Perry, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, Dean Shaklee, Greg Smith, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Bill
Van Meter, Phil Washington, Bill Weidenaar, Dennis Yaklich

Others Present:

Marshall Crawford, Adrina Gibson, Doug Gragg, Stanley Gronek, Brad
Langer, Felix Lopez, Marty Lopez, Bobbie McGinnis, Jon Mollenberg,
Nick Muller, Deputy Chief Quinones, Joe Saldana, Randy Teague, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Chief Robert White

B. Recommended Actions

• Recommendation for Adoption of ADA Program Plan
It is recommended by the Civil Rights Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) Program Plan. By this
action, the Board of Directors affirms that it is a priority of RTD to provide
equal access enterprise-wide for people with disabilities in accordance with
the Americans with Disabilities Act and other applicable laws. The purpose
of the ADA Program Plan is to provide guidance, policies, procedures, and
monitoring to further this policy direction.
Discussion:

Kenn Hardin, Senior Manager of Civil Rights, stated that the
action tonight is requesting the Board adopt the foundation for
the ADA program that has been discussed over the past few
months. This item inventories the services provided by RTD
and addresses the need to coordinate those services. Kenn
Hardin noted that ADA falls into four categories or
components with regards to employment, communication,
facilities and service. He explained that this is a foundational
plan that he will then use to develop the specific components
to allow RTD to provide the best services for people with
disabilities.
Director Hoy asked for clarification about what this policy
changes. He thought that RTD was already complying with
ADA requirements. Kenn Hardin explained that this created a
coordinated effort that RTD did not have previously. It

identifies an ADA Coordinator from the Civil Rights Division
that was not in place previously. He said that right now RTD
has functional ADA activities, everyone is doing some level of
compliance, but there is no oversight of the activity. General
Manager Washington noted that in addition the Board is
affirming that ADA is a priority for RTD. He stressed that the
main point of this action is to send a message to the disabled
community that this is a priority.
Director Hoy noted that the Board would not be setting up
committees; the Board is simply affirming that the Board is in
support of the ADA laws of the Government. He said that
RTD does that now but this is just reaffirming the
commitment. Marla Lien explained that this is actually going a
step beyond that. ADA requirements are prescriptive; they
say how to design buses, design facilities, grade curbs, etc.
She stated that this is an overall policy that will take RTD a
step beyond the prescriptive requirements of the ADA laws.
Director Hoy asked if RTD does not have this program today.
Marla Lien said that RTD complies with ADA but this will
hopefully take the agency beyond looking at the prescriptive
requirements to have a more holistic approach.
Committee Chair Deadwyler commented that when she first
saw this item she was also a little confused; however, this is
the first time the agency has stated it is one of RTD’s
priorities. She noted that while RTD complied with ADA, we
never assured the public it was a priority.
Director Tobiassen stated that this is a huge step forward. He
said that for the last five years he has run into issues with
ADA and RTD where we did not take the next step, for
example the website or Board packets not being accessible.
He recognized that RTD has been working in this direction but
thinks formalizing a policy is great. Director Tobiassen noted
that staff is more than happy to work to improve RTD but this
makes it easier to look at those hurdles.
Director Folska thanked Kenn Hardin and all the staff for their
enterprise wide efforts. She believes this is an important
move. Director Folska is excited to see the shift from silos to
a fully integrated system.

Committee Chair Deadwyler thanked Kenn Hardin and staff as
well. She believes this will make people feel more secure now
that RTD has indicated that ADA is a priority.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the November 26, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Judy Lubow, Director, District I
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Bruce Daly, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Chair Deadwyler declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates
There were no updates.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - December 10, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Deadwyler adjourned the meeting at 9:32 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

