1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

AGENDA
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, November 19, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Barbara Deadwyler

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Recommendation for Adoption of ADA Program Plan
C. Updates
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - December 10, 2013
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices

Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: November 13, 2013

From:

Kenn Hardin, Senior Manager, Civil Rights
Division

GM

Date:

November 13, 2013

Board Meeting Date: November 19, 2013

Subject:

Recommendation for Adoption of ADA Program
Plan

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Civil Rights Committee that the Board of Directors adopt the Americans with
Disabilities Act (“ADA”) Program Plan. By this action, the Board of Directors affirms that it is a priority of
RTD to provide equal access enterprise-wide for people with disabilities in accordance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act and other applicable laws. The purpose of the ADA Program Plan is to
provide guidance, policies, procedures, and monitoring to further this policy direction.
BACKGROUND
The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. § 794, was the precursor to the ADA and
protects qualified individuals from discrimination based upon a disability. Section 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act applies to entities that receive federal assistance including RTD.
The Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”), 42 U.S.C. § 12601 et seq., was passed in 1990, and
amended in 2008 pursuant to the ADA Amendments Act (PL110-325). The sections of the ADA
applicable to RTD are the first two titles. Title I applies to employment practices and Title II applies to
public services. Part B of Title II, 42 U.S.C. § 12141 et seq. specifically covers public transportation
provided by public entities. This law prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability, requires the
provision of paratransit service, and sets standards for transportation facilities and vehicles.
The Department of Justice regulates and enforces Section 504 and the ADA, except that the
Department of Transportation (“DOT”) and the Federal Transit Administration (“FTA”) administer the
mass transportation provisions of Section 504 and the ADA, and DOT has issued implementing
regulations at 49 C.F.R. Parts 27, 37 and 38.
DISCUSSION
RTD’s Senior Leadership Team believes that providing equal access to its programs and services for the
people with disabilities community is an important priority for RTD. Because of the diverse ways in
which RTD is affected by and impacts people with disabilities community, RTD needs to designate a
single individual who is responsible for directing a plan to achieve the policy directive. The Senior
Manager, Civil Rights, has sufficient visibility within RTD and the relevant resources to effectively
develop the ADA program.1 Accordingly, the Senior Manager, Civil Rights, should be designated as the
RTD ADA Coordinator; in that role, the Senior Manager, Civil Rights can implement an ADA Program
Plan. The ADA Program Plan defines RTD’s policy priorities and creates a framework by which RTD
1

When the ADA was initially passed, RTD had designated the Senior Manager, Human Resources as the ADA Coordinator.
Since that time, RTD has established a Civil Rights division and created the position of Senior Manager, Civil Rights, which is a
more appropriate position to take on the duties of ADA Coordinator.

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

employees, consultants and contractors will continue to work together to provide equal access
enterprise-wide for people with disabilities.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no additional financial impact at this time.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Civil Rights Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) Program Plan. By this action, the Board
of Directors affirms that it is a priority of RTD to provide equal access enterprise-wide for people with
disabilities in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other applicable laws. The
purpose of the ADA Program Plan is to provide guidance, policies, procedures, and monitoring to
further this policy direction.
2. Designate Another Individual as ADA Coordinator. The Board could designate another individual or
individuals as ADA Coordinator. This is not recommended because no other individual is as uniquely
suited to address this civil rights issue as the Sr. Manager, Civil Rights, although other members
within the organization will be responsible for implementing certain aspects of the ADA Program
Plan.
3. No Action. The Board of Directors may take no action. This is not recommended because providing
equal access to its programs and services for people with disabilities community is an important
priority for RTD, and adopting the ADA Program Plan is consistent with that priority.
ATTACHMENTS:


ADA Program Plan final (11.12.13)- Enterprise Wide langauge (DOC)

Prepared by:
Adrina Gibson, DBE/SBE Compliance Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

Regional
Transportation
District
Americans with
Disabilities Act
Program Plan

Attachment: ADA Program Plan final (11.12.13)- Enterprise Wide langauge (1756 : Recommendation for Adoption of ADA Program Plan)

1.B.1.a

2013

Endeavoring to provide equal access enterprise-wide for people
with disabilities

Packet Pg. 5

THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
PROGRAM PLAN
1.0

POLICY AND PURPOSE

The RTD Board of Directors and Senior Leadership Team have determined that one of
RTD’s top policy priorities is to provide equal access enterprise-wide for people with
disabilities in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) and other
applicable laws. Accordingly, the purpose of the ADA Program Plan is to provide
guidance, policies, procedures, and monitoring to further this policy direction.

2.0

AUTHORITY

The RTD Board of Directors adopted this ADA Program Plan in 2013.

3.0

RESPONSIBILITIES

RTD’s Senior Leadership Team is responsible for ensuring that their staff understand and
comply with RTD’s ADA Program Plan and its objectives. All RTD staff, consultants, and
contractors must take responsibility for implementation of RTD’s ADA Program Plan.
In accordance with 49 C.F.R. § 27.13, the Senior Manager Civil Rights Division has been
designated as the RTD ADA Coordinator. The ADA Coordinator will provide leadership
and coordinate all RTD efforts to further the policy objective to provide equal access
enterprise-wide for people with disabilities.

4.0

LEGAL FRAMEWORK

The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. § 794, was the precursor to the
ADA and protects qualified individuals from discrimination based upon a disability.
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act applies to entities that receive federal assistance
including RTD.
The ADA, 42 U.S.C. § 12601 et seq., was passed in 1990, and amended in 2008
pursuant to the ADA Amendments Act (PL110-325). The sections of the ADA applicable
to RTD are the first two titles. Title I applies to employment practices and Title II applies
to public services. Part B of Title II, 42 U.S.C. § 12141 et seq., specifically covers public
transportation provided by public entities. This law prohibits discrimination on the basis
of disability, requires the provision of paratransit service, and sets standards for
transportation facilities and vehicles.
The Department of Justice regulates and enforces Section 504 and the ADA, except that
the Department of Transportation (“DOT”) and the Federal Transit Administration (“FTA”)
administer the mass transportation provisions of Section 504 and the ADA, and DOT has
issued implementing regulations at 49 C.F.R. Parts 27, 37 and 38.

1

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: ADA Program Plan final (11.12.13)- Enterprise Wide langauge (1756 : Recommendation for Adoption of ADA Program Plan)

1.B.1.a

1.B.1.a

EMPLOYMENT

RTD prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in regard to job application
procedures, hiring, advancement or discharge of employees, employee compensation, and
other terms, conditions and privileges of employment.
Although all RTD employees have a responsibility to maintain a workplace environment
free of unlawful discrimination and harassment, RTD’s Equal Opportunity (“EO”) Office (a
subdivision of RTD’s Civil Rights Division) is responsible for investigating and resolving
complaints of discrimination and harassment in violation of RTD’s EEO policy. Complaints
should be made to a supervisor or the EO Office. Verbal complaints must be followed up
with a complaint form. Formal complaint forms are available in the EO Office (x2190) or
on the Intranet; questions and complaints can be sent to EqualOpportunity@rtddenver.com.
RTD also intends to make reasonable accommodations for the known physical or mental
impairments of qualified individuals with a disability, as defined by the ADA, unless
undue hardship or a direct threat would result. Individuals seeking a reasonable
accommodation should immediately make the request known to a supervisor or the
Senior Manager, Human Resources, who is empowered to act on behalf of the ADA
Coordinator specifically for requests for reasonable accommodations for employment
purposes. In this role, the Sr. Manager, Human Resources will be responsible for
investigating and responding to the request and engaging in the interactive process. The
Sr. Manager, Human Resources may delegate this responsibility from time to time to the
Labor Relations Office for requests made by employees in the bargaining unit.
In the event that an internal complaint or request for reasonable accommodation is not
satisfied, an individual may file a charge with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission or the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies, Division of Civil Rights.
The EO Office and the Senior Manager, Human Resources are responsible for developing
guidance manuals, best practices tools, and training to ensure that RTD staff, consultants
and contractors understand and implement RTD’s ADA employment objectives.

6.0

TRANSPORTATION

RTD prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in the provision of its transportation
services. The ADA implementing regulations also require the provision of paratransit
service and set standards for transportation facilities and vehicles.
Although all RTD employees have a responsibility to provide equal access enterprise-wide
for people with disabilities, the ADA Coordinator (Sr. Manager, Civil Rights) is responsible
for investigating and resolving complaints of discrimination and harassment from
passengers and the public. Formal complaints should be made to the ADA Coordinator at
(303)299-2221 or email to ADACoordinator@rtd-denver.com. Verbal or informal
complaints must be followed up with a complaint form. RTD may forward certain
complaints from disabled passengers made to RTD’s Telephone Information Center,
through RTD’s website or email complaints system, or social media if the individual
making the complaint can be identified, to the ADA Coordinator for tracking and/or
resolution.
2

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: ADA Program Plan final (11.12.13)- Enterprise Wide langauge (1756 : Recommendation for Adoption of ADA Program Plan)

5.0

The Federal Transit Administration (“FTA”), through its Office of Civil Rights, may
conduct audits concerning RTD’s ADA complementary paratransit service or RTD
compliance with applicable DOT regulations or other requirements. Individuals also may
file a complaint with the FTA. See http://www.fta.dot.gov/civilrights. In the FTA
complaint process, the FTA analyzes whether the complainant's allegations include
possible ADA deficiencies, presents that information to the transit provider, and offers
assistance to correct the inadequacies within a predetermined timeframe. The FTA also
may refer the matter to the U.S. Department of Justice for enforcement.

7.0

BEST PRACTICE TOOLS

The ADA Coordinator should develop best practice tools (“Tools”) to assist RTD
employees, consultants, and contractors in implementing the ADA Program. The ADA
Coordinator should periodically revise those Tools as appropriate to improve the
effectiveness of the ADA Program.
For purposes of employment, the Tools may involve the following areas:







Recruitment, hiring and promotion
Compensation and benefits
Training and leadership development
Reasonable accommodations
Complaint procedures and resolution
Employee relations

For purposes of transportation, the Tools may involve the following areas:








Communication and public information
Accessible facilities and access to transit
Accessible vehicles
Fixed-route transit
Demand-responsive transit
Light rail and commuter rail
Complementary paratransit service

3

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: ADA Program Plan final (11.12.13)- Enterprise Wide langauge (1756 : Recommendation for Adoption of ADA Program Plan)

1.B.1.a

