Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, December 6, 2011
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

December 7, 2011

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on December 6, 2011 at 5:30
p.m. in RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Cohen; Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and
Walker.
Directors Anderson and Malpiede arrived after the meeting began.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shawn Albert, Susan Altes, Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke,
Jeff Cluphf, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, John Dawson, Jane Donovan, Sherry
Ellebracht, Mike Gil, Cory Granrud, Terry Howerter, Kate Iverson,
Austin Jenkins, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara
McManus, Doug MacLeod, Robert Medina, Anthony Menendez, Brian
Middleton, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Chris Quinn,
Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Roger Sherman, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois,
Walt Stringer, Stan Szabelak, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van
Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Del Walker and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Ken Burns – CAC, Mac Callison – City of Aurora, Steve Cook DRCOG, Tyler Crowe – Alameda Station LLC, Chuck Easterling – DTP,
Joni Goheen – Virtegic Group, Lloyd H. – Alameda Station LLC.,
Sherman Hamilton, Virtegic Group, Bob Murphy – MMC, Ken Schmidt
– Alameda Station LLC, Bob Wilson, and Tom Wootten – Alameda
Station LLC.
****

Call to Order
I.

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at5:35p.m.

CAC Update
Ken Burns noted that Director Daly had previously asked the Citizens Advisory
Committee to review the two Union Station proposals. The proposals were reviewed
and a letter was sent from the CAC to the Board with their selection of the plan with
the hotel. As a reminder, next Wednesday will be the final meeting for 2011 and all
Board members are invited to attend. The new co-chair that will be replacing Debra
Wilcox will also be announced at that meeting.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, December 6, 2011
Page 2
Committee Chair Cohen added that it was very helpful for the Board to have the
CAC review the two Union Station proposals in a timely manner and for their
feedback.
Committee Chair Cohen reminded everyone that the annual CAC/Board/Senior
Leadership dinner and meeting is next Wednesday, December 14th here in this room
at 5:30 p.m.
II.

Recommended Action


FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments

It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks Citizens Advisory
Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the Board of Directors
reappoint three members of the Committee to an additional three-year term and
appoint three new members to the Committee to a three-year term.
Roger Sherman explained that there were five vacancies by current members whose
terms expire at the end of the year and one by resignation earlier in the year which
was not filled. There were a total of 20 applicants, and the Nominating Committee
which comprised of Scott Reed, Bill Van Meter, Kent Bagley and Matt Cohen
reviewed all of the applications. Three members requested that their appointments
be extended and the committee felt that all three deserved and merited the
appointment which left three spots to fill. One interesting note is that for the first
time, all districts have representation.
Director Tayer asked that in the future the Board be aware of the dates of the
application process so that the Board can reach out to all of the constituents.
Director Hoy inquired if the selection process could be explained in more detail.
Committee Chair Cohen responded to part of process and explained that notices
were distributed in the different community and jurisdictional resources such as
websites and other media. There was an outreach effort, but the Board could have
been more informed with regards to what was happening and when. Each member
of the nominating committee was given a binder containing all of the applications
that were then scored by independently by each committee member.
Director McMullen added that historically, the Citizens Advisory Committee was a
requirement when FasTracks was first approved in 2004. The program has grown
significantly over the years, and we have excellent candidates that are applying.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
forward this item to the full board
at the December 20, 2011 Board
meeting.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, December 6, 2011
Page 3
Director
motion.
Vote on
the motion:



Tayer

seconded

the

The motion passed Unanimously.
Director Anderson and Malpiede
were not present for this vote.

Property Acquisition for Eagle P3

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying certain
additional properties as necessary for construction of the Eagle P3 Commuter Rail
Project and the associated Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility and authorizing staff
to proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.
Director Walker indicated that due to a conflict of interest with his employer for
parcels GL81 and GL63REV1, he would be abstaining from the vote on this item.
Susan Altes indicated that staff had originally brought a resolution to the Board in
2010 for the acquisition of properties necessary for the Eagle P3 Project. As the RFP
was issued for design construction, the contractor has made some revisions to plans
as has RTD. A lot of times additional properties are needed for the project and that is
what this list represents. Rick Clarke added that the original properties were
identified based on a 30% design.
Director Daly wanted to make sure that no residences were acquired. Susan Altes
explained that we have only acquired one residential property that was tenant
occupied.
Director Bagley asked if these are easements or are they full takes. Susan Altes
noted that only one or 2 are full takes, the rest are partials. Director Bagley further
asked for a legend key to be added to the form to indicate which are easements or
full takes, and which corridor it represents.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion
to forward this item to the full
board at the December 20, 2011
Board meeting.
Director McMullen seconded the
motion.

Vote on
the motion:

The motion passed Unanimously.
Director Walker abstained and
Directors Anderson and Malpiede
were not present for this vote.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, December 6, 2011
Page 4



Approval of 2012 Contract Award to Virtegic Group Incorporated for the
FasTracks Public Information, Communications and Public Outreach
Consultant Contract

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a one-year contract award
with four one-year options, negotiated annually between RTD and Consultant
Staff, and awarded annually by the RTD Board of Directors at the discretion of
RTD, to Virtegic Group Incorporated, to serve as the FasTracks Public
Information, Communications and Public Outreach Consultant, for an amount not
to exceed $451,459.20 for the year 2012. Funds for the award are contained in
the 2012 FasTracks Budget.
Pauletta Tonilas indicated that for the past six and a half years our FasTracks
Public Information Consultant has been Strategic Community Partners, a joint
venture of CRL Associates and Communication Infrastructure Group. They have
performed successfully and have done a fantastic job supporting the FasTracks
team and RTD but it was time for us to put this contract back out for bid this
past fall. We received three proposals from: Communication Infrastructure Group
(CIG), Virtegic Group Incorporated and ZoZo Group, LLC. After considerable
evaluation and oral presentations from all three teams, the evaluation team
selected Virtegic Group Incorporated.
Director O’Boyle asked what constituted the RFP criteria. Pauletta Tonilas
explained that there were five areas: Experience of the firm(s) and Key Positions,
Cost, Proposed Approach for Public Information, Communications and Public
Outreach, Transit Specific Knowledge and a Small Business Enterprise (SBE) Plan.
Chair Kemp added that our staff has a fantastic process that they follow and the
decision must have been difficult, but this new group will have a lot to live up to.
We have high expectations.
Committee Chair Cohen indicated that he looks forward to a professional and
seamless transition as we bring this new team on board.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion
to forward this item to the full
board at the December 20, 2011
Board meeting.
Director
motion.

Vote on
the motion:

Bagley

seconded

the

The motion passed Unanimously.
Director Anderson and Malpiede
were not present for this vote.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, December 6, 2011
Page 5



Recommendation for the approval of the five (5) year option and additional
fee request for Insurance Brokerage and Administrative Service

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager approve the option to extend the
period of performance of the contract for five (5) years and to add an additional
$500,000.00 to the option price to Marsh USA to provide Professional Services
for Insurance Brokerage and Administrative Services on the Rolling Owner
Controlled Insurance Program (ROCIP). Funding for this contract in 2012 is
included in the 2012 Adopted expense budget for the FasTracks program, and
funding for this contract in future years is included in the FasTracks financial
plan.
Rick Clarke explained that all of the RTD construction contracts are covered by
this ROCIP program for builder’s risk, general liability and so on. This also covers
small companies that might have difficulty getting insurance. Robert Medina
explained that Marsh USA reviews all of the policies and coverage’s that we will
need to go forward with the program.
Director O’Boyle inquired what the term Rolling Owner means. Robert Medina
explained that we developed a program that would fit each of the different
corridors so that we would not have separate contracts. This allows us to roll
forward with the same program on each individual project.
General Manager Washington added that this is another great example of how
we are assisting DBE/SBE’s. This is not discussed often, but this is a huge
benefit to minority owned construction programs.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
forward this item to the full board
at the December 20, 2011 Board
meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the
motion.

Vote on
the motion:



The motion passed Unanimously.
Director Anderson and Malpiede
were not present for this vote.

Recommendation for Amendment to Intergovernmental Agreements with the
City and County of Denver for the Eagle Project

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate and amend the existing
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of Denver (City) for

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, December 6, 2011
Page 6
the East Corridor for RTD to, as part of the Eagle Project, (a) add sufficient
additional track to facilitate one additional station, such station to be paid for by
an entity other than RTD; (b) amend the design of the structures along Peña
Boulevard to allow and additional track and a second additional station to be
added in the future with both of these future elements to be paid by an entity
other than RTD; and (c) grade separate Tower Road and Green Valley Ranch
Boulevard (also known as 48th Avenue). The agreement shall also include
provisions that require the City to make certain drainage improvements in the
area of 31st and 36th Streets, and to provide fiber optic connections from each
grade crossing on the Eagle Project within the City and County of Denver to the
City and County of Denver control center, all at no cost to RTD. Furthermore, the
IGA will address funding of the described improvements.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to negotiate and amend the existing Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA)
with the City and County of Denver on behalf of its Department of Aviation for
the East Corridor/Denver International Airport (DIA) be submitted to binding
arbitration if the parties cannot agree on that responsibility.
Rick Clarke explained that this item was first presented to the Board two weeks
ago during Executive Session. The City and County of Denver requests that two
potential additional stations be built. Both the City and County were okay with
the building the two stations but they were not aware that they would have to
build track, signals and bridges. That created a negative dynamic on the project
which lead to this proposed agreement. Estimated costs at this time for the City
and County of Denver is 57,000,000 and 18,000,000 for RTD.
Chair Kemp wanted to reiterate that no funds would be coming out of other
corridors for this project and this agreement is contingent upon the approval of
the Denver City Council. Even though we are moving this forward for the full
Board approval later this month, this agreement is tentative until the Denver City
Council approves this as well.
Director Tobiassen noted that RTD will repay the loan out of any Eagle Project
contingency remaining at the end of the Eagle Project, or from future FasTracks
sales and use tax receipts from the project area if contingency is not available.
Director Tobiassen asked that during the negotiation phase that specific area is
clearly defined. Also, there are other areas along the east corridor that could
potentially require use of our contingency fund to provide quality improvements
to the stations.
Director Tayer inquired where this takes our contingency fund. Brian Middleton
indicated that he would be a lot more comfortable if we were not using the
contingency but we are well underway with design and negotiations of all of the
IGA’s on the corridor. The outstanding risks as we move forward are the
unknown subsurface conditions.
Director O’Boyle raised his concerns that the split between the Gold Line and
East Line of the contingency money would appear that the City and County of

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, December 6, 2011
Page 7
Denver have staked out a prior claim by agreement on a significant portion of any
contingency that might be left.
Rick Clarke explained that this is the first claim on contingency; however,
contingency in general is to address unknown construction risks that happen on
the project. It is not for betterments or improvements to the requirements of the
original agreements. We have had preliminary discussions with the City of Aurora
and they have expressed some of the same concerns that we have heard here. It
is still too early to say that there will be any contingency leftover considering that
there is still a lot of construction left to do.
Director Hoy asked at what point will this trip become too long since the
estimated trip time is now 40 minutes. Brian Middleton explained that certainty
and consistency of a fixed time frame is important.
Bill Van Meter noted that when we did the travel demand models for the year
2035 there were increases in corridor ridership with the addition of the two
stations. However, the longer travel time of 39 minutes is near the tipping point,
but we are not there yet.
Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion
to forward this item to the full
board at the December 20, 2011
Board meeting.
Director
motion.

Vote on
the motion:

III.

Bagley

seconded

the

The motion passed Unanimously.
Director Anderson was not present
for this vote.

Updates
Committee Chair Cohen wanted to recognize the Chair of the FasTracks Taskforce
for the Metro Mayors Caucus, the Honorable Mayor Bob Murphy.
 Northwest Rail Segment II Costs
Del Walker indicated that this updated information is intended to be the basis for the
2012 Program Evaluation Costs for this corridor. This is a 41 mile corridor using
existing BNSF line from Pecos to Longmont. It is likely that the completion date will
have to be extended to match RTD’s cash flow constraints. There is an anticipated
three to five year delay for the project and additional escalation applied for each year
of delay could result in an increase of $150-$300 million to the cost of this project.
We will approach the stakeholders to discuss the updated capital cost estimates and
will evaluate cost impacts to the financial plan and implementation schedule.
Director Tayer noted that there will be plenty of time to evaluate where we go from

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, December 6, 2011
Page 8
here and inquired what is the precise break down by element in terms of the cost
increases. Director Tayer further noted that the process of negotiation is going to be
important and inquired what is the process to challenge them their number to drive
down the cost.
Del Walker indicated that the figure is based on RTD estimates. This is our number
for the entire corridor for multiple efforts.
Marla Lien explained that we first sat down with Burlington Northern in February of
2005 after FasTracks first passed, so this is not a new negotiation. Burlington
Northern gave us two numbers in an attempt to work with us; a lower cost scenario
that would have lower operating and capital costs for startup service and then our
requested level of service. In terms of negotiating their component, they are going
to sell us operating use in the form of time slots. They will give us a lump sum price
for an improved operating easement.
Director Hoy noted that it was always his understanding that we cannot use the
corridor until the entire project is completed and asked if that had been changed or if
BNSF has changed their position. Marla Lien explained that BNSF will not allow us to
operate until we complete the improvements from Westminster to Longmont. We
could choose to operate to save on the operations cost in shorter segments as long
as we have a place to turn around. We also might be able to negotiate some
incremental development of the operating costs but the capital costs for the slots
must be paid up front. There would be some savings, but they want the double
tracking to Longmont for their through put service.
Director O’Boyle asked if BRT, a previous option, is still being considered for this
corridor.
General Manager Washington indicated that we looked at the current Board
approved plan when putting this presentation together. When we bring the Annual
Program Evaluation in January, the Board can make policy changes to the FasTracks
plan if it wants.
Director Bagley added that we are talking about a potential vote with our partners
next year and this makes things a lot more difficult. This is very concerning and we
will have additional conversations about this in the future.
General Manager Washington explained that we’ve put this number in front of you to
be clear and transparent. This is the first number, but let us come back to you in a
few weeks with the final number to show you how this fits into the program.
Chair Kemp asked if the three to five year delay is only for the Northwest Rail
project. Del Walker indicated that this is only a Northwest Rail delay. The other
projects will stay on their current 2011 APE timeframes.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, December 6, 2011
Page 9


Westminster Station and the Local Agency Contribution IGA

Nadine Lee explained that the City of Westminster and RTD have partnered to
modify Westminster Station in support of the city’s vision to foster transit-oriented
development through a change to the base plan configuration.
Director Tobiassen inquired if the sales and use tax rebate for the City of
Westminster is similar to what we will have with the City of Denver. Nadine Lee
indicated that was correct.
IV.

Other Matters
None

V.

Next Meeting
The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is scheduled for January
17, 2012

VI.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned to the Planning and Development Committee at
7:50p.m.

