1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
DBE Committee
Tuesday, February 12, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

DBE Committee
Chaired by Angie Rivera-Malpiede

A. Call to Order
Committee Co-Chair Rivera-Malpiede called the meeting to order at 5:30 PM, followed by
the Pledge of Allegiance conducted by Director Solano.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
5:26 PM
Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:25 PM

Bruce Daly

Director, District N

Present

5:26 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Committee Co-Chair
Director, District E

Absent
Absent

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present

5:03 PM
5:28 PM
5:31 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:23 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Committee Co-Chair

Present
Present

5:32 PM
4:54 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:24 PM
5:21 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Absent
Present

5:00 PM

Phillip A. Washington

General Manager

Present

5:33 PM

Erin Klaas

Senior Board Office Assistant

Present

4:53 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen,
Carolyn Conover, James Cook, John Elias, Eric Farrington, David
Genova, Bill Holmes, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas,
Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Barbara McManus,
Brenden Morgan, Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, John Tarbert, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Kelly Casto, Jennifer Eckert, Stan Gronek, Tom Grushka, Sherman
Hamilton, Elbert Johnson, Kathy Maher, Jon Moellenberg, Mike
Newman, Nghia Nguyen, Dan Pearsall, Darla Pearsall, Tom Rousan,
Jason Simmons, Joe Tripett, Gary Van Dorn, Cheryl Wallace, Dee
Wisor

B. Recommended Actions

• DBE Committee Name Change
It is recommended by the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Committee that
the Board of Directors change the name of the Disadvantage Business
Enterprise (DBE) Committee to the Civil Rights Committee which is more
inclusive and comprehensive in scope and responsibilities.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the
motion to move this item to the
full Board at the February 19th,
2013 Board meeting.
Director Lasater seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director Solano asked if the name change will affect the committee’s role
and how it can be more inclusive. Staff stated that the Civil Rights Division
addresses complaints from the customer as they deal with all aspects of
Title VI. Director Solano asked if there could be some language in the rules
that include the public participation and allows public to speak and let the
Board know how Civil Rights are affecting them. General Manager (GM) Phil
Washington stated that there are a number of public interfaces with the Civil
Right division. The FTA requires RTD to go out and have public hearings
when there are fare or inner service changes. He also stated that the
committee meets bi-monthly and representatives from disadvantaged

businesses attend those meetings; there is also public participation at the
Board meetings.
Director Lasater stated that DBE is very obvious to the business community
and asked if the name change would mask the purpose, especially for new
comers to the area that want to find out how to interact with RTD and Civil
Right might be interpreted to do with anything but businesses. Staff stated
that all the SBO/DBE programs are housed under the Civil Right Division
because they look at the entire scope of Title VI. GM Phil Washington
stated that the elements of Civil Rights are prominently posted on the
website and the public can see each of the programs under that Division;
also, all publications that go out of the public show that the DBE falls under
Civil Rights. This is consistent with industry practices to name this
particular office Civil Rights as oppose to DBE Office.
Director Hoy asked how this change will affect the way we deal with DBE
businesses. GM Phil Washington stated that it does not change anything
that is being done. They will continue the compliance piece and this just
makes it more inclusive. Director Hoy stated that he understood that we are
putting more tasks under Civil Rights but we are not losing any of the
programs. GM Phil Washington reminded the Board that the Civil Rights
Division was created over 3 years ago and they are not changing anything in
the department. This is the RTD Board changing the name of the Board’s
Committee. The Civil Rights department has been in place, and the name
change has no impact on the department’s role and responsibilities.
Director Solano asked how the name change will affect the disadvantaged
business committee. Director Rivera-Malpiede stated that she has been part
of the committee in the past, and that there are other committees like the
Workforce Initiative Now (WIN) and all this does is change the name of the
committee to align it with the RTD department.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 1]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Director, District G
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Walker
NAYS: Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Tom Tobiassen
Committee Co-Chair Rivera-Malpiede declared the motion PASSED to the
Recommended Action.

C. Updates
There were no updates.

D. Other Matters
Director Solano reminded the Board members that Director Folska has requested the
no votes to be stated by name.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 9, 2013
F. Adjourn to Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Committee Co-Chair Rivera-Malpiede adjourned the meeting at 5:47p.m. to the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

