1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

AGENDA
DBE Committee
Tuesday, February 12, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

DBE Committee
Chaired by Barbara Deadwyler and Angie Rivera-Malpiede

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• DBE Committee Name Change
C. Updates
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date- April 9, 2013
F. Adjourn to Financial Administration and Audit Committee

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices

Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date:

From:

Kenn Hardin, Senior Manager, Civil Rights
Division

GM

Date:

February 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 12, 2013

Subject:

DBE Committee Name Change

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Committee that the Board of Directors
change the name of the Disadvantage Business Enterprise (DBE) Committee to the Civil Rights
Committee which is more inclusive and comprehensive in scope and responsibilities.
BACKGROUND
The DBE Committee is currently a standing committee, and a quorum is reached with five board
members present. The DBE Committee meets every other month to discuss the policies, procedures and
implementation of RTD’s Small and Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Programs that provide outside
contracting and subcontracting opportunities for small, minority and women owned businesses. The
committee reviews the procedures of the Small Business Office (SBO), the diversity of participation on
RTD Base System and major capital projects such as FasTracks, small business advocacy, compliance
monitoring and the overall efforts of the SBO to assist the growth and development of small and
disadvantaged businesses through the implementation of various technical assistance initiatives. The
committee supports the outreach efforts of the SBO by attending community, organization and
association meetings when required. Designated members attend the quarterly Disadvantaged Business
Enterprise Advisory Committee and provide information on how to do business with RTD to the
community at-large and our Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) stakeholders and other community
partners throughout the metropolitan Denver area.
DISCUSSION
The scope of the DBE Committee has expanded beyond merely receiving reports regarding the Small
Business Office (SBO) and third party business related activities. Currently, the DBE Committee
receives reports from and provides advice on the Title VI Program, Equal Employment Opportunity
(EEO) Program, Workforce Initiative Program (WIN) and all Diversity related matters associated with
RTD’s overall Civil Rights responsibilities. The revised name better describes the role and
responsibilities of the Committee and is comprehensive enough to include future related
responsibilities that may fall under the responsibility of “Civil Rights”. Every other month, meetings
will be helpful to the Board of Directors as they make decisions for the benefit of the agency and the
public we serve.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Executive Committee’s Recommended Action to change the name of the DBE
Committee to the Civil Rights Committee.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action and continue with the DBE Committee as it now
stands.

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

Civil Rights Committee Charter
Committee Purpose:


This Committee’s function shall be to:
o

o

o

Receive status/update reports from all components of the Civil Rights Department
for review to ensure that RTD’s continuing civil rights responsibilities/obligations are
being fulfilled.
Keep the RTD Board of Directors informed on progress and changes that may
impact on RTD’s ability to identify, execute and monitor opportunities for significant
participation by the small business community, disadvantaged business enterprises,
and other entities as covered under the Civil Rights provisions.
Assist with the development and implementation of strategies to improve the
understanding of, and support for, the District’s Civil Rights Programs, objectives,
goals and to foster positive and effective ongoing relationships with the RTD’s
internal personnel, and the external business community and stakeholders including
the community at large.

Operating Procedures:







By noon on the Thursday of the week preceding the committee meeting, the Civil Rights
Department Sr. Manager will submit his agenda along with appropriate approvals and the
supporting documentation, to the IQM2 paperless packet system.
The agenda will normally follow the order: Recommended Action, Updates, Other Matters
and Next Meeting Date. The Co-Chairs of the Committee has the discretion to change the
order, as appropriate.
During the Committee meeting, staff will present the agenda items as appropriate.
The Co-Chairs of the Committee should call for a motion on any action item requiring
Board action, following a discussion of the item.
Items that are moved forward by a motion and properly discussed will be voted on using
the voting module of the paperless packet system. A quorum of five is required to move
an action forward to the full Board for approval.
Minutes of each committee meeting are included in the Board packet for Board review and
approval.

Authorization:


Section 32-9-109.5 and Section 32-9-114 of the RTD Act describes the administrative
powers and authority given to the RTD Board of Directors. The Board Bylaws provides
further description of Standing Committees.

Membership and Leadership Composition:



The Chair of the Board will appoint the Co-Chairs of the Civil Rights Committee.
The Civil Rights Committee is a standing committee of the whole.

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.1





As elected officials, the standing Committee of the whole allows maximum participation
and representation of the respective Districts in the decision making process.
All Board members are participating and voting members of this committee.
A quorum is reached with five members participating.

Roles and Responsibilities:


Co-Chairs of the Committee:
o Work with the Civil Rights Senior Manager to develop and approve agenda for the
monthly meetings.
o Co-Chairs facilitate Committee meetings following established Board protocols and
procedures.
o Discuss items on Committee agenda and calls for a vote on recommended action
items to move before full Board at a formal Board meeting.
o Follows established order for agenda as approved in Board Bylaws but maintains
flexibility to change when appropriate.
o Maintains proper communications flow and order for involvement and balanced
participation of Board members.
o Can make the decision to invite public comment or speaker if appropriate.
o Appoint working groups or sub-committees as needed on specific issues.
o Can request Executive Session on items that are allowed per Open Meetings Act.
CRS statute must be properly quoted and posted.
o Approve meeting minutes.
o Perform all Co-Chair responsibilities in the absence of the other Co-Chair.



Committee Members:
o Preview presentation/materials provided by staff before the meeting and come
prepared to discuss or take appropriate action on items brought before the
Committee.
o Attend meetings regularly.
o Review Committee minutes.

Reporting Requirements:







All Committee meetings are noticed and recorded per Open meetings/ Open Records
requirements.
Meetings with three or more Board members are considered open meetings and must be
noticed and posted at least 24 hours before the meeting.
All meetings must have approved agenda.
Minutes are taken of each meeting (along with attendance) and included in the monthly
Board agenda for formal Board meetings.
Minutes are reviewed by the Committee Co-Chairs of the Civil Rights Committee and the
Civil Rights Senior Manager.
Minutes from the Committee meetings are permanent records and retained in the Board
office. Minutes from the meetings are available to the public upon request.

Staffing Requirements:

Packet Pg. 6

1.B.1






Board members rely on Civil Rights Senior Manager and designated staff for preparation of
presentations, Board reports and other materials used in the Committee meetings.
Civil Rights Senior Manager participates in meetings and addresses any questions or
concerns raised by Board members on a particular item.
Civil Rights Senior Manager and/or designated Staff perform analysis and provides followup to Board members on requested items.
Civil Rights Senior Manager (or his designee) meets with Board members in one-on-one
sessions or as requested to brief Board members on a particular issue.

Meeting Schedule and Process:




Civil Rights Committee meets every other month and become a part of the committee
rotational schedule for the second Tuesday meeting of the month.
Prior to the meeting, the Co-Chairs of the Committee meet with the Civil Rights Senior
Manager or his designee to discuss or review the agenda and any items of concern.
The Co-Chairs will follow the established order on the agenda which is normally prioritized
by Recommended Actions, Updates, Other Matters and Next Meeting Date. The Co-Chairs
have the flexibility to change the order of the agenda when deemed appropriate but should
keep in mind that the purpose for doing recommended items first is to ensure a quorum is
still present for voting the motion forward.

Approval Process:






Civil Rights Committee members vote to move a recommended action forward to the full
Board for approval at the official Board meeting.
A quorum vote of five members can advance an item forward.
Action items are placed on the Board agenda either under unanimous consent or
recommended action according to whether the Committee passed the item forward
unanimously or had any opposing votes.
Action items passed by Committee do not become official part of record until approved in
the formal Board meeting by the full Board.
A new item may be discussed for recommended action if brought forth by three or more
Committee members and has been provided to the Executive Director of the Board by
Thursday of the week preceding the Committee meeting.

Prepared by:
Kenn Hardin, Senior Manager, Civil Rights Division
Adrina Gibson, DBE/SBE Compliance Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

1.B.1

Packet Pg. 8

