July 16, 2019
Board Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: --is that we're going to mention later when we talk about various awards that
have been received. So I call now upon Mr. Mike Hubbard to come forward and lead us all in the
Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Hubbard, sir.
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for
which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Hubbard, and we will see you in a moment or
two. Ms. McManus, if you would now please call the role of the Board.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalek.
KEN MIHALEK: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 14 present, one absent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. McManus. We appreciate that. We now have our
standard safety briefing. At RTD, safety is our core value. And so we begin all of our meetings
with a short safety briefing.
If we have a medical emergency that necessitates calling 911, I will ask our RTD General
Counsel to make that telephone call. Any medically trained individuals in the room are
respectfully requested to assist. If needed, an Automatic Emergency Defibrillator, that's an AED
device, is in a glass case located just outside this room on the wall to the right.
In the event we must evacuate the building due to an emergency, please calmly exit out the door
that you came in at the back of the room there, go up the stairs to the first floor around the
security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be there to direct
you to a safe meet up area. And anyone who needs special assistance in the event of an
evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.
On a related safety note RTD takes every reasonable precaution to ensure the safety and security
of its passengers, vehicles, and facilities. That said, the agency relies on both staff and the
general public to be aware and alert to any suspicious or dangerous activity on buses and trains,
and around stations, stops, and platforms. As such, we encourage all RTD employees and all
patrons to download the RTD Transit Watch app, which allows users to report suspicious or

dangerous activity and to communicate directly with RTD transit security personnel on a real
time basis in the event of an emergency situation. The Transit Watch app is available via Google
Play and the Apple App Store. Remember, if you see something, say something. And with the
Transit app you'll never ride alone. Thank you.
We have several retirees that we are honoring this month for the month of July. I believe we
have one of them who has joined us this evening. And so first we will recognize Carolyn
Conover, senior manager of contracted services, who's been with the agency for over 27 years.
And so now I recognize Fred Worthen, our Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, to say
a few words.
FRED WORTHEN: Good evening, honorable Board members. Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus
Operations. As you mentioned, I have Carolyn Conover our retired Senior Manager of
Contracted Services. Last year, Carolyn came up to me and said, hey, I want to retire. And I was
like, no, no. I can't let you do that. And she said, yeah. And I said, can we talk about this?
Carolyn was planning on retiring last fall, but she was gracious enough to stay with us through a
couple of major procurements, and also to stay to help train whoever her replacement was.
Fortunately, her replacement was one of her proteges within her department, but it was very,
very kind of her to stay with us. Carolyn has had a great career with us, and we are definitely
going to miss her very much.
Now, I know Carolyn is a Toastmasters person also. So I know she's got something to say.
[LAUGHTER]
CAROLYN: I think it's written in the Toastmaster bylaws that if you are a Toastmaster, you
never pass up an opportunity to speak. But a few weeks ago, a friend of mine asked me, what's
the best decision you ever made? And I immediately responded, going to work for RTD. I have
had so many opportunities for growth and development that allowed me to turn just a job into a
long and rewarding career.
I used to joke that it was my addiction to the diesel fumes that kept me around all these years, but
truly, I find transit fascinating, and I enjoy being a part of something bigger than myself. I'm so
proud of the service that we provide to the people within our district, and it made me happy to
think that I could have a small impact on that service.
So as I look back though on my career at RTD, I think the thing that I'm most proud of is the way
that contracted services has evolved. When I started in 1992, the legislative requirement to
privatize service had just been in place about two years. So there was still a lot of negativity,
animosity within RTD, and our contractors were struggling to perform.
But over the years, as the percent of privatization grew from 20% to over 50%, our contracted
services team really got together. They dug down and they created some really strong
performance metrics to help monitor and improve our contractor performance. We set specific
performance standards, and then held our contractors accountable. But the other thing we did

was that we nurtured those positive cooperative relationships with our contractors that was built
on trust and respect, that we took advantage of the things that they brought to the table-- their
knowledge and their expertise. And today, RTD is a model in the transit industry as a way to
make privatization work, and I think that's all because we took the time to learn how to do it
right.
So I'm grateful for all of the mentors that have worked with me over the years to help me grow
and learn. I say that they filled my brain with knowledge, and they filled my heart with passion
for everything that we do. And although it's been a great ride, my passions are now being pulled
in different directions. I have nine grandkids that I need to spoil. I have a beautiful garden in
which I need to toil. I have new adventures I want to make, and new memories I am anxious to
make.
So I thank the Board of the Directors, the senior leadership team, my coworkers, and our contract
partners for everything that you have done to help me turn a job into a long and rewarding
career. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
KATE WILLIAMS: Hey, Carolyn, we're hiring over at DRMAC.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Well, it's an honor to listen to someone who is so well-spoken and able to
communicate, even in rhyme. Are there any other retirees who have joined us this evening at this
time? Seeing them, we will now offer our thanks and appreciation to the following retirees. They
have contributed a combined 62 years of dedicated service to our great agency, the RTD.
These are Jeffrey Griner, a Bus Operator for 21 years; Cheryl Holmes, Manager of Creative
Services for 18 years; Connie Sue Payne, an Administrative Assistant for 23 years. Let's hear it
for them.
[APPLAUSE]
And this evening, we are also honored to recognize RTD's participants in the APTA Bus Roadeo,
and the APTA International Rail Roadeo, which took place earlier this year-- the Bus Roadeo in
Louisville, Kentucky, and the Rail Roadeo in Toronto, Ontario. To introduce the bus roadeo
participants, I will hand the proceedings once again over to our Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations, Fred Worthen. Mr. Worthen, the floor is yours.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you very much. The International Bus Roadeo is something that is
near and dear to my heart. I grew up through the ranks, and in fact, Mr. Johnson, could you join
me? John has actually been a five-time champion, and we were reminiscing about the
competition in the past, and John and I found out that we competed against each other in 1989 in
Atlanta, Georgia right after Hurricane Hugo had hit the coast.

But John has won five times. Unfortunately John has won his last roadeo. He has moved on to
our training department. So he won't be competing anymore. But John did very well at
international. He placed 15th overall. Congratulations, John.
[APPLAUSE]
We were also very fortunate enough to have a participant from First Transit, Ab Ek Chan. A.B.
would you join me please? A. B. has won six times, and for those of you who have ever gone to
a roadeo, you know that A.B. and his brother Jose are the reigning champions on the contractive
services side. This year, APTA changed the rules, and they did not allow us to sponsor a
contractor at the APTA competition. So the Colorado State Transit Association actually allowed
A.B. to represent the district on their behalf. A.B. placed third overall at international. He did
fantastic. Congratulations, A.B.
[APPLAUSE]
Next, we have our maintenance international participants. I think you have all heard me refer to
them on multiple occasions as our young guns from Boulder. Chris Barry, Jackson Hughes, and
Noah Stwalley will you please join me? Our young team actually had a fantastic showing. Their
very first international competition, they placed 19th overall. They represented the district well.
We're very pleased to have all of you represent us. Nice job, guys.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: We thank you, Mr. Worthen, for the recognition of those fine, fine
participants. And I do appreciate particularly the maintenance international participants. They
fought hard and well. And when I saw them in Louisville, I told them that they should be proud
of what they did and for the accomplishments that they had because they had a great future ahead
of them. Although at the time, they said, who the hell's that guy who's talking to me?
[LAUGHTER]
All right. Here to recognize the rail roadeo participants is our Assistant General Manager of Rail
Operations, Dave Jensen. Mr. Jensen, you have the floor, sir.
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening. I am Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. And I would like
to ask all of the rail competitors that are here to come up at once, and their coaches. I have the
distinct fortune of not having competed against any of them. But I couldn't be prouder.
I would love to be able to say that I had some part, even a small part, in their success, but the
truth is that it's their hard work, their dedication, their skill, their coaching, and their managers
that was able to accomplish what they did. I could not be prouder of them. So the winners of last
year's local roadeo went to compete in the international roadeo last month in Toronto. We placed
third overall.

What I'd like to do, though, is ask the General Superintendents of each of the departments, the
LRV maintenance department and transportation department, to introduce their competitors and
talk about them. So let's start with Phil Eberl, LRV Maintenance, General Superintendent of
LRV Maintenance.
PHIL EBERL: Thanks, Dave. Again, I'm Phil Eberl, the General Superintendent of Light Rail
Vehicle Maintenance. And this was a great roadeo this year. It was in Toronto. And I want to
take a second and just thank the Board of Directors and David Genova for putting on such a great
roadeo in 2018 in Denver. And so Toronto came and learned what we did here, and we blew the
international away with what we've done here. And so they took really good notes, and they did
an outstanding job, extremely very similar to ours. We don't know who's was the best yet, but it
kind of depends, kind of like the basketball teams I guess.
But anyway, thank you for that. And this year on the roadeo, I want to thank Dave Jensen for
adding a maintenance team member. We had a third maintenance team member this year, and it
really paid off. And so our first team member I was going to mention is Mike Hubbard, and he
was in the international roadeo last year. He's been with RTD six years.
And then we had George Sweeney. He's a repeat roadeo winner. He's been with RTD for 19
years. He attended the international roadeo 16 times, and won first place at the international
roadeo four times, and won first place at the local nine times.
And so Randall Lovegrove was also another team member of ours, and he's been with RTD for
11 years, attending the international roadeo over 12 times. And he's won the local several times
also. I can't remember how many times that is. And they did very well being three team members
at the international. And so as a whole, our team won third place overall combined competitions.
They did a great job. And in maintenance, we got third place in maintenance. And our team
actually won first place in the door event, and tied for first place in the electric coupler event.
So Randall, George, and Mike, step on up, and congratulations.
[APPLAUSE]
GARY SCHAFER: Good evening, everyone. My name's Gary Schafer. I'm the General
Superintendent of Rail Transportation. And we were very proud to go out and represent RTD in
Toronto, Canada. Phil's more humble than I am. We did a better job, but we were good hosts.
They did a great job as well, but I still think ours was the one that knocked it out of the park. So
thank you to everybody's support for the year that we hosted this.
So people ask sometimes, what's a roadeo? We don't have horses. We don't have that stuff. But
these operators compete. We had three international teams, which was two from Canada and one
from East Japan Railroad. They competed in ours too. They come over to the States and to
Canada to compete. So they compete in a written test. They compete in a uniform inspection.
They do a ground inspection. They do a customer care event. And then they operate the trains,
which is really difficult for some of the folks, because they're not used to these trains. So they get
a few days of training, and then they go out in the yard.

We did extremely well. We were extremely close in a lot of events. And we placed third as a
combined team overall, like Phil said. So Stephanie Klein, I'd like to have you step up first.
Stephanie is one of our newer employees, which is nice. Sometimes you see folks that have been
here a lot of years. Stephanie's in her fourth year, and she represented us this year in the roadeo
and did quite well. She's also in that process of taking a promotion as one of our light rail
controllers. So she's along her path and her career. She represented well with what we did in
Toronto, which was a huge part, because it's all based on points. And if their points aren't close,
we don't get into that third place position and up on the stage in a trophy. So thank you,
Stephanie, for your-[APPLAUSE]
The familiar face behind me that I'm going to invite up now is Robert Dennis. Robert, step up
there, my friend. Robert's a nine-time winner of our local roadeo. And he's quite competitive
when we get to these international events. So one time, as Phil mentioned, they were combined
team winners, with Robert doing the operators portion, and then the maintenance side, they were
first place. Robert has also won first place twice in the international roadeo, and that's quite an
accomplishment. There's 19 teams, and these folks are all very competitive. Robert's a credit to
the district, 21 years with the district and still very proud of what he does, and represents our
district very well.
So I congratulate both these folks, and let you know as a group that allow us to go out and
participate in these events that they represent our district very well when we go out there. We're
very well respected, and Robert's a pretty well known person out there. So thank you again, and
congratulations to these guys.
[APPLAUSE]
BOB BROOM: Think we could afford some more spotlights up there, or more curtain.
DOUG TISDALE:It really is a great honor for us to recognize our retirees, and our award
winners, and our participants in these events, because it really does show RTD in the very best
possible light. So once again, congratulations to all of you.
[APPLAUSE]
We come now to our public participation period, which is open to anyone who wants to address
the Board. It is our custom to allow any of our elected officials present to speak first so that they
can get back to their own meetings and attend to their constituents' business. If you have signed
up to speak, I will call your name in the order in which you signed up. If you have not signed up
and would like to speak, I will ask for additional speakers at the end of the list, and we'll take
those additional speakers at that time.
Each speaker is allowed up to three minutes. Let me repeat that-- up to three minutes. Do not feel
compelled to use all of it. We respectfully request that members of the audience refrain from any
indications of support or opposition to a speaker's comments, as such outburst might reasonably

have the effect of chilling the free expression of thoughts by those speakers. And please bear in
mind that by appearing at the microphone, you are consenting to being video and audio recorded,
as all of our meetings are in fact video and audio recorded, and they're made available on the
RTD website. So if you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be
submitted in writing.
Please come to the lectern when called, state your name and address. If you have any
documentation or reference materials for the Board, please give those materials to the Board staff
prior to speaking. On the public participation log, I have just one name here. So I'll call that
name, and that's Doug Gragg. So Doug Gragg, you are recognized, sir, and you're the only one
who signed up. But you still only have three minutes, but you are welcome at this time, Mr.
Gragg.
DOUG GRAGG: Doug Gragg, new address, 1135 Broadway. I came to apologize to the Board. I
have been very unwell lately, and so I have been very neglectful in my duties of auditing each
and every one of you and checking out to make sure you're on the right path of righteousness.
But my health has gotten much better. So I am going to vigorously resume my activities.
So I thought I'd come and make a public announcement that, at least for a while back, I'm back. I
spoke to two senior staff members this evening, and I made up a joke to tell them, and now I feel
ancient, ancient as hell, because-- I didn't mean to swear, I apologize-- because neither one got
the joke. Oh goodness.
So their homework was to look up on the computer when they get home to discover what the
New York Central and the Pennsylvania Railroads were. OK. Thank you for seeing me, and I'm
so glad to be back. Bye, bye, now.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Gragg. We appreciate your being back. And let
me also now for the sake of the record please note that our treasurer, Director Shelley Cook, is in
attendance at the meeting. She did not originally respond to the roll call, and she is here.
Are there any other speakers who would wish to speak during the public participation period?
Seeing none, we will then close the public participation period. We'll move on to our agenda
item number six, which is the committee reports. We now consider those committee reports. The
minutes were included in the Board packet. And if there are any questions, the chair will
recognize those questions at this time. So we'll pause to see if any director has any questions
relative to the minutes. If not, then those reports will stand as submitted and become a part of the
permanent record. And those committee reports are listed in the agenda items and in the Board
packet for your information.
Agenda item number seven is the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
update, and for that, we go to the GMOC committee chair Director Broom. Chairman Broom, if
you would at this time please share with us your comments regarding the General Manager
Oversight and Performance Management Committee.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, chair. The GMOC committee met this afternoon at 3:30 to complete
our review of General Manager Genova's midyear performance survey. And of course, I'd like to
thank everybody now for completing those surveys on time considering it was a holiday
weekend it was due. We now plan to meet with Mr. Genova to go over the results of that survey
and get his input back to the Board.
Finally I'd like to add just announce that this survey will be made available to the public and put
on the website so that you can find the numeric scoring that took place by our committee. And
that concludes my report. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Chair Broom. Are there any questions for the GMOC
Committee Chairman? And it would appear that there are none.
So then let us proceed to agenda item number eight, the approval of the-- Oh, wait. I'm sorry. I
see there is one now. It shows up. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Just note that within our packet right here-- and it very well
could be different in the outside packet-- but I think General Manager Oversight Committee as
all of these minutes. July 9, July 9, July 11. So I'm sure we have all those minutes, but just
wanted to note that, unless my computer is the only one reading that way.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Director Menten. I note what you say. Under the
committee reports, under roman numeral six, if you click at least on the Board packet as it
appears on the screen that is before me, and apparently the same one before you, if you click on,
for example, A, minutes of July 9 3:00 PM, that is a GMOC committee report. You look at
agenda 6B, and it is similarly General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee minutes. And as to the next item, C, and D, and likewise.
So it would appear that at least for these purposes in terms of that, they're the first thing that
show up. I do note, however, that behind those there are other committee reports. If you would
scroll down through those, you will see the other committee reports. And I think it's possible that
there is just some linkage problem with the computer. But the other reports are present, and you
can verify that by scrolling down.
NATALIE MENTEN: I do see those copies extended. I usually see, I think, them separated. So
thank you for noting that so that I can take a look at a couple items.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Anything further, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No, that's it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Then the next thing we will look for is agenda eight, and that's
the approval of the Board meeting minutes of June 18, 2019. May I please have a motion to
approve the minutes?
KATE WILLIAMS: Motioned.

DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Williams to approve the minutes. Is there a
second to that motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Seconded.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a second from-- who was that? That was Second Vice Chair RiveraMalpiede. Is there any discussion on the motion to approve the minutes? Do we need an
electronic vote or can we do a voice vote? There's no discussion I'm hearing on approving the
minutes. And so we are ready for a call for the vote on the minutes. May we do it by a voice
vote? Now we have an electronic vote available, and it was Director Williams as the movement,
Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede as the second. They have voted. The rest have voted.
And by a vote of 15 in favor and none opposed, the minutes of the June 18, 2019 meeting are
approved. We turn to agenda item number nine, the chairs report.
Thank you for your indulgence. I needed to take a sip, because it's a longish report. A lot has
been going on. And we are so very proud of our agency, and so very pleased with how each
director has engaged fully. So in case you missed it, RTD turned 50 at the beginning of this
month. To celebrate, the agency held station pop up events in each of the 15 director districts on
July the first, with all of us getting there very early in the morning to greet passengers and to pass
out memorabilia and various items that were branded RTD.
And then we held a huge party this past Friday at Denver Union Station with virtually all of our
directors present, and many RTD staffers in attendance. This was such a fun and engaging way
to recognize the agency's first half century. Excuse me. I hope that you were all able to attend,
and in any event, check out Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram if you were not. Search for the
hashtag #RTDis50 to catch all the action, because we got lots of stuff posted there.
First Vice Chair Catlin, and Treasurer Cook, and Director Guissinger hosted the Colorado
Science and Engineering Policy Fellowship here at our Blake Street offices on Thursday, June
the 20th. This group is comprised of ambitious college students, and the program covered
elements of our T2. That's our Transportation Transformation plan, along with asset and data
management, Project Outreach, and analytics research. This was a very worthwhile event that we
hope to continue to be involved with in the future. And we thank Vise Chair Catlin, Treasurer
cook, and Director Guissinger for participating in that.
Director Buzek and Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede and I attended the APTA Rail
Conference in Toronto, Canada. From June 23rd through the 26th. And I was privileged to give a
presentation on creative financing methods. My presentation was thanks in large part to the able
assistance of our CFO Heather McKillop.
And Treasurer Cook and Directors Buzek, Lubow, and Whitmore all participated in a study
session held by Adams County on July the 9th. And the RTD Bus Roadeo was held this past
Saturday, July 13 at the RTD district shops. This was not the international. This was our own
internal, wherein we select the individuals who will then go on to participate in the international.

We look forward to recognizing those winners at a future Board meeting. Our Second Vice Chair
Rivera-Malpiede and I were present for that.
And several of us, including Directors Folska, Lewis, Williams, and I, all attended Mayor
Hancock's inauguration at the city and county building yesterday morning. And then
immediately after the graduation, I was fortunate to be able to participate in the Colorado
Department of Law transportation Expo at the Ralph L. Carr Judicial Building.
And you may recall last year I reported that I was able to have a meeting with officials at
Transport for London, and then earlier this year with the Utah Transit Authority. Well, Vice
Chair Peggy Catlin had a meeting in Seattle just over about two weeks ago with Sound Transit.
And coming up, we've got treasurer cook who's scheduling a meeting for officials from VIA in
San Antonio. So any time you travel, do check out what the agencies are, because the Board
office will assist you in connecting with their Board and their senior leadership team for
purposes of learning more about them.
Upcoming events-- tomorrow night at 6:30 PM, DRCOG will conduct a public hearing for their
proposed TIP. That's the Transportation Improvement Program for the 2020 to 2023 planning
horizon. As you well know, transportation projects funded with federal sources are required to be
selected through a competitive regional process. The TIP process selects and funds projects that
are important and valuable, not only to us as a region, but also to each local government. The
Board office is not aware of any directors who are planning to be there. I would encourage any
of you who are both available and interested to attend and participate in this important process.
This morning, Director Broom, Director Williams, Director Buzek, and I, were present at the
RTC meeting at DRCOG So we certainly had a chance to review all of this at that time. Then,
Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede, Secretary Walker, and I, along with members of the Board
Office staff, will be traveling at the end of this week to attend the APTA Transit Board Member
Board Administrator Conference, and that will be held from the 20th through the 23rd in
Jacksonville, Florida. And there I will be a part of a panel on grassroots advocacy for Transit
Board members.
And then I will be attending the Denver Union Station Fifth Anniversary Celebration on Friday,
July the 26th, and I believe first Vice Chair Catlin will be there, and Second Vice Chair RiveraMalpiede will also be there. And directors Folska, Guissinger, and Williams will all attend the
Denver Metro Chambers 2019 State of the City event, which will be held Tuesday, July the 30th.
As I mentioned previously, the Bus Roadeo was held this past weekend. And the Light Rail
Roadeo is scheduled for Saturday, August 10. If you have not attended an RTD Roadeo
previously, I'd highly encourage you to check one out. Our operators and maintainers do some
absolutely incredible work, and this is a great way for them to show off their talents, and for us
to show our appreciation.
And don't forget, speaking of appreciation, the RTD Employee Appreciation event will be held
on Sunday, August 11 at Elitch's. Mark your calendars if you haven't already.

I do have two formal announcements for our meeting tonight. The first is the appointment of an
Ad Hoc Committee for Oversight of Certain Litigations. In light of the importance and the
magnitude of certain litigations in which the agency is currently involved, and the concomitant
costs associated with the same, the Chair pursuant to and consistent with the power conferred
upon the Chair by Article VI section II of the Bylaws of the RTD hereby appoints an Ad Hoc
Committee of two consisting of the Board Chair and the Board First Vice Chair to oversee any
pending major civil litigations to which the agency is a party, other than personal injury or
employment litigations, including oversight of the costs and expenses associated with such
litigations, which oversight shall be conducted in consultation and collaboration with RTD
General Counsel with such Ad Hoc Committee to report to the Board convened an Executive
Session, pursuant and subject to the Colorado Open Meetings Law at any time and from time to
time.
For the sake of clarity and for the avoidance of confusion, oversight is used here in the sense of
survey, watch, inspect, and examine, and it is not used in the sense of supervise. The Ad Hoc
Committee of course will make no decisions as to anything concerning the litigations. Moreover,
as the appointment says, this committee will report back to this Board and provide the Board
with information relative to the progress on that. While the actual appointment of the committee
does not recite the periodicity within which such reports shall be made, that actually has been
determined by General Counsel advising that it would be best to do so monthly. And the charter
for the committee is being written by our Executive Manager so as to capture the elements that I
have just enumerated to you now that were not included in the original email.
So that's the first announcement. The second announcement is that we have additional initiatives
of communication, collaboration, and cooperation. You will recall that some Directors have
pointed out that various government and elected officials should from time to time come to the
RTD rather than the RTD always going to them. So your Chair and your Board office believe
that continuing and enhanced communication and collaboration can be facilitated by creating
opportunities for these individuals to come before this Board occasionally. Communications and
Government Relations Committee Chair Lynn Guissinger has been an outspoken advocate for
this enhanced outreach and has done much of the heavy lifting.
So over the coming months, you will note that various opportunities for interaction will appear
on the agendas of one or another of the meetings of this Board. For example, in the first instance,
the extremely informative and articulate State Demographer Elizabeth Garner will be with us on
August the 6th, while Senators Moreno and Zenzinger and Representative Hansen will be with
us on December 17th.
Rest assured that such interactions will not replace our active outreach to electeds and other
government leaders. That will continue. These various opportunities are a helpful supplement to
those other efforts at communication, collaboration, and cooperation, and they will be monitored,
overseen, and supervised carefully so as to avoid unduly extending our meetings and to ensure
their efficacy. So I thank you very much for your most kind attention to and cooperation in this
extended report.
Are there any questions on the Chairs report? Director Lubow, you are recognized.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to say that three of the Board members-myself, Director Menten, and Claudia Folska-- have signed on to have a motion heard at the next
appropriate available committee meeting in August about the Ad Hoc Committee, basically
setting some limits. And having just listened to your report, it looks like the charter may state
those limits anyway. So we'll see and move accordingly. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your comment. Director Menten, you
are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'm speaking also to the Ad Hoc Committee, and I see that it
is two members, which, by that alone does not require any notice is what I'm guessing of those
meetings-- public notice-- and not only the public attending and being aware of it, but other
fellow Board Directors. So am I reading that correctly that there would be no public notice of
when an Ad Hoc meeting would occur?
DOUG TISDALE: You're reading it correctly that there is none required.
NATALIE MENTEN: Would there be public notice for each of the meetings?
DOUG TISDALE: That would depend upon the circumstances. I don't think I can predict the
future with any certainty at this point.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would like to be given notice of all meetings, and suggest that there
would be enough notice so that if I were to attend, it would for sure generate a public open
meeting requirement. So I'll state that again. I would like to be notified of every single meeting
of the Ad Hoc Committee, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Your request is noted. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Any further questions? Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I'm just curious of what the communication strategy will
be for the Board to disseminate the things that you all are learning, and to get that information
back out to the Board so we also are familiar with that information.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, thank you. As I indicated, there will be monthly reports to the Board,
and they will be done in Executive Session, pursuant and subject to Colorado open meeting law.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Monthly reports sounds great. And one of the concerns I have is sometimes
we don't have the information that we need right away to be able to make decisions when things
come to us as Directors. And so I wonder if there is opportunity in that monthly report that if
other things come up, that you all have something in place to get that information out, pertinent
information out, to directors so that we're all are operating and able to make informed decisions.

DOUG TISDALE: I think that's right. I'm going to ask our General Counsel to step in on this,
because I think that perhaps there is a confusion. This committee is not making any decisions
about litigations. This committee is merely overseeing and providing information to the Board,
General Counsel.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So just quickly, I understand that you all aren't making any decisions. What
I'm advocating for is that the things that you all are learning within that committee, that you are
disseminating that information in a timely manner so that the rest of the Board can operate within
their respective roles with current and up to date information.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair, this is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. I just want to clarify that this
is a long and protracted-- at least one of the matters that this concerns is a long and protracted
litigation that will be going on until May sometime next year. There may be many months in
which, frankly, there is little, if anything, to report. I think that having the Board go into
Executive Session which requires a two-thirds vote, clearing the room, everything that needs to
be done for Executive Sessions, simply for me to state there's been no significant change or
something like that, would be not a good use of the Board's time.
There might be times when-- and I think we'll talk about creating the charter here-- but sending
some sort of written communication from me as your counsel letting you know in an attorneyclient privilege manner what's happening. Could be an acceptable substitute. I just want to
emphasize, though, that as the General Counsel, I do not settle cases. I do not take action beyond
what the Board as a whole-- no two members, or five members, or whatever-- directs me to do. If
I have authority to do something already pursuant to Board Guidelines, I will do that and I'll let
you know. If I don't have authority to do something, I'll come to you to ask.
So I just want to assure you about that. And if any of you at any time have any question about
this or any other legal matter, I have encouraged people to contact me personally, and I'm happy
to talk with you at anytime, anyplace. I won't say 24 hours a day, but close to it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Any further, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I may not be clear on my request, because the response that I'm receiving is
not necessarily the answer that I don't want to hear, and maybe that is the case. I essentially do
not like to be caught off guard. And there have been times that I've been caught off guard as a
Board member, and I haven't had the proper information to respond because I didn't have that
information. And I don't know if this is just unique to me as a Director in District B or if my
colleagues have experienced this, but I prefer not to be caught off guard, and I'd like to make
informed decisions.
And so there are some details and some specificity that we require as a Board that we don't have,
and sometimes we don't know to ask that exact question. And sometimes we are going to rely on
staff or this Ad Hoc Committee to bring that to us timely. I'm done.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. Anything further? Treasurer Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. Just wanted to say thanks for doing this. I'm glad we're
doing this. And in fact, I see it as a way to help assure that we'll get more information in timely
fashion. These folks are acting, as I see it, on our behalf to more closely engage, to alert the
council about issues that we may need to be informed on, and to help assure that kind of periodic
or ongoing communication and oversight. So thank you. I'm glad we're doing this.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer. Mr. Secretary, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. And I'll echo Director Cook's sentiment. I think that it provides an
opportunity for some Board members to have a dialogue outside of a public meeting where
attorney-client privilege is in effect. If there were to be more than two Board members, then it
would be an open meeting that might not even exist, because the format and the notice for a-what's the word I'm looking for? When we clear the room.
SHELLY COOK: Executive Session.
JEFF WALKER: Executive Session that would have to occur, and then that defeats the purpose
of having the discussion in the format in which it's envisioned here. So I'm glad you two chose to
take that on. I expect that the reports back to us, however frequently or infrequently they come,
will be full of information that we need. And any more information could be provided to all of us
in an Executive Session. But this is just an opportunity for us for us to have, through you two,
some eyes and ears, and a dialogue that might help refine some questions in the discussion. So
thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Well said. Madam first Vice Chair, you are
recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. As I recall, this recommendation stemmed from the
concern that many Board members had over an additional appropriation for legal services. And it
was felt that without definition of what those would be, that there might be some appropriate
oversight by Board members, both to expenditures and activities. And I just recall in that
meeting that that was the concern that was raised. And as I understand it, this ad hoc committee
is meant to address that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Vice Chair. Director Williams, you are
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. That I think pretty much summed up the point
that I think that Director Lewis was making, that I'm making also, is that that's great that we're
going to have representation who's going to be more aware than necessarily would all be once a
month. We'd just like to-- and if there is nothing to report, great. But if there's something to
report, we'd like to know it ASAP, and not three weeks later at a monthly report. Did I clarify
that a little better? OK, there we go. Thank you. Good night.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you Director Williams. You're not getting off the hook that easy. We
have business to do too. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I'm not sure I understand the purpose of the committee actually. So
Rolf and two committee members meet, they have a discussion which, in all hopes and intent, is
not publicized to the public. Board Directors, unless they specifically ask, are not noticed on it.
Then it will turn around, and meaningful conversation from that will result in an Executive
Session here in this room. So it seems to me it is a bunch of steps, when what should just occur is
that every Director should have the opportunity to hear all of the conversation that Roth feels is
relevant. And if that is once a month at certain times, or it goes three months with nothing at all,
I'm not sure I see the purpose in an Ad Hoc Committee that makes it more difficult for another
Board Director to attend. When then some people are part of that, why not just have an
Executive Session where we all are on the same page?
If anybody wants to respond to me, that's how I'm viewing it. I think we should be all on a level
playing field. I think the public should know by notice, even if it's an Executive Session, and our
attorneys should be able to assist of us.
DOUG TISDALE: Again, I believe General Counsel has already said that's exactly what he will
do. But I'll ask the General Counsel to repeat what he said earlier.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes. Rolf Asphaug again, General Counsel. Not quite a repetition, but my
understanding of the purpose of the committee was similar to what the First Vice Chair Catlin
was saying, that to see there was concern about the additional expenditures, to see what those
expenditures are being used for, and to see how things are going essentially. But if there is
significant change or significant movement in any litigation that falls within this description, it's
not like it has to go to this group first and then go to the Board. I would just, as I have done in the
past, suggest that it's an appropriate time to have an Executive Session with the Board as a
whole.
Keep in mind, though, that Executive Session is limited to specific things under Colorado law,
where I am providing advice, or being given direction to negotiate, or we're having discussions
with regard to advice. It wouldn't be appropriate to have an Executive Session, for example, just
to me to say, well, there's been no change.
So I think that that's the concern. We have to be careful not to invoke Executive Session too
much, where it's not appropriate to do so under Colorado law.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So I think-- firstly, I'm not in favor of the ad hoc committee
where there are some discussions that make it difficult for other Board Directors to attend.
Because I believe that is the purpose by having two members here on this committee. We still
have concerns some of us about the $4 million and some of the other money.
So instead of-- I'm just gonna call it-- I consider it shenanigans. Just have an Executive Session
and tell us the answers to our questions that we really had that night of a public meeting, but we
were limited and unable to speak about it. So let's just have an Executive Session.

DOUG TISDALE: The Director may forget that we're having an Executive Session in the month
of August to discuss all these things already. It's already been scheduled and announced.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just caution against any memos floating around dealing with
ongoing litigation. Sooner or later, those are going to leak out one way or the other, and it'll
come back to our detriment. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom. Any other comments on the Chairs
report? Seeing none. Mr. General Manager, we're ready for your report, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Again, quite a few activities between the last Board
member-- I'm sorry, between the last Board meeting that we had. I guess it was June now. So my
report, of course, is in the packet. So I'll just hit some of the highlights. And the chair actually
covered a few things as well.
So back on June 20, I had my regular quarterly meeting with Mayor Michael Hancock and his
staff, and then also some of our key staff members attended. Both Michael Ford and Heather
McKillop were at that meeting. We talked, did some updates on the LiVE program. We talked
about regional transportation funding opportunities, 16th Street Mall, and a few other items.
The chair mentioned the Board meeting. I'll expand on that a little bit. So while I was there, I
also attended the APTA Board meeting. I'm on the Executive Committee of the APTA Board of
Directors. I also Vice Chair two committees, the Rail Transit Committee and the Rail Transit
CEO Committee.
And then, also, our CFO Heather McKillop is a co-chair on innovative financing and P3s, or
something like that, committee. It's a complex, but very popular committee. It's always very well
attended. But she also served and spoke on several panels, including one that was a general
session on financing and funding, and that was an international panel. Participants from Japan,
and then also participants from Canada. And so we even had to have some translators at that
session. It was very interesting to see how the development and real estate management happens
around transit investment in some of the other countries. So it was very, very interesting
presentations. Our staff was involved quite heavily in that.
We had a pop up community event, a Pop Up Pancake Breakfast on Saturday June 29 along the
G-line, going to talk about quiet zones and that. And then we have one scheduled for the
University of Colorado A-line on Saturday, July 27 at 9:00 AM.
Last week, we did an update, an interview and press event, regarding the Uber and Masabi
partnership that we have. One of the, I think, most interesting things about that is we were able to
report that over 1,200 transit fares have been sold on the Uber app, and that could be 1,200 fares
otherwise that we normally would not see if those people were getting exposure to transit just

from the Uber app. And so that's just within the last, I believe, two months since that has gone
live, and actually only the last couple of weeks where it's been 100% available in the Denver
market.
So we have an awful lot of interest at the national and international level and this collaboration,
and how we got there and how it's working. So it's been very interesting. On Wednesday, July
10, I had a good opportunity to address the Colorado Forum. The Colorado Forum's a group of
about 50 CEOs that affect public policy, both at the state level and the national level. On that
day, they had the transportation-related sessions. And so myself and the Executive Director of
CDOT, Shoshana Lew spoke to the forum.
At the end, I was very pleased to get a lot of comments at the end. A lot of people came up to me
after the presentation and said, I had no idea all the things that RTD has done, all the things you
are doing, and where you are heading. So later on I got an email from their executive director
that said they fully support us, and that they were really, really excited about the things that we're
doing.
Ongoing conversations with RTD and of course the Denver Transit Partners Board, we have a
monthly call now that was about every two weeks. We're doing that monthly. We had the last
call on July 11. Also on July 11, I met with Diane Barrett, City and County of Denver. We meet
every few weeks to work on some high level issues that we need to keep moving through the city
and through RTD, and our main topic this week was the 16th Street Mall IGA, where we're
working through the details on that according to the parameters that the Board approved in the
Board action regarding the 16th Street Mall.
Last Friday, we had our US 36 Commissioners and Mayors meeting. We had a really good
discussion. We had a pretty lengthy agenda. It was a good opportunity for us to talk about the
FasTracks draft initial report, and a variety of other things, and we had a really good exchange.
The chair covered the 50th bus roadeo. I dropped in on the bus roadeo on Saturday. It was great
to see all of the competitors and their families, and it was a great event for our employees and
our contract employees that get to participate in that as well.
Just yesterday, I had my monthly meeting with Eulois Cleckley who had up Denver Public
Works for the City and County of Denver, and we meet every month, Eulois Cleckley, a couple
of his key staff members. This last week, it was myself, Bill Van Meter, and Mike Meador that
attended, and just catching up on things pertinent to transportation to both agencies, and keeping
things moving.
This morning at the DRCOG RTC committee, we had a good meeting. I took the opportunity to
just remind that committee, and then also DRCOG in general, that we would be happy to come
and give updates either to the RTC or the full DRCOG Board. And I mentioned that our LiVE
program is going live on the 29th. I mentioned the FasTracks resolution report, and then also the
transportation transformation work, or the reimagine RTD work that we're getting ready to
embark on.

And then just a reminder of those couple sessions that are coming up on July 30 and 31. July 30
will be a Study Session. We have Jarrett Walker coming to talk to us. And then we'll have a
stakeholder session the next morning where he'll speak again, and then we'll have opportunity for
greater stakeholder dialogue on that day.
A couple of weeks ago, I was approached by the Denver Sports Commission if I would co-chair
the transportation subcommittee on the World Cup soccer bid for 2026. So I'll be co-chairing that
transportation subcommittee along with Kim Day from Denver International Airport.
I want to really thank our events team. We've been working them very, very hard this year and
last year, and it just seems like every week there's something that they are wrangling and
presenting. And I think last Friday was just a great example of the work that they do. So I just
want to make sure we acknowledge them and appreciate all of them well.
US 36 updates-- the Board, I've sent out several updates on that over the weekend and the latest
information to report on that. I will say, let me let me just start with-- we've just really had a
great collaboration with CDOT and RTD since Friday night. That's when I got the first email on
this was at about 11:00 o'clock on Friday night from Executive Director Shoshana Lew. And
then we had a number of calls starting Saturday morning, and of course after every call, I sent the
Board an update.
Good news-- they've got an interim fix going on where there's four lanes open, two in each
direction using the westbound lanes. And then this morning CDOT did report out that they are
going to have to remove and rebuild that. It's MSE-- that's Mechanically Stabilized Earth. We
utilize those quite a bit in our bridge structures as well. But that's probably going to take them
some time. They said at least a month today. I think that's probably optimistic, but I don't know.
But they're working on getting some contracts in place.
It was actually CDOT that asked us, would you consider having free service on the Flat Iron
Flyer? And we had to think about that a moment, because sometimes there's unintended
consequences of actions. We were worried about capacity and getting overwhelmed, but it
worked out very well. And while we made the decision to do the flat iron flyer-- well, I should
say CDOT's going to sponsor that. They're going to reimburse us for revenue loss for that
service. The free service is just today and yesterday. So starting tomorrow, we'll go back to
regular service. But it was a recommendation by our customer care team that we also do the LD
routes, because they were impacted as well by US 36, and CDOT agreed to do those as well.
So it's going to be an ongoing process. I think overall it went fairly well. CDOT actually added
some buses through their bus contractor, which kind of helped us a little bit with capacity, five or
six buses, particularly in the morning peak, to help us with some of the delays that we were
experiencing. So I think overall, great collaboration. Hats off to our operations team as always
responding as they do, Gina Callahan and Fred Worthing in particular, and then also our
communications team, which was highly engaged in working press releases and things with
CDOT all through the entire weekend. It was a very busy weekend, and Gina and I had to pull
away from the bus roadeo to be on the calls with CDOT. So it was a lot of work over the
weekend.

The Board may have seen some rider alerts regarding some overhead wire work we're going to
be doing over a couple of weekends coming up. I want to just let the Board know that this is just
the first part of a lot of wire work repair that we're going to have to be doing on the light rail
system. We have about 18 different locations where we need to do some wire replacements.
Some of them are short runs. Some of them are kind of long runs.
And so in addition to these couple of disruptions that we've announced to do these near-term
fixes, we're working on a schedule of what that's going to look like through the rest of the
summer and the fall. And then we'll have to pick that work back up again in the spring. But it's
very important that we do this work so that our system stays reliable and we're able to maintain it
in a state of good repair. But I just wanted to let you know that there's going to be more of that
coming, and we'll work very closely with all of our stakeholders, of course, as we schedule that
so everybody knows about it. And we will run bus bridging, of course, for all of that, which is
another challenge for us given where we are on staffing.
Good news out of the Federal Transit Administration today. Our Full-Funding Grant Agreement
on the Eagle project, the last two payments made it through the congressional release today. So
we will be able to draw down those funds of about $213 million dollars, and that's the remaining
funds left on the Eagle Full-Funding Grant Agreement. So we've been waiting on that, and of
course, since we've opened the G-line now, we're able to do that.
Henry and I are going to Washington D.C. tomorrow. We have our next monthly Federal
Railroad Administration meeting and headquarters on Thursday morning, and probably on
Friday in the weekly briefing, I will let the Board know how we did and report the progress on
that.
And then I will just let you know that Michael Ford and Zamy Silva are at the COMTO National
Conference this week in Tampa, Florida representing RTD, and I know that Michael's doing
some presentations on some of the innovative mobility things that we're doing here.
So that concludes my report. Mr. Chair, you had already mentioned the rail roadeo and the
employee event. And I just encourage participation in those. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I know there are some interesting questions to
pose to you based upon the tremendous work that you have been doing. Thank you so much for
that report. Director Folska, you are the first to be recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. Genova, I was real curious to see or hear what
you and Heather learned from the Japanese group in the international roadeo on your creative
financing. I mean, they have really a tremendous offering of transportation.
DAVE GENOVA: Well the very interesting thing is that it's interesting about transportation, but
it really is more fascinating about what they are allowed to do and able to do as far as real estate
management. I want to say close to half of their business really, and half of their revenue, comes
from real estate management.

Other cities are similar to that, like Hong Kong. Now, the Canadian cities aren't quite near that,
but they're able to do that because there's no restrictions for them. We have restrictions in that we
can only acquire property that we use for transportation and other. So there's both federal and
kind of state restrictions that prohibit us from doing that kind of development and that kind of
management. But the great thing about it was the acting FTA Administrator was in the room
during that session, and we are sure she was listening well. And certainly the FTA talks a lot
about value capture. So hopefully they got some ideas on where they can maybe relax some
restrictions, and we might be able to benefit a little bit more from value capture like some of our
other colleagues.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's really fascinating. With regard to the problem we're seeing on US36, what do you see the impact to our BRT infrastructure that we partnered with CDOT in the
plenary. What's possibly going to happen there?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, right now what we know is that the eastbound lanes are the impacted
lanes, and that's probably-- whatever's sitting up on top of that area, the affected area, is going to
have to be rebuilt, probably all three of those lanes and the shoulder. We are seeing, in addition
to the detour that we're having to run, that everyone's having to run, we're seeing a little bit of a
degeneration in our communications capability, because we have fiber optics that run along that
corridor, and some of that is being impacted because that cable's getting damaged and pulled by
the earth shifting there.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Do you foresee a cost to RTD?
DAVE GENOVA: I don't see any cost to RTD.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Because our BRT infrastructure is four years old. So it's got nothing to do
with us. Is that what you're saying?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, it was a CDOT project. And so I don't foresee us having any impact in
terms of cost.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, we did put 150 million into it, right?
DAVE GENOVA: We did about 186 million into the project total.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: But it might be a little too soon to have that conversation, but right now I'm
not anticipating anything. And then it's I think it's going to take CDOT some time to really
determine exactly the root cause, and whether it's project-related or whether it's just an act of
mother nature that they're going to have to absorb.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. That's all, Chair.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Mr. Secretary, Director Walker, you
are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'm wondering if you have any preliminary your observations on
ridership of the FF. I know it's only been two days, but if operators have said it's packed or same
as usual.
DAVE GENOVA: The reports that I received yesterday is that we thought we were going to be
having standing room only and maybe some pass ups, but my understanding is that that didn't
happen, and that ridership was maybe a little bit higher than a typical seasonal summertime. But
we don't have actual counts in yet, but those are kind of the anecdotal observations.
JEFF WALKER: OK, thanks. And then I heard the same thing that you did about the way that
real estate is treated in other countries-- they're free to do what they want. And then the last thing
is in your discussions with the city, did Pea Boulevard come up at all? And if so, what kind of
context? And if there's anything you can share about what impact that might have-- I know it's
long-term-- but what impact it might have on the operations for ridership on the University of
Colorado A Line.
DAVE GENOVA: We really haven't had a discussion on Pea Boulevard yet.
JEFF WALKER: OK, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Walker. Director Menten, you are
recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I wanted to ask a little more about the incident, this robbery
and sexual assault that occurred at the Sheraton Station. With the term sexual assault, I'm not
sure the best way to phrase this, but would it be considered somewhat of-- again, I'm not sure
how to phrase this, so forget the PC thing-- but with inappropriate touching, let's say, being on a
scale down at one, out outright violent rape being towards a 10, what level was this?
DAVE GENOVA: So this incident occurred over the weekend. A woman on the W-line, right as
the train was stopping in the station, two men came up and took her backpack right off of her
while she was on the train. They exited the train. She followed them and followed them off
property, and that's where the assault occurred. And I don't have the details, and I don't know.
We probably don't have that level of detail that you're asking in terms of-- because this is a case
that is being handled and investigated by Lakewood Police Department.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So with the split there, Lakewood is one taking the charge, not
Denver?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, that's correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And were we able to provide capture video? I know at one incident
in the past, we had a little glitch where the cameras were not functioning.

DAVE GENOVA: We had very good video come off of the platform, and we did make that
available to the police department.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. That's the only questions I had about it. I've got some people
contacting me on this one.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, at least of the initial incident, not the rest of it that occurred off
platform, but the act on the train and then the people leaving the train and leaving the platform,
we had some coverage of that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, that's it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I took the FF1 in today. It was in the middle of the day, but it was
absolutely on time, which was nice. May not be the case in the rush hours, but do you expect any
changes in the schedule for the Flat Iron Flyer?
DAVE GENOVA: I don't think so at this point in time. I think we're just going to have to
monitor and see how it goes. CDOT did ask if we were interested in them running the additional
buses, and we said we don't think we need the additional buses at this point in time. But it's just
something we're going to have to monitor. Typically our ridership's maybe a little bit lighter in
the summer. We have some seasonal ridership trends that we see. So hopefully we can get
through it pretty well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: If there are scheduled changes, I assume they'll all be public and
everything. But I'm getting a lot of questions up there. So if there's anything that would be
helpful for me to know to answer those, I appreciate it.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, we don't anticipate any at this point in time. But as always, we'll try to
do a good job with getting information out to patrons. One of the concerns I have is on the fiber
optics and the communications. So that means our digital display boards at the stations, our
emergency telephones, our video surveillance. So that could be challenging for us to
communicate specifics and things like that, at least at the stations, but we'll do it through all of
our other channels. We were very active all over social media and all over rider alerts and things
like that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You did a great job. With the fiber optics problems, would you expect
that that to cause problems at Church Ranch in Broomfield, or all the way up the corridor? Hard
to say?
DAVE GENOVA: It could be the entire corridor depending on how extensive the damage might
be to the fiber optics.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. Any other questions for our
General Manager regarding his report? Seeing none, then we'll turn to agenda item number 11.
This is the public hearing for the 2019 amended budget. Please note that this agenda item is one
that's actually expressly constrained by statutory and agency procedure. So our process actually
is broken up into two parts. First, we have a public hearing, and then second we'll have a motion
and consideration of said motion.
So to turn to the first part, the public hearing, ladies and gentlemen, the Chair hereby calls to
order the public hearing on the Regional Transportation District's Amendment to the Adopted
Budget for the year 2019 at 6:54 PM Mountain Daylight Time. In accordance with both RTD's
requirements and local government statutes, notice of the public hearing was duly posted in the
office of the Executive Manager to the Board of Directors.
Persons who have not already indicated a desire to speak at this hearing should register at the
desk outside this room. This public hearing will be conducted under the rules and regulations
four public hearings that are adopted by the Board of Directors of the regional transportation
district, and a copy of those rules will be a part of the record of this public hearing.
The Chair would like to point out that the testimony will be limited to the subject of the public
hearing, and presentations of testimony should be no longer than three minutes. Written
testimony should be submitted to Barbara McManus, the Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors, for distribution to the Board.
Now, there is a copy of the Amendment to the 2019 Approved Budget before each Board
member here tonight. They have been included in your packets. And copies are available for the
public at the sign-in table that is outside this room.
And so now I will ask if there is anyone who has signed up for the public hearing on the budget?
No one has previously signed up for the public hearing on the budget. If anyone should like to
speak and you have not signed up, this is your opportunity. Please come forward to the podium,
and you will be recognized for up to three minutes.
There is no one who has accepted the invitation to come to the podium. And so therefore, as of
6:57 PM, I will now close the public hearing, and we will proceed with a motion and discussion.
Specifically, the motion requested is that it is recommended by the Finance Administration and
Audit Committee that the Board of Directors adopt resolution number blank series of 2019 to
amend and appropriate funds for the proposed 2019 Amended Budget to decrease the
appropriation by $49.1 million to $1.267 billion, and to decrease the appropriation of Capital
Carryforward previously approved capital funds by $140 million to $579.5 million as a detailed
in the discussion section of the Board report submitted.
May I have a motion? I have a motion from Director Williams. Is there a second to the motion? I
have a second from Director Whitmore. Is there discussion on the motion to amend the budget? I
don't see that anyone has indicated a desire to speak. So therefore, we will close the discussion
on the motion to approve the amended budget. We will proceed to a vote. Director Williams is
the movant. Director Whitmore is the second. If you would please vote.

By a vote of 14 in favor, and none opposed, and one no vote, Director Broom having stepped
away for a moment on a point of personal privilege, the motion passes unanimously. And then
we turn to agenda item number 11, and this is our unanimous consent agenda. We have one item
on the unanimous consent agenda. It is noted as agenda item number 12, action B. It's labeled in
your Board packet as the award of group 29-- contracted fixed route services.
If anyone has a change to or questions on this item, please feel free to advise the chair at this
time, and we will of course be happy to pull the item from the unanimous consent agenda for
consideration under recommended action. But seeing none, may I have a motion to approve the
single item on the consent agenda? I have a motion from the Second Vice Chair, and I have a
second from the First Vice Chair. I'm going to get that confused before this is over. All right.
Is there any discussion on the single item on the consent agenda, which is the award of group 29- fixed route services? Seeing none, we can proceed to a vote. The movement is the Second Vice
Chair, Rivera-Malpiede. The second is the First Vice Catlin. If you would proceed to vote please.
The record will reflect that we have 14 affirmative votes, no negative votes, and one non-vote
from Director Broom, who is temporarily away. That concludes the discussion of the consent
agenda, which is the item B award of group 29-- contracted fixed route services.
We turn then to our final action item on the agenda this evening. This is listed in the agenda as
agenda item number 13, action C. It's the approval of the first amendment to the salaried defined
contribution plan. And specifically, it is recommended by the Finance Administration and Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors adopt the first amendment to the RTD salaried employees
defined contribution plan effective January 1, 2014. May have a motion to approve?
I have a motion from Director Buzek. Is there a second to that motion? Thank you, Director
Lewis. Thank you. Bear with the hearing impaired chair.
[LAUGHTER]
Is there any discussion on the motion, which is the approval of the first amendment due to the
salary defined contribution plan? Please feel free to indicate your desire to speak if you have
such. We see none in the queue. We may then proceed to a vote. Let the record reflect the
movement is Director Buzek, and the second is Director Lewis. And we may now proceed to a
vote.
By a vote of 15 in favor and none opposed, agenda item number 13 C-- the recommended action,
the approval of the first amendment to the salary defined contribution plan, is approved
unanimously. For the sake of the record, agenda item number 14 is listed as Executive Session.
Again, that is held, as we have previously stated, as a placeholder in the event there should be an
Executive Session. This is the point in the agenda where it would be conducted. No Executive
Session has been scheduled for this evening, and no notice has been given of the same.
Agenda item number 15 is old business. May I ask of the Directors, is there any old business that
any director has to bring forward at this time? Director Catlin, you are recognized.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you Mr. Chair. I just wanted to thank Susan Woods from the planning
group. She helped me put together a presentation for the JEFFTAG meeting this past week. And
what we talked about was the combination of managed lanes and bus transit. And there was quite
a bit of interest at the JEFFTAG meeting among its participants, and we had a good discussion
about it. Director Cook was there as well.
But this was completely outside of her wheel well, and she very much appreciated the
opportunity to learn about it, and to help me on that presentation. So I wanted to thank her, but
also applaud her willingness to venture into something new. So that was a lot of fun. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Vice Chair. Any other old business any
director would like to bring forward? Madam Second Vice Chair, Rivera-Malpiede, you are
recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I want to thank Pauletta Tonilas and
her team for assisting in kind of an exciting venture that I participated in, and it was the idea of
getting information out to the community on how to access our outdoor amenities through
transit. And in fact, it turned out that the Denver Post was looking at doing a story. And so we
were able to partner with the Sand Creek Regional Greenway and Northeast Transportation
Connections to do that, and they did a lovely story, and we're hoping to build on that.
I think it really promotes collaboration and gives the service to our community, who are sitting in
buses to find out that they can, in fact, go to some of the most amazing outdoor venues that our
community has to offer. And I just want to thank Pauletta for her support in that.
The second thing is, while I was at the APTA conference, I have been participating in a
cybersecurity committee, and thanks to Heather, was able to fill out a survey on behalf of RTD.
This morning they said ours was the most succinct survey that came through, and they're finding
it to be extraordinarily helpful. But I also attended a human trafficking workshop while I was at
APTA, and I can tell you that we have a problem with that in Denver. And so it's something that
I'm very interested in working with Chief Pazen on. So I just wanted to say thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Second Vice Chair. And thank you especially
for pointing out an important issue relative to the human trafficking and our need to be aware of
that. Madam Treasurer Director Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. I wanted to acknowledge that you graciously gave us
credit for hosting the Colorado Science and Engineering Fellowship Program, but in fact it was
Barbara McManus and the staff who, in a very short time period, pulled a pretty impressive visit
together. And I just wanted to acknowledge her and say thanks for that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer. I appreciate that. Director
Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. While we're thanking people, I would like to thank the
RTD staff who run the Access-a-Ride program, because I had some surgery on my right foot and

was unable to drive a car. And matter of fact, I was unable to do a whole lot of things, but I did
have occasion to use Access-a-Ride, and it was great service. And I wrote anonymously, and I
made sure that they did not say "Board of Directors" all over the ride every time I called in for a
ride. And I had some very interesting experiences, and now I know all about why the letter's in
front of the number, because it tells you who is running that service.
And I talked to drivers, and the really most fun one of all is that there is no designated pickup
spot for Access-a-Ride at CDOT. And so I was at a CDOT meeting, and Access-a-Ride came to
pick me up. They couldn't find me, and so they drove by. And the head of the CASTA was with
me. And so she ran after the Access-a-Ride bus. And then the director of innovation at CDOT
ran after her. So we had quite a big fun at getting Director Williams on the Access-a-Ride bus
over at CDOT. But it is a marvelous service. We do a great job with it, and I would like to thank
all of those people that are involved.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And as you may have heard thematically, be
aware that this is the opportunity to mention any events that I neglected to report. That's as to
things that have happened already. Or, to promote. That's as to things that will happen in the
future during the chair's report. So if there's any other event that you would wish to report or
promote, please indicate, and we'll recognize you. Otherwise, that concludes the old business.
Is there any new business from any dDirector to bring forward? Director Walker, Mr. Secretary,
you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I want to thank the security team for being there for me and helping
me through a very confusing event in my life. And I can't thank you all enough for listening.
That's it. And two other things. One is I will be going to the Transit Board Member and Board
Administration seminar in Jacksonville. I will be moderating a panel on ridership decline. So if
any of you have any questions that you want me to ask during that panel or with any of the
panelists or anybody else from around the country, let me know, and I'll make sure that those
questions get forwarded if not answered. I'll do my best to get an answer for you.
And then right after that, I'm heading to Minneapolis for the leadership APTA, and I will be
moderating a panel on ethics. So if anybody has any questions about ethics for the list of Board
members that I have or folks that will be on that panel, I'll be happy to ask those questions, or
make sure that those questions-- I'll try to get those questions addressed if you're curious about
what other entities are doing. And that is it. Thanks. So I'm leaving Thursday. Get them to me
before-- I'm leaving Friday. So get them to me before Friday. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We appreciate that. Any other director
with any old business or new business? We've moved to new business. Any other director with
any new business to bring forward? Then seeing no other business to come before the Board at
this time, I will entertain a motion to adjourn the RTD Board meeting of July 16, 2019 as of 7:10
PM. I have a motion. I have a second. Is there discussion? No discussion. All who's in favor,
indicate by saying, aye. Aye. Are there any opposed? There are none. That passed unanimously.
We stand adjourned.

Thank you all, and good night.

