Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, February 13, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Barbara Deadwyler

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Deadwyler called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Chair Tisdale discussed RTD’s safety procedures in case an emergency situation occurred.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
5:31 PM
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

5:22 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District F
Committee Chair
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:03 PM
5:19 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:31 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:18 PM

Ken Mihalik
Chuck Sisk

Director, District G
Director, District O

Present
Present

4:57 PM
5:26 PM

Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present

5:07 PM
5:03 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Absent

5:20 PM

Director Williams was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Nicole Carey,
Jessie Carter, Joe Christie, Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps, Raleigh
Elstun, Michael Ford, Terry Emmons, Steve Gieske, David Genova,
Robbie Hunter, Pamela Kachka, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews,
John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader,
Daniel Menter, Allen Miller, Brenden Morgan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Corey
Petzinger, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Ruth Seleske, Karl
Shoemaker, Henry Stopplecamp, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn

Others Present:

Shelly Cook, William Gross, Anne Herzenberg, Matt Marino, Trent
Ratcliff, Nidhi Saxena, John Thompson, Cheryl Wallace

B. Recommended Actions

• Contract Option Award for the Purchase of 44 Cutaway Buses
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee,
to exercise the option of contract 25FK006 with Master’s Transportation for
the purchase of 44 Goshen cutaway buses to be used for the Access-a-Ride
and Call-n-Ride services at a price not to exceed $3,100,654.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the February 27, 2018
Board Meeting.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, said
that Michael Ford, Chief Operating Officer, and Steve Gieske,
General Superintendent of Maintenance, were with him to
discuss the motion. He said that this action related to Task
Goal #3, State of Good Repair. He noted that this action
would replace 32 vehicles currently used in the Call-n-Ride
service that were seven years old. He added that this action
was an administrative detail that allowed staff a five-year
period to have a phased replacement of the fleet.
Director Archuleta inquired as to what brand the buses would
be.
Mr. Gieske stated that they were Goshen buses from Elkhart,
Indiana.

Director Broom asked what would happen to the buses that
were being phased out, and inquired if they would they be
traded in or sold.
Mr. Abel stated that RTD disposes of vehicles via auction. He
said that RTD has a contract with Roller Auctions and they
auction all of RTD’s retired vehicles electronically.
Director Menten commented that the service lifespan for these
buses were five years, and the Federal Transit Administration
(FTA) minimum guidelines for these buses were five years.
She asked if this purchase was really the best buy for RTD’s
money.
Mr. Abel said yes, and added that staff felt that this was
appropriate and in line with the FTA’s guidelines. He said that
the FTA separates vehicles into three categories: light,
medium, and heavy duty. He remarked that these buses fall
into the light duty category, and RTD has been able to get a
seven-year lifespan from them.
Director Menten asked what the seating configuration would
be for the new buses.
Mr. Gieske commented that the Call-n-Ride vehicles have two
wheelchair positions and thirteen seats and the Access-a-Ride
vehicles have four companion seats and three wheelchair tie
down positions.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Claudia Folska, Committee Vice-Chair
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow,
Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker
Kate Williams

Committee Chair Deadwyler declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Recommended Changes to Special Event Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the following changes to Special Event
services:
1. Discontinue RockiesRide bus service and authorize staff to develop
alternative service configurations to serve Longmont and Wagon
Road/Thornton on Rockies games weekends; and

2. Discontinue RTD RACE service to the Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure
event.
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the February 27, 2018
Board Meeting.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel said that this action as brought forth in support of
RTD’s fiscal sustainability goals. He noted that, when Major
League Baseball (MLB) opened in Denver in 1993, RockiesRide
service was added for ridership to those games. He explained
that RockiesRide service had been reduced over the years, and
in 2017, there was only an average of 236 people each way.
He added that this year the Rockies had advised RTD that the
lot at Wazee and 22nd would be used for parking for their
games due to local development. He stated that the Race for
the Cure ridership had declined dramatically as well, and for
those reasons staff would like to discontinue those two
services. He remarked that RTD’s service standards require a
minimum attendance of 40,000 people to justify the usage of
buses for special services, and because the RockiesRide and
Race for the Cure have not met that attendance in years, staff
would like to discontinue those services. He noted that RTD
had alternative services available, such as routine service to
Denver Union Station (DUS) and on game days, and that RTD
would back those services up.
Director Lubow stated that she would vote no on this because
she wanted the issue to continue to be discussed. She added
that there were people in Longmont that felt that they were
not listened to about this and she felt that everyone could get
to the same place with more discussion.
Mr. Abel commented that there were two open houses at
RTD’s Blake Street office and constituents also shared their
comments with staff via phone and email.
Director Lubow explained that people in Longmont felt
aggrieved, and there was a sense that they were treated like a
stepchild. She said that it was important to deal with the
ridership in Longmont sensitively and she would like to see
more discussions happen in her district.

Chair Tisdale stated that it might be fair to say for the record
that this action was not a discontinuation, as it was more akin
to a right-sizing of service. He said that retooling to be more
effective in the light of changes in circumstances was
appropriate, so he would be voting to support this item.
Director Hoy asked if Mr. Abel meant to infer the 120X would
run on Sundays.
Mr. Abel said yes and added that staff would be looking at
that as an alternative option. He said that the 120X runs from
the Wagon Road Park-n-Ride to DUS, and that was the
terminal that RTD would use henceforth for any special service
for events such as the Rockies games.
Director Hoy inquired if the 236 Longmont passengers who
used the RockiesRide had the same opportunity to participate
in the open house that RTD hosted.
Mr. Abel said yes, they participated via phone or email, but
there were no physical meetings held in Longmont.
Director Sisk commented that RTD needed to provide more
service to Longmont. He said that RTD was leaving them
stranded so he would vote no on the action until he could see
a plan that would service Longmont. He said that he wanted
staff to show him what they had planned, and what
alternatives were being considered as well.
Director Anderson remarked that staff would do a good job to
provide service and increase service in places that need it,
such as Longmont. She added, however, that RTD would not
be able to please everyone.
Director Menten said that she was in support of this item, and
no matter what part of the district this affected, it needed to
be done for the taxpayers.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Menten,
Mihalik, Solano, Tisdale, Walker
Judy Lubow, Chuck Sisk
Kate Williams

Committee Chair Deadwyler declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Service Availability Update 2 13 18
Mr. Abel said that lost service hours increased from 270.76 in January 2017
to 664.04 in January of 2018. He stated that at the conclusion of 2017,
staff provided 99.4% of all hours, but that required mandates or volunteers.
He added that staff continues to work with HR for recruitment and retention
to right size RTD’s service and balance the level of service with the amount
of operators available.
Chair Tisdale noted that on the cover memo, the increase from 271 lost
service hours to 664 is actually a 245% increase that was only identified as
“a slight increase”.

D. Other Matters
Director Anderson remarked that she wanted to take an opportunity to offer her
deepest condolences to the family of the bus driver who passed away earlier in the
week. She said that this had happened before and it would be her desire for RTD to
look to the health of its bus drivers and operators. She said that RTD should ensure
its employees are receiving good healthcare and good advice about some of the
things that cause sudden death. She added that RTD as a whole should become
healthier and there are some quick and easy ways to do that. She further stated
that RTD needed to help its employees lead a long and productive life.
Mr. Abel stated that he wanted to update the Board on the upcoming work for the
I-25/C470 interchange. He said that RTD staff would take advantage of that nineday period that the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) was using for
the C470 widening project to do some work on RTD’s system. He explained that
due to the magnitude of the shut down and the level of service necessary to
provide meaningful bus bridge service, RTD was currently not in a position to
provide bus bridge service. He stated that staff had secured additional parking at
the Arapahoe Station and were working on securing additional parking at the
Southmore and Dry Creek Park-n-Rides. He said that the General Manager would
meet with the Denver South Economic Development Partnership (EDP) to discuss
the impacts to that area.

Director Walker asked if there would be any lane closures on I-25 or C470.
Mr. Abel stated that there should be closures on C470 because of the interchange.
Director Walker commented that staff was taking the appropriate steps to provide
other options to people who might be impacted.
Mr. Abel said staff would message carpooling, ridesharing, and other such efforts
to minimize the impacts.
Director Folska asked what contingency support did staff have in place for those
who were transit dependent.
Mr. Abel said that staff has the potential use of Call-n-Ride vehicles, and staff has
reached out to Lyft for other options. He added that staff is currently engaged in a
variety of conversations as well.
Director Lubow asked if it was correct to say that RTD was stopping service
because it has to, but at the same time, it was not offering anything else to replace
it.
Mr. Abel stated that Light Rail would run as far south as the Dry Creek Station. He
commented that it was appropriate to say that service was being curtailed at Dry
Creek and that constituents would need to access service from other stations
during the nine day period.

E. Next Meeting Date - March 13, 2018
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Deadwyler adjourned the meeting at 6:09 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

