Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
February 12, 2015 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
I.

Call to Order

II.

February Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - February 17, 2015
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker

E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Lubow
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen
VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of January 20, 2015

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Indemnification, Waiver of Governmental Immunity and Purchase of
Insurance for the BNSF Railway Company on the North Metro Rail Line
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached Resolution agreeing to waive the defense of sovereign
immunity to the extent it may under Colorado law and to purchase insurance for
the purpose of indemnifying the BNSF Railway company (BNSF) for claims arising
out of RTD’s ownership and use of the property to be acquired from BNSF for the
NMRL, including but not limited to environmental liability, claims both regulatory
and in tort; claims arising out of the use of automobiles, worker protection claims
including those for railroad worker’s arising under the Federal Employee’s Liability
Act (FELA); and, the Board intends that the limits shown in the Resolution shall be
the limits to which immunity is waived pursuant to C.R.S. 24-10-114.
B.

Approve Contract Amendment to Supply 64 - 40' Transit Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise
an option and amend contract 13-FH-053 with Gillig LLC. in an amount not to
exceed $27,500,000 for the purchase of 64 additional 40’ transit buses and
associated spare components.
C.

Approve Contract Amendment to Supply 18 - 60’ Articulated Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise
an option and amend contract 13-FK-001 in an amount not to exceed $12,300,000
with New Flyer of America Inc. for the purchase of 18 additional 60’ articulated
buses and associated spare components.

XII.

Recommended Action
D.
16th Street Mall Intersection Improvements, Funding Intergovernmental
Agreement with the City and County of Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to execute an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver
(CCD) and the Regional Transportation District. The purpose of the IGA is to set
forth the rights, duties and obligations of CCD and RTD to construct intersection
improvements within the CCD Right-of-Way in conjunction with the 16 th Street
Mall Reconstruction Project. The intersection improvements will be funded by
CCD, and the construction managed by RTD.
E.

Board Report May 2015 Service Change

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the May 2015 Service Change package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes
XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: January 28, 2015

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant
Manager
Marla Lien, General Counsel

GM

Date:

January 27, 2015

Subject:

Indemnification, Waiver of Governmental
Immunity and Purchase of Insurance for the
BNSF Railway Company on the North Metro
Rail Line

General

Board Meeting Date: February 17, 2015

Resolution
RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors pass the attached
Resolution agreeing to waive the defense of sovereign immunity to the extent it may under Colorado law
and to purchase insurance for the purpose of indemnifying the BNSF Railway company (BNSF) for claims
arising out of RTD’s ownership and use of the property to be acquired from BNSF for the NMRL,
including but not limited to environmental liability, claims both regulatory and in tort; claims arising out
of the use of automobiles, worker protection claims including those for railroad worker’s arising under
the Federal Employee’s Liability Act (FELA); and, the Board intends that the limits shown in the
Resolution shall be the limits to which immunity is waived pursuant to C.R.S. 24-10-114.
BACKGROUND
On November 7, 2013 the RTD Board of Directors authorized the General Manager to enter into all
contracts necessary to implement design and construction of the NMRL. The corridor alignment
approved in the Environmental Impact Statement prepared for the NMRL includes right of way that RTD
needs to acquire from BNSF. BNSF has consistently maintained that it will not sell right of way for
passenger rail service if it will increase BNSF’s liability exposure. A requirement for RTD’s acquisition of
right of way from BNSF for the Gold Line and first electrified segment of the Northwest Rail Line was
that RTD agree to waive governmental immunity, purchase insurance and indemnify BNSF to the same
extent now required for the NMRL. The Colorado Governmental Immunity Act (CGIA) limits a
governmental entity’s liability for certain types of claims both as to dollar amount and matters for which
it could be liable. Waiver is permitted under state law so long as the waiver is by the governing body in
advance of claims and to a specified amount. RTD passed very similar resolutions for the prior BNSF
acquisitions. RTD also passed very similar resolutions for the Union Pacific Railroad (UP) for acquisition
of right of way for the NMRL and UP Property on the East, Gold and West Corridors.
DISCUSSION
RTD is acquiring property and entering into a Construction and Maintenance Agreement with BNSF for
approximately two and a half miles of right of way on the NMRL. RTD and BNSF trains will operate in
close proximity to one another. BNSF will not sell property for the use of passenger rail and thereby
increase its exposure to risk without indemnification. Federal law limits liability for passenger rail
accidents to $200 million per occurrence at the present time, and state law limits exposure to punitive
damages for both RTD and BNSF. RTD must acquire and maintain insurance in the amounts shown,

Packet Pg. 4

2.11.A

subject to review by the RTD and BNSF approximately every five years as a condition of RTD operations.
If RTD fails to obtain and maintain insurance and indemnify BNSF, RTD may be precluded from
operations in the shared portion of the corridor.
RTD will be required to maintain insurance and to indemnify BNSF for all claims for which BNSF is or
may be liable that would not have occurred but for RTD’s use of the corridor for passenger service,
regardless of fault. Responsibility for claims for which both parties may be liable are allocated after start
of RTD operations. Neither party may bring claims against the other. RTD will be required to obtain and
maintain Railroad Protective Liability insurance in the amount of at least $200,000,000 (two hundred
million dollars) or such greater amounts as may be allowed by federal statutes setting liability caps for
passenger rail accidents. Worker’s compensation, auto coverage, property damage and pollution liability
coverage are required. RTD must indemnify BNSF for claims its employees make if such claims are the
result of RTD’s use of the corridor. RTD is required to waive governmental immunity up to the limits of
coverage.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
RTD is already obligated to acquire coverage for both BNSF and UP in all shared passenger and freight
corridors under previous contracts and resolutions. Insurance is included in the Owner Controlled
Insurance Program for the NMRL. Operations phase coverage will cost only slightly more to RTD than if
this resolution were not passed, because coverage must be provided for portions of the West, and
virtually all of the East, Gold and Northwest Rail Corridors. Funding for the operations phase coverage
will be provided each year as part of the annual operating budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1.
Accept the recommended action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors pass the attached Resolution agreeing to waive the defense of sovereign
immunity to the extent it may under Colorado law and to purchase insurance for the purpose of
indemnifying the BNSF Railway company (BNSF) for claims arising out of RTD’s ownership and
use of the property to be acquired from BNSF for the NMRL, including but not limited to
environmental liability, claims both regulatory and in tort; claims arising out of the use of
automobiles, worker protection claims including those for railroad worker’s arising under the
Federal Employee’s Liability Act (FELA); and, the Board intends that the limits shown in the
Resolution shall be the limits to which immunity is waived pursuant to C.R.S. 24-10-114.
2.

Do not pass the attached Resolution. This will require an alternative alignment for the NMRL and
significant cost and time delays to the project. This is not recommended.

Prepared by:
Marla Lien, General Counsel
Marla Lien, General Counsel

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

2.11.A

Packet Pg. 6

2.11.A

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RESOLUTION No. ___, SERIES OF 2015
Indemnification, Waiver of Governmental Immunity and Purchase of Insurance for the
BNSF Railway Company on the North Metro Rail Line
Whereas, On November 7, 2013 the RTD Board of Directors authorized the General
Manager to enter into all contracts necessary to implement design and construction of the
North Metro Rail Corridor (NMRL) within the authorized project budget; and
Whereas, the alignment approved in the Environmental Impact Statement prepared
for the NMRL includes right of way that RTD needs to acquire from the BNSF Railway
Company; and
Whereas, the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act (CGIA) limits both RTD and
BNSF’s liability for punitive damages arising out of the use of the railroad right of way
shared with or acquired from a railroad for passenger rail services; and
Whereas, the CGIA limits RTD’s liability but allows a governmental entity to waive
immunity otherwise available up to an amount specified by the entity; and
Whereas, a condition of sale from the BNSF is that RTD acquire insurance,
indemnify BNSF and waive governmental immunity that would otherwise be available
under Colorado law for any incidents, accidents or losses occurring in the shared
BNSF/RTD portion of the NMRL alignment; and
Whereas, the BNSF requires RTD to obtain and maintain insurance for so long as
the BNSF operates in the shared corridor, to waive immunity and to indemnify it for any
claims and losses caused by use of the shared corridor for the construction or maintenance
of RTD improvements and the operation of passenger rail service and to apportion liability
in circumstances not covered by RTD indemnity obligations; and
Whereas, the CGIA allows RTD to waive limits under the CGIA and to indemnify
third parties for liabilities other than punitive or exemplary damages.
Now therefore be it resolved that:
The RTD Board of Directors agrees to waive the defense of sovereign immunity to the
extent it may under Colorado law and to purchase insurance for the purpose of
indemnifying BNSF for claims arising out of RTD’s ownership and use of the property to
be acquired from BNSF for the NMRL including but not limited to environmental liability
claims both regulatory and in tort; claims arising out of the use of automobiles, worker
protection claims including those for railroad worker’s arising under the Federal Employer’s
Liability Act (FELA); and, the Board intends that such limits shall be the limits to which
immunity is waived pursuant to C.R.S. 24-10-114.

Packet Pg. 7

2.11.A

General Liability Insurance

$ 10 million

Automobile Insurance

$

1

Worker’s Compensation including FELA

$

.5 million

Railroad Protective Liability during construction

$ 10 million

Railroad Protective Liability after construction

$200 million

million

Made and adopted this ___ day of February 2015.

_____________________
Chair
Charles Sisk

_____________________
Secretary
Jeff Walker

Packet Pg. 8

2.11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 3, 2015

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 3, 2015

Board Meeting Date: February 17, 2015

Subject:

Approve Contract Amendment to Supply 64 40' Transit Buses

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise an option and amend contract 13-FH-053
with Gillig LLC. in an amount not to exceed $27,500,000 for the purchase of 64 additional 40’ transit
buses and associated spare components.
BACKGROUND
In support of the Board adopted strategic goal of Innovative and Fiscally Sustainable Service Delivery,
including Asset Management/State of Good Repair, Bus Operations has begun the process of replacing
the aging and high maintenance Orion sub-fleet of 40 foot transit buses.
RTD’s existing 2000 Series Orion transit buses have exceeded their FTA service life of 12 years. The
buses are now 15 years old and have accumulated on average 685,000 miles of stop-and-go transit
service. They have become unreliable and require intensive maintenance to keep them in service. The
bus manufacturer, Orion Bus Industries, went out of business several years ago. Many of the parts
required for the repair of the buses are now difficult to obtain. The adopted Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
calls for the replacement of the Orion sub-fleet of buses over three years, 125 buses in 2013, 110
buses in 2014 and 64 buses in 2015.
On November 26, 2013 the RTD Board of Directors approved the procurement of 125 Gillig 40’ transit
buses to begin the replacement to the existing 40 foot Orion buses. The original procurement was the
result of RTD Request for Proposals (RFP) 13-FH-053 issued in May of 2013. Proposals were received in
September, 2013. The contract allows RTD the options to purchase up to 307 additional buses over a
five year period. Pricing for additional option buses is based on the initial base pricing plus an inflationary
price adjustment computed using the US Department of Labor’s “Producer Price Index” or PPI which is
published monthly.
On June 24, 2014 the RTD Board of Directors approved the contract amendment for additional 110
Gillig 40’ transit buses.
This request is for the Board’s approval of the contract amendment to Gillig to exercise the purchase
option for a guaranteed quantity of 64 additional 40’ transit buses to complete the replacement of the
2000 Series Orion buses.
DISCUSSION

Packet Pg. 9

2.11.B

The 40’ transit buses are low floor for ease of passenger boarding and de-boarding. They will be
equipped with a wheelchair ramp and two wheelchair access areas to allow for ADA compliance.
Their clean diesel engines will meet the latest EPA regulations and will reduce exhaust emissions up
to 90% from the level of the existing buses. The buses will be equipped with an automatic passenger
count system and a security digital camera system. They will have two passenger doors, 35
passenger seats, and two spaces for storage of large items such as walker, child stroller and
shopping caddy.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The requested approval is for the contract amendment to Gillig to exercise the purchase option for a
guaranteed quantity of 64-40’ transit buses and associated spare components in the amount not to
exceed $27,500,000. The funding for this contract is approved and available in the District’s 2015
Adopted Budget.
DBE PARTICIPATION
There is no DBE requirement for transit vehicle purchases. Each vehicle manufacturer is required by the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to submit a DBE plan for FTA approval. As part of the required
proposal submittal documents, Gillig has submitted a certificate attesting to FTA’s approval of its DBE
plan.
ALTERNATIVES
1. To authorize the General Manager to issue a contract amendment to Gillig for the purchase of 64-40’
transit buses. This is the recommended alternative.
2. Do not authorize the contract amendment and re-solicit proposals. This is not desirable as it would
result, at the very least, in a delay of the delivery of the buses and may increase the cost of the project.

Prepared by:
Lou Ha, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 10

2.11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 3, 2015

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 3, 2015

Board Meeting Date: February 17, 2015

Subject:

Approve Contract Amendment to Supply 18 60’ Articulated Buses

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise an option and amend contract 13-FK-001 in
an amount not to exceed $12,300,000 with New Flyer of America Inc. for the purchase of 18 additional
60’ articulated buses and associated spare components.
BACKGROUND
In support of the Board adopted strategic goal of Innovative and Fiscally Sustainable Service Delivery,
including Asset Management/State of Good Repair, Bus Operations has begun the process of replacing
the aging and high maintenance NABI sub-fleet of 60’ articulated buses.
RTD’s existing 9100 Series NABI articulated buses have exceeded their FTA service life of 12 years. The
buses are now15 years old and have accumulated on average 430,000 miles of stop-and-go transit
service. Their structures have experienced heavy damage due to rust, corrosion and fatigue. They have
become unreliable and require intensive maintenance to keep them in service. Many of the parts
required for the repair of the buses are now difficult to obtain. The adopted Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
calls for the replacement of the 9100 Series buses over three years, 40 buses in 2013, 40 buses in
2014 and 18 buses in 2015.
On August 20, 2013 the RTD Board of Directors approved the procurement of 52 New Flyer 60’
articulated buses. This procurement was for the replacement of 40 existing NABI 60’ articulated buses
and also supplied 12 - 60’ articulated buses for the Free MetroRide service. The original procurement
was the result of RTD Request for Proposals (RFP 13-FK-001). Proposals were received on May 17,
2013. The contract allows RTD the options to purchase up to 162 additional buses over a five year
period. Pricing for additional option buses is based on the initial base pricing plus an inflationary price
adjustment computed using the US Department of Labor’s “Producer Price Index” or PPI which is
published monthly.
On June 24, 2014 the RTD Board of Directors approved the contract amendment for additional 40 New
Flyer articulated buses.
This request is for the Board’s approval of the contract amendment to New Flyer to exercise the
purchase option for a guaranteed quantity of 18 additional articulated buses to complete the
replacement of the 9100 Series NABI articulated buses.
DISCUSSION

Packet Pg. 11

2.11.C

The 60’ articulated buses are low floor for ease of passenger boarding and de-boarding. They will be
equipped with a wheelchair ramp and two wheelchair access areas to allow for ADA compliance.
Their clean diesel engines will meet the latest EPA regulations and will reduce exhaust emissions up
to 90% from the level of the existing buses. The buses will be equipped with an automatic passenger
count system and a security digital camera system. They will have two passenger doors, 55
passenger seats and two spaces for storage of large items such as walker, child stroller and shopping
caddy.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The requested approval is for the contract amendment to New Flyer to exercise the purchase option for
a guaranteed quantity of 18 articulated buses and associated spare components in the amount not to
exceed $12,300,000. The funding for this contract is approved and available in the District’s 2015
Adopted Budget.
DBE PARTICIPATION
There is no DBE requirement for transit vehicle purchases. Each vehicle manufacturer is required by the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to submit a DBE plan for FTA approval. As part of the required
proposal submittal documents, New Flyer has submitted a certificate attesting to FTA’s approval of its
DBE plan.
ALTERNATIVES
1. To authorize the General Manager to issue a contract amendment to New Flyer for the purchase of
eighteen (18) additional articulated buses. This is the recommended alternative.
2. Do not authorize the contract amendment and re-solicit proposals. This is not desirable as it would
result, at the very least, in a delay of the delivery of the buses and may increase the cost of the project.

Prepared by:
Lou Ha, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 12

2.12.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: January 28, 2015

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 28, 2015

Board Meeting Date: February 17, 2015

Subject:

16th Street Mall Intersection Improvements,
Funding Intergovernmental Agreement with the
City and County of Denver

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to execute an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA)
between the City and County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation District. The purpose
of the IGA is to set forth the rights, duties and obligations of CCD and RTD to construct intersection
improvements within the CCD Right-of-Way in conjunction with the 16 th Street Mall Reconstruction
Project. The intersection improvements will be funded by CCD, and the construction managed by
RTD.
BACKGROUND
Under a separate IGA, RTD and CCD are jointly reconstructing up to 3 ½ blocks of the 16 th Street
Mall (“Reconstruction Project”). The Reconstruction Project is partially funded by an FTA “Bus & Bus
Facilities Livability Grant.” RTD and CCD are providing local match funds of 20%. Because of late
scope modification request by CCD, the initial scope of the Reconstruction Project did not include
intersections of the Mall and cross streets within the limits of the project. This Intersection
Improvements IGA is intended to fill that gap. The cross-street intersections are generally as old as
the Mall (more than 30 years); the concrete paving is deteriorating, and the existing traffic signal
systems do not meet current CCD design standards.
DISCUSSION
The Reconstruction Project scope includes reconstruction of the transitway pavers, their setting bed,
in-situ resurfacing of the walkway pavers, upgrading the Mall utility infrastructure (e.g. electrical and
irrigation), constructing walkway “bulbouts” at cross-street intersections for pedestrian safety,
replacing the existing pedestrian lights, and upgrading the existing urban furniture (e.g. benches,
planters, water features). However, repairs and upgrades to the full intersections were not included
as part of the FTA grant.
If the intersections are not repaired concurrently with the Reconstruction Project, the work will need
to be done at a later date by CCD, resulting in additional disruptions to Mall shuttle operations,
additional construction delays to vehicular traffic and pedestrians, and further disruption to
businesses adjacent to the Mall.
The IGA addresses funding of the intersection improvements, which will be reimbursed by CCD with
DURA TIF funds. The IGA also addresses the design and construction management for the project
and identifies RTD as the managing entity. RTD will lead the design and construction management
of this project with support from stakeholder agencies. CCD will reimburse RTD for all direct costs
associated with the construction of the intersection.
FINANCIAL IMPACT

Packet Pg. 13

2.12.A

CCD will reimburse RTD 100% for the construction of the intersection improvements as outlined in
the final IGA.
ALTERNATIVES
1.
Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to
execute an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD)
and the Regional Transportation District. The purpose of the IGA is to set forth the rights,
duties and obligations of CCD and RTD to construct intersection improvements within the
CCD Right-of-Way in conjunction with the 16th Street Mall Reconstruction Project. The
intersection improvements will be funded by CCD, and the construction managed by RTD.
2.
Delay implementing the Recommended Action. This is not recommended because delaying
the implementation of the IGA has serious impact to the schedule, budget, and RTD’s ability
to utilize approved grant funds, and would cause an extended delay of the Reconstruction
Project.
3.

Do not accept the Recommended Action. This is not recommended because this would cause
major delays in constructing the intersection improvements. The result would be additional
disruption to Mall shuttle operation and further construction delays to vehicular and pedestrian
traffic along the Mall.

Prepared by:
Cory Granrud, Manager, Park-n-Ride Design
Stan Szabelak, Manager, Civil Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 14

2.12.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 5, 2015

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 3, 2015

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Board Report May 2015 Service Change

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the May 2015 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A and,
further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary
for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also
our responsibility to identify services that are underperforming and recommend modifications,
curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted. The proposals herein include a mix of service
enhancements, routine schedule adjustments and several service reductions. The proposal regarding the
cancellation of the Route DD and reduction in frequency on the Light Rail W- Line are
ridership/performance based and in accord with RTD Service Standards. We will monitor customer
response to the implementation of these service changes and propose adjustments and service
alternatives as appropriate in future service change recommendations.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
 Response to changes in the communities where services are provided
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
Five public hearings were held during the public comment period, which extended between January 27th
and Februaryr 4th. Public meetings were held in Denver, Lakewood and Louisville with nearly 60 public
participants. Comments from these meetings and the service change website are summarized in
Attachment B of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATIONS
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following represent substantive changes proposed to
the service changes initially communicated to the Board of Directors for implementation as part of the
May 2015 service change.

Packet Pg. 15

2.12.B

Route 3 – Alameda Crosstown: minor schedule adjustments
Route 38 – 38th Avenue: Run time analysis
Route 44 – 44th Avenue: weekend early morning schedule adjustments
Routes 77, 401, 402Ltd and 403: trip time adjustments to better coordinate with the C-Line Light Rail
schedule.
Route AT – Arapahoe County/DIA: add airport peak trips, due to overloads
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service improvements:
Route 4 - Morrison Road: proposal to reinstitute service along Morrison Road.
Route 6 – East 6th Avenue/ North Pecos: additional trips proposed in peak periods.
Route 21 – Evans Avenue: additional Sunday morning trips from Colorado Station.
Route 40 – Colorado Blvd: re-routing buses at Colorado Station and added trips proposed.
Route 46 – Cherry Creek/Dahlia/DTC: buses at Colorado Station moved to Gate B.
Route 59 – West Bowles: increase midday service from every 75 minutes to 60 minutes.
Route 79Ltd – South Quebec Way Limited
Route 83Ltd - Parker/Leetsdale Limited: trip conversions, additional service proposed.
Route 105 – Havana Street: additional late evening service proposed.
Route 133 – Hampden/Tower: additional trips proposed in peak and evenings.
Route 153 – Chambers Road: additional daily service proposed.
Route AT – Arapahoe County/DIA: add airport peak trips, due to overloads
E-Line Light Rail: additional peak period service proposed.
W-Line Light Rail: additional train for base period service proposed.

Routes proposed for service reductions:
Route DD – Colorado Blvd: proposal to discontinue this service.
Route 100X – South Kipling Express: discontinue last westbound evening trip.
W-Line Light Rail: proposal to reduce peak period service frequency.
Union Station Hostlers: proposal to cancel the Saturday and Sunday Union Station hostlers and reduce the
additional Monday-Friday Union Station hostler work.
D-Line Light Rail: proposal to start the 4:13 AM northbound trip at 4:28 on Sundays.
H-Line Light Rail: proposal to discontinue the Sunday 4:32 AM northbound trip from Nine Mile.
E-Line Light Rail: proposal discontinues weekday 4:33 AM northbound trip from Lincoln Station.

Routes proposed for mixed service improvements/service reductions:
Route 120X – Wagon Road/ Union Station Express
Route 122X – Wagon Road/Civic Center Express: this proposal reallocates resources from the Route
120X to the Route 122X.

Routes proposed for routine running time analysis/schedule adjustments
Route 0Ltd – South Broadway Limited: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route 1 – West 1st Avenue: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route 3 – Alameda Crosstown: minor schedule adjustments
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route 14 – West Florida: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route 16 – West Colfax: new terminal proposed at Civic Center Station.
Route 26 – West 28th Ave: schedule adjustments are proposed.

Packet Pg. 16

2.12.B

Route 38 – 38th Avenue: Run time analysis
Route 40 - Colorado Boulevard: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route 44 – 44th Avenue: weekend early morning schedule adjustments
Route 48 – Commerce City: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route 88 – Thornton/Commerce City/Stapleton: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route 105 – Havana Street: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route 112 – West 112th Ave: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route 116X – South Simms Express: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route 145X – Brighton/ DIA Express: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route 204 – Table Mesa/Moorhead/ North 19th: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route 205/205T – 28th St/ Gunbarrel/ Heatherwood: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route 206 – Pearl/Manhatan/Fairview: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route 324 – Main Street Crosstown: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Routes 77, 401, 402Ltd and 403: trip time adjustments to better coordinate with the C-Line Light Rail
schedule.
Route BOLT –Boulder/Longmont: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route GS – Golden/Boulder: schedule adjustments are proposed.
Route L – Longmont/Denver: schedule adjustments are proposed.
C-Line Light Rail: schedule adjustments are proposed.
E-Line Light Rail: schedule adjustments are proposed.

Seasonal Service Changes
School Service
Discontinue seasonal school service on the following routes:
Routes 1, 9, 11, 24, 30, 30Ltd, 31, 43, 51, 52, 65, 73, 100, 206/206F and 208/208F
Route 120X – Wagon Road/ Union Station Express: reduce service frequency.
Routes BOUND, DASH, JUMP, SKIP and STAMPEDE: Change to summer schedules.
Light Rail School Trippers: D and H-Line school trippers will be cancelled for the summer.
Route N – Nederland/Boulder: remove routing to Eldora Ski Resort.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The base system financial impact contained in this proposal is estimated to be $666,993
An estimated -$2,405 cost savings is attributable to FasTracks.

annualized.

EQUITY ANALYSIS
Per the Major Service Change Policy, the proposed major service changes proposed herein are subject to
an equity analysis, which is detailed in Attachment D of this report.
A LOOK AHEAD – August, 2015
The following items are service concepts currently under consideration or are planned events that impact
operations in the next service change period:
 Boulder Junction at Depot Square (33rd – Pearl Street) to be opened with accompanied changes to
existing route services: HX and S.
 Central Park Station Bus Plaza and park-n-Ride to be opened with accompanied changes to existing
route services: 28, 38, 40, 43, 65, 73, 88, 89, 105 and AS.25
ATTACHMENTS:


Attach A May 2015 Service Changes



Attach B May 2015 Public Input (DOCX)

(DOCX)

Packet Pg. 17

2.12.B


Attach C Rt 4 Map Rt and Rt D Equity Analysis_Updated



Attach D Service Equity Analysis - May 2015 Service Changes (Final version+maps)

(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 18

2.12.B.a

Route 1 – West 1st Avenue
It is proposed to analyze and adjust weekday running times to improve on-time
performance. No anticipated cost impacts.
Route 3 – Alameda Crosstown
This proposal supports minor schedule adjustments to the Route 3, as a result of the
pending reintroduction of the Route 4 along Morrison Road. No anticipated cost impacts.
Route 4 - Morrison Road
It is proposed to reinstitute weekday service on Morrison Road between Alameda Ave and
Sheridan Blvd. Service will run between Alameda Station and Sheridan/Evans via Alameda
Ave, Morrison Rd, and Sheridan Blvd (please see map, Attachment B). Peak frequency is
proposed at 30 minutes, with midday and early evening service offered every 60 minutes.
Peak service will be offered from 5 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Evening
service will extend to 8:00p.m.
Costs are estimated to be an annualized $258,300 and 2 peak vehicles
Route 6 – East 6th Avenue/ North Pecos
- Add one south-bound short-turn trip from 106th/Melody Transfer Center to
Downtown Denver (Broadway/16th Street) at about 6:30am, to address consistent
overloads at this time of day;
-

-

Weekdays, add 6:04pm eastbound trip from Rockmont. Fills in existing 36 minute
gap between 6:00pm and 6:30pm, relieves overloads (average of 33 passengers,
occurrences between 40 and 50 passengers) on following trip.
Cost impacts are estimated to be $25,830 annualized.

Route 10 – East 12th Avenue
Relocate downtown terminal to Colfax & Federal Transfer Center, for operator restroom.
No anticipated cost impacts.
Route 14 – West Florida
It is proposed to analyze and adjust weekday running times to improve on-time
performance. No anticipated cost impacts.
Route 16 – West Colfax
Due to a lack of a suitable operator restroom (as required in the Collective Bargaining
Agreement), it is proposed to discontinue all service to 10th/Broadway on 13th Ave and
Bannock Street. Service will instead be routed to either Lincoln St & 16th Ave or to Civic

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Attach A May 2015 Service Changes (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

Route 0Ltd – South Broadway Limited
It is proposed to analyze and adjust current interline and deadhead times in order to
improve on-time performance in the afternoon peak. Running times will also be examined
on some trips. Cost impacts are estimated to be 1 peak bus and $41,300 annualized.

2.12.B.a

Route 21 – Evans Avenue
Add Sunday morning trips eastbound from Colorado Station at 5:52 and 6:52am.
Improves span of service on a growing route. Cost impacts are estimated to be $3,500
annualized.
Route 26 – West 28th Ave
It is proposed to analyze and adjust weekday running times to improve on-time
performance. Cost impacts are estimated to be $5,160 annualized.
Route 38 – 38th Avenue
It is proposed to analyze and adjust weekday running times to improve on-time
performance. No anticipated cost impacts.
Route 40 – Colorado Blvd.
- Reverse routing for northbound buses at Colorado Station, to use Gate C facing
east instead of Gate F facing west.
- Saturday/Sunday mornings, add 5:26am northbound trip from Colorado Station,
and 4:51am southbound trip from 41st/Jackson. Brings route to full 30 minute
frequency from 5:00am in each direction, early weekend morning productivity is 35
boardings per hour. Running time analysis and schedule adjustments. Cost impacts
are estimated to be $5,800 annualize.

Route 44 – 44th Avenue:
This proposal makes minor schedule adjustments to Saturday and Sunday early morning
service. No anticipated cost impacts.
Route 46 – Cherry Creek/Dahlia/DTC
Moved southbound buses at Colorado Station from Gate C to Gate B. No cost impacts are
anticipated.
Route 48 – Commerce City
Running time analysis and schedule adjustments. Anticipated cost impact of a PM peak
vehicle at an estimated $62,000 annualized.
Route 59 – West Bowles
It is proposed to increase midday service from every 75 minutes to every 60 minutes by
interlining Route 59 with Routes 29 and 36 at Littleton/Downtown Station. No cost
impacts are anticipated.
Routes 77, 401, 402Ltd and 403
Trip time adjustments are proposed to better coordinate services at Mineral Station with
the new C-Line Light Rail schedule. No cost impacts are anticipated.

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Attach A May 2015 Service Changes (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

Center Station using the routing currently used after 6:30 p.m. Buses will begin and end
service at Colfax/Broadway on each trip. No anticipated cost impacts.

Route 79Ltd – South Quebec Way Limited
Route 83Ltd - Parker/Leetsdale Limited
- Convert current Route 83L eastbound trips at 6:20pm and 6:50pm to Route 79L
trips, replacing current Route 79L trip at 6:35pm. Convert current Route 79L
eastbound trip at 6:35pm to Route 83L, replacing trips at 6:20pm and 6:50pm
which become Route 79L trips. Each route will then provide consistent 30 minute
frequency, while maintaining the existing 15 minute combined service along
Leetsdale as far as Quebec Street.
- Extend evening service one hour later, to 11:25pm westbound and 12:10am
eastbound, with 30 minute frequency. Cost impacts are anticipated to be $39,260
annualized.
Route 88 – Thornton/Commerce City/Stapleton
Running time adjustment, due to the removal of Wikiup loop; adjust trip times for meets at
60th/Dahlia and Stapleton Station. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 100X – South Kipling Express
It is proposed to discontinue the last westbound evening trip, leaving Civic Center Station
at 6:13 PM. Ridership on this trip averages 7 passengers. Passengers riding to Federal
Center Station have the option of boarding Route CS leaving Civic Center Station at 6:12
PM or boarding Route ES at 6:45 PM. Ridechecks show that remaining passengers will be
able to utilize Route 100 for their trips from Federal Center Station. Savings are estimated
to be $19,000 annualized.
Route 105 – Havana Street
Add 11:28pm northbound and 11:22pm southbound trips. Provides consistent 30 minute
frequency. Late evening productivity is 32 boardings/hour. Running time analysis and
schedule adjustments. Cost impacts are estimated to be $18,600 annualized.
Route 112 – West 112th Ave
Schedule (trip leave time) adjustments at US 36 & Broomfield PnR, to match coordinated
scheduled times of 5 and 35 minutes after the hour on weekends only. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 116X – South Simms Express
To address buses running early in portions of the route, but arriving late at Civic Center
Station, it is proposed to adjust and reallocate the scheduled time of the Route 116X. Cost
impact estimated to be $6,300 annualized.
Route 120X – Wagon Road/ Union Station Express
Route 122X – Wagon Road/Civic Center Express
- Discontinue south-bound 120X trip at 5:25pm, due to excess capacity and move
resources/ in-service hours to Route 122X to address overload issues.

-

Add one south-bound 122X trip from Thornton Park-n-Ride, with approximate leave
time of 8:20am, due to current overloads on existing south-bound 8:22am trip.

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Attach A May 2015 Service Changes (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

2.12.B.a

2.12.B.a

-

Reduce service frequency on Route 120X – Wagon Road/ Union Station Express to
15 min peak, peak direction and maintain ½ hourly mid-day frequency; cut back NB
trips in AM to 6am start and SB trips in PM to last trip at 10pm
Cost/Savings components of this proposal nullify each other.

Route 133 – Hampden/Tower
- Add 6:11pm northbound trip from Nine Mile Station to Centrepoint & Sable,
extending 15 minute peak frequency by 30 minutes. Following trip at 6:26pm
averages max load of 34 passengers and 59 boardings/hour.
- Extend 30 minute frequency two hours into the evening, from 6:56 to 8:56pm
northbound, and from 6:06 to 8:06pm southbound. Evening productivity during
this period averages 50 boardings/hour.
- Extend evening service one hour later in each direction, to 10:56pm northbound
and 11:09pm southbound. Current last trips average 19 passengers, 34 boardings
per hour.
- Cost impacts are estimated to be $53,700 annualized
Route 145X – Brighton/ DIA Express
Running time adjustments. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 153 – Chambers Road
Weekdays:
- Running time analysis, and possible shifting of Arapahoe Crossing and Parker
extension trip times. Estimated cost = 2.5 hours, 1 AM peak bus.
- Add three additional midday round trips to/from Parker, extending morning service
to 10:30am, and beginning afternoon service at 1:30pm.
- Extend current 5:06am northbound trip from Centrepoint & Sable to instead begin
at Arapahoe Crossing at 4:35am.
- Extend current 5:07am southbound trip from Airport & 40th to instead begin at
Montbello Park-n-Ride at 4:42am.
Saturdays:
- Extend current 5:20am and 5:50am northbound trips from Sable/Colfax to instead
being at Arapahoe Crossing at 4:41am and 5:11am.
- Add 4:43am and 5:13am southbound trips from Montbello to Arapahoe Crossing,
providing service one hour earlier than at present.
Sundays:
- Add 4:44am northbound trip from Arapahoe Crossing, providing service one hour
earlier than at present.
- Add 5:13am and 6:13am southbound trips from Montbello, providing service two
hours earlier than at present.
Cost impacts are estimated to be $86,600 annualized.
Route 204 – Table Mesa/Moorhead/ North 19th
Schedule adjustments shifting northbound trip times ten minutes earlier, to arrive for
meets at Boulder Transit Center at :29 and :59 past the hour. Additional schedule
adjustments in the PM peak daily.

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Attach A May 2015 Service Changes (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

-

2.12.B.a

Route 205/205T – 28th St/ Gunbarrel/ Heatherwood
Schedule adjustments to improve timing consistency on weekdays, Saturdays and
Sundays.

Route 324 – Main Street Crosstown
Weekday schedule adjustments to improve on time performance. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route AT – Arapahoe County/DIA
An eastbound 3:31am trip to DIA and a westbound 4:10pm from DIA are proposed, as an
effort to address overcrowding during airport peak periods. Cost impacts are estimated to
be $29,768 annualized.
Route BOLT –Boulder/Longmont
Schedule adjustments affecting gate assignments at 8th/Coffman to improve operations
and gate coordination. Additionally schedules are proposed to be adjusted of Saturday and
Sunday leave times at the Boulder Transit Center. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route DD – Colorado Blvd
Discontinue due to low ridership; average ridership per trip: 22 passengers; max load
average: 15 passengers per trip; over half of the boardings (54+%) occur within Boulder
along Broadway and along US 36, (see Att. D) not along Colorado Boulevard; alternate
route connections: BV/BF/BMX/BX, 86X to Union Station then transfer to Light Rail to
Colorado Station, or HX to Civic Center Station with transfer to Light Rail at 19th Street
and Stout Street, or Route HX to Civic Center Station with transfer to Routes 79L/83L.
Savings are estimated to be $93,780 annualized.
Route GS – Golden/Boulder
Schedule adjustments. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route L – Longmont/Denver
Schedule adjustments in the early morning on southbound trips. No cost impacts are
anticipated.
Route N – Nederland/Boulder
Remove routing to Eldora Ski Resort
Seasonal Service Changes

School Service
Discontinue seasonal school service on the following routes:
Routes 1, 9, 11, 24, 30, 30Ltd, 31, 43, 51, 52, 65, 73, 100, 206/206F and 208/208F
Routes BOUND, DASH, JUMP, SKIP and STAMPEDE

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: Attach A May 2015 Service Changes (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

Route 206 – Pearl/Manhatan/Fairview
Running time adjustments. No cost impacts anticipated.

2.12.B.a

Light Rail
C-Line
It is proposed to adjust the clock headway pattern of the C-Line in the AM and PM peak periods
on Mondays through Fridays and have trips leaving 6 minutes later northbound and 9 minutes
earlier southbound. This will create a smoother headway of trains on the Southwest Line, where
there will be a train (C or D) every 6 or 9 minutes, more evenly spaced than today. This also
opens up the opportunity to increase headways on the E-Line, which currently shares open slots
with the C-Line. No operating hours savings or additions are anticipated with this change.
D-Line
It is proposed to start the 4:13 AM northbound trip from Mineral Station at Evans Station at 4:28
on Sundays and Holidays. This affects 6 passengers. Savings are estimated to be $5,370
annualized.
E-Line
It is proposed to add one peak round-trip train in the AM and PM peak (6:54 AM from Lincoln
Station, 7:44 AM from Union Station, 4:09 PM from Lincoln Station, and 4:58 PM from Union
Station) and to assist with increasing ridership demand to/from Union Station and W-Line
transfers. This takes advantage of the altered C-Line schedule, creates a 15-minute frequency for
half an hour in each peak period, and is a test to determine the feasibility of adding more 15minute headway E-Line service in the future.
Cost impacts are estimated to be $235,875 annualized.
It is also proposed to discontinue the 4:33 AM northbound trip from Lincoln Station Mondays
through Fridays. An F-Line trips runs ahead of this train and a C-Line pullout to Union Station will
be adjusted to maintain the connection to Union Station and the W-Line. 20 passengers will be
affected by this change. Savings are estimated to be $70,750 annualized.
Additionally, it is proposed to adjust the clock headway pattern of the E-Line in the AM and PM
peak periods in the reverse peak directions (southbound in the AM, northbound in the PM) on
Mondays through Fridays, to coincide with the C-Line schedule adjustments. Trains will be
scheduled 15 minutes earlier/later than they are now. Two trips will be filled with additional ELine trains. No operating hours savings or additions are anticipated with this change.
H-Line
It is proposed to discontinue the 4:32 AM northbound trip from Nine Mile Station on Sundays and
Holidays. This affects 40 passengers. Savings are estimated to be $16,100 annualized.

W-Line
It is proposed to add a base train in the W-Line schedule to improve service reliability, increase
operator recovery time and allow for midday car cuts at Jefferson County Government CenterGolden Station. No impact to the public schedule besides adjustment in the early morning and
late night trips, plus an additional in-service pullout train in the early morning.

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: Attach A May 2015 Service Changes (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

Change to summer schedules

2.12.B.a

It is also proposed to discontinue 16 Monday-Friday trips in the AM and PM peak periods:
Eastbound trips from Federal Center Station at 7:01 AM, 7:31 AM, 8:01 AM, 3:31 PM, 4:46 PM,
5:16 PM, 5:46 PM, and 7:01 PM and Westbound trips from Union Station at 6:41 AM, 7:11 AM,
7:41 AM, 2:41 PM, 4:26 PM, 4:56 PM, 5:26 PM, and 6:11 PM. This service reduction would
result in the W-Line having a peak period frequency similar to that of the D-Line (10-15 minutes),
but still more frequent than all other individual light rail lines currently operating in the RTD
system. This proposed change effects approximately 789 passengers that will need to take a WLine 7.5 minutes earlier or later. Additionally, a third car will be added to the busiest W-Line peak
period trips.
The 10:18 PM westbound trip from Union Station on Sundays is proposed to be terminated at
Federal Center Station instead of Jefferson County Government Center-Golden Station. This
affects 5 passengers.
The 4:30 AM eastbound trip from Federal Center on Saturdays/Sundays/Holidays is proposed to
be discontinued and the 5:02 AM eastbound trip from Jefferson County Government CenterGolden on Saturdays and Sundays is proposed to start at Federal Center Station at 5:11 AM.
This affects 53 passengers. Savings estimated to be $639,000 annualized
Union Station Hostlers
It is proposed to cancel the Saturday and Sunday Union Station hostlers and reduce the additional
Monday-Friday Union Station hostler work, in concert with the W-Line improvements. Savings are
estimated to be $693,750 annualized.
Light Rail School Trippers
The D-Line and H-Line school trippers, train 14 and 57, Mondays through Thursdays, will
be canceled for the summer as per traditional practice. This includes the northbound DLine trip at Mineral Station at 7:13 AM and the northbound H-Line trip at 7:12 AM.

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: Attach A May 2015 Service Changes (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

Cost impacts are estimated to be $1,330,335 annualized.

2.12.B.b

Public Hearing
Lakewood Clements Center
Wednesday, January 28, 2014 6:00pm
Proposed Service Changes for May 2015 runboard

In addition there were 3 people who attended, including former Board Member Dave
Ruckman.
Curtis Rogers
As a regular user of Route 9 he feels that the passengers would benefit if we could detour
to the Knox Station, as well as Holden Place, so passengers could better access to the W
line.
The stop E-bound at 10th farside of Federal is very poorly designed for ADA passengers.
He would like to see the route 9 continue to 10th Ave via Mariposa to better serve the 10th
& Osage Station.
More routine maintenance checks should be made on all Light Rail Station elevators.
Wouldn’t it be better for the Route 21 to short turn at Federal /Evans instead of Evans
Station?
We need to have a CnR service for the Downtown Littleton Area. The South Jeffco CnR
drivers will not go past Littleton Station. Littleton has very little service available.
Dave Ruckman
Originally the W line was slated for 5 minute headway, moving from a 7 ½ minute
headway to a 15 is a pretty serious change.
Mr. Ruchman has a friend who is blind who tries to use main stream transportation. When
he schedules a CnR bus he has to call ahead 24 hours and feels that it would be helpful if
he could try to schedule the CnR to pick him up and home, take him to more than one
location, so he could get more than one thing done on the same day. Has RTD ever
considered letting passengers set up 2 or more locations on the same trip?
He feels that in light of the growing economy this would be a very favorable time to
expand bus service. That Service Development should begin brain storming sessions,
looking at what other properties are doing around the country and possible implementing
new ideas for RTD to use to improve service.

Westwood Community Center
1000 S. Lowell Blvd, Denver
Wednesday, January 28, 2015
6:00 P.M.
Doug Monroe conducted the meeting. Staff in attendance included Steven Hopkins. No
elected officials were in attendance. 31 members of the public signed the attendance
sheet. Spanish interpretation was provided by RTD. A representative of the Denver Post
was in attendance.

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: Attach B May 2015 Public Input (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

Facilitator: Eric Miller
RTD Staff in attendance: Diane Marquiss

2.12.B.b

Regarding Proposed Route 4:
 Commenter thanked RTD for meeting in the neighborhood and was an original rider
of the old Route 4. As a college student, she has had to walk 9 blocks with a
heavy backpack, occasionally missing her bus due to bad weather. She would love
to see the 4 return and offered assistance with a petition aimed at that goal.
 Commenter works with 9-to-5 Colorado and spoke regarding the difficult
transportation connections for community members between jobs and other
activities. She believes the 4 will open doors and hopes for better access cost-wise
for riders. She thanked RTD for coming to Westwood.
 Commenter is a new resident in Westwood and depends heavily upon access to
light rail service. Route 4’s proposed access to Alameda Station will allow better
access to resources and jobs throughout the metro region. He believed the bus
would provide increased safety to riders versus walking along Morrison Road.
 Commenter thanked RTD for coming to and being concerned about Westwood.
She usually rides Route 11, previously with small children and a stroller in tow.
She thanked RTD for considering reinstating Route 4 and appreciated the increased
safety the route would provide. She expressed concern that the service span might
be challenging for riders who work shifts ending after 8 P.M.
 Commenter is a transit coordinator with 9-to-5 Colorado.
She expressed
excitement about the conversations surrounding Route 4 and a possible circulator.
She looks forward to the return of Route 4 in May.
 Commenter expressed thanks for RTD’s efforts toward helping the redevelopment
of the Westwood community. She was grateful that the meeting was held in the
neighborhood instead of in downtown Denver. She was concerned about the
limited service span, but felt the route would help avoid dangerous incidents along
Morrison Road.
 Commenter represents West Unidos. She spoke regarding how a lack of bus
service in Westwood previously limited access to work. She expressed pleasure in
the increased service on Route 4 and the improved access to businesses and
additional grocery shopping options along Sheridan Boulevard.
 Commenter thanked RTD for being in the neighborhood and for bringing back Route
4 to the community. She is happy to see the route return and believes it will help
bring renewal to the neighborhood.
 Commenter thanked RTD for holding the meeting and believes that reinstating
Route 4 will help residents who have children better access locations on the east
side of Federal Boulevard.

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: Attach B May 2015 Public Input (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

Doug explained the format for the evening’s meeting and opened the floor to questions not
specifically pertaining to the proposed service changes. The question of a local circulator
was raised. It was explained that RTD is prepared to provide the community its technical
expertise for this project, but no financial resources were available to support a circulator.
Several other community members asked questions about the proposed Route 4, at which
time Doug transitioned the meeting to the public input session. The following comments
were received:

2.12.B.b



Commenter is the president of the Westwood Community Association. As a nondriver, she appreciated the reinstatement of Route 4 and believes the route will
better help her and her visually-impaired husband reach locations.

Following an unanswered call for additional comments, the meeting was concluded at
approximately 6:45 P.M.

RTD Administrative Offices
1600 Blake Street, Denver
Thursday, January 29, 2015
12:00 P.M.
Jessie Carter conducted the meeting. Staff in attendance included Steven Hopkins, Diane
Marquiss, Eric Miller, Doug Monroe, Cesar Ochoa, and Nick Shoup. No elected officials
were in attendance. Six members of the public signed the attendance sheet, including an
ASL interpreter for a hearing-impaired attendee. The meeting was called to order at 12:05
P.M.
Jessie explained the format for the afternoon’s meeting and opened the floor to comments
pertaining to the proposed service changes. No comments were received regarding
service changes to the W Line or to Route 4, at which time Jessie transitioned the meeting
to the public input session. The following comments were received:
Regarding Alameda Avenue:
 Commenter questioned when construction was planned to conclude at Alameda
Station so that better access would be provided to light rail. Staff responded that
unexpected delays were encountered and an exact completion date remains
unknown.
Regarding Stop Amenities:
 Commenter questioned whether the beautiful bus stops on West Colfax could also
be available for the Broadway corridor. Staff explained that these amenities were
not provided by RTD but rather the neighborhood association.
Regarding the Proposed Discontinuation of Route DD:
 (Commenter is hearing-impaired and communicated via an ASL interpreter.)
Commenter indicated she has ridden RTD since 1974 and could serve as a poster
child for the bus. She is disappointed in the DD route (Boulder / Colorado Blvd)
being discontinued. She serves clients at the VA hospital all week and is
concerned about a client who will now need to take five different buses to travel to
the VA. The commenter expressed concern that Boulder workers could get hurt by
traveling at 4 A.M. due to the extra travel time required by the loss of the DD. She
also expressed concern in the number of retiring operators being replaced by newer

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: Attach B May 2015 Public Input (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

Regarding Transfers and Fare Structure:
 Extending the validity of a transfer will increase transit ridership.

2.12.B.b

Regarding Route 100:
 Commenter frequently uses RTD to travel to appointments near the C470/Kipling
interchange. She suggested that Route 100 be extended to that interchange to
eliminate the need for a transfer. She stated this would likely increase ridership.
Regarding Route 38:
 Commenter expressed concern about the on-time performance of Route 38 from
18th/Stout between 5:00 and 7:00 P.M. He shared that riders are giving up on the
late route and have begun to drive their own vehicles instead. Staff replied that an
analysis of Route 38 would be carried out for the May 2015 runboard.
Regarding Route 6 and Local Fares:
 Commenter travels frequently between 17th/Blake and 10th/Grant in Denver. She
expressed concern regarding the disparity between the fare paid for this short trip
and an equal fare for a trip of considerably greater length. She recommended the
use of a downtown circulator within a two-mile radius or between Union Station
and 30th/Downing Station. She questioned the source of RTD’s service component,
wondering if paying more for less represented good customer service. She also
requested information regarding how to identify her neighborhood’s director.
Regarding Facilities for the Hearing Impaired at Union Station:
 (Commenter is hearing-impaired and communicated via an ASL interpreter.)
Commenter expressed concern about the lack of a TTY telephone at Union Station.
She shared that the cashier on the bus concourse was unable to provide her
assistance and raised concern for hearing impaired customers faced with
emergency situations at Union Station.

Following an unanswered call for additional comments, the meeting was concluded at
approximately 12:25 P.M.
RTD Administrative Offices
1600 Blake Street, Denver
Thursday, January 29, 2015
6:00 P.M.
Jessie Carter conducted the meeting. There were no attendees.

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Attach B May 2015 Public Input (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

operators who require customers to assist them with directions along a given route.
The commenter stated that the whole community was upset about the loss of the
DD and shared that cuts at the federal level had already had negative impacts. She
questioned RTD’s concern for its customers and suggested RTD consider smaller
buses instead of discontinuing routes.

2.12.B.b

Louisville Recreation Center
900 West Via Appia Way
Thursday, January 29, 2015
6:00 P.M.

Nate explained the format for the evening’s meeting and opened the floor to comments
pertaining to the proposed service changes. Since no attendees wished to discuss any
routes other than Route DD, the meeting transitioned to the public input session. The
following comments were received:
Regarding the Proposed Discontinuation of Route DD:
 Commenter indicated he has ridden the DD for years and views it as a beneficial
service for himself and others. Speaking on behalf of a 71-year-old disabled rider
unable to attend the meeting, the commenter described the burden placed upon this
rider were the DD to be discontinued. He suggested RTD consider a single daily
trip in each direction.
 Commenter has ridden the DD for 3 or 4 years. Prior to using the DD, he faced a
challenging commute on US 36. RTD alternatives to the DD would require starting
his day too early and ending it too late. He believes discontinuing the DD would
increase congestion on US 36 and agreed with the previous suggestion of a single
trip in each direction each day. The commenter works for a state agency and
believes wider use of the EcoPass would help increase ridership.
 Commenter wished to echo previous speaker and reminded RTD that the attendees
pay RTD taxes. First, he explained, the DD service was cut in half. Now it
consistently arrives late. Because many from Westminster board the DD, cutting
the service would inconvenience even more people. The commenter, an employee
at the Department of Health, drives to work 2-3 times per week and much prefers
the days when he commutes by bus and allows someone else to do the driving.
Removing the DD would be bad and the Way2Go solution would simply be an
additional inconvenience.
 Commenter works with CDOT off of Colorado Boulevard and believes the DD is a
great way to do perimeter routing. This helps relieve congestion focused in
downtown Denver. He observes congestion on other routes, stating that his wife
stands in line for 15-20 minutes to board the 120X. He recommends adding more
perimeter routing to reduce congestion, transfers, and walking.
 Commenter stated he attended a meeting regarding the DD over 3 years ago and
that a company did a study telling RTD to cut the DD to increase its cash reserves.
As a 19-year DD rider, he questions the decision to cut the DD when there are
more than enough people for one bus and the riders pay taxes to RTD. He stated
that he has tried alternatives to the bus, but wasn’t able to shorten his trip, even in
a personal vehicle. As a CDOT employee, he questions RTD’s desire to increase
congestion. CDOT provides EcoPasses, but people don’t use them. He questions
why the route would be canceled if people are willing to ride the bus

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: Attach B May 2015 Public Input (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

Nate Diaz conducted the meeting. Staff in attendance included Steve Hopkins and Dave
Menter. No elected officials were in attendance. Seventeen (17) members of the public
signed the attendance sheet. The meeting was called to order at 6:03 P.M.














Commenter shared the story of a hearing-impaired passenger on the DD route who
is unable to drive. She expressed concerns about others who lack another means
of transportation and feared they might lose their jobs at one of the many
employers along Colorado Boulevard. Alternative transit options were mentioned,
but she expressed that Route 40 was not a good bus to ride. She does not want to
ride three buses instead of one and reminded RTD that many with disabilities would
be challenged by transfers.
Commenter asked if it was possible to view the analysis RTD completed to arrive at
the decision to discontinue the DD. Staff shared a brief explanation of the
subsidies per boarding for Route DD and indicated that the more detailed analysis
would be shared with interested attendees after the public comment period.
Commenter questioned whether a list of alternate routes was available for riders.
Staff offered suggestions for routings and their approximate travel times from
Boulder.
Commenter stated she liked the non-downtown routing of the DD.
Commenter stated that light rail was not a convenient alternative. He questioned
whether a compromise such as a smaller bus was possible. Staff briefly explained
the minimal difference in operating costs between smaller and larger coaches.
Commenter questioned if a single trip compromise was possible or if the route
could be continued further south on Colorado Boulevard to increase ridership. He
mentioned the route used to serve the Denver Tech Center.
Commenter questioned if the L could be extended to Colorado Boulevard.
Commenter questioned if Westminster to Colorado Boulevard could be an
alternative to running the DD all the way to Boulder. He said that driving to
Westminster or Church Ranch would be an option for many customers.
Commenter questioned why RTD would shut down the DD and increase congestion
on a roadway which was just improved.
Commenter suggested that RTD officials ride the DD to see where people actually
get on and off. Staff explained how, in addition to employee observations of
routes, automatic passenger counters provide RTD with boarding/alighting data.

Following an unanswered call for additional comments, the meeting was concluded at
approximately 6:35 P.M. Staff remained for approximately 30 minutes to answer
additional questions from attendees and share the cost and ridership analysis performed
for Route DD.

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: Attach B May 2015 Public Input (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

2.12.B.b

2.12.B.b

Public Comments received via email
Support

6

1

Opposed

Last Name
Seigal

12
101

Inquiry/
Complaint

1

Itsell

1

101

1

103

1

103

1

208

1

101103
120X

1
1

BOLT

1

C-Line

1

DD

1

Cox

Schneider
Cosentini,
Christina
Rhodes
Roberts
Chaney
Laabs
Carol
Vanderau
Brown
Clingan

DD

DD

DD

DD

1

Oposed to service cutbacks
Opposed to cutbacks in
service
Transfer not working well
Eliminating the 6:45 AM bus
Against routes to Monarch
Park
Delayed trip would make
transfer to BX impossible
Disabled passenger depends
on this service
Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer
Uses route to get to work alternatives would take much
longer

DeBarros

Opposed to discontinuining
route - alternatives would
take much longer

Ethridge

Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer

Ginez

Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer
Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer

1

1

1

Gomez
1

In favor of adding additional
bus in AM
Route needs re-evaluated always very late
Opposed to late night
cutbacks
Idea for making trains more
efficient
Opposed to service cutbacks.

Conley

DD

DD

Additional Comments

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: Attach B May 2015 Public Input (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

Route

DD

Griffin

Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer

Hamilton

Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer
Opposed to cancelling the route rides it
Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer
Uses route to get to work alternatives would take much
longer
Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer

1

DD

1

DD

1

Hathaway
Hinton

DD

1
Jensen

DD

1
Johnston

DD

DD

DD

1
Kinley

Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer

Loetz

Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer
Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer

1

1
McDonnell

DD

DD

1

1
O'Connor
Pruitt, Ali

DD

DD

DD

DD

1
Pruitt, Tod

Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer

Ross

Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer

Ryder

Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer
Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer

1

1

1
Schumacher

DD

1

Uses route to get to work alternatives would take much
longer
Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: Attach B May 2015 Public Input (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

2.12.B.b

2.12.B.b

1
Shawn Yu
Tucker

DD

1

DD

1

DD

1

Utzinger

Wallace
Wildebrant
DD

1

Uses route to get to work alternatives would take much
longer
Opposed to cancelling the
route - a friend rides it
Uses route to get to work alternatives would take much
longer
Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer

Zigler
DD
G-Line

1
1

H-Line

1

HX`

1

L

1

L

1

L

1

Request
for
Service

1

Total

3

33

Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer
Ginty
Request to bring back G Line
Lampert
Opposed to late night
cutbacks
Watson
Requesting stop at
Westminster PNR
Atchley
Opposed to cutbacks in
service/changes in times
Rauenbuehler Concerns regarding changes wants details.
Tall
Opposed to changes in leave
time and cutbacks in service
Ascarrunz
Request for direct service from
Boulder to 6060 Broadway

9

Petitions
Route

Support

Opposed

Inquiry

Summation of typical complaints
Received no petitions

Total

0
0
Total Communications

0

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Attach B May 2015 Public Input (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

DD

Uses route to get to work daily
- alternatives would take much
longer

W Alameda Ave

Alameda Station

S Sheridan Blvd
W Jewell Ave

W Evans Ave
Route 4
Proposed May15 Routing
Attachment: Attach C Rt 4 Map Rt and Rt D Equity Analysis_Updated (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

°

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 35

S Depew St

Rd

S Federal Blvd

M

ri
or

n
so

Seated Capacity
of Vehicle

Ridership Route DD 5:55am Southbound Trip

55
50
45

Passenger Load

40
35
30

25
Boardings
20

Alightings

15

Max Load

10

Poly. (Max Load)

5
0

- Maximum load on this trip averaged 18 passengers (at US 36/Westminster Center Pnr, 70th/Broadway PnR)
- Stops along the segment between Colorado Blvd/MLK Blvd and Colorado Blvd/9th Ave (the VA hospital) averaged 3 alightings,
with only 1 alighting occuring at Colorado Blvd/9th Ave (the VA hospital).
- Passengers on board along Colorado Blvd averaged 16 passengers or less, after US 36.

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: Attach C Rt 4 Map Rt and Rt D Equity Analysis_Updated (2237 : Board Report May 2015

2.12.B.c

Seated Capacity
of Vehicle

Ridership Route DD 6:23am Southbound Trip

55
50
45
40

Passenger Load

35
30
25
20
15

Boardings
Alightings
Max Load
Poly. (Max Load)

10
5
0

- Maximum load on this trip averaged 11 passengers (at 70th/Broadway PnR)
- Stops along the segment between Colorado Blvd/MLK Blvd and Colorado Blvd/9th Ave (the VA hospital) averaged 2 alightings,
with only 1 alighting occuring at Colorado Blvd/9th Ave (the VA hospital).
- Passengers on board along Colorado Blvd averaged 16 passengers or less, after US 36.

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Attach C Rt 4 Map Rt and Rt D Equity Analysis_Updated (2237 : Board Report May 2015

2.12.B.c

Routes DD Ridership History
1000
900
800

Weekday Boardingsle

700
600
500

400
300
200
100
0

85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14
Year

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Attach C Rt 4 Map Rt and Rt D Equity Analysis_Updated (2237 : Board Report May 2015

2.12.B.c

Routes DM Ridership History
450
400

Weekday Boardingsle

350
300

250
200

150
100

50
0

85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14
Year

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Attach C Rt 4 Map Rt and Rt D Equity Analysis_Updated (2237 : Board Report May 2015

2.12.B.c

EQUITY ANALYSIS
2/3/2015

May 2015 Service Changes
Equitable distribution of transit service is a core principle of the
Regional Transportation District. This document details the measures
taken to ensure major service changes do not result in a disparity in
impacts absorbed by protected populations.

Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: Attach D Service Equity Analysis - May 2015 Service Changes (Final version+maps) (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service

2.12.B.d

2.12.B.d
Equity Analysis

Attachment: Attach D Service Equity Analysis - May 2015 Service Changes (Final version+maps) (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service

Table of Contents
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ........................................................................................................ 2
SERVICE CHANGE PHILOSOPHY ......................................................................................... 3
ANALYSIS ............................................................................................................................ 3
Equity Analysis Policies ............................................................................................................................3
Proposed Major Service Changes .........................................................................................................4
Route 4 – New Route ............................................................................................................................4
Route DD – Cancellation ......................................................................................................................4
Equity Analysis Methodology .................................................................................................................4
Conclusion...................................................................................................................................................6
Appendix A: GIS MAPS

Page 1

Packet Pg. 41

2.12.B.d

Equity Analysis
M AY 2 0 1 5 S E R V I C E C H A N G E S

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
In the pursuit of the provision of mass transit service in the Denver Metro Area, equity is a core principle of the
Regional Transportation District (RTD). An equitable mass transit system fairly distributes the benefits and
adverse effects of transit service without regard for race, color, national origin or low-income status. This
principle is detailed and reinforced by Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Environmental Justice.
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin in
programs receiving federal financial assistance. Specifically Title VI states, “No person in the United States
shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the
benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial
assistance.”
In 1994, President Clinton issued Executive Order 12898, which states that each federal agency “shall make
achieving environmental justice part of its mission by identifying and addressing disproportionately high and
adverse human health or environmental effects of its programs, policies, and activities on minority populations
and low-income populations.”
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial assistance
with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI and Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA
requires RTD to evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that exceed the established
major service change threshold, to determine whether those changes will have a disproportionately negative
impact on minority or low-income populations.

Page 2

Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: Attach D Service Equity Analysis - May 2015 Service Changes (Final version+maps) (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service

Equity Analysis

2.12.B.d

SERVICE CHANGE PHILOSOPHY
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance, sustainable
transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different classes of service
have different expectations of performance. We continually adjust services in response to changes in ridership
and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also our responsibility to identify services
that are underperforming and recommend modifications, curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted.
We utilize our official Service Standards to establish performance metrics by which we identify
underperforming services on a class of service basis.

…The general assembly further finds that the district should be organized efficiently, economically,
and on a demand-responsive basis and that the district should consider least-cost alternatives in
discharging its responsibilities. The general assembly further finds that the farebox recovery ratio of
the district must be improved so that resources once allocated for mass transportation can be
made available for other surface transportation needs.
Colorado Revised Statutes 32-9-119.7. Farebox Recovery Ratios – Plans

ANALYSIS
The FTA also requires that RTD establish policies that will guide the analysis of the Accordingly, RTD has
established equity analysis policies to meet this requirement and establish a service evaluation process.

Equity Analysis Policies
Per FTA Circular 4702.1B Chapter IV.7, RTD must establish a Major Service Change policy, a Disparate
Impact policy and a Disproportionate Burden policy. Collectively, these policies provide foundational
requirements for evaluating service change proposals for equity. These policies and their applicable
thresholds are listed below:
1. Major Service Change Policy: A major service change is defined as a 25% addition or reduction in the
service hours of any route that would remain in effect for twelve (12) or more months. All major
service changes will be subject to an equity analysis which includes an analysis of adverse effects.
a. Adverse Effect: is defined as a geographical or temporal reduction in service which includes
but is not limited to: elimination of a route, shortlining a route, rerouting an existing route and
an increase in headways. RTD shall consider the degree of adverse effects, and analyze those
effects, when planning major service changes.
2. Disparate Impact Policy: A major service change should not adversely affect a minority population
10% more than non-minority populations; this level of impact is considered a disparate impact.
3. Disproportionate Burden Policy: A major service change should not adversely affect a low-income
population 10% more than non-low-income populations; this level of impact is considered a
disproportionate burden. A low-income population is a group of households who are at or below
150% of the Department of Health and Human Services Poverty Guidelines.

Page 3

Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: Attach D Service Equity Analysis - May 2015 Service Changes (Final version+maps) (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service

Equity Analysis

2.12.B.d

If a proposed major service change results in a disparate impact or a disproportionate burden, RTD will
consider modifying the proposed service change. RTD will then analyze the modification and make sure it
removed the potential disparate impact or disproportionate burden. If a less discriminatory option cannot be
identified and RTD can demonstrate a substantial legitimate justification for the proposed service change, the
FTA will allow RTD to proceed with the proposed change.

Proposed Major Service Changes
Pursuant to the intent to provide cost effective demand responsive services, RTD has proposed many service
changes to take effect in May of 2015. Per the Major Service Change Policy, the proposed major service
changes subject to this analysis are listed below.
Route 4 – New Route
It is proposed to reinstitute service on Morrison Road between Alameda Ave and Sheridan Blvd. Service will
run between Alameda Station and Sheridan/Evans via Alameda Ave, Morrison Rd, and Sheridan Blvd (please
see map, Attachment B). Peak frequency is proposed at 30 minutes, with midday and early evening service
offered every 60 minutes. Peak service will be offered from 5 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Evening service will extend to 8:00p.m.
Costs are estimated to be an annualized $258,300 and 2 peak vehicles
Route DD – Cancellation
Discontinue due to low ridership; average ridership per trip: 22 passengers; max load average: 15
passengers per trip; over half of the boardings (54+%) occur within Boulder along Broadway and along US
36, not along Colorado Boulevard; alternate route connections: BV/BF/BMX/BX, 86X to Union Station then
transfer to Light Rail to Colorado Station, or HX to Civic Center Station with transfer to Light Rail at 19th
Street and Stout Street, or Route HX to Civic Center Station with transfer to Routes 79L/83L.
Savings: Estimated to be $93,780 annualized

Equity Analysis Methodology
As previously mentioned, the basic framework for analyzing service changes for equity involves the
comparison of affected populations. The manner in which these populations are identified and compared is
described below:
1. Assess the proposed service change for adverse effects (e.g. frequency increase, shortlining, etc…)
2. Obtain applicable population or ridership data (e.g. customer satisfaction survey, census data, etc…)
3. Examine the proportions of adverse effects absorbed by minority and low-income populations.
Ideally, we would examine ridership data, as the demographics of the area in proximity to services do not
always reflect the demographics of those whom actually utilize the service in question. Unfortunately, RTD’s
most recent survey data is not statistically valid at the route level. In lieu of statistically valid ridership data,
we’ve elected to utilize U.S. Census population data to assess the impacts absorbed by minority and lowincome populations. Below are a series of tables depicting the two services in questions, the nature of the
service changes and demographic data from the 2010 Census depicting the level of impact. We also utilized
Geographic Information System (GIS) maps to view this data geographically and included in Appendix A.

Page 4

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: Attach D Service Equity Analysis - May 2015 Service Changes (Final version+maps) (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service

Equity Analysis

2.12.B.d

TABLE 2.1-SERVICE AREA DEMOGRAPHIC PROFILE

Total
Population
of Service
Area

Minority
Population

Percent
Minority

Total
Households

Households
LowIncome

Percent
Households
Low-income

2,657,706

583,007

22%

1,032,379

289,089

28%

TABLE 2.2 IMPACTED MINORITY POPULATION

Route

Change Type

Total Population
Affected Census
Tracts

Route 4
Route DD

New Route
Discontinue

20,944
62,444

Total Minority
Population
Affected Census
Tracts

Percent
Minority

Data Type
Used

8,147
14,016

39%
22%

Polygon
Polygon

TABLE 2.3 IMPACTED LOW-INCOME POPULATION

Route

Change Type

Total
Households
Affected Census
Tracts

Total Low-Income
Households
Affected Census
Tracts

Percent
Households
Low-income

Data Type
Used

Route 4

New Route

6,985

3,193

46%

Polygon

Route DD

Discontinue

25,163

9,334

37%

Polygon

Page 5

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: Attach D Service Equity Analysis - May 2015 Service Changes (Final version+maps) (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service

Equity Analysis

2.12.B.d
Equity Analysis

As mentioned previously, our primary objective within this analysis is to examine proposed major service
changes to ensure minority and low-income populations are not more adversely effected than the service area
as a whole. The Census demographic data shows the percentages of minority and low-income populations in
proximity to the Route DD do not exceed the thresholds of the aforementioned policies. The data also
illustrates the reinstatement of the Route 4 as an effective service increase, benefiting a geographic area with
above average concentrations of minority and low-income populations. Therefore, no disparate impact and
disproportionate burden was identified and the proposed major service changes do not require revision.

Page 6

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: Attach D Service Equity Analysis - May 2015 Service Changes (Final version+maps) (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service

Conclusion

Appendix A:
GIS MAPS

Attachment: Attach D Service Equity Analysis - May 2015 Service Changes (Final version+maps) (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service

2.12.B.d

Equity Analysis

Page 7

Packet Pg. 47

Sheridan

Alameda

Alameda Station

Broadway

Santa Fe

Federal

5
I2

Jewell

Evans

Title VI Analysis -- Minority Population
Route 4

Route 4

Census Tracts 2010

14.71 - 27.3%

Route 4 -- 1/4 mile Buffer

Minority Population Density Per Tract

27.31 - 43.79%

3 - 14.7%
Service Development Division
February 3, 2015

°
Feet

43.791 - 73.4%
0

1,000
2,000
Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: Attach D Service Equity Analysis - May 2015 Service Changes (Final version+maps) (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service

2.12.B.d

Sheridan

Alameda

Alameda Station

Broadway

Santa Fe

Federal

5
I2

Jewell

Evans

Title VI Analysis -- Low Income Density
Route 4

Route 4

Census Tracts 2010

40.1 - 60%

Route 4 -- 1/4 mile Buffer

Low Income Household Density Per Census Tract

60.1 - 80%

<1 - 20%
Service Development Division
February 3, 2015

20.1 - 40%

°

80.1 - 100%

Feet
0

1,000
2,000
Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: Attach D Service Equity Analysis - May 2015 Service Changes (Final version+maps) (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service

2.12.B.d

Broadway

2.12.B.d

Valmont

Boulder Transit Center

Arapahoe
27th Way / Broadway PnR

Baseline

39th St / Table Mesa PnR

36

kwy

Dillon Rd

US36 / McCaslin PnR

I 25

US

136th

US 287

Table Mesa PnR

P
west
North

128th

Colorado

US36 / E Flatiron Cir PnR

120th

US36 / Church Ranch Blvd PnR

104th

US

Indiana

Federal

36
I7
6

Hwy 93

US36 / Broomfield PnR

70th Ave / Broadway PnR

Pecos

Sheridan

Wadsworth

US36 / Westminster Center PnR

I 70
38th
MLK

6th Avenue

Colorado

Broadway

Colfax

Alameda

Jewell

Evans
Colorado Station

Hampden

Title VI Analysis -- Minority Population
Route DD
Route DD

Census Tracts 2010

14.71 - 27.3%

Route DD -- 1/4 mile Buffer

Minority Population Density Per Tract

27.31 - 43.79%

3 - 14.7%
Service Development Division
February 3, 2015

°

43.791 - 73.4%

Miles
0

1

2

Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: Attach D Service Equity Analysis - May 2015 Service Changes (Final version+maps) (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

S Boulder Rd

Broadway

2.12.B.d

Valmont

Boulder Transit Center

Arapahoe
27th Way / Broadway PnR

Baseline

39th St / Table Mesa PnR

36

kwy

Dillon Rd

US36 / McCaslin PnR

I 25

US

136th

US 287

Table Mesa PnR

P
west
North

128th

Colorado

US36 / E Flatiron Cir PnR

120th

US36 / Church Ranch Blvd PnR

104th

US

Indiana

Federal

36
I7
6

Hwy 93

US36 / Broomfield PnR

70th Ave / Broadway PnR

Pecos

Sheridan

Wadsworth

US36 / Westminster Center PnR

I 70
38th
MLK

6th Avenue

Colorado

Broadway

Colfax

Alameda

Jewell

Evans
Colorado Station

Hampden

Title VI Analysis -- Low Income Density
Route DD
Route DD

Census Tracts 2010

40.1 - 60%

Route DD -- 1/4 mile Buffer

Low Income Household Density Per Census Tract

60.1 - 80%

<1 - 20%

°

80.1 - 100%

Miles

20.1 - 40%
Service Development Division
February 3, 2015

0

1

2

Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: Attach D Service Equity Analysis - May 2015 Service Changes (Final version+maps) (2237 : Board Report May 2015 Service Change)

S Boulder Rd

