Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2012
Page 1 of 8

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Ana Salcido (Temporary)

Date:
Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held October 16,
2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Vice-Chair O’Boyle; Chair Kemp, Directors Anderson,
Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Gore, Hoy, Tayer, Tobiassen, and Walker.

Board Member
Absent:

Directors Cohen, James, Malpiede and McMullen were absent

Staff Present:

Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Libby Cox, Martell Dyles, Jane Donovan,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Cory Granrud,
Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Tony
McCaulay, Patrick McLaughlin, Brenden Morgan, Scott Reed, Daria
Serna, John Shonsey, Pranaya Shrestha, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt
Stringer, Pauletta Tonilas

Others Present:

Ferd Belz, Josh Benningnheff, Jennifer Brandeberry, Sherman Hamilton,
David Hollis, Terry Kraser, David Lewis, Bill Mun, Mike Newman, Jacob
Riger, Roger Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Jason Simmons, Karen Stuart,
Dee Wisor
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Vice-Chair O’Boyle called the
Committee meeting to order at 6:23 p.m.

FasTracks

Monitoring

CAC Update
David Lewis reported that they had a quarterly public meeting on September 14 at
Arvada City Hall. They had a presentation on FasTracks and Eagle Creek. Both were
well received. CAC will have the first monthly discussion tomorrow October 17 and
have a strong interest in understanding how they can become engaged and how to
best move forward. They want to help disseminate information and educate the
public and are very excited.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2012
Page 2 of 8

Director Hoy asked if there’s still a vacancy. David Lewis responded that there were
60 applications and they are pleased by the response. The process will conclude
shortly.
Director O’Boyle thanked him for the work they do.
II.

Recommended Actions
Resolution No., Series of 2012 related to the insurance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue
Bonds, Series 2012 A
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
issuance of Regional Transportation District Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
(FasTracks Projects), Series 2012A.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the October 23, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Staff and Mike Newman from First Southwest explained that in
order to continue the FasTracks Program and to achieve the
FasTracks goals they are supporting this resolution. The bonds
will be underwritten by Royal Bank of Canada, Capital Markets,
Goldman Sachs, Loop Capital and Wells Fargo.
FasTracks includes the I-225 corridor. On July 24 the Board
approved Resolution No. 9, amending the budget to include
issuing sales tax revenue bonds providing $557 million net
proceeds to finance the completion of the FasTracks projects.
They included a financial impact on the budget and the
FasTracks plan adopted by the board.
Director Gore asked why the bond can’t exceed 7%. They
explained that the percentage comes from the resolution passed
in 2004 that allowed the funding for FasTracks. The
expectation was that it would not exceed 4%.
Director O’Boyle asked what the repayment period would be.
The response was 30 years, they have until 2042, but they are
currently contemplating it to be in 2030s.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2012
Page 3 of 8

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 10
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Gore, Hoy,
Kemp, O’Boyle, Tobiassen and
Walker) and 0 against. Directors
Cohen, James, Malpiede and
McMullen were absent. Director
Tayer had left earlier.
Committee Chair O’Boyle declared
the motion PASSED unanimously

I.

Updates
FasTracks Moving Forward
Staff provided a handout titled FasTracks Moving Forward: Cost Saving/Revenue
Enhancing Measures. Phil mentioned to the Board that they are beginning an
exercise that will look at and review the FasTracks plan. They will be identifying
items within the FasTracks plan and presenting those items to the Board to discuss
the level of risk associated with each item.
The guiding principles will be used to determine what the staff brings to the Board.
Most Board members are aware of those principles. Staff wants to make sure the
Board understands what they are focusing on. They are about to complete some
projects and its worth reminding the Board about the skilled management of almost
$5 billion in projects. It is very important that they manage the projects in a smart
way. Saving on some projects can accelerate the schedule for other projects.
In terms of project management, they will identify specific cost saving/revenue
enhancing measures that could result in additional short-term funding for the
FasTracks program. What staff is doing is pushing to increase funding for the project
and identify the level of risk.
Phil stated that they are not asking for a decision tonight. Staff will continue to
present the measures on a monthly basis, maybe two per month. They will put all
items together into a single Board Report and ask for a decision then. Staff is
proposing that an internal savings account be created so the funds can be applied to
complete additional projects.
Staff proposed goals to complete the US 36 BRT and the construction of North Metro
to 72nd at a cost of $300 million with an expected project initiation of 2017.
They will work collaboratively to consider options and make decisions regarding the
full FasTracks program. They are establishing quarterly meetings with stakeholders

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2012
Page 4 of 8

for all remaining FasTracks projects. The outcome of these meetings will be included
in the next SB208. They need to submit the SB208 report in early 2014.
The feasibility study on the Northwest quadrant is essential to this. The objective of
this study is to develop consensus among RTD, CDOT and corridor stakeholders on
cost effective mobility improvements to serve the Northwest area. They will not look
for additional revenue until decisions on the Northwest corridor are determined.
That’s why staff is putting together the draft objectives and scope. The scope
includes options for rail, potential to extend North Metro to Longmont, potential
additional BRT in the Northwest area and the feasibility of bidirectional/North I-25
managed lane improvements between Denver Central Business District and US 36.
There is an issue with the last option and staff needs to determine how to fix this.
The study will include a list of improvements for the Northwest area of the district.
Results of the study will be part of the next FasTracks Annual Program Evaluation.
It is important to note that projects cannot be added or removed unless the plan is
amended by residents through a district-wide election. If there is consensus that
would lead to the change of the FasTracks plan, it will be presented to the Board for
approval.
They put together a path forward that includes the Northwest mobility study.
Moving down this path is a quarterly P4 (this is a public-public private partnership.)
This is RTD collaborating with other institutions. There is regional commitment,
finding other paths, board decisions and FasTracks completion. They will be
presenting to the Board on a monthly basis. This is to generate additional revenue to
complete all the projects mentioned.
The first measure staff evaluated is FasTracks funding for base system operations.
This is the first measure of many. The original FasTracks plan assumed an increase
in bus service levels by 1% per year between 2006 and 2020 and 1.5% per year
between 2021 and 2025 close to $16 million per year. Deferring funding for the base
operations will create additional funding for the FasTracks capital expenditures.
The three options presented include maintaining FasTracks funding for base system
operations consistent with current growth assumptions; starting in 2014 and
extending through 2035, maintain FasTracks funding for base system operations at
2013 levels, but increase funding to cover service cost increases consistent with CPI;
or starting in 2014, freeze FasTracks funding for base system operations and
maintain 2013 funding level through 2035.
The first option creates no additional funding for FasTracks capital expenditures. The
second option would not need to reduce service or change fund policy. This option
would result in the desired fund balance of three months operating expenses in 2018.
Option three would not need to reduce service or change fund policy, but depending
on sales and use tax collections, this option would reduce the capital replacement
fund but the policy would stay in place.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2012
Page 5 of 8

Staff proposed option two as the most viable; it would start on 2014 and extend
through 2034. Its risk level is medium as the base system operations would be more
sensitive to the impacts of significant/severe downturns in the economy. If such a
downturn occurs RTD would need to access management reserve or reduce base
system service level.
As they move through this exercise, the goal is $300 million by 2017. Under option
two, $24 million would go to capital project and would have $276 million to go in
order to move the projects.
As the next steps, in late 2012 early 2013 they will continue to present the
information on the risk allocation matrix. They will roll these up 7-8 at a time
tracking the $300 million goal. These would be turned into a formal board action in
early to mid 2013 and staff would ask for a decision on the issues presented in order
to accomplish the goals in the projects.
Director Anderson mentioned that she will need a lot more information. She has
concerns that if they strip the base system where it is not providing for a saving to
build the FasTracks at the cost that the rail road has given them. Staff mentioned
that they have the quotes for Burlington Northern and that is what precipitated the
actions as it was much more than anybody had anticipated. What she hears is that
they are going to strip the base system in order to build the Northwest. Staff
responded that that is not the case. The short term goal is not the Northwest but US
36 BRT and North Metro to 72nd. On Option 2 there has no impact to the base
system, the FasTracks contribution for 2013 (16.1 million) will increase by the CPI.
Director Bagley asked what the allocation is for each project in the $300 million that
is mentioned for the BRT and North Metro. Phil responded that it would be a Board
decision. The question they would need to answer is what is necessary for each.
For yearly expenditures they are looking at US 36 as a project, but there is a
remaining commitment currently of about $77 million; however they also need to
look at yearly expenditures. In terms of North Metro to 72nd the range is $150–$200
million.
Director Hoy mentioned that the terminology is a little confusing; the report states
that project initiation is 2017. On the North Metro, they are looking to do a lot more
prior to 2017. Phil stated this is an aspiration goal, they did not want to put
completion, but they think they will not start later than 2017. It depends on how
fast the savings account builds up and the project cost. Director Hoy asked if they
are planning to launch the metro part in 2017 or as soon as possible. Staff indicated
the segment to the Stock Show would start sooner.
Director Deadwyler asked for an explanation about the contributions from FasTracks
to base. She understood that the FasTracks contribution was going to maintain the
operation. Staff explained that in the original FasTracks plan there is an increase of
1% to rubber tire service and 1.5 from 2021 to 2025. It talks about an increase in

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2012
Page 6 of 8

rubber tire service. That has helped to not cut bus services as deep due to the
economy and sales tax. That contribution has allowed for service cuts not to go as
bad as it might have been. That increase has been holding the service. The
document itself does not specify the 1% per year, even though it is in the financial
plan. There is not a fixed commitment to the amount of service. While deferring
FasTracks funding there is sufficient money coming in to maintain current level of
services.
Staff fully understands that the Board would require additional information on all of
these changes but they have to start somewhere. They are trying to explain what
they need in order to move the project forward. They need to manage in such a way
that they utilize every penny and make smart timing decisions. Staff will need to
have more discussions with the Board members as we move forward.
Director Deadwyler asked that if they have been using the money to hold the service
and not make deep cuts, how they are going to keep the service level if they take the
money away. The staff referred back to option two, because it freezes the 2013
increase level of $16 million dollars and increases it according to CPI for every year.
They will continue to contribute by $16 plus CPI. The base system will also be
growing over time. Option three does not increases by CPI but still contributes $16
million per year.
Director Daly mentioned that he understands the Northwest Mobility study assumes
the local community makes a contribution. Phil mentioned to the Board that if they
reach an agreement with the stakeholders on the study’s scope and have some
reasonable assurance that the study outcome will be respected, RTD will exclusively
pay for the study.
Director Bagley explained that initially the 1% was compounded, but now it would
continue to increase at a slower pace.
Director Kemp asked when we would be prepared to initiate the study. Phil
Washington explained it would be presented to the Board next month for
implementation in early 2013.
Director O’Boyle stated that with regard to the 1% it may lead us to expand the
service beyond the base system. It’s a wise move to revisit cut backs. He
remembers that part of the underlying rationale was not just an issue of money, but
additional services needed to support the FasTracks operation. Since they are now
talking 2040 the service has diminished so it is the right approach to reconsider the
service levels.
Director O’Boyle asked if this is consistent with the strategic project plan. Staff
responded that the strategic project plan does consider the 1%, with the proposal it
will still grow. He also asked if there is an impact on reserves. It still makes the
reserves higher than the$90 million anticipated for 2014. Director O’Boyle was
disappointed that only two projects were mentioned, but expects that other corridors

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2012
Page 7 of 8

have not been forgotten. The Board can make a decision if those are not the two
projects that the Board would identify; this is the suggested staff approach,
understanding that other factors would impact the decision.
Director O’Boyle asked will this be a monthly affair. Staff confirmed they will
continue to bring the measures the staff identifies in order to complete the FasTracks
projects.
US 36 BRT & Express Lanes Project – Nadine Lee
The US 36 BRT update focused on progress and upcoming work. Phase one of the
project, which includes Federal to 88Th St, is expected to be completed in early 2015.
Phase two, 88th St to Table Mesa, is expected to extend until the end of 2015.
CDOT awarded phase 1 the contract on February 2012. They are working fast and
expect to have it ready by Thanksgiving. It’s expected to be open on January 2015.
RTD has contributed $120 million to the project. Without this money the project
would have not been able to proceed.
Phase two includes an operating concession. The operation and maintenance of the
I-25 express lanes is a 50 year deal.
The funding for phase two will be subject to concession proposal. There is funding
coming from municipalities as well as P3 reimbursement. Three things have been
short listed. They are planning to have RFP release by the 4th quarter of 2012.
Staff presented all the BRT elements that are key to a successful completion. They
have received comments that RTD was not committed to the BRT but the report
shows that RTD has fulfilled every commitment. Staff will be working on marketing
and branding. They will dedicate staff to brand this service, they will figure out
funding, and other issues in first quarter of 2013.
They are looking at opportunities to leverage the base system for vehicles and
accelerate the purchase of vehicles in order to have them for opening day. If not for
opening day they will have them by 2016. They are looking for ways to provide WiFi services; this is subject to the needs of the service provider.
Director Hoy commented that Wi-Fi is one of the most common things they get asked
for and thanked staff for a good job.
Director Daly stated that he was surprised to hear that they are planning to privatize
maintenance. It was explained that was specifically for toll lanes. The concessioner
selected will maintain the only tolling operations lanes.
Director Anderson asked who pays for it. Staff responded that it is paid by the HPTE
(High Performance Tolling Enterprise).

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2012
Page 8 of 8

Director Gore asked if the concessioner will be collecting the toll for I-25 and North
36. Staff did not know because they have not yet said if north of 36 will be
included.
Director Kemp asked how many vehicles it would take to operate for opening day.
Nadine responded it would take about 40 vehicles.
II.

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

III.

Next Meeting Date – November 13, 2012

IV.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned the meeting at 7:38 p.m.

