Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, January 5, 2010
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

January 5, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on January 5, 2010 at
5:25 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair McMullen, Vice – Chair O’Boyle, Director Bagley, Director Brohl,
Director Busck, Director Chacon, Director Christopher, Director Cohen,
Director Daly, Director James, Director Kemp, Director Martinez,
Director Pulliam, Director Tayer
Director Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Mark Bauderman, Jeff Becker, Bill Bell, Shirley Bennett,
Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Lee Cryer, Chuck Culig, Kevin Diviness,
Jane Donovan, Carole Deucker, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike
Gil, Terry Howerter, Marla Lien, Caitlin Magee, Robert Merriman, Karen
Morales, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, John Perry, Bill Porter, Chris Quinn,
Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Chris Reitter, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna,
Cal Shankster, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Julie Skeen, Cherie Sprague,
Henry Stopplecamp, Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert, Liz Telford, Pauletta
Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Nilou Vakil – CAC, Mac Callison – City of Aurora, Robb Kolstad,
Hunter Sydnor – Kiewit, Mike Turner, Tim Romer – Goldman-Sachs,
Maria Garcia-Berry – CRL, Bob Manwaring – Arvada, Sharon Terranova
– DRCOG, Bill Shockley – Owens Corning, Brian Pinkerton – City and
County of Denver, Angie Malpiede – CAC, Aylene McCallum –
Downtown Denver Partnership, Scott Yun – KUSA, Don Moore – CAC,
Bob Murphy – Mayor, City of Lakewood, Tami Door – Downtown
Denver Partnership, Andy Schultheiss – Representative Jared Polis’
Office, Debra Perkins Smith – DEA, Rick Pilgrim – URS, Renee Wilson
– KMGH, Marc Stewart – KMGH.

Call to Order

****
Chair McMullen called the meeting to order at 5:25 p.m.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, January 5, 2010
Page 2
I.

Recommended Action:
John Shonsey, Senior Manager Engineering/Chief Engineer informed the board that
this action allows 18 million dollars for us to do early utility relocation on East and 5
million on Gold Line.
This is a standalone agreement and does not include funding in actual utility
relocation.
A.

Request for Approval of the Eagle Project Utility Relocation Construction
Expenditures
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to (1) execute
Work Orders under the RTD Eagle Project Utility Relocation Agreements
(URAs) in order to proceed with the construction of early Eagle Project utility
relocations in an amount not to exceed a total RTD financial responsibility of
$23,000,000; 2) to delegate signature authority to execute any such
construction Work Orders. The 2010 Adopted Budget includes $13,700,000
in the East Corridor project and $2,500,000 in the Gold Line project for early
utility relocations.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize transfers from
the FasTracks Contingency Reserve in the amount of $4,300,000 to the East
Corridor project and $2,500,000 to the Gold Line project to fund the early
utility work in excess of the amount included in the 2010 Adopted Budget.
This transfer would advance funding that was previously programmed in
2011 to maintain the schedule for the Eagle Project.
The Reserve will be replenished in the 2011 budget – this is an advance
against the reserve.
Director Christopher requested that when the memo comes back – he would
like to see a breakdown of how the 23 million will be allocated.
Director Brohl requested this item to be placed under recommended action.
She will be abstaining due to conflict of interest.
Director McMullen would like to know how many jobs are going to be
created.
Phil indicated that they are preparing a pamphlet on job creation for the entire
FasTracks program.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, January 5, 2010
Page 3

MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the January
19, 2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:
II.

The motion passed. Director Brohl
abstained due to conflict of interest.

Updates


US 36 ROD
John Shonsey reminded the board that RTD entered into an agreement in
2003 with CDOT, in order to precede with EIS for US36. At that time they
developed two different packages, package two and package four. Both
were extremely costly and they did not proceed. Instead, a committee was
formed and they combined package two and four. The committee came up
with a recommendation for a managed lane buffer separator, auxiliary lanes,
interchange reconstruction, construction of bike path and climbing lanes. The
total cost was 1.3 billion which still exceeded funding capacity. They broke
the alternatives into three different phases – the first phase cost 536 million,
second phase 449 million and third phase 290 million. In late December,
both Federal agencies - FHWA and FTA signed the Record of Decision, thus
concluding the EIS process on US36.



APE Update
Interim General Manager, Phil Washington thanked the board for allowing
staff to start the meeting early and allowing them to present this
presentation. He also thanked the staff and consultants for their hard work.
The presentation will be released to stakeholders at 5:45 pm. There is no
decision required this evening and asked the board to hold questions until
after the presentation.
Phil proceeded to introduce the presenters: Tim Romer – Goldman-Sachs, Bill
Van Meter, Rick Clarke and Julie Skeen.
Items that were discussed in the APE Presentation are as follows:
Overview, Internal/External Review of 2010 Key Financial Plan Assumptions,
2010 APE Results, Construction Ready Plan, Potential Critical Adjustments,
Next Steps and Summary.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, January 5, 2010
Page 4

Next Steps Include:
 January 26, 2010 – staff will present more detailed information on
Potential Critical Adjustments to the RTD Board
 February 2010 – RTD Board adopts a Financial Plan
 February/March 2010 – seek feedback from region’s elected officials
and civic leaders and complete research/polling based on 2010 APE
findings.
 Ongoing – Continue to work with Metro Mayors Caucus Task Force
and Coalition for Smart Transit.
 March 2010 – Complete analysis of private sector’s capacity to
support campaign.
 March/April 2010 – Complete analysis of likelihood a campaign would
be successful.
 March/April 2010 – RTD Board Provides direction on timing of ballot
initiative.
 July 2010 – Award Eagle Project.
 No later than August 2010 – RTD Board approves ballot language.
The APE Presentation is available in the minute book and is posted on the
RTD website.
III.

Next Meeting – February 2, 2010

IV.

Other Matters
No Other matters were discussed.

V.

Adjourn
The FasTracks Monitoring Committee adjourned at 7:33 p.m.

