1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
June 27, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Hoy asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District F

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
5:20 PM
5:19 PM
5:15 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:17 PM
5:21 PM
5:26 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present
Remote

5:22 PM
5:21 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Absent

5:18 PM

Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:23 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:22 PM

Barbara McManus called roll. There were 13 members present at roll call. Director Solano
was absent, and Director Menten participated via conference call.

IV.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Lacey Bell, Gina Callahan, Jessie Carter,
Susan Cohen, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, John Davis, John Deschner,
Sherry Ellebracht, Ken Fleck, David Genova, Bob Grado, Brian
Harpole, Jerome Hernandez, John Hersey, Shawn Jakan, Doug
MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Robin McIntosh, Jr., John McKay,
Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Loletia Moore,
Tai-Shrae Parish, Greg Pennington, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed, Jenifer
Ross-Amato, Richard Rost, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Bill
Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Christina Zazueta

Others Present:

Allie Alfonso, Keyshawn Boatman, Amber Brenzikofer, Charlie Busch,
Helen Bushnell, Dan Burke, Peter Chan, Amanda Chilton, Julie Deden,
Houston Elam, Doug Gragg, Dr. William Gross, Christina Laty, Oscar
Lee, Shelly Lee, Chip Johnson, Roland Kilvarger, Mausarm Mehta,
Monique Melton, Garrett Mooney, Chris Nevith, Steve Patten, Jamie
Perkins, Jolena Rubin, John Thompson, John Torres, Joe Triplett,
Garrett Turner, Gary Van Dorn, Megan Wagner, Lindsey Wilson, Jim
Wolcott

Retiree Awards
M. Charles Armstrong – Sr. Materials Management Specialist – 20 years
John W. Davis – Senior Operations Budget Analyst – 39 years
Brian Harpole – Technical Training Instructor – 19 years
Jerome Hernandez – Bus Operator – 24 years
Oscar Lee – Bus Operator – 34 years
Robert L. Medina – Sr. Manager, Risk Management – 21 years
Alice L. Osner – General Superintendent, Transportation – 33 years
Chair Hoy stated that his favorite part of Board Meetings was the recognition of retirees.
He noted that there were seven retirees for the month of June, and four were in
attendance: John Davis, Brian Harpole, Jerome Hernandez, and Oscar Lee.
Bruce Abel, Chief Operating Officer/Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations said that
this is indeed the best part of every meeting when staff and the Board can recognize the
people that have contributed so much to the organization.
Mr. Abel noted that John Davis was retiring after 39 years of service. He said that Mr.
Davis started at RTD on the shop floor as a mechanic, and for a number of years, he was
the budget analyst for the Bus Ops group. He noted that Mr. Davis’ hobbies were classic
cars and motorcycles, and he shared that passion with many people. Mr. Abel added that
Mr. Davis has two children, six grandchildren, and he will definitely be missed.

John Davis commented that he had been at RTD a long time, and he started out at the
Platte garage. He remarked that the Boulder garage was being operated out of an old Ford
dealership, and the heartbeat of RTD was the old Alameda facility. He said that that place
really made everyone felt like a team, and having everyone in that little two story building
made a huge difference. He noted that there was a manager who came from Chicago
transit whose management style was managing by walking around, which lets a manager
know what is really going on and he incorporated that philosophy into his own work. He
thanked everyone at RTD that he had worked with and stated that he never felt like he
worked for anyone, but he worked with everyone. He said thank you, and it had been a
fun ride.
Mr. Abel said that Brian Harpole was retiring after 19 years of service. He remarked that
Mr. Harpole began as a repair mechanic and his plans are to visit Delaware and New
Jersey to finish seeing all 50 states. He added that in retirement Mr. Harpole will do
housework and help his friends and neighbors with their projects.
Mr. Harpole thanked RTD for the ability to work with such a great organization and
fantastic talent.
Mr. Abel commented that Jerome Hernandez was retiring after 23 years of service. He
stated that currently, Mr. Hernandez was a driver out of the Platte division, and he had
been an operator for his entire career at RTD.
Jerome Hernandez stated that being a bus driver was very interesting. He said that the
first five years was on-the-job training, and it took him a few years to get to know the
people riding the bus. He added that it took time to get familiar with driving and handling
people, but when he looks back it was fun and he was happy that he became a bus driver.
He thanked everyone again for the opportunity.
Mr. Abel stated that the last retiree present was Oscar Lee, who was retiring after 34
years of service. He noted that Mr. Lee was an operator and instructor out of the Platte
garage. He said that Mr. Lee’s plans for retirement will include travelling and thanked him
for his years of service.
Oscar Lee said that working for RTD was challenging, but the rewards were fantastic. He
stated that he had built a relationship with his passengers, and as things progressed he
changed his personality to be happy. He added that he was going to miss driving and the
realization that he will never dive a bus again hit him harder than he had expected. He
asked if management could make is possible for him to drive a bus now and again, but he

noted that he and his wife were leaving for Vietnam the next day so he and his wife could
not rest just yet.
Chair Hoy thanked the other retirees, M. Charles Armstrong, Robert Medina, and Alice
Osner for their years of service since they were unable to attend the Board Meeting.
Special Recognition – APTA 2017 International Bus & Paratransit Roadeo
Bus International Participant
John Deschner (RTD – 8th Place)
Chair Hoy noted that John Deschner was unable to attend the May Board meeting where
the other APTA Bus & Paratransit Roadeo winners were recognized, so he would be
recognized at this meeting.
Mr. Abel commented that Mr. Deschner was working during May’s Board meeting, so he
was unable to accept his plaque. He stated that Mr. Deschner took 8th place out of 60
nationally and he has won the RTD competition a number of times over the past couple of
years as well.
John Deschner stated that his father, who also worked for RTD, always told him to treat
passengers like they were family and friends. He said that he would be at RTD for a few
more years, and he thanked the Board for acknowledging him.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Hoy stated public participation was open to anyone who wanted to address the
Board. He reminded the audience that each speaker is allowed three minutes.
John Torres, Boulder, stated that he was the Executive Director for the Golden West
retirement home that houses 400 seniors. He noted that he was in attendance to speak
about the Route 209/209G, which comes before the Board every few years for
elimination. He remarked that, while the usage is low, the severity of the cut would be
high. He noted that the community currently uses VIA Mobility and Access-a-Ride, but
the down side of those services is that they must be scheduled in advance. He added that
the community chose to support VIA Mobility because it cannot afford to purchase its
own bus for transportation and asked the Board to reconsider cutting off that line.
Dan Burke, Centennial, commented that he was the President of the National Federation of
the Blind in Denver. He noted that there were a lot of people in the audience because of
the new electric 16th Street Mallride buses. He remarked that since the buses were quiet,
they were a safety concern for the blind. He added that a pedestrian safety bill requires
electric vehicles to make sounds so that blind people can distinguish them. He noted that

while the regulation does not take effect for two years, it is important that the new 16th
Street Mallride busses are safe for the blind community. He further added that one person
in the audience was hit by one of the new buses and reported the incident but they have
yet to hear back from RTD staff.
Joe Triplett, Aurora, remarked that he was a Board member for the National Federation of
the Blind. He noted that he was downtown earlier in the day and was unable to hear the
new shuttle bus. He asked staff for a timeline of when the audible devices would be
installed on the bus motors and added that shuttle drivers are not ringing the bells like they
should. He further added that the older buses were not ringing their bells either.
Steve Patton, Centennial, also expressed his concerns with the new electric shuttle buses.
He stated that he is a travel instructor with the Colorado Center for the Blind and his
students use alternative techniques for everyday life. He explained that having a very
large vehicle such as a shuttle bus with no sounds is very frightening and disturbing and
stated that it makes him feel unsafe and that he cannot do his job. He added that he too
would like a timeline for the installation of the noise devices and added that it would be a
great marketing tool for the School of the Blind.
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer and Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, stated that given the commentary he wanted to address the Board by saying
that the mall shuttles will be updated with the noisemakers by the end of July. He added
that staff has issued several bulletins to the driving corps regarding ringing bells and also
the need to ring bells at street corners so that individuals with vision impairments can
know that buses are at corners. He added that the concerns articulated will also be
addressed with the driving corps.
Monique Melton, Englewood, stated that she was the President of the Mile High Chapter
of the National Federation of the Blind. She commented that not only are the mall shuttles
a hazard, but the light rail trains are becoming a hazard, too. She remarked that recently
there have been two incidents at the Englewood Station where the northbound train did
not ring its bell. She asked that light rail operators ring their bells as they pull into and
leave a station.
Peter Chan, Woodland, CA, indicated that he was a student of the Colorado Center for the
Blind. He commented that out of the six training centers in the United States, he chose
the Colorado Center for the Blind because it has the best facilities. He said that in
Sacramento the transit agency has audio and visual signs for pedestrians, as well as a loud
PA system for everyone to hear. He encouraged the Board to implement these tools.

Gary Van Dorn, Denver, also spoke about the quiet shuttles. He said that he used the
Mallride to get to the Board meeting and the driver did not ring the bells. He added that he
had a video that he would like to share with staff and the General Manager and that he
would take videos throughout the week to document the improvement. He added that he
recognized RTD’s need for a new mall shuttle fleet, but he thought that staff would have
delayed putting them into service until the noisemakers had been installed.
Jamie Perkins, Denver, stated that she was the Program Manager with Transit Alliance.
She explained that Transit Alliance was a nonprofit organization with a 20-year history of
partnering with RTD and advancing public transportation in the metro region. On behalf of
Transit Alliance, she was addressing the Board to provide comments of support for
improvements coming to the Broadway and Lincoln Corridor. She added that Transit
Alliance firmly believes that the future of transportation in this region will be major
investments and improvements to RTD’s bus network. While you might think that
Broadway and Lincoln are a Denver-specific project, we see huge benefits for the entire
RTD district. Like much of the metro region, Broadway is changing. RTD and the City &
County of Denver are wise to get ahead of the curve by ensuring that more people will be
able to travel to and through this corridor. Providing even better bus service on Broadway
and Lincoln will leverage the transit-oriented development happening at Broadway and
Alameda Stations, while helping to connect existing neighborhoods and businesses. The
cooperation and collaboration between RTD and the City sets an example region wide.
Transit Alliance strongly believes that the future of transit in this region is providing
exemplary bus service that is frequent, reliable, and serves all district residents. This is
possible only with the cooperation of municipalities to develop smart land use policies that
prioritize transit riders. Most importantly, these are improvements that elevate the
importance of transit service for all people, not just those people commuting in and out of
Denver during peak hours. Transit Alliance envisions a future where transit is a first choice
for affordable living and not just for commuting.
We are leading a coalition of
organizations that support a “Better Broadway” and will activate our citizen leaders
throughout the district to support these efforts to better serve people who ride the bus.
Thank you for your leadership and dedication to all of the region, but especially for those
of us in the region that make the bus a top choice.
Helen Bushnell, Denver, said she wanted to comment on the proposed service changes.
She said that historically one of the stops closest to Civic Center has been the most used.
She added that the stop at Denver Health is a good option to eliminate, but when
removing a popular stop with others, it becomes difficult to evaluate what RTD is doing or
trying to accomplish. She stated that RTD needs to do a better job with outreach for both
the community and its drivers. In regards to the Route 209, she stated that there is a lack
of service for working-class people and the Route 206 used to provide that service. She
urged the Board to keep the Route 209 and to look at the populations not being served.

Charlie Busch, Denver, said she bought her house as close to a bus stop and light rail as
she could, while still living on a quiet street. She commented that her drivers are excellent
but noted that they need more outreach efforts. She remarked that the changes to the
Route 0 are needed but explained that ridership would not increase by moving the stop to
Exposition. She added that people will use transit if they have a way to get to their
destinations safely, and she asked the Board to consider people when making service
changes.

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Committee Chair Francone said that the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management committee had met earlier in the day along with the General Manager to
review the new process for his evaluation. She noted that the review used the same
criteria as before, but in a different format. She stated that the Board is trying something
new, and if anyone had any questions, Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board
Office, could answer them. She remarked that the next meeting date would be July 18th
to solidify the 2018 General Manager’s goals. She added that the General Manager
performance surveys would be emailed in the next couple of weeks and asked that
everyone participate because it was an important process and imperative to the General
Manager’s performance review.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 23, 2017
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to approve the
Board Meeting minutes of May 23, 2017.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker, and

Williams) and 0 against. Director Solano was
absent, and Director Menten was away.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

ACCEPTED [13 TO 0]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Paul Solano
Natalie Menten

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Hoy provided the following report:
ATTENDED EVENTS AND AWARDS
 June 1st - The City of Englewood held its State of the City address. Directors
Francone and Walker attended.
 June 5th-7th – The CCI Foundation hosted its Summer Conference in
Keystone, and Director Solano attended.
 June 9th – The South Metro Denver Chamber Economic Development Group
breakfast was held in Centennial. Director Tisdale attended.
 June 10th – A ceremony was held at the Aurora Municipal Center Council
Chamber dedicating public art along the R Line, and Directors Anderson,
Broom, and myself were in attendance.
 June 12th-14th – Directors Folska and Francone joined the Accelerate
Colorado delegation on their annual trip to Washington, D.C.
 June 17th – Director Deadwyler and several RTD employees hosted a booth
at the Juneteenth event held in the Curtis Park neighborhood.
 June 19th – The 5th Annual Transportation Forum was held at the Erie
Community Center. Directors Lubow, Williams, and I were in attendance.
 June 20th-23rd – The Colorado Municipal League held its Annual Conference
in Breckenridge. Directors Anderson, Francone, and I attended.
ONGOING AND UPCOMING EVENTS
 Director Williams will be attending the National Regional Transportation
Conference at the Grand Hyatt here in Denver from June 28th through 30th.
 Employee appreciation events will be held on Thursday, June 29th at the Elati
Light Rail Division and on Friday, June 30th at the Platte, Boulder, and East
Metro Divisions.















X.

RTD’s Administrative Offices will be closed on Tuesday, July 4th, in
observance of Independence Day.
The Denver Regional Mobility Access Council’s Transit Accessibility Task
Force will meet here at Blake on Wednesday July 5th.
Local Coordinating Council for Jefferson County meets on Thursday, July 6th
at the Senior Resource Center in Wheat Ridge.
Denver’s Mayor Hancock will be giving his State of the City Address on July
10th. Director Williams will attend.
The ADA Paratransit Advisory Committee will meet here on Tuesday, July
11th.
A Customer Appreciation Event will be held in Broomfield on Thursday, July
13th, and Director Lubow will attend.
The South Metro Denver Chamber Economic Development Group will host a
breakfast in Centennial on Friday, July 14th, and Director Tisdale will attend.
RTD’s Employee Appreciation Event will take place at Elitch Gardens on
Saturday, July 15th.
The next DRCOG/RTC Meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, July 18th.
A Customer Appreciation Event for Boulder will be held on Wednesday, July
19th, and Director Sisk will attend.
The Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Work Session will be held here at
Blake on July 19th.
Directors Tisdale and Walker will be attending the APTA Board Member/Board
Support Conference in Chicago, IL, from July 22nd through 25th.
The Pass Program Working Group will be meeting at the Adams County
Western Service Center on Tuesday, July 25th.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Genova briefed the Board on the following activities:








Attended a North Area Transportation Alliance (NATA) meeting on Thursday, May
25th.
Had a conference call with the Denver Transit Partners (DTP) Board on Thursday,
May 25th.
Met with Dave Britton, Uber General Manager of Colorado & Utah on Thursday,
May 25th.
Met with Cindy Terwilliger, FTA Region VIII Administrator, on Friday, May 26th.
Met with Don Tripp, City of Westminster City Manager, on Wednesday, May 31st.
Had a conference call with the DTP Board Chair David Rushton on Monday, June
5th.
Attended and presented at the Pass Program Working Group meeting on Tuesday,
June 6th.
















Attended the Metro Mayors Caucus on Wednesday, June 7th.
Had a conference call with the DTP Board on Thursday, June 8th.
Attended a notice meeting with DTP Board Chair David Rushton on Thursday, June
8th.
Attended a quarterly meeting with Herman Malone of Business Action Coalition
(BAC) on Thursday, June 8th.
Attended the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) Rail Conference in
Baltimore, Maryland, on June 10th -14th:
o Attended the Rail Transit CEO Subcommittee, Commuter Rail CEO
Subcommittee, and P3 Committee.
o Presented on the Economic Power of Transit Hubs panel at Denver Union
Station.
o Presided and moderated the Conference Closing General Session: GM’s
Vision for the Future of Mobility.
Met with Michael Moore and Josh Weisman of Chariot on Thursday, June 15th.
Met with Mark Falcone and Roger Pecsok of Continuum on Friday, June 16th.
Attended the Smart Commute’s 5th Annual TransForum on Monday, June 19th.
Attended a series of meetings and tours with Bob Lauby, Associate Administrator
for Railroad Safety & Chief Safety Officer at Federal Railroad Administration (FRA),
Pamela Fischhaber, Chief of Rail/Transit Safety, Colorado Public Utilities
Commission (CPUC), and Cindy Terwilliger, Regional Administrator, Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) on Monday, June 19th and Tuesday, June 20th (also met with
FRA, RTD Board Chair, and attended the monthly FRA progress meeting).
Attended the Visit Denver Board meeting on Wednesday, June 21st.
Attended the RTD/FTA Quarterly meeting on Wednesday, June 21st.
Had a conference call with the DTP Board on Thursday, June 22nd.

General Manager Genova added that staff received a notice from the FRA indicating that
they accepted RTD’s design plans, but staff will need to finalize the successful testing
criteria and verification testing, which should occur the week of July 10th. He noted that
this is a huge milestone for the EAGLE P3 project and all of the lines. He noted that Mr.
Lauby will return in July for another meeting and after that staff will have more
information moving forward.
General Manager Genova added that, RTD must complete processes with the CPUC in
addition to the FRA. He stated that it is a time consuming and comprehensive process as
there are two agencies that must be satisfied on the at-grade crossings, but staff is
making excellent progress. He further noted that the year-to-date on-time performance for
the University of Colorado A Line is at 92.5%. He stated that DTP is doing a good job,
and they are learning.

XI.

Public Hearing for 2017 Amended Budget
A.

2017 Amended Budget

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2017 to amend and appropriate funds for the
proposed 2017 Amended Budget, to increase the appropriation by $43.854 million to
$1,348.992 million as detailed below in the overview of the 2017 Amended Budget, and
to decrease the appropriation of Capital Carryforward (previously approved capital funds)
by $143.543 million to $720.546 million.
Chair Hoy called to order the Public Hearing for RTD’s Proposed Amended Budget for the
year 2017. He indicated that, in accordance with RTD's requirements, notice of the public
hearing was duly posted by the office of the Executive Manager of the Board Office at the
Board approved notice location of 1600 Blake Street. He added that a copy of the
Proposed Amended Budget for the year 2017 was available for the public on request from
the Board Office.
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of Finance &
Administration, noted that staff had made the adjustments discussed in the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee and that those changes were reflected in the current
action item.
Chair Hoy noted that there were no speakers or questions relating to the Proposed
Amended Budget for the year 2017 and asked for a motion to approve the action item.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to approve the
2017 Amended Budget.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker,
Williams) and 0 against. Director Solano was
absent, and Director Menten was away.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED [13 TO 0]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Paul Solano
Natalie Menten

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

XII.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Hoy stated that there were ten items on the unanimous consent agenda. He
commented that if any Director had a change, or questions, they should request that
action item be pulled from the Unanimous Consent agenda and moved to Recommended
Actions.
Director Francone stated that she would like the Call-n-Ride Amendment for New Contract
be moved to Recommended Actions as she would be abstaining for that item.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, remarked that if the item was moved and Director
Francone abstained that would be considered a no vote for that item.
Chair Hoy asked if the item remained on the unanimous consent agenda, and Director
Francone abstained, would that be considered a no vote for all ten items.
Mr. Asphaug explained that if the item is left on the unanimous consent agenda, Director
Francone can either verbally state that her vote has a caveat and that she is abstaining
from the Call-n-Ride Amendment for New Contract, or the action item can be moved to
Recommended Actions.
Director Lubow commented that she has had second thoughts about the August 2017
Service Changes, and changes to the Route 209 in particular had been bothering her. She
asked that the August 2017 Service Changes be moved to Recommended Actions.
Chair Hoy stated that the August 2017 Service Changes would be moved to
Recommended Actions and the Unanimous Consent Agenda now had nine items. He
asked for a motion to approve items B-J.
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to approve
items B-J on the unanimous consent agenda.

Director Tisdale seconded the motion.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker,
Williams) and 0 against. Director Solano was
absent and Director Menten was away.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED [13 TO 0]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Paul Solano
Natalie Menten

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously and noted Director Francone’s caveat
that her vote included an abstention for the Call-n-Ride Amendment for New Contract.
B.

RTD Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments

It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee
of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint
two members of the Committee to an additional three-year term, appoint three new
members to the Committee to three-year terms and appoint one new member to the
Committee to a one-year term as identified in this Report.
C.

Approval of 2017-2021 Bridge Inspections Budget Request

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to execute a three-year contract, with two one-year optional
extensions, for On-Call Bridge Inspections with Alfred Benesch & Company, in a dollar
amount not to exceed $1,560,900. Funding for the first year of this action is $205,700
and is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget.
D.
Contract Award to Parsons Transportation Group for the SH 119 Bus Rapid Transit
Corridor
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a professional
services contract award to Parsons Transportation Group to serve as the Contractor for
assistance in the preparation of National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) review and
Preliminary Engineering (PE) services for the SH 119 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor

for an amount not to exceed $3,250,000. Funding for this contract is included in the
2017 Adopted Budget for the SH 119 BRT project.
E.

Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail Commission Appointee

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to appoint William C. Van Meter as the
Regional Transportation District Commissioner to the Southwest Chief and Front Range
Passenger Rail Commission, created by the Colorado General Assembly during the 2017
session.
F.

Approval of Contract Modification to increase contract authority for Infax, Inc.

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to increase the contract authority amount with Infax, Inc. (Contract Number
15FH003) from the current level of $1,788,655.39 by $825,000.00 to new total
contract amount of $2,613,655.39.
G.

Approval to enter into a contract with Mosaic 451 for Manager Security Services

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into contract negotiations
with Mosaic451, LLC, a Managed Security Services Provider (MSSP) to support of RTD’s
Information Technology (IT) systems security. The estimated cost of the Managed Security
Services contract of $1,901,235.00 includes round-the-clock support for RTD’s boundary
firewalls, security monitoring for RTD’s most critical systems, and analysis of and
response to security incidents for a period of five years. Funding for this project is included
in the Cybersecurity Services budget for 2017 forward and was approved during the 2016
Strategic Budget Process.
H.

Call-n-Ride Amendment for New Contract

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to amend the recently awarded
ADA paratransit services contracts with MV Transportation and Via Mobility Services (per
solicitation #16-DH-047) to include the provision of Call-n-Ride services. The amendment
to the MV Transportation contract is for three years for $13,110,752, with two one-year
options, option year 1 is for $4,587,223 and option year 2 is for $4,797,357. Fuel is
considered a pass through. Fuel is estimated at $1,206,599 for the first three years and
with option year 1 at $426,569 and option year 2 at $439,367. The total not to exceed
cost for the 5-year period for MV Call-n-Ride services and fuel is $24,567,867. The
amendment to the Via Mobility Services contract is also for three years for $12,700,984,
with two one-year options, option year 1 is for $2,642,063 and option year 2 is for
$2,753,714. Fuel is considered a pass through. Fuel is estimated at $671,325 for the
first three years with option year 1 at $237,334 and option year 2 at $244,454. The

total not to exceed amount for the 5-year period for Via Call-n-Ride services and fuel is
$13,854,096.
I.
Authorization to enter into a contract with M.A.I.O.R. Sri, for a Fixed Route
Scheduling and Run-Cutting Software Application (16DO018)
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for the new Fixed Route Scheduling and Runcutting
Software Application to M.A.I.O.R. Sri (M.A.I.O.R), in an amount not to exceed
$4,000,000.00. The price includes the period of performance base of four years and six
one-year options (total ten years).
J.

Construction Award for RFP 16 DD - 002 - Platte Bus Wash Replacement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a contract to Gilmore
Construction Corporation in the amount not-to-exceed of $1,402,113 for the Platte Bus
Wash Replacement project.

XIII.

Recommended Action
K.

August 2017 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 2017 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost savings of approximately $19,700 and,
further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments
as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to approve the
August 2017 Service Changes.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Lubow stated that the Route 209 that goes to the
senior residence at Golden West still bothers her. She said
that, if there is a vulnerable population, it is concerning to drop
services to them.
Director Folska asked whether Golden West would still benefit
from the services provided by Via Mobility if the 209 was
eliminated.
Mr. Abel commented that the Route 209 is not being
eliminated as a route, but the service to Golden West is

instead a deviation. He added that Via Mobility’s services are
separate from RTD’s.
Director Folska asked if Golden West would still be in the ¾
mile fixed route shadow in order to use Access-a-Ride.
Mr. Abel indicated it was.
Director Sisk stated that he had worked with John Torres to
increase ridership for the Route 209 and ridership has
subsequently decreased. He added that there are alternatives
for people living at Golden West to access services at Kaiser
Permanente and, based on the historical data presented, he
was satisfied with the service change.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker, Williams)
and 1 opposed (Lubow). Director Solano was
absent, and Director Menten was away.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED [12 TO 1]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Mihalik,
Sisk, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Judy Lubow
Paul Solano
Natalie Menten

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
L.
Approval to enter into an IGA with the City and County of Denver to fund
improvements to the Free MetroRide
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors approve this action to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA)
with the City and County of Denver for up to $1,500,000 to fund the implementation of
transit priority measures that will improve the travel time and reliability of the Free
MetroRide service. Funding for this IGA is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget for the
Free MetroRide project.

Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve
entering into an IGA with the City and County of
Denver to fund improvements to the Free
MetroRide.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Lubow said that she had been looking for pennies,
nickels, and dimes for FasTracks, but she felt that it would be
unfavorable to vote against this item. She stated that this
money was saved for future improvements, and this action
will create much needed improvements.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker,
Williams) and 0 opposed. Director Solano was
absent, and Director Menten was away.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED [13 TO 0]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Paul Solano
Natalie Menten

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

XIV. Old Business
There was no old business.

XV.

New Business
Director Francone said that she wanted to comment on the Accelerate Colorado
Conference that she and Director Folska attended. She noted that this year, there were
110 representatives from the State of Colorado that impressed the federal delegation in a
way that the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) does not. She noted
that she discussed in length the return of the $29 million Denver Union Station Project

Authority (DUSPA) bond and added that the General Manager should be hearing from the
federal government soon.
Director Francone added that she attended the Colorado Municipal League (CML)
conference for the first time in June. She said that it was very good, and the conference
attendees were delighted to see representatives from RTD.
Director Folska noted that Accelerate Colorado was very busy, but she thinks that RTD
will be refunded the $29 million. She also thanked Michelle Madrid, Board Office
Administrative Specialist, for her service in the Board Office.
Director Deadwyler thanked staff for the help in planning and participating in the
Juneteenth celebration. She said that she appreciated all of the help she received last
weekend and noted that she will be hosting another event, Brick City, at Curtis Park in
two weeks. She added that the Mayor of Denver attends, and there will be recruitment
efforts for Access-a-Ride and the Workforce Initiative Now (WIN) program.

XVI. Motion to Move Into Executive Session
Chair Hoy stated that he would entertain a motion to move into Executive Session for the
purpose of discussing legal matters relating to Eagle Project Concession Agreement and
North Metro design/build contract. CRS 24-6-402 (4) (b) (conferences with attorney for
purposes of receiving legal advice).
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purposes of discussing
legal matters relating to Eagle Project
Concession Agreement and North Metro
design/build contract. CRS 24-6-402 (4) (b)
(conferences with attorney for purposes of
receiving legal advice).
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker,
Williams) and 0 against. Director Solano was
absent and Director Menten participated via
phone.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED [13 TO 0]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Tisdale, Sisk, Walker, Williams
Paul Solano
Natalie Menten

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously. The Board moved into Executive
Session at 7:20 p.m.

XVII. Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 8:20 p.m. directly after the Executive Session.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

__________________________________________________________________
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

