Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held Tuesday, August 7, 2007
Page 1 of 5
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

August 7, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, August 7 at 6:35 p.m. at UCDHSC on Anschutz Medical
Campus

****
Committee
Members Present:

FasTracks Committee Chair Director Chacon, Chair Martinez, Director
Brohl, Director Busck, Director Daly, Director Kinton, Director Kemp,
Director McMullen, Director Pulliam, Director Quinlan, Director
Ruchman, Director Yamrick

Member Absent:

Directors Christopher, Elfenbein and Tayer

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Dave
Genova, Marla Lien, Lloyd Mack, Paula Perdue, Liz Rao, Scott Reed,
and Phil Washington.
Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Carol Duecker, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Krutsinger, Caitlin Magee, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Joe Smith,
John Tarbert, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Zack Van Gemert

Others Present:

Marion Combs, Roger Sherman, Howard Alton, Jay Gershen, Carolyn
Goble, Dave Trunquist, George Peck, Kevin Hougene, Dick Hinson,
Kathryn Middleton, Jill Farnham, Judi Guy, Mac Callison, Jeff
Thompson, Chancellor M. Roy Wilson, Bart Neu, Maren Stewart,
Hollie Stevenson, Dwight Schock, Pete Hankovszky, Brendon
Harrington, Bill Obermann, L.W. Morrow, Larry Warner

Call to Order:

Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 6:37 p.m.

I.

RTD FasTracks Update on I-225/East Corridor
Larry Warner, I-225 Project Manager, provided a presentation on the status of
the I-225/East Corridor. For a copy of the presentation, please refer to the
FasTracks Minute Notebook located in the Board office.
Larry introduced the Michael Baker team who were approved to do the EIS work

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, August 7, 2007
Page 2 of 5
for the I-225 corridor. Larry indicated that he is taking an aggressive approach
since they are two years behind and he is trying to accelerate the process. He
indicated this is the only corridor with no direct connection to DUS. It also does
not have FTA funding nor does it involve any railroad issues as well.
Following the presentation, a question and answer session on the corridor was
provided:


Jay Gershen: Jay indicated his delight with the light rail and reiterated
some of the discussions they have had with the I-225 team on EMI
medical equipment sensitivities and the impact of the train running
through the campus. Jay also inquired of the status of building at grade
versus over the Peoria tracks.
Larry responded to the question on EMI but deferred the question of
building at grade to John Shonsey. Larry indicated they will evaluate and
document the EMI concern as part of the overall evaluation process.
John Shonsey provided several options for the building at grade at Peoria
that need to be explored and challenges associated with each.
Cal Marsella summarized John Shonsey’s comments by saying that RTD
is looking at a comprehensive solution to the freight/at grade issue for
the Peoria crossing. He noted that regardless of the commuter solution,
there is an existing situation at that crossing with freight trains but that
our commuter rails flow with the traffic signals. RTD will sit with the
City of Aurora, Anschutz stakeholders and others to make sure we have
the most reasonable solutions.
Director McMullen commented that he sees the big issue of being 2
trains every fifteen minutes all day long and all night long. We need to
also make sure Denver is at the table for these discussions.



Larry Warner indicated that he had turned Jay’s question about the
Peoria tracks over since this is being addressed as part of the East
corridor and not the I-225. He then apologized for his oversight in
introductions of his team and introduced Marion Combs, PI, who is
assisting him on this corridor.
Larry indicated RTD is leading the environmental impact stage but we are
also working with CDOT and are in the process of negotiating an IGA
with CDOT. CDOT needs to be a partner in this study since 3 or 4 miles
of this corridor are within CDOT’s right-of way. Also because it is
interstate highway, the Federal Highway Administration who funded the
initial investment is also involved. I-225 will be a major thoroughfare to
provide access to the Anschutz Medical campus.
The environmental process will be called an environmental evaluation
which does not require a Federal agency to sign or approve. This will be
presented to the Board and signed internally. It will follow the same
process including a thorough public involvement process but will not
require going through all the Federal hoops. In parallel we will have an
environmental impact with an environment assessment within the CDOT
arena that will result in a finding of no significant impact (Fonsi) where
the FWHA will sign off on.
Larry spoke to the importance of public participation during this stage

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, August 7, 2007
Page 3 of 5
where we can get the biggest bang for our buck. Jay referenced the
tremendous volume of stakeholders within this area to work with on
locations of stations, etc. Hopefully RTD will begin the process in
September and anticipate a 27 month process which is less than your
typical EIS process. The procurement process is an 18 month process
assuming design-build which will come to the Board to get approval.
How we deliver this project is how we will make up the time to get on
schedule and to meet the date established for the voters.
Director Brohl asked if the environmental evaluation starts a year late,
how he plans to stay on time and meet the dates he has indicated for
EIS. Larry responded that we will use the previous planning session as
our foundation. He will tweak the alignment but will not be looking at
Level 1 changes or major deviations in the alignment. Cal and Director
Yamrick indicated some of the legwork has already been done with the
stakeholders so this will help to shrink the timeline.
Director McMullen asked how short are we on the financial estimate.
Larry responded the current working estimate was $634M and the
original was around $440. Director McMullen inquired why I-225 was
not considered for Federal funding. Cal Marsella responded that in
looking at this corridor, it did not meet criteria or the cost effectiveness
index for consideration.
Director Daly asked how do the plan show crossing Colfax.
responded as a cross over.
II.

Larry

General Counsel Report
Marla Lien reported on Friday that a small group of people will be going to Omaha
to meet with UP for a general check -in meeting to review basic assumptions,
progress being made on engineering design, and FasTracks. We will also be
reviewing items that they request for RTD to design because of relocation impacts.
On the BN side we had an important development. RTD received a letter from them
on July 24, indicating our technology selection on the Gold line was not? The
question which was put before them was if we choose electrical technology that
means you will have to sell us the right of way and if we select PPP, we will need to
control our own destiny in terms of designing and building. Do you think you can
sell us a piece of ROW in that corridor? The answer was in the affirmative. They
stated we may have to address access, and other impacts but we can come to an
agreement on this. On the US 36 corridor, they had a different view of the world.
They submitted a 4 page outline identifying issues using diesel since the NW corridor
is shared track. They identified equipment, clearing issues, issues with future
expansion, ability to ever add a third corridor, and catenary wiring impacts. They
also want a preliminary engineering agreement similar to the one RTD is negotiating
with UP to show the design work impact and costs to their infrastructure to acquire
the ROW.
Cal Marsella stated staff will synthesize the information providing upside/downside
on the technology selection and provide a more specific, concise report back to the
Board.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, August 7, 2007
Page 4 of 5
Director Kemp asked what is the impact to the North corridor if the costs for DMU is
passed over to the North and not the shared facility as expected? What would the
tradeoff costs be? Cal responded we will need to do an analysis and get back to
Director Kemp.
III.

Schedule for additional FasTracks Meetings
Director Chacon asked by a show of hands how many were aware we were
anticipating having an extra FasTracks Monitoring committee (about five). Director
Chacon indicated it may be every Tuesday and perhaps could be shortened in time.
Director Chacon indicated that perhaps members could call in.
Director Quinlan asked if the P&D committee could be rolled into the FasTracks
committee. Director Chacon indicated that perhaps she and Director Ruchman could
talk about how to integrate these two meetings.
Several Directors shared their perspective around how to structure the committee so
that the committee could be run as a committee and not a free for all. Differing
ideas and opinions were provided on how to best make this work including an
evaluation of going to a one day every week for all committee meetings.
Chair Martinez indicated more discussion could occur in the Board retreat around
how to structure these meetings but tonight there is an urgent need to set a meeting
to get more information on FasTracks.
Cal Marsella indicated that he and Chris are having discussions around Board
expectations such as how much information is needed. The Board are at different
levels and the expectations and frustrations need to be addressed. This Board
appears to want more detail than the 30,000 feet level as would be expected for a
part-time Board. However, all the Board needs to come to the same level.
Right now things may be intense but as it moves forward, he does not expect that it
will be as demanding. RTD staff and Board need to come to some reconciliation on
what we can do so we can all be on the same page.
Director Ruchman shared that while he understood the statement made by Cal, he
does not think it will be simple to get 15 elected Board members with diverse
interest and representation to their constituents to be on the same page. He
believes the meetings are important and important information is being departed that
cannot be substituted by email or reports.
Director Pulliam made a plea for treating committees like committees. Appoint
members to a committee and do not make these committees of the whole. Trust
the action of the committee members. Members need to do the homework and act
like a committee.
Director Busck stated that we have a commitment to our constituents. No one said
it is a part-time job. However, there are ways to make decisions about moving
ahead such as head nods, that will enable staff to concentrate on getting their jobs

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, August 7, 2007
Page 5 of 5
done a lot better. Director Busck stated he comes from 30, 000 feet. His job is not
to solve the problem but to point it out and let the staff solve it. The Board’s job is
to learn the information, identify what we need fixed and allow the staff to fix it.
Director Chacon concluded she will call a special meeting next week the 14th to
address FasTracks.

Adjournment
Director Ruchman made the motion to adjourn to a special Board meeting. It was
seconded by Director McMullen. The meeting adjourned to a special board meeting
at 7:40 p.m.

IV. Special Board Meeting
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at approximately 7:45 p.m. There were
twelve Board members present and 3 absent (Christopher, Elfenbein and Tayer).
Attending from staff were Marla Lien and Cal Marsella.
MOTION:

Director Ruchman made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purpose to discuss contract
negotiations-DUS Legal Services C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)
(e).
Director Chacon seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed 10 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Kemp and Kinton arrived after the vote.

V.
Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:12 p.m.

