RTD Communications & Government Relations
Committee 10-06-20
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is the Communications and Government Relations Committee. I'm
Lynn Guissinger, chairing this committee. The Committee is now called to order we are
convened as of 8:58 PM on October 6. And I respectfully ask that everyone connected to this car
please mute your phone and set your ringers to silent. I am told that there is a chance that,
because of the system, that we'll go on a rolling music hold, each one of us will hear, for 30
seconds. So if that happens to me and you're not hearing me come back, then that's the reason.
We're going to go a little off agenda tonight. And we're not going to-- because we knew it was
running late. And we have written reports. We are not doing oral reports from CRL or from
Brandeberry McKenna. The action is right now pretty much happening in the federal
government.
Patty Doersch, are you there?
PATTY DOERSCH: Yes, I'm here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Has Congress come together to save public transit?
PATTY DOERSCH: Not quite.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you tell us what's happening, please?
PATTY DOERSCH: Yeah, happy to. Keeping in mind that you have the written report from last
Monday and you also have a written email update that Marta Sipeki sent on Friday, I'll just pick
up kind of where those left off.
First of all, continuing resolution and FAST Act extension. So now that Congress and the
president have extended and funded the FAST Act for a full year and all programs of the federal
government for the next three months, we can focus on pursuit of our risk CRP fix. This is the
time to do it for a couple of reasons.
First of all, when Congress does return after the elections, one of the few must-pass bills that
they'll work on is one to fund the government after December 11. So that's the appropriations
process. So that's our next opportunity to push for our CRP fix, because our fix is already
included in the House passed fiscal year 2021 transportation HUD bill. The Senate never moved
a 2021 transportation HUD bill, or any of its appropriations bills. So there's only one fiscal year
2021 transportation appropriations bill from which to work, from which to negotiate it in
December. And our fix is already in that bill.
What this means for us is that our push will basically be on the Senate side. And our message
over there will be, include the risk CRP fix in the final full year transportation bill. Again, our
issue is well understood by Senators Bennett and Gardner. It's well understood by the Senate

appropriators. But we have to-- in the chaos that will be the lame duck session, we have to make
sure that this stays in the final bill. So that's our focus on the appropriations side.
Pivoting now to the House HEROES act, heroes 2, they're calling it. That's the COVID relief
bill. You know, last Thursday the House took up and passed a revised HEROES bill which
would provide $32 billion for transit under a formula that is very different than the one that was
in the original HEROES Act passed in the House in May. This one is now much more favorable
to RTD.
You may recall that the first House HEROES bill provided funding only for the 14 largest cities
in the US, which did not include Denver. We pushed back on this formula immediately and
consistently, both directly to our congressional delegation and also via industry press calls,
letters to Congress, and worked together industry as a whole, labor, management, private
suppliers, et cetera. So as a result, the revised bill includes not only more funding of the $32
billion ask, but it's distributed under a much more equitable formula under which RTD will be
apportioned funds up to the level, when combined with our CARES Act money, of what we
received, or what we spent on operating costs in 2018.
So it's to avoid unjust enrichment for folks getting an allocation in smaller transit agencies of
more than they've ever spent before on operating a system. So we will max out at our 2018 level.
So now how do we get this enacted into law? There's kind of an inflection point here on success
for getting a bill before the election, before November 3. I'd say that's very, very slim. The
partisan acrimony in this town is unbelievable. You definitely think it can't get worse, it gets
worse. It's further fueled by the fight of McConnell and Trump now to ensure that they can
confirm the Supreme Court nominee, Amy Coney Barrett, before the election. Confirming Judge
Barrett is McConnell's top pre-election priority, not another COVID relief bill.
And so there's two reasons why, related to this, why our transit provision is somewhat
vulnerable. We have language we like, but how do we keep it in?
First of all, the funding for transit in the HEROES bill is viewed as a partisan Democratic
priority, and particularly a priority of Senator Schumer. In fact, Donald Trump characterized the
House HEROES Act today as a bailout for poorly run high crime Democratic states and money
no way related to COVID-19. So they clearly lump transit into that. So we're viewed as a
partisan priority.
And also, have to keep in mind that when the revised HEROES Act itself is a smaller bill than
the first HEROES Act from May, yet the funding amount for transit has doubled. So our
disproportionate growth in the transit program does make it vulnerable to a cut in the necessary
compromise with the Republicans that's going to be necessary to get the bill enacted.
And finally, earlier today, right now it's a death knell on pre-election enactments. Trump just
yanked support out from underneath these negotiations and told Mnuchin to stop negotiating. He
pledges to resume negotiations as soon as he wins on November 3.

So I think the good news here is, after the election, those three elements are all potentially
different. Before the elections, Amy Coney Barrett will be confirmed. McConnell has the
numbers. After the election, the numbers are looking right now, the latest I checked on, 538,
which is very objective website, Biden's chances of winning are 83 out of 100. Trump's chances
are 17 out of 100. Biden will likely be the incoming president. That's going to mean that
Democratic priorities will rise in stature.
Then finally, the flip side of Trump saying no bill until I win November 3, whether he wins or
not November 3, that's when we can move on it. So I am optimistic for post-election passage of
COVID relief bill, but I'm not certain we'll be able to hold onto the $32 million. It won't be for a
lack of trying, though.
So that concludes my report. And as always, I'll keep the Board informed on both the risk CRP
issue and the additional funding for transit.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great news, Patty. Thanks so much. And thanks for all your hard
work. I know you've been working away on a lot of angles for us.
I'm going to run through really quickly because I think there could be some questions and, while
we're running late. Director Broom, do you have questions, comments?
BOB BROOM: Not on the federal side, no.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No. But thanks, Patty. That's a great report. And there's a million moving parts
and you've got your eyes on all of them. Thanks again.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Patty. Ditto to Director Buzek. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No. Thank you. Thanks for the report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Patty, that's excellent, as always. Chair Guissinger, I
would recommend if patty is going to be giving these presentations, since she is two hours ahead,
assuming she's in Washington area, perhaps she could go first with the future agendas, even next
year and beyond.
But thank you so much. It was always great listening to you, Patty.

LYNN GUISSINGER: That's actually why we moved her to the beginning of this agenda. But
you're right. We could have thought about doing it earlier and she could keep it in mind. Director
Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Madam Chair. I don't have any questions or comments.
I just always appreciate any update that Patty or Mike come to bring. You all are wonderful and I
really appreciate it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. Thank you, Patty. I just have a question. Are you guys monitoring at all
funding for Amtrak, which, as we know, could possibly be used possibly for the Front Range
passenger rail?
PATTY DOERSCH: Yes, we are monitoring that to some extent. And they would receive around
$2 billion in this bill. And also, funding to states for the state supported routes in Amtrak would
be supported under revised Care. So states wouldn't have to come up with their own money to
meet that share for state supported routes.
JUDY LUBOW: I saw that Amtrak is going to get a couple of billion, but I thought it was for the
Northeast Corridor.
PATTY DOERSCH: They usually get funds kind of bifurcated for both. Yeah, it's some for both.
JUDY LUBOW: I see. OK, thank you.
PATTY DOERSCH: As to Northwest rail-- not as for Northwest rail, you know, for their Front
Range rail, it's too early in the project development state for that one. They don't even have an
alignment picked for them to be receiving funds at the federal level in this, if there were funds
provided in the HEROES Act. I don't want to imply that they would be available to receive
funds. They're not at a state of project readiness yet.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. OK.
PATTY DOERSCH: Right-- capital funds.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Patty. No questions [BEEP].
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Keep up the terrific work, Patty. And also, a great thank you to Mike Dino
for all that he does.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: I have tons of questions but no time, so I'll send any questions to you, Director
Guissinger. Thank you very much and we'll see you later.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you very much. As usual, A very comprehensive and impressive
report. Thank you, Patty, and sorry it's so late.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, ma'am. Thanks, Patty. Good night.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Patty, mamma mia, what a report. You've got to be
incredibly exhausted. Thank you so very much to you and your team, as usual. Stellar work.
And I do have a question but I'll send it through Director Guissinger. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And I have a couple of questions too, but we'll deal with those
another time. Thanks so much, Patty. Sorry to keep you up so late.
PATTY DOERSCH: No, my pleasure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Good night.
All right. Next on our agenda is a communications update with Pauletta Tonilas.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Hello there, Madam Chair and Directors. You have a presentation in
your packet on communications highlights from the past couple of months. So I'm not going to
go through every slide in the interest of time, because we do have a quick presentation on a
different subject matter that I'd like to devote our time to.
What I will remind you about as we start our public meetings for our service change process for
the January service changes, and those meetings start tomorrow. And so we'll be doing four
virtual meetings. And then we're adding a Facebook Live. Because we have heard from some of
our community partners that some of the lower income communities, Facebook Live is much
more accessible to them. So we are going to be doing a Facebook Live, a fifth meeting that way,
next week on the 12th.

So also with the coming of our new CEO, Debra Johnson, our team will be working on a number
of activities in preparation for her arrival. Many people are very much looking forward to
meeting Ms. Johnson, lots of key stakeholders that we would like to set up calls and meetings
with. And then of course, many media requests we've gotten. So we'll be working on activities
for her arrival and first day on November 9.
So that is the Communications update. And again, after this next presentation, I'm happy to
answer any questions about general communications matters. But right now, Madam Chair, if we
can, I'd like to pivot to the item called Rethinking Ridership. And I'll just give a very quick intro
before I turn it over to some of my team members.
So obviously, during this pandemic we have a much reduced ridership across our system. And so
our team has really been thinking about ridership and how we pursue it, how we think about it
moving forward. And this is really, I think, kind of a landmark perspective that our team has
been thinking through that is a shift for how the whole organization should start to rethink
ridership and how we encourage people to hop on transit.
And I look at this as an opportunity before us in how we can reach out to the people who ride our
system and who already are at our fingertips. And so I'm going to turn it over for a very quick
run through of this presentation to our Senior Manager of Marketing, Steven Brier, and our
Market Research Manager, Jeff Tranguch.
So Steven, go ahead.
STEVEN BRIER: Thank you, Pauletta. I really appreciate that. This is Steven Brier, just for the
record, Senior Manager of Marketing. And I guess the theme of 2020 for us is the best laid
marketing plans don't always go as expected. And you know, in the presentation that Pauletta
was going to give, you would have seen that most of what we had planned for this year really
ended up having to be refocused and shifted so that we could provide the response for COVID to
put out the public safety messaging that you've seen throughout the District and that.
But what we'd really like to give insight to the Board and to others that are on the call is, you
know, this has forced us to really think how we do everything and look for additional
opportunities. And you know, as I always say, you know, marketing, at its core, is really exists to
support revenue generation. And so from that perspective is where we started to look at how we
can rethink ridership and how we look at our customers in that.
And so in this presentation, Jeff is going to take us through a review of some of the findings that
he's come up with through analysis of our past primary research as well as some of the secondary
research. And then we're just going to identify some different things that we can do short term
and long term.
PAULETTA TONILAS: So we'll go ahead and pivot to Jeff. And just for your iteration of if you
want to follow along in the packet, the case for more trips starts on packet page 105. And so Jeff
will go ahead and walk us through this quickly.

JEFF TRANGUCH: Thank you, Pauletta, and good evening, everyone. My name is Jeff
Tranguch. I'm the Market Research Manager. Tonight we're going to make the case for more
trips. And that'll make more sense as we go along.
We'll begin by examining the line graph on page 25 of your packet. And this is RTD's reality. So
we have the past five years worth of revenue boardings. This excludes the Mall shuttle and the
MetroRide, obviously, because they are not revenue generating services.
So we have five years worth of data. And we've had our challenges with growing our boardings
year-over-year, despite several openings of new routes and lines. So prior to COVID, we
certainly had our challenges. But I think with this new shift in thinking, we can have a path
forward for start to recovery.
On page 26 of your packet, we get into our main arguments that we'll address this evening. And
the first being that people who use our services are riders but they really are customers. These are
folks that use their hard earned money to give us fares and expect a service in return. So treating
them as customers and looking at them as customers I think is an important mind shift that we'll
need to make in the future.
Next, we'll need to abandon the mindset of more customers. Traditionally, RTD has looked at
growth as getting more people to use our services. And what we'll demonstrate over the coming
slides is that that may not be the case. We need to really look in terms of trips. So RTD
competing for trips, not so much for people.
And finally, we'll end on infrequent customers are really the key to growth. And you may be
wondering why infrequent customers, and we'll get into that now on the next slide on page 27.
And we'll start by looking at some population estimates, which we think is a little bit more
helpful to understand kind of the gravity of what we're working with here. Because oftentimes in
surveys, we report proportions. But when you actually convert that to a number of people, I think
it holds a lot more weight and it's a lot more easier to understand for all audiences.
So we use data from the 2018 American Community Survey, which is a branch of the Census
Bureau. We also have data from the 2018 fare survey, which was a district-wide survey that we
conducted around the time we were considering a fare change. So through simple arithmetic, we
just apply what we think our estimate is for the District-- and I'll throw in a quick caveat that the
population size that you're looking at is 2.3 million and change.
The reason that's not 3 million is because we're looking at adults specifically. So in order to
come up with some estimates, using the survey data we can only survey people that are 18 and
older. By law we cannot interview minors in a survey. So basically, with the way that the census- or excuse me, the American Community Survey breaks data down, we look at people 20 and
over, and that gives us our three-point million. That's our estimate for the District.
In the survey we asked about how often did you use RTD services in the past 12 months? And
basically, if you said at least one time within those past 12 months, we look at you as being a

customer. That's traditionally how we looked at our customer base for as long as market research
has been in RTD. So if you look at that, it's about 1.6 million people. Our prospective customer,
AKA the elusive non-rider, is about 30%. So these are folks that said, I did not use RTD services
at all in a 12 month period. That's about 707,000.
Now we have separate categories for our customers. So those that use our services at least once
every week or more over a 12-month period, we consider those frequent customers. That's 22%,
or about 368,000 and change.
Now where we see a really big opportunity is within our infrequent customers. These are folks
that use this at least once in a 12-month period but less than once every week. And it's 78% of
the District population and about 1.295 million customers. We see that as a huge market.
So moving on to the next slide, continuing the argument of why should we focus on infrequent
customers. Well, we just demonstrated that they simply outnumber our prospective customers,
almost double.
Second, RTD has a limited ability to expand into new markets, right? We're not like a Verizon or
a Pepsi where we can say, let's expand our marketing efforts and our services in the Middle East
or Europe or Asia. We don't have that capability. The district is essentially what it's going to be
in the future, probably with little to no change.
And third reason, research that we've done in the past with prospective customers, they tend to
prefer their personal vehicle and/or that they see us as just being inconvenient. Now that means
that we either don't have service nearby where they want to go or where their originating stop is.
They see us as being inefficient in terms of it's taking too long. So it's going to be a heavy lift to
get those folks to come to our services because they prefer their vehicles so much and have
certain attitudes toward us that wouldn't warrant them to stepping on our vehicles.
And finally, we see infrequent customers as that low hanging fruit that everybody talks about.
These are people that have used our services, they are familiar with our services to an extent, and
they don't have apprehension about using public transportation. So you just saw that they were a
huge market and that we see them as an easy lift in terms of getting more trips out of these folks.
On the next slide, on page 29 of your packet, we get into a little bit of the logic for generating
some of the revenue estimates that we came up with. And we tried to be as precise as possible
without over inflating any numbers, tried to be as realistic as possible. So we take the 1.295
million-- that's the total number of infrequent customers, that's age 20 and over. And we take
from that, using data from, again, the 2018 America Community Survey and the 2018 RTD Fare
Survey, the number of people that tell us in that survey that they get free or reduced fares from a
government agency or nonprofits, about 50,000 folks.
Then we only count those folks that tell us that when they ride, they most often use the threehour pass, a day pass, a 10-ride, or a MyRide. Now you notice we left out our pass programs, the
reason because is that because the fare structure works a little bit differently, we couldn't come

up with a per trip cost or per trip revenue that we would stand to generate from those folks
making a trip.
Now the other side of the coin is about 93% of our infrequent customers use a three-hour pass,
day pass, 10-ride, or MyRide often. So we're not losing a lot of people from that. When you take
away those two groups, you're left with about 1.141 million infrequent customers.
And the next step from there, we took and assumed if we can convince everyone of those
infrequent customers to take one additional trip over a 12-month period, and that being an
additional local fare, so a $3.00 fare, we account for full participation in LiVE, we account for all
the discounts that people told us they would get within the survey, and we account for all the
other things, like free and reduced fare and things like that.
So we compare that against the prospective customer and we basically try to come up with
revenue estimates based on what would happen if they took one additional trip or two additional
trips. And on the next slide, that's exactly what you see.
So if we could convince infrequent customers to purchase one additional local fare, and that
could be a three-hour fare. It doesn't have-- again, we're speaking here not in terms of round trips
or anything, we're just saying one-way fare, it results in about $2.674 million for our infrequent
customers compared to $1.962 million for the prospective customers.
Now you may be saying, well, the prospects of customers don't-- that's not small amount of
money. Correct. But what we're saying is it's going to be easier for us to get more trips from our
infrequent customers, because these are people that already use us, rather than those that haven't
used us in a 12-month period.
And again, one thing we want to stress here is this is convincing our infrequent customers to take
one additional trip with us over a 12-month period, which we see as a very light ask, if you want
to put it that way. So again, this accounts for discounts, full participation in LiVE, we're just
trying to see what would happen if we can get all of our infrequent customers to take one
additional trip with us over a 12-month period.
Now moving forward, we have some ideas of how we can use this new way of thinking. And
with that, I will toss it back to our Senior Manager Steven Brier.
STEVEN BRIER: Thank you, Jeff. Can you hear me? I don't know if I got the Academy Awards
hook. But-LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, we can hear you.
STEVEN BRIER: Oh, perfect. Thank you so much. This is, again, Steven Brier, Senior
Manager, Marketing.
So when we look at this, the question usually comes up to be, well, so what? And we think well
we can do some things in the short term and then look long term for how we can continue to

build programs around the agency to further address a customer experience that I think will
generate much more perceived value and also more usage of the system.
So as you move to page 32 in the deck, the way that we think that we can do that is to leverage
some of the messaging points that we already know through the research that we've done over
the years, things about convenience, efficiency, reliability. Those are all very, very compelling
reasons for people to use our services and to use them more often.
But I think that, with the introduction of the COVID environment, we also think that reinforcing
what we're doing to increase safety and cleanliness around the system is definitely something
that is a messaging point that resonates. But one of the other things, and it's as you look at what
we do for people, we think that there's a big message around quality of life that we do.
And if you go on to slide 33, there's some examples here. Now these aren't by any means
finalized. We just thought that this would be a nice way for us to be able to demonstrate what we
mean by bringing this idea of the quality of life improvement that we bring to folks as an agency.
There's a lot that people can do when they're onboard our buses and trains. They can read. They
can work. They can listen to music, leisurely types of things.
And instead of spending time in traffic, they can use that time that they typically would be
spending sitting in a vehicle with their family, or they can get home earlier than then they might
be able to in a passenger vehicle and be able to go out for a bike ride or something like that.
So looking ahead, as we move into page 34, we think that there's a really big opportunity for
RTD to invest in a customer experience platform. And I like to use a very quick example of
some previous experience. I was the Manager of Advertising and Marketing for a natural gas
resource array, a natural gas provider, kind of like Xcel Energy in the Washington, DC metro
area.
And at the time when I was hired, I was hired to help the organization as deregulation came in.
So similar to ride shares and all of those types of things coming into compete for trips with RTD,
that organization was going to then have their customers up for grabs with other outside retailers.
And so when I walked in, they were called rate payers, much the same as we call our folks riders,
kind of as if they're captive and passive.
But we had to shift the mindset to really start to think of those folks as customers. And I think
not that we don't think of folks as customers today, it's just putting much more emphasis on that
and changing that mindset around the agency and invest in resources to improve that customer
experience.
And we believe that enhancing that will increase the perceived value. It will help us, I think, to
win back some of the folks that we might have lost because of the fears around COVID and that,
if we continue to reinforce a lot of those messages that talk about the benefit that we provide.

And that, in a nutshell, is a conclusion of where we think we should go and where we will begin
to go in this post COVID times. And we see this as a longer term thing. It's not just to address the
effects of COVID that have hit us but really to look forward in the long run.
And so at this point, that's concluding our presentation. And so thank you so much for your time.
And we will take questions, if time permits. I suspect we won't, but you can certainly email them
directly to me or Jeff, or even Pauletta, and we'd be happy to have a further discussion about that.
Thank you so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much to both of you. And this is a really good start. It's a
lot to think about.
I'm going to take just a minute to make a couple of comments. But I think that this is important
for RTD to be thinking how do we evolve this into a full plan. How do we-- we need a plan for
bringing back ridership? And I think this is a good start. I think it really needs to address the post
COVID world. And those issues may be a little different than reaching out to the infrequent, you
know, how do you get the people who were frequent riders back. So I think that that's an addition
that we might add there.
And then another thing I would like-- what's that? Another thing I would like to see is what are
our tools beyond marketing? And I think you've got some good marketing thoughts here. But for
instance, I'm a big fan of passes of various sorts, Eco passes, student passes. And I know that
part of the problem is that those are not-- they're seen as kind of a something that goes to people
with more resources.
But it's something we own. It's something that RTD creates. So to me, let's think about how we
make that work for people with lower resources. I don't know where this statistic came from, but
I've heard it is that people use transit nine times more if they have a pass in their pocket, and it
makes sense to me. So how do we make that work for the broad cross section and how we bring
the customers back?
But I think you're onto something by thinking about the customers and moving this forward. So
thanks very much for the presentation.
Are there questions from the Board? Should I go around or-- I think I'll just let people speak up if
they have questions or comments.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Director Folska.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair.
Gentlemen, I appreciate your hard work and effort in this, but honestly, I'm left uninspired.
There's nothing in there that I haven't heard before. And as a matter of fact, this is the same
question that at our first event eight years ago, those of us who were on the Board eight years

ago, we went to the retreat. It was a Board/SLT retreat. They called it an advance. That was the
number one topic, how to bring up the ridership.
And so investing in trying to get people out of their cars seems kind of fruitless. In particular,
here's the big problem that you have, on top of none of these ideas are really new. We've been
talking about our riders as customers all along. Getting people out of the cars, another big
problem.
But now we're cutting service because of the pandemic. And I'm not really clear about your
short-term versus your long-term. Investing in the long-term increase of ridership is so critical.
Absolutely. But you're going to waste a lot of time, energy, and resources, again, trying to pull
these adults out of their BMWs and their Lexus's.
Rather, focus on the youth. They grow up, they vote. And I would suggest that every dollar you
spend working toward encouraging young people to use our transit system is like a tenfold return
on your investment as opposed to nothing in the return from trying to convince adults to change
their ways.
So I'm sorry for my comments to be so harsh. But I'm serious about that and I think that it is time
to look at things from a new perspective and to be innovative, and I'm not seeing it in this
presentation. Sorry.
JUDY LUBOW: This is Director Lubow. Yes, thank you.
Thank you for the presentation. Thought provoking. I appreciate it. And I like, I really like the
idea of trying to think of a new way of addressing an old problem. Personally, I really like the
idea of focusing on customers rather than riders and thinking of this as what we give to people
that they care enough about that they're willing to pay money for. I just like the change in who
you're looking at.
I do think that there is a problem, of course, in increasing ridership. But what I like about the
concept of infrequent riders is that they're people that at least use the transit periodically. There
are many people that don't use it at all. And I think those are the really hard nuts to crack. But I
like the idea of trying to get the people that do use it periodically, that means they know how to
do first and last mile, to use it more often. I think that's a good track, actually.
And I'm just wondering, since nothing is new under the sun, are there other transits that are doing
a blitz like this, in terms of increasing ridership based on this concept? And if they are, how have
they been doing?
That's it for me. Thank you.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Madam Chair, [AUDIO OUT] I'm sorry.
STEVEN BRIER: Go ahead Jeff.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Someone wanted to speak? Who was that?
JEFF TRANGUCH: This is Jeff, the Market Research Manager.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Go ahead, Jeff.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Thank you so much. I think to make it clear, I think what we're really
saying here is that we're competing for trips. You know, we're not trying to get people out of
their cars indefinitely. What we're really trying to say is we're competing for trips and we're
trying to convince people to consider us. So like when we say one trip, we might say that people
may take an Uber or whatever one way. We're asking for maybe part of that trip. We need to
start winning trips.
And this is kind of a mindset that we need to look at. Because again, we're not competing for
riders in the sense so that when someone gets on our services, they use our services indefinitely.
So what we're seeing is we really need to compete for trips. We know people are going to
continue to use their cars. But over a 12-month period, there are times when they could consider
transit, and we're trying to figure out ways to get them to consider us.
So if I was unclear, that was my fault. So I just hope we're making that as clear as possible.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
PAULETTA TONILAS: This is Pauletta. I just want to add one quick note on to what Jeff was
saying and in alignment with the question that Director Lubow talked about is, what are other
transit agencies doing and how are they approaching ridership? Generally speaking, across the
board in the transit industry for years, everybody has talked about getting new riders, new riders,
people who are those prospective riders Jeff was talking about, people who don't typically ride
transit. That's why we're trying to shift the thinking to the people, as Jeff was just saying, that
already know transit, it isn't an intimidating thing for them, they maybe take it once or twice or
five times a year. But what can we do to just get them to take it a little bit more? And it's about
that quality of life and customer experience that Steven was talking about that we segue these
things together.
That's what's new and different about what the transit industry hasn't necessarily been doing.
And past programs, as you said, Madam Chair, are definitely a piece of that. We've talked about
even some new and different ways that we could pilot some past programs that will be part of
what we bring to the Board in the future.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair? Director Williams. Thank you.

Pauletta, I see this slide there where we looked at how many one ride translated to x number of
dollars. Could we do some marking that said, your one ride combined with everybody else you
know does this much reduction in climate change, reduces the pollution, lets us see the
mountains again.
So if you rode once more, our air quality would get better, or something along those lines. Have
we looked at that?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. Yes, Madam Chair, Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager
of Communications.
So real quickly, yes, absolutely, we can do that. And I know earlier in the meeting with the
quality of life report, I know Director Buzek and a few others were talking about the tremendous
information and how could we message that more, the value that transit brings in terms of
environmental benefits, air quality, and other things is definitely part of what we're talking about
when we talk about quality of life.
And I like your idea of talking about, hey, your one more trip on RTD helps improve the air or
helps lessen the miles people travel on the roads. So really, I like that we have so many
possibilities. And the innovation is all about that and how we choose to message it to people.
Because these are all great figures and data that Jeff has put together. And it's kind of the
foundation for us to then launch into a messaging platform.
And it's really the whole organization. This is not just the Communications department that has
to rethink this, what we're talking about. It's every department that can play a role in how we talk
about customers, how we enhance the customer experience, how we make it less intimidating,
how we make it friendlier and more helpful. So all of these things are what we'll be thinking
about and bringing back to you in iterations.
KATE WILLIAMS: Maybe we could have-- this is Director Williams again-- maybe we could
have a campaign that said, your one more ride will allow the Broncos quarterback to see the
receiver clearer when the air quality is better. Help out your team.
LYNN GUISSINGER: There you go.
KATE WILLIAMS: Just a thought.
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Director Catlin.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I really appreciated this more granular approach and targeting a specific
market. And since I'm one of those riders that you're targeting that would be-- you know, that's
interesting. Because I do not have a daily destination for my commute.

But my constituents are facing no service. And it's really hard to market a program to those in the
mountain communities and south Jeffco that don't have service. And even though some of them
would really like to access the service, I just was wondering if there were any maybe sub plots to
target to help with those people and to try and gain them back as customers in the future.
It's just really frustrating. Because you know, it's hard for me to support-- well, I can support it, I
see the logic in this target area. But it just falls flat with some of the people that I represent.
Sorry. That was my-- I don't know if I expect you to answer it. I just wanted to make that
comment.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
PAULETTA TONILAS: I can, moving forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Was that Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes, thank you. My question is, how are you going to measure success of this
program? As time goes forward, you're going to have a lot of people that are working from home
now that are going to be called back to their office, maybe not five days a week but three days a
week. And so they'll start riding the trains again. And so you'll see an uptick in ridership. But
how will you distinguish that from the people you're going to try to target in your marketing
program?
PAULETTA TONILAS: That's a great question. Jeff, do you want to jump in real quick?
We might have lost Jeff to the music hold. I got stuck on the music hold, too. So it might have
been he's on music hold.
What I would say-- I'll just go ahead and offer a quick answer. And again, we can follow up with
all of you, including you, Director Catlin, because I am one of your constituents and I do have
some thoughts about how we do that with folks who don't have a tremendous amount of service
right in their area.
But Director Broom, I would offer this as a quick answer. We're in the middle of our pandemic
plan and that will continue in the foreseeable future. So our hope is in the transit industry in
general, that people will start, we will start to recover and we will start to see some of the people
who took transit before hopping back on.
Now will they all? Maybe not, because people will be working from home maybe from now on.
But we will be putting some metrics into motion. I can't answer to that we've really thought it all
through yet. But this is, again, the foundation. But I think coming up with those metrics on how
we're going to measure what is the return of what would have been the normal ridership and how
do we then look at those additional infrequent trips is why I have Jeff and Steven, for us to think
that through and bring that back to the Board.

JEFF TRANGUCH: Pauletta, this is Jeff again. I'm so sorry. I was on mute when I was trying to
answer. Director Broom, I'm happy to provide an answer in email and follow up, just for the sake
of time. But we have some metrics and some tests we can run to measure our success.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anyone else? I think certainly can follow up with the suggestions.
JEFF WALKER: This is Jeff Walker.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, Jeff.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I came up with a tag line that I just sent to Ms.
Tonilas. And I think it covers all the things we're talking about here in terms of grabbing people.
And it may be a little edgy, but I think it works. And the tag line could be, do it with us one more
time.
[LAUGHTER]
LYNN GUISSINGER: I love it. Thank you for that hard work, Director Tisdale. I think Director
Walker had something to say.
JEFF WALKER: I don't have anything to say after that. No. No, thanks for the presentation. And
you know, actually I like the way that you've broken down the types of riders we have. Usually
it's just captive and choice riders. Or, I don't remember if captive is the right word, but you
know, those who have to rider and those who can afford to not ride, but do.
But this is a different approach than I've ever heard, because it's more focused on those riders
who are familiar with the system. Instead of throwing spaghetti against the wall and trying to
capture everybody, you're targeting people that do have familiarity with it, with the system
already.
I worked with a guy who used to take the W Line out to Golden and then hop on his mountain
bike and ride the trails and then hop back on the W and ride it back in. So those kinds of
experiences, I think, might be captured by something like, maybe, like what you're talking about.
And if I remember correctly that when Longmont had-- and it might still, I don't remember-- but
when Longmont started its free fare program, most of the boarding increases were from trip
increases, not from new individual riders, but new trips from the same riders, or an increase in
trips from the same riders. So I'm sure there's merit to the area that you guys are exploring.
I am wondering if you know the destination or the reason for infrequent riders, like where were
they going, why were they riding that one time.

JEFF TRANGUCH: This is Jeff, Manager of Market Research. We have limited information on
their destination. But we do know the counties in which they live. We have a few other
demographic information on them. Again, this is from the 2018 fare survey. But we're hoping to
expand in the future with some of the customer experience research to build on our
understanding of that. We realize that's an area where we need to grow. So we will look into that
in the future.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. Because-- I was going to say, if it's event driven, like a Broncos game or
a Nuggets game or something like that, then there might be some partnership opportunities there.
But anyway, this is good stuff. I like it. Thanks a lot, from Doug.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anybody else?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, it's Shelley Cook.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, Shelley Cook. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Can we provide some input? I mean, this series of presentations tonight was
just extraordinarily well integrated for some thought for this effort. And I just wondered if we
can provide our thoughts after the fact and still have it taken as input. I'd like to be able to do
that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I assume that that would be welcome. Is that right, Mr. Tranguch and Mr.
Brier?
STEVEN BRIER: Yes, absolutely. This is Steven Brier. We welcome that.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, absolutely. Happy to hear. Happy to hear from you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Anybody else?
Other Matters? Anybody have anything Other Matters? I'll do-- just the Accountability
Committee, the Governance Committee met today. Finance meets tomorrow. On the schedule
tomorrow, they're looking at the various statutes that may or may not need some tweaking.
They're looking at farebox recovery, the contracting, some of the bonding, the TOD, some of
those things. They're also looking at a comparison with some other-- it's really pretty initial
comparison with other transit agencies.
The Governance Committee yesterday was talking some about the Board, the 15 members, if
that's the right number. And Bill Van Meter gave a nice presentation on the whole redistricting
process, which may be a good reminder for all of us at some point to do a short version of that.

And then the Operations Committee is meeting tomorrow afternoon. And so we've gone to only
one Accountability Committee meeting per month and two of the subcommittee meetings. And
they're all public, of course, if you want to be in.
So that's the update on that. Any other matters from anyone?
All right. I think we are at a point, is there a motion to adjourn?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And I heard some seconds. Our next meeting is December 1st. And
have a good night. We're adjourned.

