Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant

Date:

August 17, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee Meeting held August 14, 2012 in
Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Malpiede, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Gore, Hoy, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker.

Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:

L. Skip Brown, Carolyn Conover, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bill Holmes,
Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Tony
McCaulay, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed,
Jannette Scarpino, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Phil
Washington, Richard Rost, Robin McIntosh Jr, Libby Cox, Kevin Parker,
Nate’ Malone, Michael Washington, James Cook, Gary Googins, Eric
Farrington

Others Present:

Melanie Asmar, Ferd Belz, Dana Crawford, Claudia Folska, Stan
Gronek, Jim Johnson, Brian Lewandowski, Robert McNown, Rich
Wobbekind
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Malpiede called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Updates
 Compliance Report
Carla Perez provided the Board with a DBE/SBE Monthly Compliance Report.
Committee Chair Malpiede expressed how pleased she was with the number
presented.
Director McMullen stated that he recently went to the COMTO HUB event,
which stands for Historically Underutilized Businesses. He explained that he
believes there is a stigma to DBE and would like to see an evolution to the
term HUB. He also expressed he was pleased with the numbers reported.

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 2 of 2

Carla Perez explained that the term DBE comes from the federal regulations
but hopefully as HUB becomes more popular we can begin using that term.


SBE Policy Discussion
Carla Perez explained that we do not have an SBE policy yet. She stated that
staff is working on a policy based on their discussion with the Board. Carla
explained that they also want to make sure they are getting input from
stakeholders. This has not been done yet so staff did not want to bring a
policy to the Board that did not have stakeholder input.
Director Anderson asked how stakeholders will be identified. She asked if
stakeholders would include only certified SBEs or the community in general.
Carla Perez stated that they wanted to be as broad as possible and reach as
many organizations as possible. Director Anderson commented that so many
small businesses are not associated with groups or organizations but she
believes there is a way we can reach out to them. Carla stated that staff is
trying to improve their outreach and has incorporated many of the Board
suggestions on how to do this better.
Chair Kemp asked when the Board could expect a policy. Carla Perez stated
that they hoped to present the policy during the DBE Committee meeting in
October.

II.

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

III.

Next Meeting Date – October 16, 2012

IV.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Malpiede adjourned the meeting at 6:57 p.m. to the Operations and
Customer Service Meeting.

