Summary of the DBE Outreach Committee meeting held on Friday, August 16,
2007
Page 1
Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

August 17, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Outreach Committee meeting held on
Thursday, June 8, 2007 at 12:00 pm.
****

Committee
Members Present:

Others Present:

Chairman Chacon, Directors McMullen, Barbara Yamrick, Chris
Martinez.
Cal Marsella, Greg Jenifer, Ty Perry, Michael Washington, Jim Stadler,
Phil Washington, Bob Medina, Kenn Hardin, Mariah Gosney, Marla Lien,
Ken Smith and Lisa Trujillo.
****
Director Chacon called to the meeting to order at 12:03 p.m.

1.

Call to Order

2.

Introductions
Juanita welcomed everyone and asked that introduce themselves.

3.

Recommended Action
Bob Medina, Risk Manager, showed the DBE Committee a Powerpoint Presentation.
Bob indicated that monitoring the program will be the toughest. Monitoring will be
done in-house because it is cheaper. The cost savings is 25%. It will probably be 5 or
6 months before it is known if the program is successful. The Powerpoint Presentation
is available if more information is requested.
Chair Martinez expressed concern about it being limited to just one corridor.
•

Small Tier Bonding Program
It is recommended by the DBE Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to award to Marsh USA a five year contract to
provide Professional Services for RTD’s Small Tier Subcontracting Bond
Alternative Program. Work is anticipated for the West Corridor only and based

Summary of the DBE Outreach Committee meeting held on Friday, August 16,
2007
Page 2
on success of the program RTD will determine whether to apply it to other
FasTracks Corridors. Funds for the award will be included in the FasTracks
budget following budget transfers outlined herein. It is further recommended
that the Board of Directors authorize a transfer of $100,000 from the FasTracks
program management capital budget, $200,000 from the self-insured workers’
compensation budget, and $45,000 from legal services budget to the fund the
contract expenditures for the first year of the contract.

Motion:

Director Martinez moved to forward this
item onto the agenda for the August 21,
2007 board meeting.

Second:
Vote on

Director McMullen seconded the motion.

Motion:

The motion passed unanimously

Chair Chacon requested that the item be placed on Unanimous Consent for the August
21, 2007 Board Meeting.
4.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

5.

Next Meeting Date
TBD

6.

Adjourn
Hearing no objections, Director Chacon declared the meeting adjourned 12:40 pm.

