Jun 11 2019 0530 PM Operations & Customer Service
Committee Committee SD 480
KATE WILLIAMS: And made available to the public via the Board's website. In as much as
safety is our core value, one of the things I will talk to you about this-- I don't need the whole
safety briefing, I don't think. Do I? Do I need the whole safety briefing? OK.
If we have a medical emergency and 911 needs to be called, I will ask the General Counsel to
make that telephone call. Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully
requested to assist. If needed, an AED, an Automatic Emergency Defibrillator-- I get brownie
points for saying that-- is in a glass case located just outside this room on the wall to the right.
In the event that we must evacuate the building for a fire or any other emergency, please exit
calmly out the door you came in at the back of the room, go up the stairs to the first floor, go
around the security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be
there to direct you to a safe meet up area. Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an
evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.
While RTD takes every precaution to ensure the safety of its passengers, vehicles, facilities, and
constituents, the agency relies on both staff and the general public to be aware of and alert to any
suspicious or dangerous activity on buses and trains and around our stops, stations, and
platforms. As such, I would encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD
Transit Watch app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and
communicate directly with RTD transit security personnel on a real time basis in the event in an
emergency situation. The Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple App
Store.
In addition to our normal safety briefing, I'd like to read a safety moment addendum to the
Directors, particularly. Sorry for the rest of you guys. You can leave the room and come back.
Directors at noon today, you likely received an alert from RTD's mass notification system called
ReadyOp. I know that I did. Today's alert was only a test. In the future, the system will be used
to communicate, via text, email, and voice notifications, urgent messages, or other information
that will require your immediate and current attention.
You are strongly encouraged to add the ReadyOp phone number to your trusted contacts. If you
have your phone with you at this time, please refer to the number associated with the text
message that you would have received at 12 o'clock noon today, and label that number as RTD
ReadyOp. If, by some chance, you did not receive a text or email notification today, you may
leave at this time. Oh no. Please-[LAUGHS]
Please alert Barbara McManus, and she will inform the ReadyOp administrators. I was just
trying to top the bike bells that we had last week. OK, let's go to our regular meaning. We have a

number of recommended options-- actions today. Sorry. I talk all the time. Did we find out if we
have people on the phone? Do we have anybody on the phone? Not yet. OK.
JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): Jeff Walker is on the phone.
KATE WILLIAMS: She lies.
[LAUGHS]
Good evening, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): Good evening. I'll be down in a minute.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Our first recommended action tonight is August 2019 Service Changes.
It's recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 2019 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
attachment A, resulting in an annualized-based system cost savings of $856,000. And further, to
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute contract amendments as necessary for
private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager goals. Core goal number 1,
which is successful delivery of transit services, and task goal number 1, which is fiscal
sustainability. Do I have a motion? Thank you, Director Catlin. Do we have a second? Director
Lewis. I need to write that down. OK. Do we have some discussion on this?
MICHAEL FORD: We're prepared to go through any of the information that's in your packet.
We've had four public meetings between May 27th and June 6th. I'm next to Jessie Carter here,
and he will be able to go through any of the finer details in your packet regarding the service
modifications, changes, or cancellations of service. So we're happy to take questions at this time
or go through any portion of the document that you would like.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I see Director Lewis has a question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I have a question about the Route 43, at 31st and Marion.
Is that near the school? Is that stop that's being eliminated near the school?
JESSIE CARTER: It's one of two stops that are actually near the school, the other stop being
about 200, 300 feet away.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, so what-- really?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes. And that's the reason for the bus stop consolidation. We have some close
spacing.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.

JESSIE CARTER: Because what happens over time is we receive requests for additional stops
on a route, and unfortunately, we ended up with quite a few stops on the Route 43 over the years.
It's not that it's a very old route, because it was actually created in 1994 with the implementation
of the central corridor. But since then, we've got a lot of requests for stops along the route.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. I did see one comment about it, but it was for the 43, but I was for
Ivy. Did you hear anything about the 31st and Marion [INAUDIBLE]
JESSIE CARTER: I did not.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. So that brings me to my next question about 31st and Ivy, and the
comment from the gentleman about the-JESSIE CARTER: For Mr. Wright.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Mm-hmm.
JESSIE CARTER: Yes. We are going to follow up and take a look at the number of wheelchair
deployments as an indicator of where people with disabilities might be getting on.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
JESSIE CARTER: I have to tell you, though, that stop was identified because it was a very low
number of boardings that occur there.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. You may not know this. Do you know the age of the folks, the
demographics, that live in that area? Is it an aging population? Is it a younger population?
JESSIE CARTER: I haven't looked at it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: [INAUDIBLE]
JESSIE CARTER: I would hazard to guess it would be, with the latest demographics of North
Park Hill look like, because they have been changing quite a bit.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, as it turns out.
JESSIE CARTER: So yeah, with that, I'd like to get with you offline and explain it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate your time.
JESSIE CARTER: Will do.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Chair. I lost my place with Jesse and Michael. I just want a
little clarification. One of the categories was for further analysis. I'm not finding it now. I'm just
curious what that meant.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. So if you look at the Board paper, under Changes to the Initial
Recommendation, when we go out to the public, and also we continue to do analysis of our
routes as we go through. So last time we spoke to you was about six weeks ago. Since then,
we've learned a few things.
And some of them have come to us through our customers, others through operations, and others
through communication with the union. So we had four additional changes that were added to the
recommended action here that were not a part of the original Board paper. Those included the
Route 10, where we're changing, have a minor route change in the downtown area, to better
enable us to provide an interline on our services.
We have the Route 31, where we had to update the information because we're not going to go to
104th. We weren't able to make that turn there. Instead, we are going to send the Route 31 over
to 106th and Melody. We have the Route 50/51, where we had a school tripper that was
underperforming and only carrying single digits on a regular basis, so we added that as a service
that we needed to curtail. And then the Route Y, we have some minor trip adjustments for school
trip times on the Route Y.
TROY WHITMORE: So I think I'm finding-- maybe you mentioned-- yeah, you just mentioned
the Y. So the routes proposed for routine running time analysis and schedule, can you tell me
how that-- how did you decide on the-- is this a hard look or one last call look? I'm just curious
how that category is founded.
JESSIE CARTER: Well typically, we hear from a wide number of folks, be it our customers.
And again, when I look at my customers, they include the public as a whole, and also our
operators. And we hear about issues that we have with their schedules.
Also, we have an objective look, which is the monthly monitoring that we get on our routes
coming from APC (automated passenger counter) data that shows us how well it's doing overall.
So we get information about certain segments of routes that aren't performing well, in terms of
on time performance, and we, of course, will put that under examination.
TROY WHITMORE: So the operator's input is taken in that area? That's great to know because,
obviously, we're worried about constituents, but operators have past knowledge.
JESSIE CARTER: They're the ones who are trying to make it happen.
TROY WHITMORE: Indeed. OK, thank you. Thank you, Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker's on the phone. I'm going to jump out of line and go to him.
Director Walker, you have any questions?

JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): No. No, I don't.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. I think that Director Lubow, you're up next.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I'm just going to make a comment that I'm going to be voting
against these service changes because of the proposal to drop the second Broomfield FlexRide.
And it's my understanding, from talking to Brian Mathewson from Broomfield staff, that we're
going to keep that, ultimately, because DRCOG (Denver Regional Council of Governments) is
expected to give a grant to pay for it. But until we know for sure, I feel obligated to vote no for
that.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, understood.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to address that for a minute. The DRCOG grant is not going to be
until the middle of September. I called them and asked them because I am a part of the
Broomfield LCC (local coordinating committee) and I've been very involved in that FlexRide.
And so they will not have that information until the middle of September.
JUDY LUBOW: [INAUDIBLE] isn't it?
KATE WILLIAMS: That's correct.
JUDY LUBOW: I was told something different, but we can talk about that offline. But anyway,
thank you for that information.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. OK, Director-- I'm sorry, Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I had a question relative to attachment
B. It's packet pages 12 through 16, and their communications from Jefferson County
commissioners, as well as the Golden mayor. And I was curious as to whether we had anything
at all proposed for changes to the W Line in these service changes that we're approving tonight,
because I didn't see anything. Can you clarify that for me?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes. Chair, you might remember, back in May, we proposed a reduction of
service on the weekend of the W. We were also invited to a public meeting up in Golden, where
three of our Board members actually were present and presented information to them about that
change. In that meeting, we did learn of the mayor and the council's-- best I can call it is disdain
for the current fare structure, which places the last station in the regional category. So they felt it
necessary to, again, speak about their feelings about the current fare structure.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you, and I appreciate that clarification because I personally
enjoy the dialogue on that point, and I think we are, at some point in time, going to have some
further dialogue and communications relative to the regional structure. But I just wanted to
clarify because I think there could be confusion, by someone looking at this packet, that

somehow we were proposing some of those changes on the W Line, and I want it made clear that
there are no changes to the W Line that are included in this recommended action this evening. So
thank you. That's all, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Williams. Two of my questions were already posed by
Directors Whitmore and Chair Tisdale. So the only question I have is, what is the cost for the
school trippers, adding those school trippers on the service in Denver? Do we have a breakdown
on that, because that seems to be additional costs that may take away from other services in other
areas.
JESSIE CARTER: Well actually, the school tripper that we're proposing to do is actually
canceled, so it's a cost savings. However, it's smaller. It's about an hour's worth of service. So I'm
completely drawing a blank right now, but what our local cost is, what I can offline give you that
that rate per hour, what I would rate the savings. But from a resource standpoint, that saves us a
peak hour bus.
PEGGY CATLIN: I guess I'm confused because it says reinstating the school trippers.
JESSIE CARTER: We have school trippers that we're reinstating. And I'm sorry, I may have
mistook your question to be about the additional changes on the 50/51. But the school trippers,
they're annualized throughout the year, so it's not a cost increase because we carry that cost each
year. It's reinstated once August rolls around.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I was just curious as to what the resources and the cost were for
providing that service.
JESSIE CARTER: You want to whole-- that is something that I can put together.
PEGGY CATLIN: At some point, yeah.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, we'll do that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Offline is fine. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. We went through this when we met before, and you can answer
this later if you don't have it off the top-- But I think these numbers may have been refined a
little. When CU takes over the Stampede route between CU and the East Campus, it says it'll
save RTD $1.1 million, roughly. Do you recall what the utilization pricing revenue is that we
won't be getting on that? You can tell me later.
JESSIE CARTER: I will have to tell you later.

[LAUGHS]
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just would like to see that again, if I could, please.
JESSIE CARTER: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Do we have anyone else on the phone? No add-ons? OK. Seeing nobody
else on the Board, I guess I'll call for the vote on this. Director Catlin and Director Lewis, if you
would vote.
OK, it looks like we had 11 yeses, one no. And the no vote was Director Lubow, as she said.
And we had three no votes from people who were not here. That would be Director Malpiede,
Director Buzek, and Director Folska. And so this will move on down the line.
Now we have a number of updates. Hopefully, everybody reviewed and feels updated. I think
we're going to change people over here for a minute to answer some updates. And the very first
thing we're going to have is a verbal presentation on the North Metro stand up. I'm assuming that
you're going to run that, Mr. Stopplecamp?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I will be starting it and passing it on.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Go ahead.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So we'll try to get through this relatively quickly.
KATE WILLIAMS: We would all be grateful for that.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes. And so we've got Michael Ford, Dave Jensen, Allen Miller,
Henry Stopplecamp at the table. So just want to give you folks a quick update where we are are
on the construction. Mr. Miller will go into staffing, along with Michael Ford. And so currently,
we are testing the North Metro corridor.
We do have equipment out there under its own power and we are running maximum authorized
speed. So that maximum speed is up to 79 miles an hour at a couple locations. So we have
expected the track infrastructure. Now we are going through to the signal systems, the at grade
crossings. All brake testings, clearance testings have all been completed.
So while we're doing that, our contractor's finishing up the parking structure at 104th, some of
the station locations, and improvements outside of the dynamic envelope and the fenced off area
for the operations of the train. So we can operate the train safely and then we can finish the
drainage and landscaping, park-n-ride projects outside of that corridor.
As far as offices for our employees, we'll get into a little more detail in a minute, but we've got
three major facilities going up, the 711 building, which we converted from a BNSF maintenance

building to the TIC/customer care. Treasury and the third bay will be for the operations of the
commuter rail for the administration portion. We're also putting together a temporary facility up
off of 72nd for the maintenance-of-way, which are the signal track and the OCS (overhead
catenary system) folks that will be maintaining the corridor.
The reason is temporary, as we do a permanent facility somewhere. The facility is Steele Street.
And so we are on the design and right-of-way acquisition at that point. Our plan is to move
forward through the testing and then modify the corridor for any of the needs that we find
through the testing process. Plan for quiet zones later this year. And hopefully by August, be up
and running a simulated service, and having as many of our employees available as possible to
do similar service and cleaning up the corridor. And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Mr.
Miller on headcount.
ALLEN MILLER: So for the North Metro FTE positions, where we stand. We have a total of 49
non-represented positions and a total of 72 represented positions. We currently are in a position.
We have 24 positions that are still open with non-represented. We have just started hiring and
going through the processes for our union represented positions. We currently have 24 people on
staff that fill the core of RTD staff, with regard to commuter rail. I'd like to take a moment now
to introduce them.
So Ivonne Aranda could you please stand? Are you here? Ivonne Aranda is our concession
liaison. She is the direct point of contact between Denver Transit Partners and RTD for ADA
compliance issues, customer service, customer care issues. Yvonne has 25 years in
administrative, customer care, and document control.
She is currently working to finalize her bachelor's degree in business administration. Yvonne, in
addition to her role as customer care liaison, is currently our document control specialist for
commuter rail operations, as well as, literally, our de facto chief of staff. She keeps us all in line.
Thanks, Yvonne.
Brandon, are you here? Brandon Beach is our safety and security compliance officer, newly
hired, who represents commuter rail oversight for the Eagle project. Brandon comes to us with
14 years of security and crisis management and has a graduate of the P.O.S.T. (Peace Officer
Standards and Training) certificate for the Police Academy within Arapahoe County. Thank you,
sir. Martha Bembry?
Martha Bembry is probably a face that many of you know. Martha Bembry is now our senior
manager of safety, security, and compliance for commuter rail. Martha has 20 years of commuter
rail experience. She's going to shoot me for putting these numbers together, but I'm sorry,
Martha. I have to do it. She has 20 years of commuter rail experience and FRA (Federal Railroad
Administration)regulated territory, including PATH in the Port Authority, New York, New
Jersey, as well as 10 years with RTD, leading our bus safety program for our bus operators.
Martha has a Bachelor of Science in industrial engineering, and she is also a WSAO-certified
director of safety and security for bus and rail operations. Shoot me later, dear.

John, are you here? John Bowlers is our supervisor of overhead catenary. He comes to us with 12
years in high voltage electric, six years with 25 KVA and higher with OCS power distribution.
Thank you, sir.
Andrew Cash? Mr. Cash is one of our newest hires. He is our contract administrator for the
Eagle Project oversight, but he is also providing assistance to us with regard to stand up. Andrew
comes to us from the East Coast with 10 years in contract administration, a JD (juris doctor) in
law, and he is esquire after his title, and we're thrilled to have him. Thank you, sir.
Mark Clendennen. Mark Clendennen is our general superintendent of infrastructure and
maintenance of way. He comes to us with 15 years of commuter rail experience and 22 years in
finance and IT.
Specifically, what his role in stand up was with CapMetro in Texas is he was responsible for 135
miles of commuter rail corridor interfaced with five short lines and two major freights. He was
responsible for the cut-in of 67 at grade crossings for both ATC (automatic train control) and
positive train control (PTC), and we're very happy to have him.
Jeet Desai? I think most of you know Jeet. Jeet has 15 years of planning and project
management, five years within commuter rail construction and planning. He comes to us with a
bachelor of civil and engineering degree. The one point that I would make about Jeet, he has
worked closely with me for three years. And October of 2017, you got your PE, correct? You
worked on it?
When Jeet worked on his PE, one of the important things I would point out in this particular
situation, his son was very ill. He was in a very bad situation. We had three project deadlines for
the commuter rail oversight, and he managed to study for and pass his PE during that entire
situation. So again, tremendous worker and we're glad to have him. Thank you, sir.
Dawn Dileo couldn't be with us tonight. She had an incident with her son. She is our senior
accountant for commuter rail oversight. She has 30 years of accounting experience with a
Bachelor of Science in Accounting.
Rafael Gutierrez? Not here. Rafael couldn't be with us again. He is our supervisor for track. He
comes to us with 27 years of commuter rail and freight rail experience. Has associates degree in
welding and an associates degree in track elements for commuter rail and freight rail systems.
Among other things, he's worked at MetroLink in California. He's worked at the BNSF
(Burlington Norhtern Santa Fe). And he's been a consultant in both of those agencies as well.
Brady Hollaway? Brady Hollaway comes to us. He's our manager of maintenance of way for
commuter rail. He comes to us with 10 years experience in commuter rail and freight. Has a BA
in management, and most recently Amtrak. Glad to have you aboard, sir.
Freddie Josephs. Mr. Josephs comes to us. He is our supervisor of signals. He comes to us with 3
and 1/2 years of rail signaling experience, seven years in the oil and gas industry, and he has a
bachelor's degree in electrical and computer engineering. Thank you, sir.

Anita Liscum? Anita couldn't be with us as well. Anita comes-- Oh, she is. There she is.
JESSIE CARTER: Back row.
ALLEN MILLER: Sorry, Anita.
[LAUGHS]
Anita comes to us. She is our administrative assistant now for the senior manager of contracted
services. Anita comes to us with 22 years of administrative, customer care, and marketing
services. And she has a bachelors degree in psychology, which, quite frankly, some of us in
commuter rail could use, so we're grateful to have her as well.
Steve McAbee. Steve McAbee comes to us. He is our supervisor of communications with nine
years of communications in IT services and we're grateful to have him. Thank you, sir. You all
know me so I'll skip me. That's not important.
Nancy Miller? No, she's not related, honestly. She is our administrative assistant for the General
Superintendent with Mark's department. She comes to us with 12 years administrative, customer
care, and team support and has a bachelor's degree in education.
Mike Ortega? Mike comes to us. He is our track supervisor. He was with our light rail
department and light rail track maintenance for 10 years and has 10 years and grounds care and
ground supervision. Thank you, sir.
Benjamin Powell? He is there. I didn't wait for him to stand up. Benjamin has an interesting story
for me. I had the great honor recently of potentially introducing our Chair Tisdale at one of our
leadership academy events, and I politely declined because I told Mr. Tisdale that I didn't want to
introduce an act like him. And his response was, great, that's the kind of guy I want to introduce
me. Introduce me and get off my stage.
[LAUGHS]
Well, Ben Powell I was going to use to introduce this, and with his Australian accent and a deep
tenor, I think he might give you some competition, folks, so I decided, no, I wasn't going to give
you competition tonight.
Ben comes to us with 12 years of rail signaling maintenance. He has a bachelors of science and
railway signaling. Originally from Australia and he's been with the Eagle Project for 6 and 1/2
years. Thank you, sir. See, I didn't bust your chops too bad, Ben.
Paul Smith? Paul Smith is another of our signal supervisors. He comes to us with 12 years of rail
PTC, formerly a BNSF employee who implemented-- your territory was Texas, I believe, wasn't
it, sir? And he has a bachelor's degree in computer information systems and we're grateful to
have him as well.

Jeffrey Wineteer. Jeff comes to us again. He's signal supervisor. He comes with 12 years of rails
signaling and an associates and business administration, formerly a UP (Union Pacific)
employee. And again, we're grateful to have him.
And finally for tonight, Don Wood. Don Wood comes to us as our budget analyst III for
commuter rail. Don has 30 years of budget and financial management. He has a bachelor in
geology and an MBA, a master's in business administration.
You were with the airport for what, 20 years? Three years and then you went to the city, correct?
Yes. So he has a great background. He's helpful to me with regard to City and County of Denver,
as well as the airport. And with that, I'll turn it back over-- Oh, I'm sorry, Michael, it's up to you
now.
MICHAEL FORD: I'm just going to briefly talk a little bit about some of the work we've been
doing with ATU (Amalgamated Transit Union). We have an MOU (memorandum of
understanding) that we've crafted, proposed to them, and we have been talking to them and
exchanging information. And I think we're getting really close to resolving this issue.
We've put out an MOU that covers commuter rail for represented employees. There are a few
issues that they're just wanting some clarification on, but in discussions with the leadership, I
think we're getting close and hoping to have something wrapped up in the next couple of weeks.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So with that, we need a place to house everybody. So we talked
about 711 building. Most of the folks, the field folks, will be out in the field, but the
administrative staff will be housed at the 711. We'll have showers and lockers for the operators.
The operators will report there for their assignments for the day. Drug and alcohol tests will be
done there. 25 employees per shift. And we also have a disaster recovery and a backup dispatch
center located at that facility.
Then the permanent facility-- we talked a little about the trailers, but with the temporary facilities
on East 72nd and Brighton Boulevard, that goes in effect later this summer. And the field folks
will be out there for about three years as we're building our permanent facility.
And then our permanent facility will go ahead and house the track, signal, OCS folks and the
additional security odds and ends will be out at that facility. And we figure that final facility will
be sometime in four years from pretty much now, so that makes it about 2023. And with that, I'm
going to turn it back over to Mr. Miller.
ALLEN MILLER: Good to hear. So one of the things that we had issue with with the temporary
facility was, because we have a tremendous amount of large parts that we wanted to secure,
things like catenary poles, things like contact wire, which is extremely expensive, as you're
probably well aware. We see a lot of theft in that in the right-of-way. So we have in our
possession, we have what's referred to as the KIK building, which is 4941 E. 39th Avenue,
which is part of the A Line purchase. It was part of the Eagle Project purchase.

We're going to use this as our temporary facilities for housing parts until the permanent facility is
completed. We own this facility. There'll be no cost involved with regard to purchase. Commuter
rail operations will use the East Bay, approximately 20,000 square feet for storage, and we
should be functional by the end of June in this facility.
Next, we want to talk about the N Line rescue equipment and what that looks like. The objective
is is that anytime we have a power failure within the N Line, because of Skyway being a twomile bridge, we did not want to have any kind of a rescue coming off that bridge on foot. And so
from the very early stages of talking about the N Line stand up with RTD, we've been talking
about a rescue vehicle.
We currently are working with Trackmobile to finalize what the rescue vehicle will look like.
We have actually prepared and signed now the purchase order for this piece of equipment. We
are working closely with FRA in order to procure it and make sure that it meets all FRA
compliances. As of April, our scheduled FRA coordination meetings are going well in this area.
We have three outstanding issues that we will meet with the rail safety administrator and the
director of commuter rail in the near future to finalize that.
But again, none of these issues are deal breakers with regard to using this piece of equipment.
With regard to commuter rail fleet vehicle and equipment maintenance, we are working closely
with fleet maintenance and fleet procurement to procure the vehicles necessary in order to
maintain and operate the system. We are about one quarter of the way through our procurement,
which is keeping us about where we need to be on track. We expect full procurement in the
fourth quarter of 2019.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And then we get into the integration between the Commuter Rail
Maintenance Facility, run by Denver Transit Partners (DTP), and the N Line. We call that the
head integration. So we're tying the two systems, the N Line and the Eagle Project into one
seamless commuter rail operation. So we have the working with Xorail Lab Tech, which is our
contractor for the systems portion. Same contractor that DTO (Denver Transit Operators)/DTP
has been using.
And so we're working with them to do a seamless overlay. We are using the same train
management dispatch system. We're using the same PTC version of the software. And so we are
working with them to tie in. We've got our servers. We've got a dispatch center up and running
right now in the 711 building. And we are dispatching the North Metro line through testing out
of that facility with our own dispatchers.
And eventually, we'll move that facility into the commuter rail maintenance facility. So we've
been working with them, and you'll hear RPC 101. It's a change request to modify the existing
contract we have with DTP for the operations. There's probably 40, 50 items to finalize, and
we're probably 90% through. Had a very productive meeting today with Anne Herzenberg. And
so hopefully, we'll be wrapping this up in the next week or two. And that's where we stand on
tying it together. I think it's Allen on the New Starts.

ALLEN MILLER: So where we are at with the New Starts Matrix, the New Starts Matrix
represents approximately 130 documents that FRA requires prior to going into revenue service.
We have successfully coordinated and moved forward our part 214 under 49 CFR, which is our
Roadway Worker Protection (RWP) plan, our Roadway Worker manual, our training program.
And our program management, as well as testing, has been approved by FRA and we are now
fully compliant. The N Line, as it stands right now, is under full RWP protection. Everything is
controlled by my staff and through the commuter rail staff with regard to training and operations
and safety within the corridor. We are also working with, and I would say that where the
numbers are at right now, we have over 300 RRP and RTD personnel who are now RWP
qualified, as well as RTD staff, being roadway worker and charge qualified.
So we are meeting our compliances with this issue. In addition to that, 49 CFR Part 219, our
drug and alcohol program has been reviewed. It has been approved by FRA and we are fully
functional under 219. They're currently working on 240 and 242, which are locomotive engineer
and conductor service training under FRA 49 CFR, and we are expecting approval on this within
the month.
We're also working on 49 CFR Part 225 Accident Reporting. Our planned submission is that we
will have a single report discussion on how we report, as a single railroad, the RTDC, which will
mean that the Eagle Project, the A, the B, the G Line, and the N Line will report as a single
railroad, but we will report separately in a subdivision as two separate entities for data tracking.
272, our critical stress plan has been submitted for review by FRA, and we expect positive
results on that shortly as well. Our operating rulebook is under way and our timetable is currently
present for the North Line, and we are operating to that timetable, which is 217-7.
Implementation of man hours of service on physical forms to capture dispatcher items and
operator items is currently underway, and we will eventually integrate that, as well, into an
electronic system.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And with that, we open it up to questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I'd like to explain something to you, gentlemen, for future
reference. The remainder of the bus and ops team, and I spent an hour and a half yesterday, all of
these Directors spend a great deal of time reading their packets.
I, frankly, am so happy to have you all introduced to us, but I am not going to remember your
name because I couldn't take notes on all that. And I would really appreciate, in the future, that
when you come to report as part of this committee, that you give us this information in advance
so that we can review it.
Maybe there's a question that I wanted to ask. What I have is North Metro Stand Up, verbal, no
backup. So I will expect to get all of this in writing from you, maybe by the end of the week,
since you guys must have it and we didn't get it in advance. Are we OK with that?

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I apologize and we are working off a series of old PowerPoints. Just
for our own memory, we are not going off of any prepared documentation.
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't need a PowerPoint. I'd just like to have a written summary of who
the people are and what they did and what you're doing.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: We can do that.
KATE WILLIAMS: And the RPC 101 90%. And I'd like to know that the three facilities, were
those part of the original project costs?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes, they were, and this is just an update to what was been presented
to the Board already.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. And I mean, we can go on the record is this the fact that I, personally,
have been opposed to us doing it. I think we're going to fingerpointing with DTP down the road.
So that gives flavor to my statements and my questions. I want to be upfront about that.
But I added-- so we have 49 employees in one category in 72 in another. That's 121 employees.
And if I remember correctly, DTP was going to do it with 70 employees. So I see that strange
there a little bit. So I just think that in the future, we need to have this information beforehand so
that we can digest it. We'll be digesting it after the fact, I'm sure. And that's all I have to say right
now. Thank you for your patience. And Director Menten, you're up.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I do want to go over those numbers for the employees. So I
had 49 non-represented, 72 represented, 121. But then potentially had a note here of 24 still
open. Is that within that number?
ALLEN MILLER: 24 positions is still open and 49 non-represented, Director Menten. We
probably have 25 hired under non-represented. 24 are still in the hiring process for the 49.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So that sounds to me, actually, about what you had estimated, maybe
one or two more maybe. I think it was 47 represented. I'm looking back at my old notes. That's
fairly minor. But dollars, all the way around dollars. The estimates, we went into great, great,
great detail in January, when I brought forward an issue about having a third party look at all of
the dollars. How do we sit on both capital and both projected operating costs compared to the
figures at that time?
ALLEN MILLER: With regard to capital, where our projections are, we projected, in the stand
sp, we would have $24.7 million dollars expended with regard to capital and salaried employees
and hourly employees. We are projected to meet that. In addition to the $17.1 million a year
operating budget, we do not intend to exceed that nor do we intend to exceed our headcounts as
presented to the Board.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you. That's all the questions I have.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I can say I'm a little disappointed to receive this amount
of information in this meeting. And I've asked several times in this space that you will not come
to the meetings with this much information and updates and not have anything written.
And so I'm a little disappointed in that. I'm quite disappointed, and so I ask that you guys provide
whatever it is that you're reading off of, bullet points, notes, updates, the specifics with the ATU,
because I'm really interested in really taking care of our bus operators and I don't know if that's
within that plan.
You talked about permanent and temporary facilities. I wasn't able to capture all of that. We
talked about the change request with DTP. I have no idea what that is. We talked about the New
Starts. And so there were just a number of things.
And so if you all could provide that stuff to us, it would be really, really helpful. And I ask that
you will not do this again because it's really hard to keep up with that much information and be
able to ask the right questions of each of you. Thank you.
ALLEN MILLER: Director Lewis, we've received both yours and Director Williams. We will
correct this.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry, that's my cue. Chair Tisdale, you're up.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate very much the presentation
and I appreciate the representation that further written information will be provided so the Board
has the benefit of being able to review that completely. But lest the message be lost, let me point
out, I am delighted to have all of these people, all of the members of the stand up team, here with
us this evening, sitting before us so that we can put a face to a name.
I was cheating off of Vice Chair Catlin's notes. She does a good job of following all of that, and
obviously, we'll have other opportunities. But it is a chance for us to see all of you and to share
with all of you that this Board did make the commitment that we are going ahead with the
operation of this line, because that's the business of RTD. We run things, unless, pursuant to a
concessionary agreement, we contract that to someone else.
But it's good to have you with us and I don't want that message to be lost with the comments
relative to procedure. The important thing is you're a great part of our team, and we look forward
to successful great things from you. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Ever, ever the diplomat you are. Dr. Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Not to beat a dead horse, I think I would have
appreciated an advance copy. I took notes furiously and I captured every name but one, in hopes
that I can greet you personally. But to echo the Chair's comments, welcome all of you. And I

know you're working really hard and I do want to applaud the team for bringing them in and for
you all organizing in such a great fashion.
I got lost. And I'm a transportation geek, having been in the industry for 35 years, I, quite
frankly, got lost with all the acronyms at the end and I couldn't take notes fast enough. So I think
a follow up document indicating-- because I was impressed that you had met all of the
requirements of the various CFR, but I wasn't taking notes fast enough to realize what those
were. So I appreciate that you are going to follow up with us on that, so thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook, good evening.
SHELLEY COOK: Good evening, thanks. So I'm not sure if this is Henry, but where do we
stand with PUC approvals for this quarter? And I think I understood that we have not asked for
the minus 5 plus 15 standard. Instead, we've got the tighter prior one. Is that true?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes, that is correct. We are not planning on asking for the minus 5
plus 15. We believe we can make it on this quarter.
SHELLEY COOK: And so where are the crossings with regard to the PUC approvals, or
anything else that's needed there?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yeah, go ahead.
ALLEN MILLER: Director Cook, with regard to PUC approvals, we wouldn't actually request
PUC approvals until RTC timings are in place, and we haven't finalized cut-ins with the
crossings yet. We anticipate that to occur sometime in July, and we would have that before the
PUC commission sometime in early August with an anticipation if we do meet the warning
times, as we expect with approval sometime in the fourth quarter.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: I'd like to echo the eloquence of our esteemed Chair regarding the
employees being here. I'm sure it's been a long day for you all and you have many long days
ahead of yourselves. I appreciate you being here, being away from your families, or at least not
down the street with all those dastardly Cubs fans that we had to make our way through to get
here.
[LAUGHS]
And I'm very impressed with your qualifications and look forward to great things. Wonderful
presentation. Mr. Miller and Stopplecamp do a great job in the north area when they are asked a
lot of tough questions. I'm not sure that not having it writing did you justice. So it can be brief. It
may not have to be as detailed as others, but I would appreciate that because there is a lot of
good stuff there that needs to be documented, I think. Thank you, Madam Chair.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I apologize. I forgot to mention one thing. I caught
this at the very end, that you are going to-- even though it's going to be under one umbrella for
operations, you're going to be reporting on them separately for the purpose of capturing the data,
and I'm really glad to hear that. I think that will be a way to track our performance metrics and
everything else. So I forgot to mention that in my previous remarks.
ALLEN MILLER: Director Catlin, one of the reasons that is is because it is the RTDC. It is one
system, as far as FRA is concerned. But what we wind up having to do is create two subdivisions
out of that system so that we do have separate reporting. I'm working with Mrs. Herzenberg right
now because, specifically, FRA has also suggested that we may want to go further and actually
break out the A, B, and G Lines as different divisions as well. So we're working on that theory as
well.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh. Well anyway, I'm just glad to see that there is going to be a separate
tracking system.
KATE WILLIAMS: Do we have anybody on the phone that has any questions or comments?
Crickets. Hearing nothing, I think that we will move on. Well, I'm sorry, Director Lubow, speak
to us.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. Thank you for the presentation and I really appreciate meeting
the new staff. I think it's really important to feel that you're all part of a team, our team, and we're
all part of what you do. So thank you for coming and bringing them. I also wanted to touch on
the idea for the FRA. Is our commuter rail system considered one system, but because there are
different operators, there are going to be two different people submitting information?
ALLEN MILLER: With regard to the way FRA views this, we are, as RTD, the railroad owner
of record, and so the commuter rail system falls under the RTDC specifically. That is actually the
call numbers for FRA to recognize us as a railroad. Because we have two separate operators, one
will be the contracted services through Denver Transit Partners, Denver Transit Operators. They
will be one operator and RTD will be a separate operator, operating the N Line.
This is not unusual within the hierarchy of railroading in the country. Metrolink is an example,
and California has as many as 10 operators operating under one distinct railroad. MBTA
(Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority), similarly, has several operators operating their
system, both through a private contract as well as the agency itself. So FRA wants to recognize
us as a single railroad for reporting purposes to them, but then, subdivisionally, they want it
broken out so that they recognize the two operators operating separately and distinctly.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much. Appreciate that. And by the way, good luck to
everyone.
ALLEN MILLER: Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, gentlemen. I'm sorry if we complained a little bit, but we
work really hard here. I don't know if you all realize that we really have a lot of homework that
we do beforehand, and we would have liked, but we'll read it after the fact. And again, welcome,
ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you all very much for coming tonight. We look forward to learning more about you. OK, I
think you guys are excused and we're going to have the Gold Line corridor service plan next.
That's right, you guys don't have to stay here all night just because we do. You can go. Go ahead.
It's OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Feel free.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, so we're going to get into some stuff that we talked about as a group. I
am hoping that all of you took the time to read everything that you had presented to you besides
this verbal presentation, and that you came prepared with your questions. And I'm going to let
everybody know that if there are not any questions, we are going to move right on down the line.
This bus is not stopping, unless there's somebody requesting it to.
So the first questions. Anybody have anything? Well, we went away. Look at that. Technical
difficulties are being encountered in the cockpit. So all right, we'll just let you gentlemen stay
one second. Do we have hands raised? Anybody have any questions that they would like to ask
about the Gold Line corridor service plan? Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I just want to clarify, and staff can probably do it, but the service plan for the
G Line operating hours and frequencies is outdated. So the 6:00 AM to 6:30 PM is the 15 minute
headway. Before and after that is half hourly. Service starts at 3:51 in the morning, or something
like that, and ends just after midnight each day. Correct, guys?
ALLEN MILLER: That's right.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. That was good clarification. Anybody else? We enjoyed this
lovely colored presentation that we had time to read. Is there anything not there that you feel like
you want to tell us?
JESSIE CARTER: Sure. I wanted to introduce Mr. David Menter. He's a face that you haven't
seen on a regular basis. He is my senior lead service planner on the west side. David was a part
of the team that actually put together the service plan for this quarter. So just want to not exit
without introducing Mr. Dave Menter.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you and welcome. We're not always this confused here. It's OK.
You'll come to some meetings, give us some nice numbers, and we'll appreciate them. OK. I
think we're going to move on down the line here.

Anybody else? Going once, going twice. Thank you, gentlemen. How about service availability
for May 2019? Those who are involved to step forward. Those who are not, you can go home,
too. You go to the Rockies game now. It's OK.
DAVE JENSEN: There may be a question from-KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Do we have questions on this? Good evening, Mr. Worthen, Mr.
Jensen. Do you have a question? Director Lewis, go for it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I think I generally just have a question about recruitment
and retention, especially after seeing the N Line and seeing these higher and separated numbers.
And I'm curious, what are the strategies that you all are employing to maybe increase some of
these numbers, in terms of both recruitment and retention?
FRED WORTHEN: OK. So on the bus operations side, we have been making pretty good
progress. Last year, I forget the exact numbers, but we had a net somewhere around 60 operators.
This year, so far we've had about 40 operators, a net increase. So we've been slowly seeing
increases on the coach operator side. Where we haven't seen really increases is on the vehicle
maintenance side.
So we have a significant number of openings in general repair and body shop. We have a small
team that is working separately on coach operators from our maintenance challenges that we're
having. We just actually had a meeting just a couple of days ago to start strategizing on how to
improve our recruitment on the mechanics side of the house itself. So we're putting together
some surveys to try and find out what drew people into the job.
Also putting together some surveys, for people that have left over the last couple of years, to try
and understand better why they have left. And then we're going to also put together some
personas information so we can do more targeted marketing. We have done advertising via radio
and other sources over the past, but what we're trying to do is refine our marketing efforts so that
we can bring in a different headcount than we've had.
We're also talking with our local community colleges. We actually have a meeting coming up
very soon, where we're going to talk about how we can expand efforts, like our detect program,
where people start out at a junior college and then we bring them in-house and train them. We
have also changed our entry level requirements for our mechanics' side of the house also.
In the past, you used to have heavy diesel repair backgrounds. Now what we're asking for is an
automotive background, and then what we're doing is bringing people in house and we are
starting to train them, like we do our d-tech folks. So we have seen some general repair folks
come in. We haven't had applications in the general pair for some time. We hired about eight
new mechanics over the last couple of months.
The body shop side, though, is much more challenging. There are a host of shops that have
multi-years of repairs waiting for hail damage. And they are paying very high wages for these
jobs and people get to work whenever they want to work and have whatever time off they want.

So trying to penetrate the market on the body shop side is a little more challenging, but we are
working very strongly on improving our strategies for all of those things.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. So you answered my second question, was the was how, and
you addressed it with the surveys. And the last thing, it's more of a comment than it is a question,
but Director Catlin and I went on the district tours, and one of the things that we had the option
to do is chat with mechanics. And one of the barriers that they named was the cost of the tools
and boots, as well. And I was wondering if you had heard anything from mechanics, specifically
around those cost as barriers.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, we have, and I'm going to be very careful in what I say so Heather
doesn't string me up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Fair.
FRED WORTHEN: But what we're looking at is the possibility of finding ways to help people
get tools when they come in the door that would assist with getting what they need from a startup
standpoint. The bargaining employees do get a tool allowance every year of about $500, which
helps once you establish your tool sets.
But in the beginning, that's a little difficult. On the Helper Program, what we do is we will
actually buy the employees tool sets, and then what they do is they pay back $1 an hour till they
compensated us for that. So we're looking at ways that we can help them, though, with getting
the tools that they need to walk in the door.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Right. Thank you so much for your time.
DAVE JENSEN: And this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. If I could, for a moment,
just make one quick comment to update the Board. Without question, our retention and
recruitment is an issue that we are working on. And I won't reiterate all the things that Mr.
Worthen mentioned. But in terms of numbers, from the train operator staff, we are right now, as
of today, right about 180 train operators compared to 155 earlier in the year or last year.
So there is turnover, but we are making slow progress as well. And the one of the things that
we're paying very close attention to is the number of mandates. And so first quarter numbers
look encouraging to us. We're mandating roughly 52%, 53%, below where we were last year. So
we're hoping that the fewer mandates will allow for greater retention as well. So again, it is a
concern. We're aware of it and working on it, but we are making some progress as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And that's actually another reason I ask. I know I
talked to General Manager Genova and he talked about the six-day mandate. And so if we're able
to decrease that, I'd imagine that we'd be able to retain folks more. So I appreciate you sharing
that information.
MICHAEL FORD: I would just like to add a little bit more just to the retention issue. We also
have a communication task force that's working to do better communication, to make people feel

more value, to be able to provide information to them, and also to listen to them. We're starting
up with some emails. We've got some more work to do on that. We'll be able to communicate to
them and get them information.
We have these screens that are called the PIDs, and these are ways to communicate and get
feedback from people, let people know what's going on so people don't feel lost when they get
here. It's a pretty big organization. We want to be able to communicate effectively. So we're
working on those ends as well and involving people, and creating some work groups to get their
feedback so we understand, more completely, some of their concerns and their issues.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you so much. I'm happy to lend my support in whatever you all see
necessary, so thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Once again, I think it is important to
focus on something really significant here. It is always easy to say that we had unfulfilled runs,
that we had missed runs, that we lost scheduled hours.
But look at the degree of improvement from last year to this in these numbers. That's remarkable.
I think the three of you sitting over there, Michael and Fred and Dave-- excuse me for being
informal. But I want to emphasize how impressed I am in seeing that, because that is one of the
numbers that I focused on last year and the year before, and just saying it's scary what was going
on.
So that's dramatic. I think that's wonderful. I'm very happy to hear that we're continuing with the
effort to reach out to the community colleges to help do that. I'm delighted to hear that we're able
to reduce the amount of mandating. So let's pause for a moment and celebrate that, too. I think
it's something worthy of celebration.
I do want to visit with you offline relative to comments that I did hear from some employees at
the barbecue, at the employee barbecue. Because there were comments relative to the number of
mechanics and the fact that we really are not replacing those as vibrantly as we could. People
think, and there are some suggestions, for how we might change that.
And I think that's not something I would burden the meeting with, but I'd love to visit with you
separately to let you know some of the ideas that some of these people have brought up and
suggested. So let me conclude as I began. Congratulations. This is something to celebrate and
promote, and I think we all should feel good about the significant job you've done and the
training on that. Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I would say that I think prior to my arrival,
there was a big focus on the coach operator component. And that really wasn't as much of a

focus on the vehicle maintenance side. We've really been working to improve that particular
component, but happy to hear any suggestions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would echo Chair Tisdale's comments about the
progress that's being made. That's really laudable. I was prepared to ask the same question that
Director Lewis had asked when we heard about some of the barriers to purchasing equipment for
the mechanics and any kind of incentives, or creative incentives, that we can do that might be
low cost, I would be in support of and would love to brainstorm with some of you all.
And some of the operators have some very, very good-- or some of the mechanics and
maintenance folks have some good ideas as well. And I learned quite a lot when I went on that
district tour. The main thing that resonated with me was the creativity with which these folks do
their jobs and how amazing they are at creating something, or repairing something, or building
something out of, basically, nothing.
And the ingenuity that goes into that is amazing. And even to the extent that we could offer some
rewards, or incentives, or something for people to come up with some of these things. I was just
so impressed by a number of the items I saw. And also, our CFO was with me at CDOT when we
did a fairly simple, but very symbolic, gesture.
And that's when we bought our maintenance employees steel-toed boots and we put them on a
rotation. And the number of our maintenance folks at CDOT who were thrilled that we were
thinking of their safety and their foot protection on the job, and we actually funded a boot
replacement and supply. That was a very small gesture.
And I'm not suggesting that we do that here, but the amount of feedback that we got as
leadership, saying they really do care about our safety, they're doing this for us, was really pretty
remarkable. So again, I would really love to look at some ways to reward and also incentivize
some of our employees for all of the creativity and good work that they do.
MICHAEL FORD: I just wanted to add, I do appreciate a lot of the comments and praise, but
there is a lot of work that we have left to do. We still have mandates that are still happening. We
have situations where people can volunteer, but it's still happening too much and too frequently.
So while I do appreciate all that, I just want to be real about what's really going on and what we
need to do and some of things that we have to overcome. So I don't want to leave this
conversation with maybe an expectation or a belief that things are rosy. I mean, we are working
hard, but there is a lot more that we have to do to get things under control.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I wanted to reiterate that there's been a lot of good work
done, but it is very discouraging to sit here and hear, year after year, that the situation is still so
tight, especially after the contract was renegotiated. And I was so hopeful that, with a higher

salary and different things addressed, in terms of how the job was handled, et cetera, that we
would deal with some of this problem.
And it turns out that it's such an intractable problem, especially about the mechanics. I was just
wondering if, perhaps, a mentoring program might work, in terms of making people feel
connected, because it must be hard, when first you come in, to feel connected to a larger
organization like this. And also, the idea of have we been reaching out to the immigrant
communities and the Spanish language communities, and perhaps they are untouched resources.
I hope they would be. But anyway, thank you for the work you're doing.
FRED WORTHEN: We do have a mentoring program, and our newly hired operators are
attached to a supervisor that touches base with them. But we have other mentoring programs,
too. I personally mentor four employees. So we do have those types of things. We're a very large
organization, too. Our operators walk in the door. They're here for 15 minutes, then they go out
and they're captains of their own ship. So keeping that connection can really be challenging. I
appreciate the comments, though.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I just wanted to raise one issue. On packet page 40, a couple of our
performance measures have to do with the number of light rail and commuter rail accidents. And
because of the tragedy in January in Aurora, where one of the light rail vehicles derailed, it had
come to mind, and I wondered why that wasn't reported on light rail accidents in their first
quarter. Because what we're showing here is reportable light rail accidents per 100,000 train
miles that were preventable.
So it turns out, and thank you, Dave Jensen, that because the trains go so many miles over the
course of a quarter, that even if you have one incident and you divide it by that large of a base,
then the rounding error means that you're reporting zero in that case.
And so it seems like, and I think you phrased it well, this is worth revisiting how we, to the
extent this is a performance measure that we, administratively, are looking at, it bears looking at
whether we should use a different measure for that, because from what I could see, it seems like
that should be reported as something we'd want to minimize or know that it was happening.
DAVE JENSEN: So this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations, and I understand what she's
saying exactly. What I don't know is why we're measuring it that way and whose decision that is.
So it's something that we'll probably have to have more discussion about so that we can
appropriately reflect what's transpired.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: And thank you. OK, Director Cook, you jumped ahead a little bit, but that's
OK. You're allowed. Director Menten wants to speak to this update.

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, just real quick. I just actually noticed it right now is we've got a
couple paragraphs there that seem odd to me that they'd be in the, I guess, rail ops versus
performance. And that's what kind of led me into this. So is there a reason that we've got-KATE WILLIAMS: Where are you?
NATALIE MENTEN: I am on packet page 36. And they are showing up under [INAUDIBLE].
KATE WILLIAMS: I think we have, without notification, moved up to the next update and we're
in the rail ops update now.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: So for anybody who isn't keeping up, we're moving right along here. That's
good. Go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: So you don't mind if I just continue with that one?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, ma'am, I do not.
NATALIE MENTEN: So when we've got this rail ops with these same somewhat of the issues
that-- I'm sorry, let me my own page back to where I was here. OK, so I am on packet page 36,
where we've got an overview that really-- the reason it was a little bit confusing is because it
does go into the rail operations and the availability of our workforce.
And then we've got a couple updates here, where we talk about red signal violations. So I just
want to make sure that then this will be in the following update, which will be the performance
updates, because in there, we get into accidents per 100,000 miles, which all of these things-will these also be in that same performance update we're going to get in a few more minutes?
DAVE JENSEN: If I understand what you're asking me, I do believe that there should be some
consolidation of information. Your point is well taken. So as we look at what the information
that will be given later, we could pull that out of the information earlier. Otherwise, it becomes
redundant.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, all right. Because red signal violations, I know there's been, I think,
some recent press about that, too. And I've heard from some constituents with concerns and I
know we've got certain areas that are more problematic and others. So I'll let you keep moving
forward. That's the only thing that I noticed, and I apologize that I got a little bit confused about
workforce violations, and it kind of wrapped together. Thank you. That's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's what happens when we move through this at lightning speed. OK, so
now, we are going to have, regardless of our previous statements, another verbal presentation.
Gentlemen, I think you're off the hook for now. Thank you so much for all that information. And
I think we're looking for a Mr. Abel to come forward.

DAVE GENOVA: Yes. And Mr. Abel's going to do this in one minute or less.
[LAUGHS]
KATE WILLIAMS: Approach the bench.
DAVE GENOVA: I talked to him earlier today.
KATE WILLIAMS: The bad news is we want to hear this, too. We don't want him to be slighted.
BRUCE ABEL: I've got to pay you off now. You're going to lose that bet.
[LAUGHS]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, you can talk whenever you would like. I'm going to get up for a
minute.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just wanted to provide a brief update on a follow up
to our last update on 61AV Project. As we discussed previously, and I won't belabor, our
objectives in the AV Project were really to see, what can AV technology do and what can it not
do, so that we have an objective firsthand assessment of this new technological tool, which some
people hold out as being the silver bullet and other people hold out is going, it can't really do
everything it says, so we wanted to see for ourselves.
The service operates out at 61st and Pea. And I know a number of you have had an opportunity
to ride. Given our objectives, our metrics are really focused on how well the technology
performs. So one of the things that we have been measuring is the number and percentage of
hours that it actually operates in the autonomous mode versus having to go into manual mode.
So since the beginning of February, we have had a 46% was the low, in terms of how often it's
operated in AV mode. And we have recently been operating in excess of 99%. What are the
reasons? The reasons being, really, twofold.
One, during the week of February 25th, March 4th, and March 11th, we had-- and I apologize, I
don't recall the bomb blizzards, or whatever they were referred to as, the bomb cyclones. And the
AV technology reads things, such as snow heavy snow, like bomb cyclones, snow melting and
emitting steam as being obstructions.
And so the vehicle itself says, I don't want to operate and violate my safety parameters, because,
really, what AV technology provides is an incredibly safe operation because it responds quicker
than any human being ever can to an impediment in its operation.
So again, a low of 46%-- and I'm putting out weekly reports-- to a high of in excess of 99%.
Other issues have been the Generation 1 vehicle, which we have, does not have a heater onboard.
So in extremely cold weather, we have told the operator bring the vehicle in and replace it with

the standard cutaway vehicle, which is what we use whenever the AV is not able to operate. So
those, again, are also in the statistics that I just mentioned.
The nice thing, when we look at when the AV is operating-- i.e. it hasn't been removed because
of snow, it hasn't been removed because the operator, it's too cold for them to operate-- we're
operating in the upper 90%, the 95% of service availability in autonomous mode. What generates
moving out of autonomous mode? Things such as when a vehicle comes into the path, when a
construction activity comes into the path.
One of the reasons why we chose this location, well really, several reasons. One, we wanted to
be slightly-- we didn't want to be in the mainstream because we were testing a new technology
and we wanted to see how it performed. But we also wanted to be an environment that was going
to test it. And there's a lot of construction going on out there, and how does the vehicle respond
when construction vehicles unexpectedly pop out? And it's doing very, very well.
There have been no accidents involving the AV. It has performed as advertised. And as I said,
normally, the things that cause us to come out of AV mode are we have a one to two minute
manual intervention when the driver has to circumvent a truck that comes in with a load of roof
trusses for the apartments that are under construction out there. And the vehicle says, whoa, I
don't know what to do here. I stop. The operator goes around.
This project will run through the end of July. It's the end of our six-month demonstration. I will
be preparing a final written report for us, presenting a variety of metrics that we have been
monitoring, basically oriented to service availability and what it does and doesn't do.
Questions have been asked of me. What's our next steps? I will share with the Board that we
have submitted a grant application in conjunction with the City and County of Denver,
University of Denver, Transportation Solutions TMA (transportation management association),
and RTD for a possible AV demonstration grant on the University of Denver (DU) campus to
connect DU with the DU light rail station, provide a first and last mile solution. And a variety of
other entities have also approached us and we will entertain their requests as they come before
us.
We're benefiting from this, as is the autonomous vehicle industry. I say this because we're
finding things that they were not aware of when they set out on this project with us. There are a
number of anecdotal findings from other demonstrations, and so we wanted to see what
happened in our environment, not in Minnesota, not Florida. Florida has not had the snow issues
that we've had.
And so they're learning things. For example, the Generation 1 vehicle that we use does not have
a heater onboard. The new Generation 2 vehicle does have a heater onboard. They are working
on a Gen 3 vehicle that should be available in the third quarter, fourth quarter of this year. And
that's working on improved sensors to help address the issues of steam, snow, and rain, as well as
improved battery life.

We have been also monitoring battery utilization. We started with an eight-hour day, because we
said cold weather, we don't want to stress the batteries. Actually, what we found is we have
better battery utilization in the cold weather than we do now that we're in the warm weather. So
they're working on improvements to the battery utilization in the fourth-- excuse me, third
Generation vehicle for the fourth quarter.
Why would we want to undertake some additional demonstrations? One of the things with the
University of Denver is we've had conversations about vehicle to infrastructure technology. The
AV vehicle does have the capacity to be integrated into the traffic light network along its route.
We've had conversations with DU and the city, and any new demo we would like to expand into
an additional area arena of technology and look at vehicle infrastructure and how do these
vehicles interact with traffic signal networks.
We would like to show changes in usage and perception of AV. The DU grant application, DU is
interested in doing surveys, pre and post. Are we able to get more people to use light rail because
there is now a first and last mile connection? And are we able to overcome people's perceptions
of autonomous vehicle technology?
There is literature out there that says approximately 60% of people don't want to get on an
autonomous vehicle because they don't like the concept of there's no steering wheel and no
brakes. Well, how does that change after they have an opportunity to then actually use it? And so
DU's marketing group is willing to work with us on market research in that arena.
The question came up, let's go around as to what's the budget. The budget for this six-month
demonstration was $170,000. Last time I said between $150,000 and $200,000. That is the
number between. In terms of RTD's contribution, it is approximately $16,000. The biggest part
of that budget is $90,000 for the vehicle, which is being underwritten by EasyMile, the vehicle
provider.
Infrastructure improvements out there, AV accessible AV stops. Curb cuts were totaled between
$20- and $25,000, underwritten by Fulenwider, the developer. Panasonic and RTD are actually
splitting the costs of O&M, which will be approximately $44,000, and we received a check from
Panasonic last week for $32,000 of that $44,000. I'll be glad to answer any questions. It wasn't a
minute, but hopefully it was short enough.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was good. It was OK. We're doing it. Director Broom, speak to us.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Has there been any instances where somebody has hijacked
one of these vehicles and taken it for a joy ride? I can see it, like in an engineering school, where
that might be a real challenge for the students to do that.
BRUCE ABEL: Not that I am aware of, and we have reviewed the cybersecurity issues
surrounding the AV technology, and they are mind-boggling. That's not to say somebody at MIT
couldn't undertake a class project and try to do it, but I am not aware of anything that's happened
yet in any of the demonstrations today.

BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. That was an interesting viewpoint. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Williams. How does it handle jaywalkers, like myself?
BRUCE ABEL: If you were to jaywalk, it would stop on a dime.
[LAUGHS]
There is what I call the cone of silence, a cocoon around the vehicle, that anything that comes
within 10 feet will cause the vehicle-- between 10 and five feet-- will cause the vehicle to slow
down dramatically. It operates at approximately 12. Anything within five feet will cause the
vehicle to stop, and the response is quicker than any human being could respond. I have been the
demonstrator as to how it reacts with jaywalkers and I am here to be able to tell you about it.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: You didn't accelerate?
KATE WILLIAMS: I actually saw it stop, Mr. Abel, remember, for a tumbleweed, that then was
out of sight below the window, so we didn't know why it stopped. We had to get out to go and
see, and there was the tumbleweed right there.
BRUCE ABEL: It only accelerated when it was owner manual operation, Director Whitmore.
[LAUGHS]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Bruce, could you please send me the layout of the finances?
BRUCE ABEL: Yes, I'll be glad to.
NATALIE MENTEN: And are we seeing a substantial increase of next Gen, cost of the vehicle?
BRUCE ABEL: We have asked for prices for the DU, for example, the DU demonstration, to put
into a grant application, and there are increases in cost.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So we have a moving vehicle with no heater. Does it have A/C?
BRUCE ABEL: It does, and we're hypothesizing that that is part of the reason why there is a
bigger battery draw now that we have warm weather than we did in the cold weather.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, that's what I wondered. OK. And so I'm sorry, we do not have the
figure on the next Gen?

BRUCE ABEL: We do not.
NATALIE MENTEN: Right, OK. That's it. Thanks.
BRUCE ABEL: And I would also point out, in terms of your budget question, that Transdev is
also contributing, in the fact that they have given us a reduced rate over and above our contract
rate, is they're part of funding our overall O&M cost, and that's also within the $170,000 budget.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. You and I talked about sending the notes from the last update,
so could you do that, as well as some bullet points for this update as well?
BRUCE ABEL: I'd be glad to, although I guess what I was sort of anticipating was in the final
report, given that normally, we don't have a demonstration in the final report, I would include all
of that, if that would be acceptable to the Board.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Let me sit with that for a moment.
BRUCE ABEL: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have Chair's prerogative. I have a question. I want to know, can you park
under the roof out there at Panasonic? Is that the public parking, or is that the one that's closest
up to the tracks there?
BRUCE ABEL: Oh. There is a Park-n-Ride that is operated by DIA that is one of the stops along
the AV route, and that is available for public parkers who go there leave their cars and then catch
the train and go to DIA.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you for that clarification. Oh, I have somebody on the phone. If
there's anybody on the phone, do you have questions?
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON TELEPHONE): Director Kate, it's Angie. Its Director
Malpiede. I'm listening in and I'm on my way into the Board meeting.
KATE WILLIAMS: Wow, I thought that was Director Anderson for a moment there when you
began speaking. Did you not? Yes, Director Malpiede, what would you like to ask us?
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON TELEPHONE): Nothing at this time. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for joining us. We appreciate it. I think if there is nothing further
in this, then we will thank Mr. Abel and we'll move on. Our next update is the first quarter 2019

performance report. So we'll probably have a change of personnel. Mr. Ford, you can step there
by yourself.
MICHAEL FORD: No, I'm joined by Jannette.
KATE WILLIAMS: Jannette. Thank you. OK, so we have done our homework and met our stuff
beforehand. So instead of going through this, we're going to go straight to questions, and I see
Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, well, I have a question lined up, and now, I'm sorry, I'm not
going to be able to point out the page, but it has to do with the regional performance. And we are
not at the 88% that I believe we have set as a goal. And if anybody finds a page, that's great. I see
it's on the cover page. That's where it is, page 37.
And so this would be goal 3.1. It's stating regional on time service at 87.6% does not meet goal
of 88%, but it was improved over 2017-2018. Is that the goal that we reduced from 92%?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am.
NATALIE MENTEN: And when did we make that reduction?
FRED WORTHEN: The beginning of this fiscal year.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. That's the only question I have. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Nobody else? Going once, going twice. Thank you, Jannette.
Appreciate it.
DAVE GENOVA: Hold on.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, I'm sorry. Director Lubow, I'm so sorry.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. I just wanted to address that-- I have it on page 38-- we had
lower than expected fare increases. And I was just wondering, is that coming from the fact that
we're dropping ridership?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Not fare increases, per se. I think you mean fare revenue, in total.
Partially. This is also being measured only in the first quarter, so at this point in time, we don't
pay that much attention to it. This is an annual measure. It's more meaningful on an annual basis,
to be measured at the end of the year, year over year change. So we will just watch these
numbers as the year unfolds.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. And I had one additional thing. Let me see. Oh, it was about-oh, we addressed it before. It was about the mechanics vacancy. So forget it, we've dealt with it.
Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Well, we do have more people up. Are we still on this portion? Chair
Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I believe I may be asking the question that I think Treasurer Cook would like
to ask, and I apologize. I didn't see her sign up. But to go back to-- and the page on reportable
accidents is page 40. So if you would turn to page 40 in your materials for item 1.4, "Reduce the
number of light rail accidents from rail operations, reportable light rail actions per 100,000 miles
for preventable accidents."
And the only question that I have, and the Treasurer may have more, is year to date first quarter,
it says 0. I don't care what the percentages are. It says 0. I think it's at least 1. And that's the
question that I have, is shouldn't that at least have been reported as 1 preventable accident?
DAVE JENSEN: So this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. The challenge of the problem
that we have with it is that it's per 100,000 miles. If we have operated millions of miles, we're
calculating that 1 in 2 millions.
And so the number comes out to-- and I don't have it in front of me. But if I pulled my calculator
out, it would be 0.00 something. So what I think the discussion might be is, can we just give a
total number, irrelevant of the number of miles operated? And then we would put a 1.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And that may be what you were responding earlier and I didn't hear
it. And I just want to clarify, I believe, as I'm reading this, and I used to be an epidemiologist, so
I know some of this, the year to date first quarter is n. It's an n. That's not a percentage.
The first two, the 2017 actuals and 2018 actuals, I take to be a ratio or a percentage, but the year
to date first quarter, I took to be just n. And the n is 1 per 100,000 miles, out of 100,000 miles, or
maybe it's out of 200,000, 300,000. In any event, it's still 1. And you're right. Perhaps just to
avoid this kind of legal legerdemain in the future, we could just say, just give us a total number
on that one, just to let us know.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, and keep in mind the performance measures for 2020 will be coming in
front of the Board. We'll have an opportunity to make revisions, if the Board would like to, in
terms of these. But these are very common. These are very common measures that the industry
uses. And some of that might be tied to how we report to NTD (National Transit Database) as
well.
So some of this is for consistency purposes. But I believe that for the entire year so far, we did
have that one preventable accident. And I believe in all of last year, we didn't have any
preventables on light rail and on getting the nod from both Dave and Mike Meader.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you. I just wanted to make that point and I appreciate the
opportunity.

KATE WILLIAMS: And I'd like to point out that if everybody would read the preventable, the
statement about preventable, it makes a difference in what we're reporting on. OK. Thank you.
Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: When you bring that forward, tell us what the absolute number of accidents
would be that would meet that goal so we could have a sense for the number of preventable
accidents that is our OK limit. You know what I mean?
Because that's the part I'm having trouble with. If that translates to 25 or something per year, I'm
not sure I'm comfortable with that number. So when you come forward, let's look at the way
we're calculating it, in terms of per 100,000 miles relative to the total base of train miles that we
make, and what that limit translates to, I guess is what I'd say.
DAVE GENOVA: We'll do that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director, and thank you, General Manager, for clarifying.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Well, thank you, Chair. I had the same note to ask about 1.4, as far as train
accidents, obviously. But I guess if you want to maintain the same formula that you've currently
got in there, you could just merely, in the footnote, put the raw numbers, that there was two
accidents or something, or whatever it is, of the year. Now don't change the other, because if
you're reporting nationally, you have to maintain those same standards. Otherwise, people can't
distinguish between districts, as to how you measure up. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Malpiede, do you have any comments
at this time?
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON TELEPHONE): I do not, Director.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. OK, gentlemen, I think you're off the hook and we're going to
have an update from Access-a-Ride or Access-a-Cab. So if those people will move forward. If
we have any questions, you might get your questions ready for that. There's a number of updates
included there.
OK. We're on update number 7, Access-a-Ride, Access-a-Cab, first quarter 2019 report. And I'd
just like to point out that in the discussion that I had on this, I misread "ambulatory" to say
"ambulance," which caused us to have some interesting discussions. Please note that it is the
word "ambulatory," under Ambulatory Vehicles, later on in this report. I see nobody has any
questions. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Under ridership Access-a-Ride, ridership decreased by 4.7% through the
first quarter seemed substantial. What type of comments would you have on that? Is ride sharing
working? Are people making it work? What comments do you have?

LARRY BUTER: This is Larry Buter, Manager of Access-a-Ride. To some degree, I think the
turbulent weather that we had this first quarter probably addresses some of those issues. But to
be honest, we've also had issues with on-time performance as a result of operator shortages that
we're working through.
NATALIE MENTEN: People didn't want to slip and fall on the way to the cab? I've encountered
that personally, and some people that I know.
LARRY BUTER: I know I wouldn't want to.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. And so with on-time performance being a factor, then are they just
not taking the trip, do you think, or they're finding an alternative, like a friend, a relative?
LARRY BUTER: To some degree, they're using the Access-a-Cab service, which is a benefit for
all of our Access-a-Ride passengers. Whether or not they're using friends or relatives, I mean, I
really can't say.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. But we still have a decrease in the Access-a-Cab also.
LARRY BUTER: Right.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Just wondered what insight you had. Thank you very
much. That's it.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, seeing nothing else, thank you, gentlemen. Appreciate your time.
We're going to go next to the Contracted Fixed Route Quarterly Report for the first quarter. We'll
have our standard personnel change here. And I'll look to see if there are any questions from any
of the Board members. Director Malpiede, do you have any comments on this one or the last
one? You're good?
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE (ON TELEPHONE): I do not. Thank you, Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome.
FRED WORTHEN: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir.
FRED WORTHEN: If I may, we have a new Senior Manager of Contracted Services. If you
don't mind, I'd like to introduce him.
KATE WILLIAMS: We would be very happy to have that.
DAVE JENSEN: So as you are probably aware, our Senior Manager of Contracted Services,
Carolyn Conover, is retiring. And we have been fortunate enough to have a very familiar face to
the agency move into the new role. Mr. Smith, would you please stand? Greg Smith, who has

been managing contracted competitive services for some time will be assuming the role as Senior
Manager of Contracted Services from this point going forward.
Greg brings a lot of experience to us as part of the agency. He has worked his way through the
ranks. He managed special services and worked in special services for a while, worked in
planning. He's worked in competitive services as a manager. So we're very fortunate to have
Greg stepping up into this new role. Congratulations.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks, Greg. Those are some very large shoes you have to fill. Carolyn is
beloved throughout the agency, on top of which she's better looking, but that's OK, too. OK, do I
see anybody up there with questions for this? No. That's great. We will move on. The next
update is Customer Comment Analysis for the first quarter of 2019. And there's some
information that was in the packet.
Did anybody have questions or comments? OK. I'm so glad we all read in advance and
understood what we got. The next one we have, I think, is Special Services first quarter report.
Questions, comments? Going once, going twice. I think I'm going to have to pay Michael Ford
money if we don't hurry up through the end of this. OK. Nobody?
The next one we have is update 11, Drug and Alcohol Compliance Monitoring Report for the
first quarter. And again, we have all understood what we were updated on. And finally here, we
have Security Statistics and Fare Inspection Summary for the first quarter of 2019. Chair Tisdale,
please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much-- excuse me-- Madam Chair. I did want to emphasize
the one thing, because there remains, what shall I call it, I guess either a suspicion, if not a
rumor, that there are many people who evade fares on our light rail system. As we know, for the
sake of the record, you cannot evade fares on a bus, practically speaking, because you have to
demonstrate fare getting on the bus.
You cannot evade fare on the commuter line because, generally speaking, everyone is checked
on the commuter line. It's on the light rail that people think there is fare evasion. And it appears
to me that the most compelling statistic is the one that appears on the page that addresses the
plainclothes police officer fare inspection. That's page 75 of your packet.
And I believe what that reveals is that the worst amount of evasion that we have is 3%, because
you can assume that if there's a uniformed officer, people are less likely, in boarding the train, to
think that they can scam the system, and so on. And so it is the plainclothes officer, or fare
checker, who gives us a good number. And it looks like that's as high as we get, is 3%. And I just
wanted to confirm with the Chief and with our AGM for Safety and Security that I'm correct.
That's the highest number we've noted.
BOB GRADO: That is true at this point. It does go up. We've had it go up as high as 4%. So far
right now, we're at 3%. Yeah, that is the highest.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Grado, for the record, would you identify yourself, and Mr. Meader.

MIKE MEADER: This is Mike Meader, AGM for Safety and Security, Asset Management,
Chief Safety Officer. Sitting here with me is Bob Grado, our Chief of Police.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I've been a little remiss about that all night. OK, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Actually, my comments were along the same line, the perception that,
particularly on light rail, that there is quite a bit of fare evasion. So these statistics were really
good for me. But I was noting on the page prior to that, when you look at the ratio of patrons
checked versus patrons without fare, and compare commuter rail to light rail, I think the
evidence of an officer does definitely provide some incentive.
Anecdotally, a friend of mine said the other day that they had taken the light rail regularly down
to sporting events. And for the first time in over a year, there was somebody to check their fares
and they were a bit surprised. So they reiterated to me that they thought that we could do more in
that arena.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that comment. Director Lewis, do you want to speak? You
don't have to.
[LAUGHS]
SHONTEL LEWIS: Question about the specific routes for the fare. Do you have that broken
down? I'm just curious. Are you seeing this happening?
BOB GRADO: Yeah, we do not do it by route.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Are you able to?
BOB GRADO: I don't think we can, actually. I don't think we can do that. Quite honestly, this
report, we do not have a crime analyst that works with our agency.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Fair enough.
BOB GRADO: So this report you see here takes a lot of effort to get these numbers extracted.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And the second question I have for you, when someone is
ticketed or receives a citation, what happens?
BOB GRADO: Well, the first time they just get a warning. So then after that, on their second
violation, then they'll be cited. They'll receive a ticket for that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: What, do they go to court? What happens?

MIKE MEADER: Right. Excuse me. It's no longer a criminal offense, it's a traffic offense.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
MIKE MEADER: So they would have to go and answer, pay a fine, or they'll have points
assessed to their license.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Really?
MIKE MEADER: So they can, in fact, through multiple citations, accumulate enough points
where they could have their license suspended.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have one point. I'm going to get to you, Director Menten, in a moment. I'd
like to point out that when we were reviewing this information, I noted the number of arrests on
the end of the column. And I was somewhat in line with Director Lewis. I thought, wow, we
arrested a bunch of people for not paying their fares. Wow. And I was informed that, in fact,
those arrests are related more to criminal type activities, like-- name me some of those
categories-- assault, yeah, drunk.
BOB GRADO: Yeah. All of the arrests you see there are warrants or crime committed on the
vehicle.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. We didn't jail anybody for not paying their fares, not yet.
BOB GRADO: No, we cannot do that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. Yeah.
BOB GRADO: It's not a criminal offense.
KATE WILLIAMS: Not yet. This is public record. Not yet, we haven't jailed anybody. OK,
Director Menten, I think you're up. We'd like to welcome Director Malpiede to the meeting in
person. We thank you for being on the phone with us. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so I have a compliment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, good.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. We like those.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order. I'd like to know who took Director Menten's seat.
[LAUGHS]

NATALIE MENTEN: So I've been known to petition my government more than a few times.
Matter of fact, most years in my life, I am carrying a petition. And I won't speak to what ballot
issue it is, because that might be inappropriate. But when I was up in Director Lubow's area, I
was on public land, although the police officers up there did not know it, and I was threatened
with arrest.
And two days later, got an apology out of the city, that I was right to be there. And during the
Gold Line opening, I prepared Wheat Ridge PD by saying, I will be circulating on this property
at the Ward Station. And thought I had a real clear understanding with the two Wheat Ridge PD
people that were there. Sure enough, Saturday, set up our petition table, start circulating.
Wheat Ridge PD walks up, says you need to leave. I said, no I don't. Said, well, I'm going to go
over, I'm going to get the RTD. I said, you go over and you get him. He came on over and very
clearly stated it was public ground, whether I was on the sidewalk, whether I was in the parking
lot, whether I was over by the train platform, wherever it may be. And so thank you to the RTD
security officer policeman.
BOB GRADo: Great.
NATALIE MENTEN: And also, more importantly, we, as an agency, have a stated policy-- I
believe it's available on the public website-- that very clearly lets the public know they have the
right to petition their government on our public land. There are a lot of governments that don't
have that.
You have to search it out and hope that you don't get an officer who's carrying a firearm and has
a ticket packet in his back pocket. And for the average citizen, they don't know what their rights
are. But RTD is very good about putting that policy in the public's hands. So that is my
compliment for you.
BOB GRADO: Appreciate that, Director Menten.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, thank you so much for that. I think we will classify that under other
matters.
NATALIE MENTEN: I think, no, that was under security statistics and arrests. So we did have
one more with the Board Director, so I think that's pretty good.
KATE WILLIAMS: Right. We like it. We're happy with that. Thank you for that. Director
Broom, top that.
[LAUGHS]

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. If you write a citation to somebody because they
didn't pay their fare, what court does it go to, the community that you're in when they write the
ticket?
MIKE MEADER: That's correct. So if you're in Lakewood-BOB BROOM: They got to keep track of where they're at on the line to ensure that they're riding
in-DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, our mobile citation devices actually do that for us.
BOB BROOM: Oh.
DAVE GENOVA: The GPS locates you and it puts you in the correct court system.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Don't leave yet, Mr. Ford. Under other matters-[INAUDIBLE]
KATE WILLIAMS: You have to wait, it's my turn. OK. I have an interesting story to tell you. I
do a lot of work in the disabled community. And today, I was told a very interesting story about
our new green FlexRide vehicles.
One of my staff was at a meeting for people who have vision impairments, and twice, one of
their people have gone down looking for their FlexRide and have actually gotten in a FedEx
vehicle by mistake, based on our new coloring scheme. And one of those times, the FedEx driver
actually drove them to where they were going because he was a nice guy.
[LAUGHS]
KATE WILLIAMS: So yeah, they were on time. So it is of interest that we might need to make
sure that-MICHAEL FORD: It's a new partnership.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, a new partnership with FedEx. But I thought it was of interest, but it's
something that we might want to make our drivers aware of, that to people of low vision, the
vehicles look very similar. OK, do we have any other-- oh, I'm sorry, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. I have to ask this, because it seems counterintuitive that we would give
someone a ticket for not being able to pay the fare, and then send them to court where they
would be issued a fine for being maybe poor or not having money. I don't know. That logic
doesn't make sense to me and kind of feels like criminalizing poverty. And maybe that's not the
intention, but I don't know if that's the right--

BOB GRADO: I'll speak to that. It actually used to be a criminal offense. And for many years,
we were actually putting people in jail, even for not paying their fines. It was decriminalized for
what you're talking about, that we are not responsible for the fare collection. That's up to the
courts. And generally, they have programs to work with people on that. It's out of our hands.
That's a state statute.
MIKE MEADER: To work on the fines, right. So if they have a fine and they're found that it's a
hardship for them, they work out plans with them sometimes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Do you know how often that happens?
BOB GRADO: It's entirely up to the courts.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Also, what's the max amount for a fine that one may-BOB GRADO: It's somewhere around $105.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. We can have the conversation offline, but it's a concern to me. So
thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, last. Oh, hello. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I understand that some of the transit police actually do have some
discretion with regard to special circumstances. And in fact, I spoke with one very, very kind
transit officer on the A Line, and he was saying that there are some circumstances where
somebody is unable to pay, and that just because they have violated more than once, he usually
tries to provide a little leniency. So there is some discretion. It's not automatically after the first
violation, or after the first warning, they're cited.
BOB GRADO: It is if they're in the citation process. If I take your information and enter you into
our system, it is automatic, but we do allow for officer discretion.
PEGGY CATLIN: During a dialogue on the train? And I was very struck when I was speaking
with this one officer about how compassionate he was for our passengers. So I just wanted to say
that that was really nice to see.
MIKE MEADER: I just want to clarify one thing, Director Lewis, that that fee is set by the
jurisdiction, not by RTD. So it does vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I understand.
MIKE MEADER: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Guissinger, hi there.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Hi there. I would agree with Director Catlin and Lewis are saying about,
in terms of giving some leeway where someone can't pay. But I wonder, do we have discretion
over this? Instead of issuing warnings or fines, could we put signs everywhere that say if you're
caught without paying, it's going to cost you twice or three times, and you just pay the person
that stops you so we get the money? Is it statutory or something?
[INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Sorry. I wanted to just say that I'm so impressed with the impact and
beneficial effect of having the commuter rail staffed with security people on every train. And I
wonder if it wouldn't be worth trying it on one of our corridors, one of our light rail corridors, as
a measure to both address safety and get real data about the numbers, or the actual fare increases,
or something.
DAVE GENOVA: Do you want me to address that? Well, we have this discussion quite a bit,
but you can see there's reactions in the room. In fact, we are, as our budget allows, we are trying
to incrementally, possibly, get there on light rail, but it's a big jump financially.
SHELLEY COOK: That's why I was suggesting pick one or something. Try it for six months, or
something like that. Because not only do they assure the fare collection, I've seen them
personally calm down somebody, prevent something from escalating, and so forth. And then I
think it creates a feeling of safety that encourages ridership and broader use, anyway.
BOB GRADO: I'll just say really quick, we are going into a new contract season here starting
next month, July 1st. And part of this new contract, we do have a small task force that we plan to
deploy, as needed, in areas where we are experiencing trouble and more fare evasion. So we're
going to be a little more flexibility coming up here very soon.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Oh, you guys, OK, we have three minutes left. Director
Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I get to ride the train and bus fairly frequently, and I do see the
uniformed officers on the train, especially in the morning when it's pretty packed on the E or F,
G Line, E, F, or H Lines, coming in sometimes and see when I get to ride that. And I also see the
plainclothes officers. I don't see them as often, but they do surprise everybody once in a while.
I've also seen some uniformed officers on the bus recently.
BOB GRADO: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, and that's really recent. I haven't seen that before. And from what I've
been told from some of the operators who take me home or bring me to work in the morning is

that they did want to see that presence. And I think I might have mentioned that to Mr. Meader in
one of our conversations. So I've seen that at least once.
I don't get to ride as often as I used to, so I thank you for that. I'm glad it's being implemented.
And the bus drivers, the bus operators, also, exercise some discretion when somebody pays,
sometimes based on the attitude of the passenger or their circumstance at that time. So there's
discretion all around. I've never seen anybody act inappropriately towards a customer, whether or
not they've paid.
So I just wanted to say that I do see the fare collection probably a couple of times a month. But
the uniformed officers on the bus, that was a pleasant surprise. Unfortunately, it's needed
sometimes, but it's nice to know that we got our operators' backs. That's it, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have nothing after this, I promise. It's just a request that you talked about
the pilots, potentially, looking at the different corridors. And if District B is one of the corridors
that you all could potentially consider, I'd just ask that you all let me know, because what I've
heard from my communities is that they feel overpoliced, and I think it'd be quite surprising to
see security on the bus or increased officers on light rail, so just to have that conversation with
me, please. Thank you.
MIKE MEADER: Chair, if I could take just one minute, 30 seconds, or so.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
MIKE MEADER: I just want to let the Board-- excuse me-- know that we have put together a
safety and security continuous improvement team. So we solicited with our operators. We asked
them to answer a couple of questions, volunteer for this team. The makeup of the team is there
are 10 operators.
We've got street supervision represented. We've got safety and security represented. We hold our
first meeting this Saturday. We're going to have monthly meetings on Saturday to talk about
some of the challenges that they're facing out there to come up with some solutions.
Part of that program, also, is increasing our Step Up, Thumbs Up program and we'll share that
some more information with you about that, to put more presence on the buses, to try to certainly
create a more secure and safe environment for them, reduce some of the operator assaults and the
interactions that we have out there on the buses.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. I want you to know that I'm an honorary street
supervisor, that Gina Callahan deputized me because, one day, I chased a bus down who had a
problem with it. So I'm honorary street supervisor.
MIKE MEADER: And any of you are welcome to join us.

KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.
MIKE MEADER: If you would like to know when those meetings are taking place.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll be there.
MIKE MEADER: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Did we do it? Two hours. Over a minute, sorry. OK, we are going to
adjourn. The next meeting-- wait-- is on July 9th at the same location and the same time.
And we're going to take a five-minute break before we go to our next meeting. And I get to do
this.
[POUNDING GAVEL]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair.

