1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, August 13, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Angie Rivera-Malpiede

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m. She
acknowledged her Committee Co-chair, Director Deadwyler, who was participating via
telephone conference call.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Absent
Absent

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Committee Co-Chair

Present
Remote

5:25 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

5:04 PM
5:28 PM
5:16 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

5:16 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:29 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk

Committee Co-Chair
Director, District O

Present
Absent

5:15 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:24 PM
5:17 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:17 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Brian
Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus,
Doug MacLeod, Judy McMurphy, Brenden Morgan, Kevin Parker,
Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Beverly Scott, Dean Shaklee, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington,
Armando Martinez, Steve Gieski, Lou Ha, William Weidenaar, Robbie
Hunter, Lacy Bell, John Dawson, Zamy Silva, Amanda Murray, Ann
Marie Isaac-Heslop

Others Present:

Azim Adams, Greg Amparano, Marcellinus Andrew, Celina Benavdez,
Cee David, Martell Dyles, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Jos
Heemelaar, Eric Hines, Gregory Jenifer, Asaf Kaldesha, Will Lafame,
Mica Manila, Mike Meader, Brian Middleton, Sheila Mungai, Kim
Patten, Daniel Pearsall, Kate Ridings, Laura Rinker, David Rushton,
Joe Triplett, Steve Ubanks, Gary Van Dorn, Raja Viswanathan

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

 DTP and John Laing WIN Program Contribution
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede stated that RTD is privileged to have
Denver Transit Partners (DTP) and John Laing at the meeting to present a
WIN program contribution. She said that as many of the Board members
know, the WIN program has been recognized from the top down for being
such an innovative and amazing program that has empowered our
community members to actually get positions of depth.
General Manager Washington reiterated that the WIN program is a model for
the country in terms of investing in human capital. The program identifies,
assesses and trains people for work on our projects as well as other regional
projects. He said that all of our partners have been very active from the
beginning along with great support from Directors Rivera-Malpiede and
Deadwyler, the full Board and RTD Senior Leadership. General Manager
Washington stated that one of the things that are so important to RTD and
our partners is really having an impact within the community where we are
building. DTP and John Laing have stepped up in a huge way to support the
WIN efforts. He believes this program is a wonderful success and really
changing lives.

David Rushton, Director of John Laing, thanked the Board for having him
here. He said that on behalf of John Laing and John Laing Charitable Trust
he is thrilled to be making a contribution to the WIN initiative. This is the
first check in a three year commitment that John Laing is making to support
the program. He believes that this is a program that is enabling people to
get back to work for the long term. David Rushton shared that it had been
interesting to speak with Kenn Hardin and see his absolute motivation and
desire to have the program succeed. David Rushton said that the Charitable
Trust also supports a program called the Princess Trust in the United
Kingdom which is very similar. The goal is to get young people who do not
have many opportunities trained and supported for the long term. He stated
that he is very happy to support a program like this in the United States.
General Manager Washington acknowledged our WIN steering committee.
He thanked them for the work they do with the program.
Greg Amparano, DTP Executive Project Director, thanked the Board for the
opportunity to speak about such a wonderful project. He has always
believes that when WIN could provide a valuable service to contractors and
employers it would be a sustained success. He said that he is happy to
report that as far as DTP is concerned the WIN program has achieved that.
Greg Amparano shared that DTP has met their goal of 10% of direct field
hire personnel coming from WIN and they currently have 40 persons
employed on the Eagle P3 project. He stated that DTP is very proud to be
part of the founding membership of this groundbreaking program.

• Workforce Initiative Now (WIN) Program Update on Participation Statistics
Kenn Hardin shared that with the help of such great partners, the WIN
program now has nine active cohorts for a total of 193 participants. He
stated that does not include the many individuals who were not quite ready
for jobs so RTD sent them to training so they can return to us for
employment at a later time. Kenn Hardin reminded the Board that the WIN
program is not just about job placement but it is really a career development
program. This program trains people for careers in the transportation
industry.
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede explained that Chair Anderson was out of
town so she was unable to attend the meeting; however, she asked
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede to extend her deepest appreciation to
everyone that supports this program. Chair Anderson is such an advocate
for the WIN program and is so excited about its success.
Director Deadwyler thanked Greg Amparano and David Rushton for their
continued support of the program. She knows it means a lot to the people
receiving training. Director Deadwyler also thanked Kenn Hardin and Martell
Dyles. She thinks they are doing a great job.

Director Hoy stated that RTD really does many great things but this one is
almost over the top. He believes it is so important to give people a chance
in life and this program does just that. He stated that everyone involved
should pat themselves on the back. Director Hoy shared that this program
really touches him emotionally because it is such a great outreach. He does
wonder what type of person we are looking for or what characteristics make
someone a good candidate. Martell Dyles stated that there is an assessment
potential participants take so we can assess their interest and skills. He said
we tend to look for someone that already has our great wrok standards such
as being on-time, good communication skills, etc. Martell Dyles said it is
also a goal that the majority of people we place are within our target areas
along the corridors. Kenn Hardin reiterated that this program was truly
created for people who want to change their lives and enter into an
opportunity for a career pathway that would lead to something better. All of
the 40 participants on the Eagle P3 project are learning skills, developing
career pathways, and looking at what they will do next. Kenn Hardin said
that because of this, we are really looking for people who are ready to
change their lives for the better and are really committed to the program.
Director Folska stated that this is an outstanding program. She really likes
that we are working with people in the communities where the tracks are
being laid. She wonders if any of the participants are union employees.
Martell Dyles stated that there are participants that are union employees.
He explained that staff also utilizes the unions in the State and Metro region
as training partners, sources of employment, etc.
Director Solano asked if the WIN training is geared solely toward blue collar
work. Martell Dyles explained that we do work with participants in the
construction trade but we also do engineering training, Microsoft Office
Suite training, CAD software training, etc. Kenn Hardin stated that many of
our contracts have a percentage of participation within their professional
services contract. He also said that last year we started an internship
program with engineering students; they were having trouble getting jobs
right out of school so this program makes them very qualified for
employment through experience.
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede shared that both she and her Committee
Co-chair, Director Deadwyler, have had the honor and privilege of working
with the WIN program from its inception. She stated that this was the brain
child of General Manager Washington. She believes this program is quite
innovative. She said that this could not have become a reality without our
partners. She thanked Greg Amparano because she believes he was really a
catalyst for the program. Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede thinks this is the
most outstanding partnership in the country. She expressed what an honor

it is to be a part of. She expressed her thanks for the additional dollars to
better help our community.
Director Deadwyler expressed concern that in her community there are
people who are just looking for a job. She had a different vision for the
program where we would help these individuals with the hope that if they
got hired they would chose to build their skills. She is worried that we are
only hiring field workers within the community that already have experience
versus the people that are just looking to get started in the industry. She
wants to make sure we are opening doors to more of the individuals that do
not yet have many skills. General Manager Washington explained that part
of the program is an assessment piece that assesses the participant’s
potential skills; even if they may not have the skills developed already or be
highly trained, the goal of the program is to work with them so they are
ready for a job.
Kenn Hardin introduced two WIN participants, Azim Adams and Sheila
Mungai, who are both working on the Eagle P3 project. He asked if they
would like to share their experiences. Azim Adams stated that he was
referred to the program in January of 2011 and was hired by June of 2012.
He shared that construction has been a whole new experience for him. He
feels everything has been working out really well for him and he is honored
to be part of the program. Sheila Mungai shared that she already had the
administrative skills but this was an opportunity for her to move into a new
direction; through the program she has had the opportunity to become an
auditor and she really appreciates the opportunity.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - TBD
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede adjourned the meeting at 6:01 p.m. to the
Operations and Customer Service Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

