Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 18, 2011
Page 1 of 7

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
Corrected Minutes
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

October 19, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
October 18, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Tobiassen; Directors Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer and Walker.
Chair Kemp participated via Conference Call

Board Members
Absent:

Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, and James.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter,
Carolyn Conover, Eric Farrington, David Genova, Mike Gil, Gary
Googins, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Barbara McManus, Brian
Matthews, Tony McCaulay, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula
Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino,
Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, and Phil
Washington.

Others Present:

Andrea DeBarros – 36 Commuting Solutions, Edward Baldzicki – ACS
Vice President of Sales, Stan Gronek – ATU 1001, Howard Humke, Lee
Johnson – First Transit, Kathy Luce, Andrew Murray – Metro State, Ian
Newberg – ACS Managing Director, Julio Rivera – ATU 1001.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that free rides
on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be extended

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 18, 2011
Page 2 of 7

from the presently approved date of December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012.
Utilization has been relatively low to date and this extension will have minimal
financial impact.
Tony McCaulay explained that this is our annual renewal of a resolution that began in
2006 allowing all active duty U.S. Military personnel to ride for free on all RTD
services.
Chair Kemp added that this means a lot to our military personnel who are out
servicing our country in these hard times. These kinds of things really mean a lot to
our service people.
Director Tayer added that he would like to recognize former Director Barbara Yamrick
who was in attendance tonight since she was on the original Board that approved
this policy.
Committee Chair Tobiassen further added that he works at Buckley Air Force Base
and this is a big issue for them and they really appreciate this service.
Motion:

Director O’Boyle made the motion to
forward this item to the full Board at the
October 25, 2011 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed Unanimously. Chair
Kemp participated via conference call and
Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen and
James were absent from this vote.
 Kiosk System Support Contract
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award both option years (years 4 and 5) for a kiosk systems support
contractor to Counter Trade Products. The contract (18DJ022) is being brought to
the Board because this is a Personal Services Contract per RTD Resolution No. 27,
Series of 1983.
Carla Perez explained that staff would like the Board to approve option years 4 and 5
for our Kiosk contract for support services. There are 80 kiosks around the district
that provide valuable information and resources to our riders. We have received good
value for this contract and we are asking for a not to exceed amount of $136,884.
Director Daly inquired if we still issued Bike Permits. Carla Perez explained that we
still have the ability to do so, and that item was included since it was in the original
contract.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 18, 2011
Page 3 of 7

Director Malpiede added that the Stapleton area has two kiosks and those are the
two most used within the RTD district. The kiosk program is invaluable for those
community members that do not have access to a computer or cell phone. This
program really does serve a part of the community that does not have access to
information through other means.
Director McMullen asked if the kiosks are ever relocated. Trent Ratcliff explained that
we monitor the kiosk usage and if there is an underutilized kiosk we can move it to
another location where a request has been made.
Committee Chair Tobiassen noted that this technology is great, but it might be worth
looking ahead for the next step two years from now. Do we want to continue just to
maintain this system or do we look at new technology and spread it out more
throughout the region.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
forward this item to the full Board at the
October 25, 2011 Board meeting.

Second:

Director McMullen seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed Unanimously. Chair
Kemp participated via conference call and
Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen and
James were absent from this vote.


Amendment of MV Transit ADA Paratransit Services Contract (17-dh-007) for the
provision of “South Jeffco Call-n-Ride” Demand Response Services
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to his designee, to amend the existing ADA
paratransit services contract with MV Transit (17-DH-007) for the provision of the
“South Jeffco Call-n-Ride” services. This contract amendment will be for the duration
of the existing contract. The cost shall not exceed $613,000. This cost includes an
estimate for fuel which will be treated as a pass though expense. The service is
scheduled to begin January 8, 2012 and run through the end of the current ADA
Paratransit Services contract, December 31, 2012.
Bruce Abel explained that we include the contractual authority for the provisions of
Call-n-Ride services through our ADA Paratransit Contracts. For this particular action
we have received a Job Access Reverse Commute Grant for a Call-n-Ride service in
the south Jefferson County area. This grant was approved with funding available
2012-2013. JARC funds will cover 50% of the cost of operating the new Call-n-Ride
service.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked if the funding for this item could be explained.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 18, 2011
Page 4 of 7

Brian Matthews explained that 50% of the operating funding will be received from
the JARC grant and they will also give 80% on capital with regards to buses that we
purchase.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to
forward this item to the full Board at the
October 25, 2011 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Walker seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed Unanimously. Chair
Kemp participated via conference call and
Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen and
James were absent from this vote.
 Service Optimization/January 2012 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 8, 2012 Service Change package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A resulting in annualized cost savings of approximately
$10,041,048 and, further, to authorize the General Manager, or his designee to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.
Bruce Abel noted that in August of 2010, the RTD Board of Directors authorized the
creation of the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force to develop a formal written report
detailing opportunities for operating efficiencies and revenue enhancements to ensure
RTD fiscal sustainability in the long term. Key findings of the Task Force included:
 Having an efficient and effective transit system is a lynchpin in ensuring the
region’s economic and environmental health and quality of life;
 RTD is efficiently operated and benefits from a culture of continuous
improvement;
 There is no “silver bullet” but that a combination of policies and strategies
must be implemented to achieve fiscal sustainability; and
 In general, the Task Force recommendations build on RTD’s tradition of fiscal
prudence.
Included among these recommendations was a recommendation to optimize the
agency’s service offering to focus on maximizing ridership in a cost effective manner
while thoughtfully examining the tradeoffs or balance between providing service
throughout the District and focusing on serving the greatest number of riders and
proving a level of service that could be sustained within available revenue streams.
This was also referred to as “right sizing” the level of service.
On September 20, 2011 the Board approved moving a list of recommended service
adjustments forward for public comment. There were a total of 24 public hearings

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 18, 2011
Page 5 of 7

that were attended by a total of 944 members of the general public.
Jeff Becker noted that the public meetings were very well attended and we also
received many phone calls, faxes, and emails regarding the proposed service
changes. The public comments were very compelling, and as always we listened to
their comments and considered them. A few general comments were that, “we pay
our taxes, but we don’t get the service”, and “if we don’t have the service, why
would I pay for FasTracks tax increase”. Some people suggested that we raise fares
instead of cutting service and that we be more creative with our cost savings
approaches.
General Manager Washington added that due to recent comments he wanted to
indicate that we take this process seriously and that we do take notes at all of our
public hearings. Also, there were requests to have brochures in Spanish. Normally we
would direct someone to our website, but we are looking into getting Spanish
brochures. General Manager Washington added that Transit agencies are doing
service optimization all over the country and we are trying to take a more surgical
approach. This is an art in terms of moving service from one location so that it will
connect with another line.
Director Deadwyler indicated that she was happy and impressed that we listened to
the constituents and recognized their needs.
Director McMullen added that while people do not like cutbacks, but they are
understanding.
Director Malpiede noted that there are still two routes that should still be looked at
which are the 28 and 32 westbound from downtown. There is still no service after
7:00 p.m.
Chair Kemp noted that our constituents all gave great input and suggestions and
while there are still areas that need to be looked at, this was a job well done. It is
just unfortunate that in these economic times that we must cut our service.
Director Tayer explained that these are very hard times for our agency but we should
push to dig deeper. Staff has done a great job to minimize the change, but there are
still areas such as the 203 and the BOLT that needs to be considered before this is
finalized.
Director Hoy noted that he was surprised that the passengers were giving
suggestions instead of complaining. This just shows that the public understands that
changes need to be made and they are willing to help us in that process. Now, it is
the responsibility of the passengers to fill the buses up.
Director Daly indicated that he was not happy with these changes. District N does
not have a lot of service and the local routes are just about done. There is an
implementation of 4 Call-n-Ride buses, but it almost seems as though District N

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 18, 2011
Page 6 of 7

should be rolled into a neighboring district since there is no service. While
concessions were made to route 67, none was given to the 401 which had the most
support. Therefore, I will not be voting in favor of this item.
Committee Chair Tobiassen indicated that he would also be a no vote for this item.
The Aurora Call-n-Ride proposal was not changed even though there was a lot of
support for this. The Call-n-Ride has worked very well for Heather Gardens residents
to maintain their independence.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to forward
this item to the full Board at the October
25, 2011 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with (8) in favor
(Deadwyler, Hoy, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Walker and Chair Kemp
(via phone) and (2) against (Daly and
Tobiassen). Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen and James were absent from this
vote.
II.

Information
 CAD/AVL
Bruce Abel noted that a handout was given to the Board and would answer any
questions.
 Fare Box Update
Gary Googins noted that we have completed the fare box replacement at Veolia
which was done 3 weeks ago. First Transit Denver will be completed this weekend
and First Transit Commerce City the following weekend. The entire bus fleet will
have new fare boxes and all of the divisions will have spare equipment and new
vaults by the end of the year. This will hopefully give us another 25 years.
 Smart Card Update
General Manager Washington noted that Edward Baldzicki – ACS Vice President of
Sales and Ian Newberg – ACS Managing Director have come out tonight to show
their commitment to the project and to answer any questions that the Board may
have.
General Manager Washington added that Gary Googins was appointed the new
project manager effective September 2011. The executive oversight will now be by
the General Manager, bringing more visibility and focus to the project and the project
team will report directly to him. RTD has assigned additional technical skill-set to the

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 18, 2011
Page 7 of 7

project to ensure tight technical deliverables oversight. RTD has engaged a ProjectAdministration team to assist in the tracking and approval of all remaining design
documents and has initiated a Business Process Engineering effort to identify bestpractices. ACS has forfeited the $50,000 bonus for failing to meet the accelerated
schedule and a new payment plan has been put into place. This will still be
implemented in 2013.
Director Tayer asked if staff could provide the directors with a write up via e-mail
that is easily explainable to share with our constituents to explain the delay, and the
new expected time frame.
 ADA Update
Bruce Abel explained that we have two separate yet related items that we are
currently engaged in conversations. One is that we updated our software and as a
result, locations that were previously identified as being within the ¾ mile were now
identified as being outside. According to our policy, these particular locations were
no longer in the ADA service area. Secondly, with this update we gained the capacity
to monitor the day and time of service on a route specific basis, which was the
reference point for the ADA service. We are currently analyzing to the best of our
ability how many individuals that will be impacted by these changes.
III.

Other Matters
Committee Chair Tobiassen noted that he attended the DRMAC (Denver Regional
Mobility & Access Council) Transit Mobility Task Force and great progress was made
with DRMAC to get large groups together to discuss how to get individuals moved from
Access-a-Ride to fixed route services if applicable.
Director McMullen added that he had attended the Aurora A-List event and it was a
great event for the region.
Director Deadwyler added that there will be a new GE plant moving into her district and
she wanted to put RTD on notice to anticipate the transit needs of these employees.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – November 15, 2011

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 9:05 p.m.

