Jun 5 2018 0530 PM Government Relations
Committee
PAUL SOLANO: I'm going to call the meeting to order. RTD is safety is our core value. I'd like
to begin the meeting with a short safety briefing. It's pretty much protocol. If we have a medical
emergency and 911 needs to be called, I will ask RTD general counsel to make that telephone
call. Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist if needed.
An Automatic Emergency Defibrillator, AED, is in the glass case located just outside this room
on the wall to the right.
In the event we must evacuate the building for fire or any other emergency, please calmly exit
out the door you came in at the back of the room. You go up the stairs to the first floor, around
the security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be there to
direct you to a safe meet-up area. Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an
evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.
While RTD takes every precaution to ensure the security of its passengers, vehicles, and
facilities, the agency relies on both staff and the general public to be aware of and alert any
suspicious or dangerous activity on buses and trains and around station stops and platforms. As
such, I would encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD transit watch app,
which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate directly with
RTD transit security personnel on a real-time basis in the event of an emergency situation. The
transit watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple App Store. Thank you.
Today, we have the update, and we're going to start with the CRL. Roger Sherman had some
family issues he had to deal with. Everything he was going to cover is in the packet. If you have
any questions, we'll get with Roger later. Next, we'll do the Brandeberry-McKenna Public
Affairs for state issues.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Good evening. So the general assembly adjourned May 10th, and
we had another successful year on your all's behalf. Senate Bill 88 was passed very early on in
the session that restored the mistake, or tried to remedy, the mistake that was made in the
hospital provider fee bill of 2017. And then, I think Rolf has probably updated you since then on
the Supreme Court decision. So we were happy to get that over with early in the session.
Toward the end of the session, there were two bills that had a direct impact to the district that
concerned our fare programs-- one by Senator Neville and one by Representative Faith Winter.
They took different approaches but they definitely expressed interest in how the district is doing
its job as it pertains to low-income fares and the fare programs that we offer. So we had a great
and excellent opportunity to spend time with those legislators, educating them on the good work
that you do and the processes that you have, and I think we will continue to see interest from the
General Assembly about that next year.
The 30-day clock is over as of tomorrow, so all the bills that have either been signed or vetoed or
nothing has happened to that, the session has officially ended on the 8th, I believe it is. But I

think, as of today, the governor signed his last bills. And if anything hasn't been signed or
vetoed, it would become law without his signature. And I don't know of any that are out there for
that-- certainly nothing that pertains to RTD.
As you know, Senate Bill 1 also passed. The Denver Metro Chamber and other stakeholders are
working to gather signatures to put a ballot measure on the ballot for transportation there. The
Independence Institute is doing the same for a competing ballot measure, and we'll continue to
monitor those and see how those progress through the summer and the fall.
I think it's important to note that the ballots for all of us citizens will likely be very, very long
and lengthy next year because, besides a handful of transportation-oriented issues, I think there
will be a lot of stuff that doesn't get finalized till later in the summer-- things on land use, payday
lending, you name it. There'll be plenty of things circulating out there. I'm sure if you've gone to
the grocery store lately you've been approached by folks to sign things. I'm going to turn it over
to Julie and Megan so they can talk a little bit more about what we'll be doing in the interim on
your behalf.
JULIE MCKENNA: Good evening. As you all know, it's a big year. A third of the legislature
will turn over. There a lot of open seats, as well as the governor's office. I've sure seen a million
commercials already on who's running there, so I think after the primary we'll be spending a ton
of time meeting with those folks that are running for office and educating them about your
issues, and there will be quite a few of those folks that will have to get to a lot of them.
If they aren't already in office, they may be running for the Senate or there will be those open
seats. As you all know, there'll be a lot of change just generally with the governor's office but
also, right now, the Republicans control the Senate just by one vote, and so that is highly
competitive and there will be a lot of interest and money involved in those elections to see who
can maintain control of the Senate.
The House will stay Democratic but there are a number of those seats that will be open, so they
will be new people for the first time. And we always believe it's critically important that we sit
down with all of them and make sure that they understand who you all are as Board members
and what RTD has done and what initiatives are taking place. So we'll be doing that this summer
and fall.
MEGAN WAGNER: And lastly, during the interim, we monitor the transportation legislation
review committee, which is made up of members of the House Transportation and Energy
Committee and the Senate Transportation Committee. Senator John Cooke is now the person that
will be in charge of that committee in the Senate. It used to be Senator Baumgardner but he's no
longer the chair of that committee, so it will be Senator Cooke that we'll be discussing issues
with and setting up our statutorily required briefing for RTD in front of the legislature during the
interim.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Julie and Megan. Any questions? No? OK. We'll go on to--

SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: Excuse me, Director. Before we move on to the federal update, I just
wanted to let the Board know that we did go out with an RFP for our state liaison services
contract, and we awarded a three-year contract to the Brandeberry-McKenna team with two oneyear options.
PAUL SOLANO: Congratulations, Julie and Jennifer. Mike Dino, you're up.
MIKE DINO: Great. Thank you. Not a lot to report on since our folks in Congress were out over
the Memorial holiday recess last week. But yes, to Director Hoy's clapping. But another thing to
clap-- maybe not to clap about, we'll see-- is that the Senate majority leader did basically say
today, Mitch McConnell, that they will only get to enjoy one week of August off, and that he
will require them to be ready to work the rest of the month in an additional three weeks.
I think those who follow Congress know that-- and Washington DC for that matter-- that August
is a month that everybody leaves. And my friends in Washington, my colleagues, were
bemoaning the fact that Senator McConnell today decided that they will have to stay around for
most of August. That's, I think, in some ways, a positive thing.
Today, the Senate heard the markup of the Senate Transportation and Housing and Urban
Development Bill. They're intending to try to stay on a reasonable schedule. Way back in the
days, Congress used to pass everything and get the next fiscal year started on October 1st, and
that hasn't happened in a long time. So they are trying to get a lot of the appropriations bills out
of the way before the campaigning gets hot and heavy in the fall for the November election.
So the positive thing is, they're moving forward with the spending bills, what we call the THUD
bill-- transportation HUD and urban development-- is very positive for transportation. We are
seeing even more money than in fiscal year 2018, particularly for transit and transportation. One
of the areas that we watched, certainly, that we hope someday RTD will benefit from, is the
TIGER or the BUILD grants that we'll see another billion dollars allocated. We did see a $1.5
billion for 2018 but it usually has been $500 million. So to still see it funded above $500 million
is great.
We're starting to see some of the grants come out because the fiscal year 2018 approps were
passed in March. And we passed on, to RTD, a couple of grants of late for a pilot program for
transit-oriented development that may be of interest, as well as a transit security grant program
funding that we've passed on to Sherry and her colleagues, to see if that something RTD might
want to take a look at. So that's to the extent of it where we are right now on the federal level.
We will see a lot of things happening in the next month because they want to get some things
done before the July 4th holiday.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Mr. Dino. Any questions? Kate, you're up.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Chair Solano. Mike, I know locally here we
see a lot of interest in what's designated as multi-modal. Are you seeing that same interest at the
federal level or not?

MIKE DINO: Well, I think at the federal level they continue to fund the traditional programs for
transit and transportation. I would say that it has been hard to discern, since the infrastructure
package has not gained much traction, any defined policy that's any different than what the
previous policy have been. And so multi-modal has not necessarily been a catch phrase so far in
this administration.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was my understanding. I just see that, from the local level here, we
hear a lot of that, and I wonder if that's percolating up. I hear some of it at the state level but I
hadn't heard any at the federal level.
MIKE DINO: I would say, from a transportation policy standpoint, certainly multi-modal's been
in the vocabulary for a long time. Certainly, the word that maybe, from my perspective, is used
more is mobility, and you guys use it a lot. It's part of how to develop policy using different
modes to get people to where they want to go.
And so mobility plans are-- and I do see some of that on the federal level. People want to figure
out how they're funding the different modes of mobility to make sure that people have options to
get where they're going. And I don't think their policy has shifted dramatically to favor one mode
over the other.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. That's back to our quote that we had here a while ago about moving
people instead of moving vehicles. Thank you. Thank you for that answer. Thank you.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Director Williams. Any other comments? OK. Sounds like we're
done. Next meeting is August 7. This meeting is adjourned.
[INAUDIBLE]
Oh, I'm sorry. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's all right.
PAUL SOLANO: Almost adjourned.
NATALIE MENTEN: I did want to speak under other matters.
PAUL SOLANO: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: So, if that would be all right.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. Sure.
NATALIE MENTEN: During the discussion, I heard with Brandeberry-McKenna's contract,
we're in an option period, and that was decided by someone other than the Board of Directors to
extend that option. My understanding is that one or two individuals made that choice, but in the
past, has that come before the Board?

SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: In the past, it has come before the Board. But this particular contract
is within the General Manager's contract authority. We went through an RFP process. There
were five people on the evaluation team-- Director Solano was one of the participants, and the
other participants were Rolf Asphaug and Heather McKillop, Scott Reed, myself, and Director
Solano.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. I'll just go on the record that I'm not at all happy when decisions
are taken away from this Board. Thank you.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. Anybody else? OK. We're adjourned. Next meeting's August 7. Five
minutes.

