Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 12, 2010
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

January 12, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 12, 2010 at
5:30 p.m.
****

Board
Members Present:
Board
Members Absent:

Committee Chair Chacon, Directors Kemp, O’Boyle, Tobiassen

Staff Present:

George Hovey, Eric Farrington, Tom Hughes Cal Shankster, John
Shonsey, Henry Stopplecamp, John Tarbert, Mike Gil, Trent Ratcliff,
Kenn Hardin, Terry Howerter, Robert Merriman, Bill Porter, David
Genova, Bill Holmes, Brian Matthews, Phil Washington, Martha
Hecox, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Jeff Becker, Marla Lien, Bill Van
Meter, Caitlin Magee

Others present:

Patrick Butler, Jay Jacobsmeyer, Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)
****
Vice-Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

Call to Order
I.

Vice-Chair Martinez, Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Christopher,
Cohen, Daly, James, McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer

DBE 2009 Participation Summary Year-End Review - Kenn Hardin gave this summary. Our
goals are still at 18% overall for all of our contracts for FasTracks. The 10% is how the
SBOO tracks participation and reflects the average. With DUS not having a full notice to
proceed it takes the average down a bit. Once they are given notice to proceed the number
should go back up. The SBOO does their tracking at the 20-40-60-80% of project
completion to make sure things are on target.
On the RTD side of things, the participation is really good. RTD has been able to award a lot
of contracts to DBE/SBEs as prime which really boosts the percentage of participation.
RTD, CDOT, and the City and County of Denver are seeing a lot of interest in certification for
DBE/SBEs.
Looking ahead there are many projects that will have participation. The SBOO will continue
with outreach and events to make job opportunities available.
Director McMullen asked about a contractor that disappeared for the City of County of
Denver, have we ever had that happen? Mr. Hardin responded that has not occurred since he

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 12, 2010
Page 2 of 2

has been with the District. Mr. Hardin shared that some companies are going out of
business due to the weak economy.
Director McMullen wanted to know if the companies that went out of business were waiting
for work and just couldn’t get started in time.
Mr. Hardin said that it is a combination of things, primarily the economy. Sometimes DBEs
are awarded contracts and they think they are going to start immediately but the contracts
might be multiyear and they could be on the back end of the contract and not able to sustain
themselves during the time.
General Manager Washington shared that we haven’t had any contractors that haven’t been
able to finish as we have supportive services to help out the contractors.
Director McMullen thought this might be a good article for the next newsletter focusing on
the success of DBE and what our experience has been.
Director Martinez wanted to know why the actual payouts were lower than the original goal
for six contracts. Mr. Hardin said there are many different reasons for this. For example,
scope of work has changed significantly on the Light rail maintenance facility from where it
originally started. CH2MHill will finish ahead of their budget and will end up ahead of their
goal. Director Martinez wants a report in the packet as to why companies are different from
their goals.
II.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

III. Adjourn to Operations and Customer Services Committee – Hearing no objection, Vice-Chair
Martinez adjourned the meeting at 5:42 p.m.

