Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

May 1, 2012

Subject:

Summary of Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012.
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Daly, Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Cohen,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, McMullen, Tayer, Tobiassen, Williams and
Walker
Directors Anderson and Malpiede participated via phone

Board Members
Absent:

Director O’Boyle

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Skip Brown, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Chuck Culig, John Dawson, Jane Donovan, Shannon Duty, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Ron Enserro, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Mike Gil,
Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien,
Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Ana Mostaccero, Paula Perdue,
Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois,
Walt Stringer, Stan Szabelak, Brenda Tierney, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van
Meter, Del Walker, Phil Washington, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Jennifer Brandeberry – Brandeberry-McKenna, Michelle Brier, Mac
Callison – City of Aurora, Matt Christian, CJ Czupor, Joni Goheen,
Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Paul McGuire, Jacob Riger – DRCOG,
Roger Sherman, Marta Sipeki, Bob Wilson
****

Call to Order
I.

Committee Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:36 p.m.

Recommended Action – Renewal of State Legislative Liaison Services Contract
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for state
legislative liaison services) with Julie Brandeberry-McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to
exercise a one-year option (July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013) to extend Contract
No. 17-DX-001, at a cost of $107,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.

Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 2
Motion:

Chair Kemp made the motion to
forward this item to the full board
at the May 22, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director
motion.

Discussion:

Vote on
the motion:

Cohen

seconded

the

Chair Kemp thanked the group for
all the hard work, stating we have
been kept up to speed and it has
been a pleasure to be able to move
the action forward.
Director Williams stated the team is
very well respected and has done
an outstanding job.
Director Hoy asked if the contract
was all inclusive. Jennifer stated
yes.
Director Deadwyler asked if the
contract was just a onetime deal.
Jennifer stated it will be
reevaluated on a yearly basis.
The motion passed 13 in favor and
0 against. Directors Anderson,
Malpiede, and O’Boyle were absent.
Chairperson Daly declared the
motion PASSED unanimously.

II.

State Legislative Issues
 Update on state issues
o SB 12-044, Failure to present valid evidence of mass transit fare
payment.
o HB 12-1045, Sales and use tax exemption for beetle-kill wood sales.
Jennifer shared that although there is some push back, it is a strong
likelihood that this bill will pass.
o HB 12-1069, Tax holiday for “back-to-school” expenditures.
o FasTracks Program audit request
Jennifer Brandeberry gave an update that SB 12-044 is making its way through the
process with little to no push back.
Jennifer Brandeberry gave an update that HB 12-1045 has moved to the Senate and
expects that it will pass.

Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 3
Jennifer Brandeberry gave an update that HB1069 has moved to the Senate and
although it has some push back, there is a strong likelihood that this bill will pass.
Jennifer Brandeberry gave an update on the FasTracks Program audit request stating
that Representative Swalm has recommended an Audit. It is their prerogative to
request as many audits as they desire. Jennifer shared that this is the third Audit in
the past 10 years for RTD. We have nothing to hide but have tried to educate
Representative Swalm on the process so that it saves state dollars on having to
perform an Audit just to request the information that they seek. Our message has
been there have already been lots of audits and RTD has been very transparent. All
the information that Representative Swalm has requested is available today.
Director McMullen asked if HB 12-1069, tax holiday for “back to school”
expenditures will have any effect on district. Jennifer responded that it would and
there is concern on the impact.
Jennifer also shared briefly that SB-1136 has gone over to the Senate and reiterated
what that bill was about. Several amendments have been made to this and agencies
like RTD, CDOT and other coalitions have expressed their opposition to some of the
language.

III.

Local Government Issues
 Roger Sherman, CRL, provided an update on local government issues. Roger
Sherman articulated three areas they are currently focused on:
o Looking at ways to engage elected officials earlier in the service
planning process
o Leveraging existing memberships and looking at some of the
memberships that Director James has identified to see how we can
build long term alliances and partnerships.
o Looking at ways to engage elected officials. There have been recent
elections in some of the municipalities and we are currently in the
process of drafting letters to the newly elected officials introducing RTD
to them and sharing our current, completed, and future projects.
o Director James asked will they be using the CCI/CCL conferences to put
out information. Roger stated yes, they will be utilizing those
conferences to get more information out. Director James indicated he is
scheduled to present in October and is working the applications for
other presenters for various conferences such as Railvolution.

IV.

Other Matters
Sherry Ellebracht provided an update on the status of the Re-Authorization Bill
working its way through the Senate. She indicated that the House added
amendments to this bill that has nothing to do with transportation. There is not a lot
of confidence it will pass and it may get bumped until later.
Sherry also shared there was a Patton Boggs conference call last week to clarify if
the Board made a decision on April 24 or just participated in a discussion on whether

Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 4
to go to the ballot. This was a discussion, not a decision and the Board will take
action in May regarding the option for not going to the ballot in 2012.
V.

Next Meeting Date – June 12, 2012

VI.

Adjourn to FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting
Committee Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 6:09 p.m.

