1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, December 3, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Bruce Daly

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Chair of the Board
Director, District H

Present
Present

5:08 PM
5:02 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair
Director, District B

Present
Present

4:48 PM
5:24 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

4:54 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Absent
Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:36 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:30 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Absent

6:01 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:20 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:01 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

4:48 PM
5:27 PM

Directors Hoy and Rivera-Malpiede were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Chuck Culig, John Elias, Sherry
Ellebracht, Heather Ellerbrock, Kevin Flynn, Terry Howerter, Kate
Iverson, Tina Jaquez, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug
MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Brian Middleton, Jerry Nery, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Bill Sirois, Patrick Stanley, Henry
Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta
Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Maria Garcia Berry, Jenifer Brandeberry, Mac Callison, John
Desmond, Mike Dino, Jared Fleisher, Doug Gragg, Mark Lunsford,
Anne Miano, Bill Mosher, Kevin O’Neill, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions
C. Updates - Federal, Local and State


Federal Update – Patton Boggs Washington, DC Team
Committee Chair Daly introduced the Patton Boggs Team: Kevin O’Neill, Anne
Miano, Jared Fleisher and Denver 2013 Man of the Year, Mike Dino. Kevin
O’Neill shared that the Patton Boggs team prepared a presentation which is
available in the December 3, 2013 Government Relations Board Packet. Mr.
O’Neill noted the team had a great experience having an extended in-depth tour
of the rail lines under construction and the fantastic continued transformation
at Denver Union Station (DUS) earlier in the day. Kevin O’Neill shared it was a
unique and exciting opportunity to see how Patton Boggs efforts have been
helpful to RTD over past few years. Mr. O’Neill stated the team would move
quickly through their slides giving a sense of what is going on in Washington
and then focus on the Board’s questions.
Mr. O’Neill informed the Board that Patton Boggs takes great privilege in
working with one of the most outstanding General Managers in the country;
RTD is a place that had an outstanding General Manager succeeded by an
outstanding General Manager, which makes a huge difference in terms of
achieving goals and successes. Kevin O’Neill also advised the Board that the
RTD Board is the most engaged Board that the Patton Boggs team has worked
with in the transportation arena; without a doubt, the staff is the best in the
business. Mr. O’Neill commented that he thought even the people at the
Federal Transportation Administration (FTA) would agree.
Mr. O’Neill reported that RTD’s track record for success speaks for itself and

that entities do not win as many competitive grant opportunities, or get as
many things into the New Starts pipeline; nor do you get major tax initiatives
passed without outstanding staff and the ability to convince people of the
merits of these transportation projects. RTD continue to enjoy an outstanding
relationship with the congressional delegation and the major players at the US
DOT.
Mr. O’Neill commented that DOT is obviously undergoing an interesting
transformation as they move from having a former House Republican member
who sat on the Committees of Jurisdiction, to Anthony Foxx as Director of
Transportation. Anthony Foxx is a former Mayor of the City of Charlotte, a
city in many respects that has a transportation record similar to Denver’s.
Charlotte is a rapidly growing region that has endeavored to have their
infrastructure keep pace and evolve with their demands and who has also had
some success at the federal level. Mr. O’Neill shared that Anthony Foxx
thoroughly understands what is happening with mass transportation in the
Denver Region. Patton Boggs hopes to have Mr. Foxx in Denver at some
future ribbon-cutting event. Last but not least, Kevin O’Neill noted that the
ability to speak with a unified regional voice is very important in Washington.
Mr. O’Neill then turned the floor over to his colleagues, Anne Miano and Jared
Fleisher, to talk briefly about the federal agenda and where things currently
stand.
Anne Miano noted that RTD’s critical issue to be faced this year is funding.
Ms. Miano noted that RTD has an FTA New Starts budget that requires over
$2 billion dollars to fully fund all the projects previously committed. However,
without a budget deal to fix the current sequester, FTA will be about $240
million dollars short on their commitments for FFGAs. Anne Miano shared that
the FTA is considering different ways to fix the shortfall; they have pots of
unallocated money and different pools of recovered funding, as well as other
creative means that the FTA can use to try to restore some of those funds.
Ms. Miano shared that some methods of refurbishing the funds may require
congressional approval and that even with all that maneuvering on the part of
the FTA, they will still be about $100 million dollars short in terms of the
overall FFGA funding.
Jared Fleisher commented that negotiations are underway and that the Patton
Boggs team is optimistic regarding some of the unobligated funds and is
looking to get more dollars into the RTD-Denver program than was received
last year.
Jared Fleisher spoke regarding MAP-21 Reauthorization, noting the Highway
Trust Fund is the real issue, which is funded by gas taxes. Federal gas taxes
have not increased since 1993; they are a fixed per-gallon gas tax that has not
increased with inflation. It does not increase with construction costs. Because

we now have more fuel efficient cars and because people are now driving less,
there is a major structural deficit in the Highway Trust fund to the tune of $15
billion a year. If the FTA is unable to come up with new revenues, the
Highway Trust Fund will take a $15 billion dollar hit next year. Mr. Fleisher
noted that the Highway Trust Fund has been in this position since 2008. There
has been an evidenced commitment in Congress to find a way to not make
cuts to the Highway Trust Fund program. Infrastructure is too important to
everyone in the district and too important to the economy. The question now
is what they do this time around. The optimistic take is that good bipartisan
cooperation exists between Chairwoman Boxer and Bill Schuster – they both
want to solve this problem. Congress has shown that infrastructure is one
area where they can get together and solve problems. The reality is this is a
hard problem to solve.
Anne Miano noted that there have been a number of options being considered
for raising revenues for MAP-21 and the scenario will likely be the same on
MAP-22. One option is a Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) tax; there are concerns
from some people who do not like the word VMT tax and others who do not
like any word or phrase that include the word tax. Ms. Miano shared that
there are implementation problems and technological issues. Raising monies
from new energy exploration could be part of a deal. Increasing or indexing
the gasoline tax, switching to a sales tax on gasoline, and raising nontransportation revenue are all considerations. These considerations are all very
complicated; they each have their different sponsors as well as those who are
opposed. Anne Miano commented that it is very unlikely people will come
together to create a good solution by next fall when they have to reauthorize
MAP-21 and she feels that MAP-22 will be very similar. There will likely be
some short-term patch, some pot of funds dedicated to keep the program
moving, and then look toward the future when hopefully the economy will look
better, people will be getting along with each other better in Congress, and we
can sit down as reasonable folks and look to create a transportation program
that makes sense for the country.
Kevin O’Neill stated that in the next year, Patton Boggs will work a lot on
reauthorization issues. While the betting would be we are going to have a
status quo short-term patch, we have to advocate as if there is going to be a
new six year bill. While MAP-21 is only 14 months into its existence, there are
already some obvious winners and losers; some places where we come out
ahead, other places where we come out behind, so there are some things we
have to worry about. Mr. O’Neill shared that Patton Boggs will be spending
time educating the Delegation and the authorizing committee, the people in the
Secretary’s Office, about how things should work in the future. Kevin O’Neill
expounded that RTD staff should reasonably expect to have a very visible role
in the reauthorization debate because RTD has been a shining example of how
effective money can be used to build new infrastructure that actually meets its

promises and in many cases exceeds the expectations.
Kevin O’Neill stated that regarding plans for 2014, Patton Boggs will continue
to work with everyone on the Delegation to provide them with briefings. When
the Patton Boggs team was out on their tour earlier today in Denver, they were
working with Sheri and with some great folks on the PR staff to walk through
things like the status of construction, planned operations to figure out what
material needed to be passed along to Hill staff so they can understand the
significant progress being made. The more the Delegation understands how
progress is being made, the easier it is for them to advocate on RTD’s behalf.
Kevin O’Neill noted that Patton Boggs have a couple of main objectives for
2014. They will focus on the New Starts funding agenda because that is the
biggest pot of gold out there for this reauthorization period, given the
FasTracks agenda. The Patton Boggs team will be looking at MAP-21
reauthorization and will spend some time with RTD staff in the next 60-90
days developing a wish list of things that worked, things that need to be
tweaked, and things that need to be cast aside. This will be the list of things
that staff will be working on with Delegation members when staff is in
Washington.
The Patton Boggs team will be updating the Delegation on the status of RTD’s
system, so that staff has an opportunity to delve into the big picture with
members of the Delegation and some of the other offices and agencies that we
work with, and also to get down at the granular level. The Patton Boggs team
is planning on meeting with the Congressional Delegation Transit Community
Leaders and also plan to visit with the DOT as well.
In May 2014, Patton Boggs hope to have in place with RTD Staff and US DOT
leaders, the chance to have some DOT folks in Denver for the ribbon cutting at
the DUS station, and to also have an event the day before that focuses on
some of the policy successes that are driving RTD.
Committee Chair Daly opened the floor for questions.
Director Lubow commented that she is interested in the Northwest Line which
is a line that has not yet been funded and will continue to have trouble getting
federal funding and grant money. Director Lubow wondered if the Patton
Boggs team has thought about ways through the reauthorization process or
through re-thinking New Starts that perhaps could help a line like the
Northwest line get federal funding.
Kevin O’Neill responded that when staff looks back, they’ll be able to be very
happy historically that FasTracks happened when it did. Federal spending has
reached a tipping point where the appetite to grow the New Starts projects

does not exist; yet, demand for projects remains extraordinary high. In the last
two bills, there has been a concentrated effort to ratchet the pipeline down in a
way that makes it harder to enter and harder to stay in so that projects that
were not likely to get funded today are less likely to get funded in the future.
RTD, as well as other agencies, will have to assess which of their current
projects are going to be most likely to procure federal funding.
Director Lubow commented that Mr. O’Neill’s answer didn’t really help the
Northwest Line. Mr. O’Neill stated that he wasn’t sure that there was an
answer that would satisfy Director Lubow’s question. He noted that Patton
Boggs will obviously do their best to make sure that the criteria fit all the future
plans of FasTracks and other objectives of RTD. Kevin O’Neill shared that
Patton Boggs sees policy choices being made that mean fewer projects qualify
for federal aid in the future in the New Starts program than qualify today.
Director Deadwyler commented that on one of the slides on keeping federal
Stakeholders informed and on board, they had included the Southeast corridor
extension. Director Deadwyler was not aware that staff had moved in the
direction of that being the choice based on extensions previously discussed.
Kevin O’Neill responded that paperwork has been filed with the FTA to start
the process of moving that project forward, which is why that information was
included in the slide.
General Manager Washington commented that last year or a year and a half
ago, staff came to the Board and the Board approved staff applying for a New
Starts grant for the Southeast corridor, primarily because the Southeast
corridor fits the existing New Starts criteria. Currently, we are in the final
stage of the project development phase for the Southeast. The next phase
would be final engineering. The Southeast corridor is the only project right
now that is in the application phase of the extension.
Director Deadwyler wondered if the Southeast corridor was also in the running
for the Graham, Balfour Beatty, Hamon project. General Manager Washington
responded that the North Metro corridor is not a federal corridor; it is not in the
New Starts program, and the project is not federalized.
Director Bagley noted that Patton Boggs presentation spoke about the ability to
speak as one voice in DC. Director Bagley stated he could not stress enough
that understanding the “speak as one voice” fact is critical. Everything RTD
does as a Board and a District has to be coordinated and must be seen as
speaking with one voice.
Director Bagley also mentioned Patton Boggs talking about their 2014 strategy
plan. He commented that Patton Boggs believes the Eagle P3 project and
RTD’s work with the private sector is a key project to highlight. Director

Bagley believes the other project to think about is the work RTD has done with
the Denver Union Station project in working both with FRA and FTA as well as
the funding through TIFIA and RRIF loans. He stated the success RTD has had
had with those two silos where we’ve somewhat integrated and worked with
both of those together. That’s another one that can be utilized in future
strategies, not only as far as what we have done, but other jurisdictions being
able to replicate those sorts of things.
Committee Chair Daly noted for the record that Director Menten has joined the
meeting.
Director Sisk thanked the Patton Boggs team for attending the meeting and
stated that he personally really appreciates the ongoing relationship between
RTD and Patton Boggs. Director Sisk noted that his challenge to all of Patton
Boggs is to ensure that RTD has a robust BRT in the US36 corridor. He hopes
there will be a robust schedule in March, 2014, in terms of visits while the
Board is in Washington. Director Sisk would like the Board to be more active
than they were for the visit in 2013.
Director Sisk wondered if we are working with Senator Bennett and Senator
Udall. The Senators had a meeting in Greeley earlier this week regarding quiet
zones. Direct Sisk stated that he is hopeful RTD will follow up working with
the Senators in a very positive way to make sure quite zones are addressed
and addressed very soon. Director Sisk looks forward to RTD and staff
continuing to be the leaders that we are and that it’s time to seize on this
opportunity.
Kevin O’Neill asked Director Daly if he could gather input from the Board to
provide back to the Patton Boggs team regarding collective wisdom and how
the Board would like things to operate. The Patton Boggs team would greatly
benefit from that information. It would be most helpful for Patton Boggs to
have this information in early January.
Committee Chair Daly agreed gathering that type of information for Patton
Boggs was a great idea. Noting no other speakers in the queue, Committee
Chair Daly thanked the Patton Boggs team for their visit and wished them a
good flight home.


Local Update – CRL Associates – Maria Garcia Berry
Maria Garcia Berry greeted the Board and shared that she was presenting this
evening on behalf of Roger Sherman. CRL’s update is to keep RTD and staff
apprised on a statewide attempt to go to Ballot on a transportation issue.
Maria Garcia Berry noted that as RTD staff is aware, there is a group called
MPACT64, which is a coalition of different governmental entities throughout
the state. The private sector also has been having conversation about whether

to go to the ballot at some point for more transportation dollars, along with the
Metro Mayors Caucus and the metro area Commissioners.
Maria Garcia Berry reported that there are two pretty significant dates coming
up this month, December 17 and December 18 where hopefully, as soon the
first draft of the poll has been reviewed, CRL will have some data to share with
the coalition regarding whether it makes sense to move forward. Obviously
there will need to be a great deal of analyses, given the aftermath of
Amendment 66.
To refresh RTD staff’s memory, Ms. Garcia Berry shared that the issue being
polled is about a three-quarters of a of 1% sales tax increase. One third of the
revenues from this increase would come straight off the top to go to transit
statewide and would be determined by population only. The balance of the
two thirds revenue would be divided in respect to the HUTF formula currently
in statute, which is 60% would go directly to CDOT and 40% to the locals, of
which that 40% is divided into 22% going to the counties and 18% going to
the cities. There continues to be ongoing dialog going on from some of the
groups. Some people want to change the formula on the local side, not the
state or transit side.
Maria Garcia Berry commented that the good news here is that if in fact this
initiative ever goes forward, there are two pretty dramatic public policy moves
that are being contemplated. One is that the public would no longer depend on
the gas tax for transportation funding and the second one is that transit would
be recognized statewide with one third of the money being devoted to transit
statewide. These issues are all being tested in next few weeks; we’ll get some
poll results back shortly. CRL have been having conversations with General
Manager Washington regarding how this can all play out. She said they are
testing some projects statewide and are also trying to oversample in the metro
area. All of this will be unfolding in the near term and will become public right
before Christmas. There are many players involved, including the Governor
and other elected officials, as to whether any of this initiative moves forward.
Maria Garcia Berry then asked if there were any questions.
Director Menten inquired about the two December dates that were important;
Maria Garcia Berry replied that on December 17 the MPACT64 Group will
meet, which is the broad coalition of statewide entities that have been working
together, and then on December 18 the Metro Mayor’s Caucus will meet to
digest data.
Director Menten wondered about polling. Maria Garcia Berry stated that there
was a private coalition called the Colorado Transportation Coalition, about a
year ago convened a poll that did the first major transportation poll statewide
since prior to TREX to really understood where voters stood with regard to gas

tax. This year, we hired a different Pollster; we hired David Hill of Hill
Research. Hill Research has done a lot of work in Colorado, particularly on tax
issues, and he has the first preliminary draft which has not been approved. We
are planning to go into the field in the next 6-7 days.


State Update – Jenifer Brandeberry
Jenifer Brandeberry of Brandeberry-McKenna passed out a brief memo that
summarizes the interim activities Brandeberry-McKenna has been working on in
RTD’s behalf. The thicker memo is a little bit dated, but she felt that as folks
that are engaged in transportation issues, RTD staff and Board might
appreciate the report that CDOT recently provided to the flood disaster
committee that has been meeting since September. That committee has one
more meeting which is scheduled for December 30th. Again, this report is a
little dated but does provide some general background of what a lot of the
legislation this upcoming session might be focusing in terms of both statutory
and potentially constitutional changes that might come up and that are being
recommended by this committee that may have tangential implications to
transportation infrastructure funding in general.
Jenifer Brandeberry noted that the other interim committee that is most
important to RTD is the Transportation Legislative Review Committee who
Brandeberry and Associates presented to this past summer. This committee
has wrapped up their work; and the Flood Disaster committee will finish at the
end of December.
Jenifer Brandeberry commented that other activities that Brandeberry and
Associates has worked on for RTD include 3 legislative tours conducted at
DUS. Ms. Brandeberry shared that the tours were very well received and it’s
been amazing to actually physically get Legislators in that space to have them
start to see what RTD staff already knows, how getting DUS and FasTracks
working together are really going to transform the Denver metropolitan area.
Legislators are actually starting to see physical, real things: the line out to the
airport, the West line that opened early last April, and now DUS. BrandeberryMcKenna had the chairs of the transportation committees come to that, some
of the staff members at TLRC and some other transportation committee
members. A couple of the Legislators had their pictures taken outside the hotel
rooms, and were sending them to their wives saying things like when this
complete, this is where we are going to spend our anniversary.
Jenifer Brandeberry noted that Brandeberry and Associates implemented
something new, thanks to General Manager Washington and Sherry Ellebracht,
offering conference calls to the transportation committee members. These
calls were not hugely attended but were hugely appreciated. The outreach
was made proactively saying “before you read about this in the paper” you as
transportation leaders, we want to offer you a briefing from our staff and from

our General Manager. Jenifer Brandeberry thanked General Manager
Washington and Sherry Ellebracht for working with Brandeberry-McKenna on
this project. She noted that their efforts show legislators that RTD cares and
that we certainly want to share information with them.
Finally, Brandeberry-McKenna has done a lot of outreach; we have 3 new
members, not due to an election but due to two recall elections. BrandeberryMcKenna has met with a new Senator from El Paso county, Bernie Helpin, and
the new Senator in Pueblo, Senator Rivera.
Based on the retirement of Representative Claire Levee, Brandeberry and
Associates have also met with Casey Becker, the new representative in
Boulder. Ms. Becker has extensive background and will be a great asset to the
legislature. There was one other recall election going on and that was for
Senator Evie Hudak, who was recently last elected to a competitive Senate
seat in Jefferson County; she elected to resign her position the day before
Thanksgiving, which allows the Democrats to appoint someone to fill her seat.
There are now two candidates in the ring, former Democratic House member
Sara Galardi and Arvada City councilwoman Rachel Zenzinger. BrandeberryMcKenna looks forward to meeting with whoever gets that appointment.
Jenifer Brandeberry shared that this means the Senate will stay in the
Democrats hands, and that it’s pretty unusual to have 3 new people midsession.
Other issues that may come up that RTD Board will have some interest in
beside flood stuff is the issue of construction defects. Many of RTD staff has
participated in DRCOG. That study has come out and there is lots of interest
from very diverse parties, ranging from housing authorities, to business
community to the metro mayors caucus. There are conversation going with
both the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate and that the
Metro Mayors led by Jim Gunning and Mayor Murphy are working on a smaller
subcommittee of folks to come together to review current trends and what
might be done to reverse the trends. Jenifer Brandeberry reported that no bills
have been drafted at this point, but Brandeberry and Associates will keep RTD
staff apprised of legislative ideas and that Brandeberry and Associates look
forward to working with RTD in the upcoming legislative sessions. Jenifer
Brandeberry then opened the floor for questions.
Director Folska wondered if CRL or Brandeberry-McKenna were aware that
CDOT was taking out public opinion on whether or not to move forward with
some commuter rail from Fort Collins to Pueblo. Maria Garcia Berry responded
that yes, CDOT has been doing a study for quite some time on whether they
would do a commuter rail project. It’s been going on for 3-4 years.
Director Folska wondered if there was a new public opinion, Maria Garcia Berry

replied this was not a new study; it has been an ongoing study.
General Manager Washington shared that there was a public meeting 2 weeks
ago where they presented on a commuter rail from Ft. Collins to DIA.
Director Menten noted on page 2 of the distributed memo, under the statutory
changes, Director Menten wondered if it would be a safe assumption that
would be the 2015 legislative session based on the constitutional changes
being passed in November 2014. Director Menten wondered if some of those
changes were just housekeeping changes.
Jennifer Brandeberry replied that some of the changes can be viewed as
housekeeping changes and some are much more substantive. This reflects the
girth of issues that various folks from the CML and CCI, first responders,
brought to this committee to say let’s put everything on the table so that if and
when this does happen again, what can be done to be better prepared.
Director Menten then stated that the statutory changes could be in either 2014
or 2015; Jennifer Brandeberry confirmed that was correct.
Director Menten then commented that details appear to be pretty unknown at
this point on the 4th item on the list, Jennifer Brandeberry stated that was
correct; as things come up, Brandeberry and Associates will refer them to the
Board.
Committee Chair Daly asked to be reminded who will be the Chairman of the
Transportation Committees next year. Jennifer Brandeberry responded it is
now Senator Todd and Max Tyler in Lakewood. Committee Chair Daly thanked
Brandeberry and Associates for their presentation.

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - January 7, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 6:24 p.m. to the Planning and
Development Committee.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

