Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 12, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

April 12, 2012

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 12,
2012 at 12:00 a.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Kemp; 1st Vice-Chair Tayer, 2nd-Vice-Chair
Cohen, Secretary Malpiede
Other Board Members
Present:
Subject:

I.

Board Member Absent:
Others Present:

Treasurer Kent Bagley
Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington,
Marla Lien

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:02
p.m.

Recommended Action
 Approval of the Resolution for the Appointment of Salaried Employee
Trustee to the RTD Pension Trust and defined Contribution Plan
Chair Kemp provided background information on the process that was
followed in the selection of a middle-manager to replace Greg Yates. He
asked for a recommendation by the Executive Committee to move this
action item forward.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
move this item before the full
Board at the regular Board meeting
on 4/17/12.
Director Malpiede seconded the
motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The Motion PASSED.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 12, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 6
 Contract Award for Union Station Alliance for DUS Building
Improvements
Legal Counsel Marla Lien introduced this item and explained why it is
coming back to the Board for a second time. The first time this item was
approved by the Board on March 27 th. However, it only covered Union
Station Alliance and not the other individual companies that are part of
the deal. This contract is being assigned to Milender White so the
language need to be expanded to state” or one or more of its corporate
members.”
Motion:

Director Cohen made the motion
to move this item before the full
Board at the regular Board meeting
on 4/17/12.
Director Tayer seconded the
motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The Motion PASSED.

II.
Approval of April Board Review
General Manager Washington introduced this item. He indicated that he had
prepared a memo to the Board explaining the amount for the FASTER Grant IGA
with CDOT for Circular buses and addressing some of the Board members concern
around the cost. Seeing there were no other major concerns, Chair Kemp asked for
a motion to move the April agenda before the full Board for approval on 4/17/12
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
move the April Board Meeting Agenda
before the full Board at the regular Board
meeting on 4/17/12.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:


The Motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent


Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General
Manager to Execute
Purchase and Sale Agreements (PSA) for the
A and B Blocks at Denver Union Station (DUS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached resolution authorizing the
General Manager to execute Purchase and Sale Agreements (PSA)

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 12, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 6
for the A and B Blocks at Denver Union Station (DUS) with the
Union Station Neighborhood Company (USNC) or an affiliated
designee in the amount of $10 million each. It is further
recommended that an adjustment to the earnest money
deposits for the cost of asbestos remediation on A and B Blocks be
authorized, that RTD agree to authorize a change order with DUSPA
for asbestos remediation and enhanced building foundations
(“underbuild”), that the underbuild cost be in addition to the sales
prices, and that RTD agree to refund the increased cost to USNC
for the underbuild on B Block if it is sold to another party. The
Board of Directors authorized the General Manager to execute
purchase and sale agreements (PSA’s) in January 2008. The title
company has made a Board resolution a requirement of closing.
The General Manager is further authorized to transfer up to $6
million from the combined total sales proceeds to the Denver Union
Station Project Authority (DUSPA) for uses to include working
capital which will be refunded at the close of the project, RTD
approved change orders for asbestos remediation and enhanced
foundation work, any costs associated with other changes and
schedule adjustments requested by RTD, and to enter into any
related agreements necessary for dedication or development of
roadways, easements, and rights of way to benefit the DUS Project.


Resolution appointing Salaried Employee to Salaried Pension Fund
Trustee Board



Ticket Vending Machine Upgrade and Replacement and Related
Budget Transfer
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the upgrade of
ticket vending machines (TVM) on the Southeast Corridor and
replacement of TVMs on the Southwest and Central Corridors.



Adoption of 2013 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors adopt the attached 2013
Performance Measures for Goals 1-7.



Radio-CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Fourth-Year
Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to execute all documents necessary to amend the
contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s Representative to
Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided
Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Systems
(Contract 18DH016). This contract amendment is for the fourth
year of a five year period of performance. The scope and fee are

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 12, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 6
renegotiated annually. The fourth-year fee is not-to-exceed a limit
of $2,600,000 for a total contract value to date of $7,922,000.


Contract Award for Union Station Alliance for DUS Building
Improvement
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the General
Manager enter into a contract with the Union Station Alliance (USA)
or one or more of its corporate members for $5 million for the
purposes of designing and constructing renovations to the Denver
Union Station (DUS) historic building in advance of RTD and USA
signing a lease. The purpose of this early work agreement is to
ensure that Amtrak is relocated back into DUS to coincide with the
opening of the new commuter rail terminal and termination of the
lease at Amtrak’s temporary facility. The source of funds for the $5
million is a Colorado Department of Transportation FASTER grant and
RTD's associated local match to the grant which was awarded to
RTD in early 2011.
It is further recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the Board authorize a transfer of $5 million from
unrestricted net assets to fund this contract. The unrestricted net
assets would be replenished in the 2012 Amended Budget by the
proceeds of the FASTER grant.



Recommended Action
 Approval to enter into a FASTER Grant IGA with CDOT for Circulator
buses
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors approve this action to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) to receive the $3.9 Million FASTER Grant for
the purchase of six buses for the Downtown Circulator, with the
$3.9 Million in grant funding being added to the total project budget.
The acceptance of the FASTER Grant requires a local match of $3.9
Million which is included in the adopted FasTracks financial plan.
 Recommendation Regarding a Competitive Procurement Phase as a
Result of Evaluation of the I-225 Unsolicited Proposal
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the issuance of a Request for Proposal
(RFP) for the competitive procurement of the remaining elements of
the 1-225 Corridor. Authorization of this RFP by the RTD Board of
Directors will allow staff to complete development of an RFP that
may accelerate completion of all or portions of the remaining 1-225
Rail Line without displacing other planned expenditures within RTD
adopted FasTracks financial plan.


Alameda Station TOD Pilot Project Implementation

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 12, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 6
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his
designee to negotiate and execute all documents necessary to
facilitate the development of the Alameda Station TOD Pilot Project.
Such authorization includes all documents necessary to facilitate the
following transactions:
Primary Transaction:
The key elements of the primary transaction with D4 are as follows:
 The sale of 2.987 acres at the Alameda Station (designated as
Parcel 1: Northern Parcel on Exhibit A) to D4, the development
entity for Denver Design Center and the Broadway
Marketplace adjacent to the Alameda Station. The purchase
price for the land is $20 per square foot (approximately
$2.583 million, subject to determining exact parcel
dimensions). D4 intends to develop residential apartments on
the parcel.
 Deduction from the purchase price for:
o
the costs for the construction of a new transit plaza and
related improvements, including new bus bays;
o
RTD’s share of the costs to extend Cherokee Street
between Alaska and Virginia Avenues including build out to
middle of the right-of-way of South Cherokee Street for a bus
lane; and
o
the potential costs of environmental remediation on
transit plaza and South Cherokee Street not to exceed
$100,000.
 Deduction from the purchase price of $305,370, which is the
present value of a 25-year obligation by D4 to maintain and
repair the new transit plaza, including any landscaping and
equipment, pursuant to an RTD approved scope and
standards. RTD will grant vendor and signage rights on the
new transit plaza to D4 for the duration of the maintenance
obligation.
 Grant of access easements at no cost to RTD for routing of
buses through the private streets within the Marketplace.
Final cost figures for the transit project improvements will be
determined after completion of final design through a competitive and
negotiated process involving both D4 and RTD.
South Cherokee:
This action would give authority to negotiate and enter into an
agreement with D4 and the City and County of Denver (the City) to
convey to the City a new section of Cherokee Street between Alaska
and Virginia Avenues that will be dedicated as public right of way
(designated as Parcel 3: South Cherokee Parcel on Exhibit A). In
addition, this action would give authority to convey a small, nearby
parcel of property to Xcel in exchange for Xcel conveying a small

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 12, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 6 of 6
parcel to the City; the Xcel parcel is needed to build the street to the
City’s right-of-way standards.

Option for the Sliver Parcel:
This action would give authority to grant D4 an option to purchase
4.657 acres south of Virginia Avenue, east of the existing light rail
tracks (designated as the Sliver Parcel in Exhibit A). In exchange for
D4 paying $25,000, RTD would grant D4 a 12-year option for a
purchase price based on the appraised fair market value in 2014. In
2019, a new land value would be established by an appraisal.
Contribution to the Drainage Project:
Finally, this action would give authority to negotiate an arrangement
whereby the Broadway Marketplace (BMP) Metro District (Metro
District) would be reimbursed $700,000 from the future sale of the
Bus Barn Site (shown on Exhibit B) to a developer or if RTD develops
the property itself. In addition, RTD will grant an easement for the
storm water pipe to the BMP across the bus barn property, at no
charge to the Metro District.
III. Other Matters




V.

Chair Kemp asked to have included on his Chair Report for April
17 an update on the follow-up to the items from the Joint BoardStaff Planning Advance on 3/3/12.
General Manager Washington announced that he, Chair Kemp and
Tom Clark will be going to meet with the President of BNSF. The
purpose of this meeting is relationship building.
General Manager Washington discussed the T-Rex insurance
closeout. Several suggestions were made relative to the
appropriate use of these funds including using for completion of
FasTracks programs where the criteria is the program is at or near
completion. The General Manager will provide more information to
Director Cohen and the Executive Committee.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 1:00 p.m.

