Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, March 13, 2008,
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

March 13, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee meeting held on
Thursday, March 13, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms, R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair John Tayer, Noel Busck, Bruce Daly, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, Neil
Quinlan

Barbara Brohl, Juanita Chacon, Bill Christopher, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp,
Daryl Kinton, Chris Martinez, Dave Ruchman, Barbara Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Teresa Sedmak, Barbara Willis, Cal Shankster, Larry Buter,
Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee, Bob Lewis, Phil Washington, Dave Genova,
Marla Lien, Brian Matthews, Bill Porter, Bill Holmes, Scott Reed, Scott
Roberts, Trent Radcliff, Lloyd Mack, Daria Serna, Bruce Abel, Tony
McCaulay, Rick Clarke, Ron Dodsworth

Others Present:

Ben Lamoreaux, Dave Jackson, Jonnie Thomas, Stanley Gronek, Don
Robinett, Tom Coogan, Howard Alton, George Hovey, Howard Alton, Roger
Chapin (First Transit), Gary Forbes (First Transit), Bruce Behnke (Veolia),
Jim Wolf

Call to Order:

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

I. Recommended Actions
 IT Consultant – Universe/Legacy Programmers (Exercise Second Year
Option) – Phil Washington, Assistant General Manager, Administration introduced this
item. Bob Lewis, Senior Manager, Information Technology gave the overview of this
contract. This contract keeps in place support for the Legacy system as it is gradually
being replaced by ERP program.
The Information Technology Division of the Administration Department proposes that the
Finance/Administration Committee approve and recommend that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to exercise the second
one year option in the appoint of $300,000 to extend the current contract for non-

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, March 13, 2008,
Page 2 of 6
personal services for an IT Consultant-UniVerse/Legacy Programmer (16DK001). This
contract was originally awarded May 1, 2006 to 5280 Solutions, LLC (a WSCA company)
through the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial year plus three
one year options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The total
contract amount with this option year requires Board approval. The second one year
option is to begin on May 1, 2008 and remain in effect for one year until April 30, 2009.
Motion: Director McMullen made a motion for
full approval before the Board
At the March 18, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Pulliam seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion unanimously .


Resolution Confirming Status of RTD/ATU Pension and Health & Welfare Trustees as
RTD Employees
Marla Lien, General Counsel introduced this item. Under the collective bargaining
agreement, RTD and ATU appoint 3 members each to the Health & Welfare Pension
trustees. On February 1, 2008 the current RTD Employee Salaried Trustees resigned as
trustees for both Union Trusts out of concern for personal liability. This resolution is
an attempt to rectify these concerns.
Ms. Lien has attempted to set up a scenario where the Board indemnifies the trustees
but not under the plan, instead under the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act.
The Board would have some level of oversight, recognizing by a resolution that these
employees are on the payroll.
General Manager would appoint trustees on the salaried side and indemnify them.
Director Quinlan asked about the cost of indemnification?
Marla Lien responded that this is unknown as a settlement could be anywhere from $1
to millions of dollars.
Director Quinlan thought this was cost shifting from the Union to RTD. Marla Lien
responded that it could be seen that way and the Union could indemnify its own
employees.
Cal Marsella – clarifying the question, do you want to indemnify the salaried employees
that serve on the Union trust and the represented employees that serve on the trust.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, March 13, 2008,
Page 3 of 6
Holman Carter, President Local ATU 1001 addressed the committee and spoke about
indemnity focus. This is a cooperative trust between RTD and the ATU.
Director McMullen asked about how other properties around the country handle this
issue and asked Mr. Carter to research this issue.
There was a lengthy discussion regarding the issues surrounding indemnification with
Marla Lien providing the District’s legal prospective and Holman Carter providing the
ATU’s perspective.
Julio Rivera, ATU 1001 spoke and said that the insurance policy ran into trouble
because the Walker case was not mentioned. He said that the trust must make
unanimous decisions together. If the salaried employees are protected by RTD and the
ATU employees are not, it is unfair.
Stan Gronek, ATU 1001 spoke about the Supreme Court has ruled on dual loyalty and
expressed concern that applying the Colorado Governmental Immunity act in this case
might not be correct.
Motion: Director Busck made a motion to
table the item to the next Financial
Administration Committee on April
8, 2008 and continuing the
appointment of Ron Dodsworth as a
trustee until the issues has been
resolved.
Second: Director Quinlan seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

II.

RTD Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan - Marla Lien spoke to this item.
Current trustees were tasked to create new plan and trust document. It was the
Board’s direction to keep as many provisions of the old plan the same in the new plan
with the only change being the defined contribution.
There are two points that staff is looking for guidance from the Board: 1. Vesting –
right now employees are vested after five years. There could be an alternative on the
contribution side with a graduated vesting schedule.
2. Contribution level - The other decision point is how the plan is written in terms of
the Board Contribution. Two ways to write the new plan – write it as 9% benefit that
would be locked in or an alternative is to write a plan that says Board can contribute
what it wants so that there is no stated value. Board would have to vote on the
amount contributed every year.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, March 13, 2008,
Page 4 of 6
There was support among the Committee for leaving the vesting at five years and not
using a graduated vesting schedule.
Busck asked about locking the rate in for 9% and is that fair for future boards. Steve
Weinstein said there are several cases that speak to this issue. There is a lot of case
law on the defined benefit side but not sure how it applies to defined contribution.
Director Quinlan felt that locking the organization in for the future is the wrong
direction to go if you look at the financial situation of many transit agencies. He would
favor writing that Board decides amount.
Director McMullen thought that with the funding amount not guaranteed, it would be a
political football every year. He sees benefits and disadvantages to both sides.
Director Busck did not have a problem with 9% but thinks the Board might need some
flexibility.
Director Tayer thought that 9% is very generous and proposed 5% contribution with
anything up to 9%.
Marla Lien said the other item that the Board will need to decide is if there should be
another set of trustees to over see the defined benefit plan or if the current set of
trustees should oversee both plans. The Committee was not supportive of having
another set of trustees. Director Tayer asked for list of pro and cons. Staff will come
back to the Financial Administration Committee with an action item.

III.

2007 Performance Report – Fourth Quarter - Robert Merriman, Manager of Budget
and Financial Analysis gave this report. The District did well in 2007 on safety,
cleanliness, reliability, courtesy and accessibility.
The District had challenges with on time performance. The 17% growth in revenue
ridership has caused challenges with on time performance. The Board approved a 1%
system maintenance increase to help with on time performance.
The District continues to face challenges with mechanic vacancies.
Director McMullen commended the contractors on improving service as the numbers
of complaints have dropped significantly.
Director Daly asked about Laidlaw’s accident numbers, they seemed high. Bruce Abel
responded is that there is no distinction on whether the bus accident is a fault of the
driver or another vehicle so it is difficult to measure.
Cal Marsella said that the district runs into this problem with light rail and they are
thinking of changing the category to “At Fault Accidents” for more accurate
reporting.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, March 13, 2008,
Page 5 of 6

IV.

January 2008 Financial Status Report – Robert Merriman gave this report. There were the
same number of weekdays in January 2008 as January 2007. Revenue boardings were
up 7.7% over January 2007. A problem with the mall shuttle counter has been corrected
and would show an increase in monthly boardings of 6% instead of 3% listed in the
packet.
Sales and use tax revenues were not in when the packet was issued. Phil Washington
distributed the numbers. Year to date taxed receipts are 4.3% which is 2.1% under the
budget plan.
Operating Revenues – Fare box was 13% higher in January 2008 over January 2007 and
the District was within budget on total expenditures.
Director Daly asked about the decline in farebox revenues and Robert Merriman clarified
that it was down from the District’s plan. Robert Merriman is going to get back with
Director Daly on this issue.

V.

Other Matters –



Upcoming Triennial Review - Phil Washington said the Triennial review is required by
FTA and it will look at 23 different areas within the District.



Budget Calendar Follow-up & Board Expectations for April 22nd
Budget Assumptions Workshop – Robert Merriman distributed a memo reviewing the
items that will be discussed at the Budget Assumptions Workshop. There will be a
budget process tour on April 22. Mr. Washington asked if there were any other Board
expectations for what they would like to see on April 22. Chair Tayer spoke about
how important this process is and thanked staff for their efforts in preparation and
keeping the Board informed.



Upcoming Annual External Financial Audit – Phil Washington spoke to upcoming
external audit from Bondi beginning on March 24, 2008. Bondi will report to the Board
on their findings.



Sales Tax Revenue Bond Refunding Follow up – Teresa Sedmak gave the follow up on
the refunding. In February the Board passed a resolution to refund up to
$65,0000,0000 worth of bonds. There is significant turmoil in the market, especially
in the Municipal Bond market. Municipal yields are too high at this time. Ms. Sedmak
is continuing to monitor market. At the present time there is only a savings of
$23,000,000. The resolution is good until mid April. If the refunding is not done by
then, a new resolution will come to the board.



Regional Sales and Use Tax Forecast Status – Robert Merriman spoke to this issue.
There were concerns from the Board that sales tax forecasting was not tailor made for
the region. Staff has RFP slated to go out next week for a more localized forecast.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, March 13, 2008,
Page 6 of 6
First forecast will be completed by May 31, 2008. There will be a re-check and update
to the forecast on July 31, 2008 before the budget is finalized for 2009.

VI.



Audit Reports to the Audit Sub-Committee and the Financial
Administration Committee - Report attached – Barbara Willis, Senior Internal Auditor
gave this update. Mrs. Willis referred to the audit report that was in the Board packet
and asked for questions. There were no questions.



Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Recruitment Update – Phil Washington provided this
update. It has been advertised internally and externally, nationwide and locally.
Twenty-four resumes have been received to date. Interview process will begin next
week. Director Quinlan asked how many internal resumes were received – the
response was one.
Next Meeting Date – The next meeting date of the Financial Administration Committee will
be April 8, 2008.

VII. Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Chair Tayer adjourned the meeting 7:09 pm.

