2024-10-22
Board Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good evening, everyone. For the sake of the record, this is Erik Davidson speaking,
Chair of the RTD Board. I will now call the Tuesday, October 22 RTD Board meeting to order. We are
convened as of 5:33 PM Mountain Daylight Time.
I would respectfully ask all of those in attendance to please remain muted unless you are recognized to
speak. Thank you for joining us this evening. As the Board has moved to in-person meetings for some
time now for our monthly gatherings, please note that our committee meetings are still being held
remotely via Zoom.
All of our committee meetings are audio and video recorded, and those meeting recordings, along with
the unofficial minutes of the meetings, are posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. You can
visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like access to this service is invited to please send an email to the RTD
Board Office using the email address rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish, so anyone who would like
a transcript in Spanish can also email the Board Office.
At this time, I'd like to ask-- Director Sloan, would you please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance?
[AUDIO OUT]
I will now go ahead and read the land acknowledgment. "The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that
the land on which our buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho,
and other contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous
elders who have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout
generations. May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing
legacies of inequity of the Native and all historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current and
future contributions in the district as we move forward."
I will now call for the roll. Treasurer Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin?

PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: I'm here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal? Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening. I'm present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson. I am present.
JAIME LEWIS: You skipped Lewis.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I skipped Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I was looking at my count. Director Lewis?
[LAUGHTER]
JAIME LEWIS: I won't take it personally.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Lewis is here. That's 14 present at this time, one absent. I believe
Director Rosenthal will be joining us. And we'll note that for the sake of the record.

At this time, I'll go ahead and also read our statement of Employee Appreciation. "The Regional
Transportation District Board of Directors recognizes that RTD's dedicated workforce is the lifeblood of
this agency. Every day, RTD employees do extraordinary things to make lives better through
connections." We're going to see many of those folks here tonight. "We honor their work of delivering
transit excellence, service and value to the community, especially demonstrated during difficult and
stressful moments." I think this year's been one of those. "May the actions taken by this Board
demonstrate our profound gratitude, commitment, and support of all of RTD's employees, the dedicated
public servants of this agency who make lives better through connections."
There are no retiree awards for this evening. The fourth-quarter retiree awards will be announced at the
December 3rd Board of Directors meeting. But we do have a special section on our agenda tonight.
This is some special recognition. And so while we don't have retirees with us, we do have a lengthy list of
employees that will be recognized this evening for their participation in placement in RTD's various
Roadeos. This year, we're recognizing RTD's bus, rail, and snowplow Roadeo winners, including
participants in the National Snow Plow Roadeo.
To assist the Board in recognizing our Roadeo winners, I will call on each responsible Assistant General
Manager to recognize their respective winners from their teams. I ask that each AGM read all of the
places and names. Winners that are in attendance, I invite you to please stand when your name is called,
and please remain standing until all names have been called for each section. I'll ask everyone here to
hold applause until everybody has stood and been recognized. So first up at this time, I'd like to introduce
Assistant General Manager Dave Jensen to recognize our Rail Roadeo winners. AGM Jensen, will you
please go ahead and introduce yourself and announce the winners?
DAVID JENSEN: Thank you. And good evening. I am, as introduced, Dave Jensen, Assistant General
Manager of Rail Operations, and I'm incredibly proud to be able to introduce the winners of our local Light
Rail Roadeo, which took place August 10, 2024.
So to begin with, our Light Rail Operators, first place was Adam Cruz. Second place, Robert Dennis.
Third place, Jason Buckley. Then, again, a reminder, when I announce your name, please stand, and
we'll wait until we're done for the applause.
For the Light Rail Technicians, first place, George Sweeney. Second place, Mike Hubbard. And third
place, John Bruno. Thank you very much. Congratulations. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Jensen. Much appreciated. Next, I'd like to ask our Acting
Assistant General Manager, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, to come forward to the podium, and please recognize
this year's Snow Plow and National Snow Plow Roadeo winners.
Again, those present, please stand up when your name is called. Stay standing, and we'll do one round of
applause at the end. Ms. Vishwakarma, please go ahead.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you, Chair Davidson. On August 23, 2024, 11 teams of our facility
management colleagues participated in RTD's Snow Plow Roadeo. This is an event that happens in the

heat of summer, and it tests diagnostics, written knowledge, and driving through a course, which has
cones set out. And it tests for skills like making sharp turns, backing up alleys, not hitting anything.
I would like to first recognize our Snow Plow Single-Axle Competition winners. For those in attendance,
please stand up to be recognized as your name is called. I ask that we hold our applause until all SingleAxle Competition winners have been recognized.
So in the competition, first place was taken by John Prather and Dave Johnson. Second place, Nathan
Barela and John Oldham. Third place, Daniel Guerrero and Alonso Murguia. And seems like they could
not make it today.
So next, I would like to recognize our Tandem-Axle Competition winners for those in competition winners.
And they are first place, Zach Limari and Manuel Padilla. Second place, Kyle Hendricks and Joseph
Garza. Third place, John East and Mario Hernandez.
[APPLAUSE]

And next, I would like to recognize our Snow Plow Single-Axle and Tandem-Axle competitors who placed
at the 2024 National Snow Plow Roadeo. This is an event that happens in Loveland, Colorado, and it is
quite the gathering of people from various public agencies and other entities who compete in this field. So
in the National Snow Plow Roadeo for Single-Axle competition, we had third place, John Prather and
Dave Johnson. And 43rd place, Zach Limari and Manuel Padilla.
And for the Tandem-Axle Competition, we had fourth place, John Prather and Dave Johnson. And 49th
place, Zach Limari and Manuel Padilla.
[APPLAUSE]

I thank all the winners and the competitors.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. And then last but certainly not least, we have the RTD Bus
Roadeo winners. Assistant General Manager Fred Worthen, can you please step forward to the podium
and recognize the winners of the 2024 Bus Roadeo?
FRED WORTHEN: Well, thank you, Mr. Chair. I am Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. And as he
said, he saved the best for last, bus. I know. That's not very much one RTD, but I'm really proud of our
bus team.
I want to give you a little bit of history on myself because this is really important to me. I actually started
my career as a bus driver, and I won the local competition in Corpus Christi in 1989. And I placed ninth at
Nationals.
So when we start talking about the Bus Roadeo, I have a special place in my heart for everybody that
competes in this. And I have met and talked to every one of these individuals at some point, either on the
work floor or out at the competition. This is a great crew.

For those of you who don't know, the APTA, American Public Transit Association, has been hosting a
fixed-route competition for our buses where drivers go out and compete on operational courses. And our
maintenance folks actually go out and compete doing repair work. And if you ever get a chance to come
and see this, it is simply amazing.
Our mechanics have to go through a wide variety of different courses where they try to start an engine.
They do repair diagnostics on brake Boards, electronics, Thermo King air conditionings. They go through
a whole myriad of tasks, and it's really interesting to watch the expertise of our teams work.
That being said, I'm going to start with our bus competitors themselves. And again, we'll ask everybody to
hold their applause. But please, if I call your name, stand up. I want you to be recognized.
We'll start with the Fixed-Route Overall. Our current defending champion, who was unseated this year,
placed third place, Craig Vasbinder. Second place was Austin Ward. And first place, Jimmy Romero.
From our Fixed-Route Rookie category, we actually have our first-year competitors. We have third place
was Hunter Hartley. Second place was Darnell Tyler, and first place was Ken Petrovic.
And then we have our Contracted Services, which is always a battle between three people, and it is
always the same three. Third place this year was AB Ek Chan. Second place was his brother, Jose Ek
Chan.
And first place and unseating the two Ek Chans was Ronnie Champeno. Oh, Ronnie's not here. Oh, that's
too bad.
And then we had our Small-Bus Competition itself, which is a statewide competition. Richard Balch
placed third place. Matthew Thacker was second place. And first place was Mike Evans in the Small-Bus
Competition. Congratulations to all of our bus.
[APPLAUSE]

Great job, everyone. Thank you. Now it's our maintenance teams. First, I'll start with our Directly Operated
Maintenance teams.
And we actually had a rookie team that placed third place. I got to watch them compete. It was really
amazing. Drake Tran, Ian Bunt, and Silviano Nieto-- they are district shops. They were third place.
Second place was Justin Racamier, Nate Ludwig, and Ivan Ortiz. Oh, they're not here today. And our
first-place team was our veteran mechanics, our master mechanics, Ben Carroll, Dan Juric, and Marcos
Carrillo. So this is our maintenance folks.
And then we have Service and Cleaning, last but not least, Jesus Ramos, Adelita Santos, and, of course,
the one that I've won every year since I've been here, Mark Bujalski. So this is our Maintenance team.
Congratulations to all of you.
[APPLAUSE]
And thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. Do we have one more category in there? Contract services
maintenance.
FRED WORTHEN: That was Service and Cleaning was the last one that I did. I'm sorry. I may not have
said it. Let's see. Jesus Ramos, Adelita Santos, and Mark Bujalski were the Service and Cleaning.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And one before that, Contracted Services Maintenance.
FRED WORTHEN: Oh, did I miss Contracted Services? Oh, no. I can't do that to our partners in
Contracted Services. So we had two teams that competed from Contracted Services, and it was very,
very close competition.
Second place was Mamush Wubi, Hassan Arcovazzi, and Cesar Hernandez. Oh, there's Cesar. And first
place was Lance Newcomb, Juan Hiños Delgado, and Travis Gothard. And I apologize profusely that I
missed that. But this is our Contracted Services partners.
[APPLAUSE]

And I really do apologize because I will tell you, our Contracted Partners are really just as important as
our Directly Operated. They actually provide almost 50% of our fixed-route services. We work together in
tandem with our partners, and I'm really happy.
Cynthia is here from First Transit. There's a number of people from Transdev here as well. Thanks to all
of your leadership for coming out too, and sorry for missing the contracted services side. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. And to all of our Roadeo and Roadeo participants, if you could
all please, those of you that are here and present, that did win and were recognized, if you could stand
one more time, if we could just recognize in one more round of applause would be great.
[APPLAUSE]

Once again, thank you for taking the time to join us this evening. We're actually going to take a quick
break before folks leave. For our winners, we're going to take a few pictures.
So we're going to take just about two to three minutes here. If Directors can stay seated around this time
and just bear with us as we take just a few pictures, we'll be back after a very brief recess. Thank you.
JACK KROLL: So we're going to do this by Roadeo. So we'll recognize and do photos with all of the
Roadeo winners from Light Rail first, and then we'll move to the Snow Plow Roadeo, and then the Bus
Roadeo. So if we can get those who are present from Light Rail to come forward, and we'll do a photo
here at the front.
OK. Next, we're going to move to the Snow Plow. So anyone here from Snow Plow, we'll do the photos
here.

All right, is there anybody who wanted their photo taken but did not get it? Yeah. With the Maintenance?
Yes. Yeah, yeah. I think we want to do one more photo with Maintenance folks.
[NO AUDIO]

[SIDE CONVERSATION]

ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. We're going to reconvene. Mr. Kroll. thanks for the assistance there. Nice job
MCing that.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

All right, we're going to call the meeting back to order. And I'm now going to move into public participation,
although I don't have-- Mr. Kroll, I don't have a list.
All right, we're going to go into our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to
address the Board. As we have both in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments will go first,
followed by those who are participating remotely. For those attending in person, when you're called upon,
please come up to the podium. And if you would please introduce yourself, you'll then have three minutes
to speak. If you have not already signed up to speak but would like to do so, you may approach the
podium, when I call for any additional speakers.
For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not done so, please raise your virtual hand on
Zoom, or press star 9 if dialed in by phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. And if you
are dialed in by phone, you can press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, you can submit your comments in writing to the Board. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to the Board Office at the email address rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board does not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like
to be contacted regarding your public comment, again, please email using the email address
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Just as a reminder, I'll ask speakers to please begin their remarks by stating their names, and you'll have
up to three minutes to provide your comments. I will warn you as that three minutes expires. Our first
speaker this evening is April Goetz.
AUDIENCE: Good evening, Directors. My name is April Goetz. I'm an RTD District A resident and an
Auraria Campus student. Should I begin?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.

AUDIENCE: I don't have a car. I depend on transit, bike, and pedestrian infrastructure here in downtown
Denver. I rely on the hard work of these wonderful people you've honored here this evening as well. This
school year, RTD raised the price of transit passes for Auraria students to over $400 per student per
semester because RTD and the Auraria Higher Education Center, or AHEC, did not reach an agreement
on a lump-sum deal for campus-wide student passes.
Obviously, this price is completely untenable for college students. So AHEC subsidized the pass for
students, bringing the price to $250 per semester for students. For context, the cost of students was $150
per semester last year, free the previous year, and typically around $60 per semester in pre-COVID
years.
$250 per semester is still a terrible deal for students. And many of us have given up on writing RTD as
past members or given up on writing RTD altogether because of this. We know that many transit
agencies around the country offer more frequent, more reliable service to university students for a better
price. George Washington University in DC and Portland State University, for example, offer student
transit passes at around $100 per semester.
RTD Director Jaime Lewis encouraged us to return to the lump-sum student fee model. However, if we
return to a lump-sum contract across campus today, RTD's offered contract price would still be too
expensive, almost double the contract price they offered AHEC the previous year, which would mean an
immediate doubling to the student fee.
We believe our RTD and AHEC can reach a better deal for the college path structuring a contract on a
semester-by-semester basis. All students, except for those who choose to opt out, could pay a student
fee calculated on recent ridership estimates, not two-year lagging estimates like they are now. At the end
of each semester, the following semester's fare could be increased or decreased according to how much
the program is utilized.
On our end, we plan to pass a student referendum so that the transit passes can be reinstituted as a
student fee. Getting the referendum passed will require a lot more unpaid student labor. So we need to
know the RTD will offer a price that AHEC and its students can afford. We need to be able to tell students
roughly what price they're agreeing to if they vote to reinstitute the campus-wide pass system.
Auraria students represent a population of future Denverites who could continue using RTD services for
our whole lifetimes if we have a positive experience at this juncture. We really want to use RTD. But this
school year, the agency has made us feel like a forgotten stakeholder group. We need your help to get
things back on track, so to speak. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for sharing your comments and for being here. Our next speaker
is Ellie Fry.
AUDIENCE: Hi. OK. I've never been to a Board meeting before, so I didn't know what to expect.
And I don't have a speech written. So thanks for having me here. I'm here today because I learned that
the Access on Demand program is having proposed budget cuts and potentially being cut altogether.
And I, like Amelia, rely on RTD transportation almost entirely to get around. I don't personally utilize the
Access on Demand or Access-A-Ride programs, but I just imagine what my life would be like if I did. And
it would be really hard to have these programs cut.

So I think even on RTD's website, I looked and saw that this program is really popular, as stated on the
website, which is probably why there are proposed budget cuts. But I think that also shows us that there's
a really significant community that is relying on these services. And although it may be tempting in
moments where difficult decisions do need to be made about budgets, I think that some of our most
vulnerable communities should not be the people to experience those cuts. They should receive, if
anything, more of our supports and resources.
Also, experienced the increase in the RTD student passes. I'm also an Auraria student, and I appreciate
what Amelia said and didn't even think to bring that up. But I would also like to second everything she
said because, yeah, it was hard for me too when it all increased. So that is all. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for joining us. Our next speaker is Cynthia Menge. Cynthia, are
you with us here? All right. I will circle back around for Cynthia. Craig Vasbinder?
JACK KROLL: I think some of those were [INAUDIBLE].
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ah, I'm sorry. Yes. And I'm not seeing the-- I'm going to go ahead. I'll skip through
here.
I think some have noted the wish to speak. Emma-- and then I'll ask at the end if I have missed anybody
that wished to speak that signed up. I'll call for that at the end. Emma Griffin?
AUDIENCE: Hi. Thank you for allowing me to speak. My name is Emma Griffin, and I live in RTD District
A. And I'm a co-lead for Greater Denver Transit. I would like to offer my support to the proposed January
service changes.
It is essential that we return the E and H line services to 15-minute frequency as we work to regain and
then surpass pre-pandemic ridership. I would also encourage the Board as well as those listening to
advocate whatever capacity you are able to encourage the people in your lives and other voters to vote
yes on ballot measure 7A. RTD has struggled more than enough with the current funding and absolutely
cannot afford to lose any of its existing funding. Thank you for allowing me to speak.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for joining us. Keith Brooks?
AUDIENCE: Hello. Good evening. No timer, so I'm just going to wing it. A few things-- it's always rubbed
me the wrong way that by the time service changes are voted on, it's a now-or-never decision, which
stifles debate a bit. So I'd like to start doing that early.
This is an easy month because it's, since I've been advocating for things, the best I've seen. I'd like to
particularly call out the return of the once and future number 35, stitching one of the largest missing gaps
in the current bus grid. And as a district H resident, that really means a lot.
Still talking to service planning, there is still some chafing and problems with how far in advance things
need to be prepared, which limits flexibility. As maintenance of way fixes slow zones, it still takes some
time to get a schedule that reflects that.
I know a lot of that is because it has to be submitted to the union to be voted on and that operators bid for
specific routes on a run Board rather than a shift. But as I've tried to tell everyone who will listen, we're all
on one team here. And I'm sure if there is a vote and people agree to update the collective bargaining
agreement, everyone here wants to see more transit and that things absolutely can work out in that.

The last thing I would like to do is offer a congratulations to the operators at Denver Transit Operators for
their vote to unionize with the Teamsters a few weeks back. Bring them up to the same union protection
that Light Rail and bus already have. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for joining us. And again, if I skip over you, it has to do with
whether there's indication of desire to speak. You'll be invited to join us when I call for other speakers.
Next up will be Eric Gross.
AUDIENCE: Good evening. I see this city as trying to move into the future. And to build Denver into a city
of the future requires, at minimum, maintaining investments in equitable transportation for students,
disabled residents, and every citizen participating in daily life across the metro area. I can't claim to have
deep knowledge about the budget process, but I do urge this Board to fight against any reductions in
services that may discriminate and make life harder for people who are already stressed by costs and
accessibility. I trust that this Board wants to support the entire community and can work to find solutions,
including potentially lobbying for support from the city or state budgetary processes as they occur.
In order to attract growth to the city, it seems imperative that public transit services must meet the
demands of the existing population and any consistent growth that we see. And as we endeavor to
reduce pollution, improve public health, and push toward a greener future that is less reliant on individual
automobile motor ownership and all the expenses involved, it falls upon this body to fight for the funding
and maintenance of reliable and accessible services. If there happen to be other expenditures that the
funding sources for this organization engages in, such as any foreign expenditures that may be going to
ongoing wars or conflicts or less vital things for the state and the city, I hope that this body will do
everything it can to maintain and hopefully grow the reliability and health of the public transit sector.
The disabled and student populations that I am friends with do rely on RTD to a large degree to navigate
the city, to get to work, to get to school. And these things have to be reliably functional for the city to
maintain its status as a top place to move to, to work, to build a family. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for joining us. We had Richard Bamber.
AUDIENCE: Good evening, everybody. It's a pleasure to be here. Thanks for the opportunity to speak.
I've just come back from London, where the bus operators have a reputation for a robust, no-nonsense
"get out of my way" driving style. You get on a bus there, and the bus takes off. Doesn't matter whether
you're seated, sat down, holding on, you've got to watch yourself.
Contrast that with the nice things about RTD, where I got on the 43, and you get on the bus, and the
operator just takes that one or two seconds to see that you've managed to get yourself seated before
moving off. I see this with sufficient consistency that I suspect it's part of the training. So I'd just like to
say, thank you to whoever put that in the training, whoever does that training. But it is one of those little,
little things that is really, really appreciated.
Anyway, diving into the letter, this month written at 35,000 feet, Vision Zero, we are here. It's time to stop
building car-centric, dangerous infrastructure. It's time to stop supporting dangerous systems.
Please vote yes. Thank you very much to directors Ruscha, Harwick, Guzman, Whitmore, Chair
Davidson, and GM CO and all the others for support. But please vote yes.

Now, you did have an executive session on a Light Rail train that derailed in January due to a shredded
tire. I'm going to ask a rhetorical question because it has to be a rhetorical question because if one of you
answered me, that would be breaking the law as it currently stands. Was what you've just been told so
egregious? I have no idea. Was it so scandalous that if the public knew right now there would be a big
problem?
The Transport Legislative Research Committee has passed a bill that will be introduced into the House in
January to repeal the statute that makes the accident investigation reports confidential. I am not going to
be after your support. And I hope as a Board and I hope as an agency, you can sign on.
I'm going to say this while we've got everybody in the room. That includes Light Rail operators,
operations, staff, all the Board. This bill is not a verdict on RTD's safety performance or your competency
in running a light rail system. I would advocate to pass this regardless of whether you were having an
accident every week or if you'd never had one.
The public expects the light rail system to be operated with 21st-century standards of safety. So what we
need to do is give a regulatory regime and associated laws 21st century as well. It is all about promoting
safety. It is all through openness and transparency. People should need to discuss what happened here,
and how we fix it, and how we stop this, and whether we reach out to anybody else who can be the expert
and help RTD be as safe as it possibly can.
Finally, speaking of light rail-ERIK DAVIDSON: That is at three minutes. If you could just wrap in the next 10 seconds, thank you.
AUDIENCE: It's an absolute pleasure to come to the 30th anniversary Light Rail party. We sit up here and
criticize quite a lot, but it is nice to show our support. Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for joining us and for your comments. Our next speaker is
Jeremy Bongers. OK. And not everybody actually has indicated the way this form is. So at this time, I'm
actually just going to go ahead and open up. Is there anyone present who had had a desire to speak? If
you could please line up behind the-AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, great. It may just be the way it's indicated, whether you've signed up for
attendance or to speak. So we'll go right to left here. If you could approach the podium, just introduce
your name, and you'll have three minutes then to speak. And I'll let you know when you're approaching
that point.
AUDIENCE: All right. Hello. I'm Ian Frasch. I live by the I-25 and Broadway Station. I'm a regular RTD
rider and took the Zero Bus here tonight.
So my comment is regarding the I-25 and Broadway highway ramp project that's going on right now,
specifically pedestrian access to the I-25 Broadway Station. So the issue that I've discovered is that RTD
has insisted on degrading pedestrian access to this station from Ohio Ave. And let me explain here.
So when this I-25 Broadway project was first proposed, DOTI included a direct, diagonal, pedestrian, and
bike path from Ohio and Broadway, that intersection, across-- from Ohio and Broadway, directly to

Broadway Station, across a new parking lot, through the tunnel under the new highway ramp. That path
has since been removed from the design. Sometime last year, it disappeared from the website.
And that path has been replaced with a new path that's not direct, indirect, from Ohio Ave. This path is
longer. It's zigzaggy, and it crosses four lanes of the new highway ramp, which is inconvenient and
unsafe for people trying to access the station from Ohio Ave, which is the street with the closest housing
to the station.
And I had Ryan Lewis of the project team looking into this, along with Jack Kroll, the RTD Board Office
Manager. And I found that it was actually RTD that did not allow this diagonal path to be built on their
land. RTD was concerned about safety conflicts between parking motorists, bikes, and pedestrians as
they plan to have a parking lot there. And that makes no sense to me, what I heard.
The only conflict I could see in the original design was a single crosswalk across a low-speed parking lot.
And the pedestrian and bike path bisected the parking lot, and there were very few conflicts. And I don't
see how forcing pedestrians to cross a highway ramp is safer than using a crosswalk in a low-speed
parking lot.
And I also think RTD should be prioritizing easy pedestrian access to the station. And I know the Board is
voting on a Vision Zero resolution tonight. On page 799 of the agenda packet, it states in its
recommendations to address local infrastructure gaps by partnering with municipalities, to improve
pedestrian access to stations, as well as station design itself, focusing on sidewalk connections, lighting,
and signage.
So my ask for the Board is to investigate this and reinstate that original direct diagonal path to the station
from that Ohio and Broadway intersection. There's already a wide multi-use path that was built in the new
tunnel under the new ramp. And when you stand on it, which I have, you can see the Ohio and Broadway
intersection just a few hundred feet away.
All it needs is just a paved path for a few hundred feet. Currently, that area is a dirt construction staging
area, so I think there's plenty of time to put that in. And if that path doesn't go in, it's just going to be a
desire path, which means it'll be inaccessible, which is not useful for wheelchairs, strollers, bikes, things
like that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And that's three minutes, if you could please wrap up in the next 10 seconds.
AUDIENCE: OK. If the Board cares about the Vision Zero, I would really like you to try to reinstate this
path. And I will email pictures and diagrams of what I'm talking about, so it's more clear. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. We'll have our next speaker. And I believe we have some-- Mr.
Kroll, you could assist in coordinating. Thank you. Please go ahead and state your name, and you'll have
up to three minutes.
AUDIENCE: Thank you. Thank you. My name is Chris Nicholson. I am a resident of District A and a fulltime transit rider. One of my favorite things about using RTD is walking through a giant asphalt parking lot
to get where I'm trying to go.
It is one of those things that makes you say, wow, this is a welcoming environment. It's a friendly
experience. It looks great. It feels great. It's just like entering the Cherry Creek Mall.

I was a little bit disturbed when Ian pointed out to a number of us the change that, as far as we can tell,
has been made to the plans on I-25 and even more so when I came to understand that it was RTD and
not DOTI and not CDOT that was the result of it. I would suggest that the next Board, if this is something
that happens occasionally, should put in place policy to make sure that pedestrian access is prioritized at
RTD stations because, yes, Vision Zero is extremely important. And it's really bad when people get hit
when they're trying to walk. I know this because it's my only way of getting to RTD stations.
But more than that, for the average person, if we're trying-- if you are trying, I should say, to entice people
to try RTD for the first time, to rely on transit, to go there for the one journey that they're going to take, to
get dropped off, creating the most inviting experience possible, creating something that makes people go,
wow, this is friendly. This is the Yellow Brick Road. This is not, oh, wow, I have to walk through a parking
lot.
This is my experience at the supermarket. That should be equally high on the list as the experience for
drivers because that perception of what it's like to use RTD services to be on RTD property is critical for
showing people that this is an inviting experience for them to have. So this needs to get looked into by the
Board. And I will say the next Board, whoever gets elected to it, should really ask the question of what
policies need to be in place to make sure that pedestrian access is prioritized when RTD does new
construction. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments and joining us. If we could have our next speaker
approach the podium and please introduce yourself. You have up to three minutes. Mr. Kroll, if you can
assist. And I will let you know when the three minutes has approached.
AUDIENCE: Hi. My name is Jude, and I am a 26-year-old resident of Denver who uses RTD's, Access-ARide and Access on Demand program. I am deeply concerned that there is consideration to cut parts or
all of the Access on Demand program as this is the only way I am able to get around the city safely.
Traditional access Access-A-Ride has been notoriously unreliable, and several program structures make
it inaccessible for me and many others.
With Access on Demand, I am able to call a ride with same-day notice, which is extremely important for
me when I work in activism and often have to go places on short notice, often have to go to urgent care or
the ER on short notice to take care of health emergencies that don't warrant an ambulance, and don't
know what the weather will be like each day in advance and if I will even be able to leave my home
because of this, especially going into winter.
With traditional Access-A-Ride, I cannot do this. And forcing us to schedule rides days in advance is not
equitable transportation as people do not need to do this to use traditional public transportation. In
addition, with Access-A-Ride, I would be put in a wheelchair-accessible vehicle that would potentially be
full of strangers. And as an immune-compromised person, that is not safe for me and one of the many
reasons I don't use traditional public transportation.
I had COVID once, and I almost died. And Access on Demand takes away the requirement that I must
ride in a parked vehicle with strangers when I don't know if they are sick or not-- therefore, putting my
literal life at risk. Also, having to make multiple stops to drop off passengers greatly extends the amount
of time I need to be out, which can make it extremely hard and sometimes impossible to go out with my
chronic pain and fatigue.

Right now, it costs about $12 million a year to run Access on Demand. To put this into further perspective,
that's a little over 2% of last year's policing budget. I refuse to accept this is too much for equitable
transportation, especially when our roads and sidewalks are in such bad shape and that often when I
have to travel through the city in my wheelchair, I can't get out of bed the next day because I'm in so
much pain. And especially when the city of Denver sends over $11 million a year to the Israeli occupation
to continue genocide and apartheid in Palestine, when that exact amount could just about cover the cost
of this program.
The people don't want our money sent to kill kids overseas by the thousands. We want our money
invested in our communities for things like equitable transportation, affordable transportation for students
and all people, after-school programming for our kids, better roads and sidewalks, and helping the
unhoused population in Denver get their needs met, and much more. Making cuts to Access on Demand,
because it's been popular and successful program that works for many people, will do a huge disservice
to many disabled residents in and around Denver, many of whom rely on this program to even be able to
leave their homes.
I'm asking the RTD Board, fight to keep Access on Demand in place and fight for better funding for
Access-A-Ride and RTD as a whole.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Jude, I apologize. That is three minutes, if you could wrap up in 10 seconds please.
AUDIENCE: By encouraging the city and state to divest from genocide and invest in our community.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for joining us and for sharing your comments. Our next speaker,
please introduce yourself, and you'll have three minutes.
AUDIENCE: OK, thank you. Hi. My name is Linda Badwan, and I'm a Palestinian-American. I appreciate
you taking the time to listen to me and my friends today.
I can fully understand how important a program like Access on Demand is. I took care of my mother. I
was blessed to take care of her for a number of years, and we relied on such a service to be able to go to
different places because of her medical needs and her inability to get in a vehicle, especially towards the
end of her life with terminal cancer.
I'm also here to support my friend Jude and others like her who rely on the program because it is
important that we make things accessible for everybody in our community. It's already difficult to deal with
chronic pain and chronic illnesses and to be immunocompromised and to have to be in spaces that make
that even more difficult. So this program is crucial to people like my friend Jude and others who need to
be safe, even when they're being transported from one place to another.
I also want to second what my friend Jude said. As a Palestinian-American, I hope that we could really
look at the way we are spending our money-- our own government is spending its money, sending arms
to kill innocent lives overseas rather than supporting our needs here in our own city. That is crucial for
how we are going to do better for our community and our society at large.
And I also want to support the previous students that showed up here to speak about the pass. I don't
want to age myself, but when I attended Auraria, the pass was free. That was included in the tuition. And I
hope we can go back to that because the students are our future. And so as you can see, all of this is

interconnected, and we don't want to ever be part of oppressing anybody to advance their dreams and
their goals.
And that is what's happening when we cut a program like Access on Demand, and we make it more
difficult for students to be able to afford to ride RTD. We want to make RTD something that is robust and
thriving. And I know I relied on it when I was younger, and I hope more and more people can continue to
do that moving forward. Thank you for your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your time, comments, and for being here. Our next speaker, please
approach the podium. Introduce yourself, and you will have up to three minutes.
AUDIENCE: Hello, everybody. I'm sorry I walked in late. I came directly from the hospital to this very
important meeting. My views are my own and don't reflect those of my employer. My name is Mohammed
Aziz.
I'm a local pediatrician. I take care of the sickest children in Colorado. And I'm here to speak for my
neighbors, my friends, and my patients.
The decision to cut funding to the Access-A-Ride service is an unabashed abandonment of our
differentially abled friends and deliberately making a choice to target this very vulnerable population.
Additionally, from my own perspective, I can speak to the health disparities it causes. To say nothing of
the increased auto emissions for those who can't afford cars, as it pollutes our air further sickening us all,
it directly affects health care access.
At the hospital, we have frequently had patients come to the hospital through the Access-A-Ride service.
While we can get them a taxi service, it's only available for patients who are already available at the
hospital. And further dependence on the system is essentially robbing Peter to pay Paul, as most of our
hospitals have some degree of government funding, to say nothing of the fact that we are preventing
people from pursuing jobs, education, and health care. Parents taking their children to school, to the
doctor, to a park-- my patients and my friends will no longer have any access to any of this.
We are denying them the enrichment available to all Denver residents, denying them the fruits of their
own tax dollars. This is a slippery slope. Normalizing lack of access for funding accessibility can quickly
lead to other problems. What's next? We're going to cut a handicap ramp because it's too expensive?
I know you may look at me and say, he's not differentially abled. Why is he here? But I'm here selfishly
too. My own life is enriched by the people I've had a chance to meet, who have different limitations. While
I know my friends are strong and they will find other solutions, I do this for myself as well.
I ask you to maintain and even potentially increase funding to address this inequity, this situation that we
have. Denying our fellow residents, our neighbors, my own patients, their fundamental right of life and-sorry, this bill denies them their fundamental right of life. It robs them of their liberty, and it prevents them
from pursuing happiness. And I ask you to continue funding the Access-A-Ride service.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for joining us and for sharing your comments. Do we have any other
speakers in the room who desire to speak and have not already done so? OK. I see a hand raised.
Please go ahead and approach the podium. Introduce yourself, and you will have up to three minutes,
please.

AUDIENCE: Hi, everyone. My name is Hannah Lawless. I've spent the past four years supporting my
peers with disabilities in a university setting and now in a public school transition service setting. I've seen
the benefits that these kind of programs have for people that I work with. It's allowed them to access
higher education.
It's allowed them to access community events, volunteering spaces, and empowered them to make more
community connections. So I want you to know that it's very appreciated by them. It's very appreciated by
their families. And so I just hope that as a fellow person who supports people with disabilities, that you
can listen to their voices, listen to their need, and keep funding the support that is truly supporting them.
So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for joining us and for your comments. Not seeing any-- oh, we
do have one more speaker raised their hand. Please go ahead and approach the podium, Introduce
yourself, and you'll have three minutes.
AUDIENCE: Hello. My name is Samira Oliver. I'm a Denver native. I've lived here my whole life.
And when I was in about fifth grade was when I finally started taking the RTD bus permanently. And I can
say, since then, now that I live right here in the heart of downtown, I constantly see wheelchair users in
the middle of the street. And because they don't have access to the sidewalks, a lot of the sidewalks still
don't even have that curve that is needed for them to get to the sidewalk safely.
There's been multiple occasions where I've had to ask a wheelchair user if they wanted me to help them
get across the street because they're just in the middle of the road where it's unsafe. And even though I
myself am able-bodied, I still find this a very prevalent issue that we need to make sure is just not on the
back burner. Disabled rights should be in the forefront, especially for RTD, who preaches about
accessibility.
In addition to that, I really hope that everyone here and everyone listening really pays attention to ballot
issue 7A. Please make sure that you vote for what you believe is right. Please vote yes. And on top of
that, I feel like it seems as though even though a lot of our state and even this country's funding goes
towards many things that it shouldn't be, such as the genocide in Palestine, I feel as though we need to
be taking care of people at home.
I've already seen what that-- I've already seen the effects of what happens when that doesn't happen,
such as with the hurricanes that FEMA needed aid from the government, and they did not request that.
So it just goes to show that we truly need to be taking care of our people at home. And that requires
making sure that we listen to disabled voices, that we listen to people with mental disabilities, and
illnesses, and all of the above. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for joining us and sharing your comments. I'm not seeing any
other in-- another in-person speaker. OK, not seeing any others. I'm going to go ahead and ask our Board
Office Executive Manager, Jack Kroll, if you could please assist me in calling on our remote attendees.
Do we have any at this time? And if so, please call their name. Once Mr. Kroll calls your name online, you
will be unmuted, recognized to speak. Please introduce yourself, and you'll have up to three minutes. Mr.
Kroll, please call our first speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Davidson. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. We have
at this time five individuals with their hands raised. The first one is Laura Gonzalez.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Laura Gonzalez, you are now recognized. Please introduce yourself, and you'll have
up to three minutes.
AUDIENCE: Can you all hear me?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can.
AUDIENCE: OK. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Jack.
We work together at CU Boulder, and I hope that you are able to influence the city council in making the
right decisions to be truly equitable and accessible. And by the way, my name is "La-u-ra," not "Lora." So
first of all, I want to introduce myself. I identify as a [NON-ENGLISH]. It's Indigenous for mujer.
And I also think it's important to share that I am a full able-bodied, physical able-bodied person, and I am
here to talk about the threats that you're doing to the most vulnerable members of our local community. I
honestly cannot even believe that you're considering to cut the budgets or to completely eliminate the
Access-A-Ride program. If anything, I believe that you should be willing to eliminate the, quote/unquote,
"security programs" that are actually useless. I see that you have transit police present in all of your bus
and rail vehicles, stations, bus stops, and park-and-ride facilities.
I also see that you have surveillance cameras 24/7 in all of the transit stations and that you have a Transit
Watch program. I am very curious, actually, about how much money you're spending on a useless
program that does not keep anyone safe. Please tell me, when has a cop or a rent-a-cop ever prevented
a school shooting? Never. So maybe instead of funding that, maybe you should actually consider funding
equitable programs like the Access-A-Ride. So I am really, really appalled by that.
I also want to thank Jude, first and foremost, for their courage to share their story, to relieve their trauma,
just so maybe you can have some compassion and empathy for you to not remove this program. It is
outrageous that we continue to retraumatize the most vulnerable people and the most oppressed people
so we can maybe do the right thing.
So we shouldn't have be asking people to share their stories just so we can develop some humanity. All it
takes, as council members of the RTD, is just to have basic knowledge about basic human rights and
especially with peoples with disabilities that need this program. These are basic needs, people. Come on- and just a little bit of empathy and humanity.
And the other thing that I do want to address-- I am appalled to hear that it's $400 a semester for students
to pay for a pass. Actually, I don't even think anyone-- anyone, regardless if it's a student or someone
disability should pay for any kind of pass. Transportation is a basic human right.
It's a basic need that we currently need right now. So the fact that you're exploiting people in this wild-ass
prices instead of actually investing in the right thing, like I said, invest in those security people that you
have everywhere and the surveillance cameras that do nothing for us, but instead invest in your students,
the future of this country. Invest in the most oppressed people, like the people with disabilities. And
honestly, all of you should be ashamed of yourself for even considering to-ERIK DAVIDSON: Laura, I apologize for interrupting.
AUDIENCE: --this program or to divest it. This is absolutely not OK. I do not care if it's three minutes.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Laura, if you can hear me.
AUDIENCE: Honestly, I do not care if it's three minutes. You should listen to all your-ERIK DAVIDSON: That is three minutes. If you could wrap in 10 seconds, please.
AUDIENCE: What I'm trying to say is, I do not need to follow your three-minute rules. You need to do the
right thing. That's what we're paying you for. That's what taxes pay you for. And it's absolutely outrageous
that you're choosing that it's OK that Denver City Council sends $11 million to a genocide-ERIK DAVIDSON: Laura, we do need to conclude there to move to our next speaker.
AUDIENCE: --advocating to fund programs like the accessible a ride program and to make sure that no
one-ERIK DAVIDSON: And I would like to note-- I would like to just note also, given some of the public
comment this evening, I would encourage people to stay tuned because our General Manager and CEO
will be addressing some of our paratransit programs in her report. So again, please stay tuned for us this
evening. At this time, Mr. Kroll, if you could please call on our next speaker to please introduce
themselves and be recognized for three minutes.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Ana Ilic.
AUDIENCE: Yep. You said that right. Thank you. Hello. I'm Ana Ilic.
I'm a resident of RTD District 4, and I just have two comments today-- a short statement about the
January 2025 proposed plans and then just some commentary to follow up on that I-25 and Broadway
ramp project and its accessibility route. So first, I would really like to Thank you for restoring the 35 bus
route along the Eastern portion of Hampton in the upcoming schedule changes for the next year. I travel
from Colorado Hampton to the Swedish Medical Center when visiting my doctor and my physical therapist
now.
And in case you're curious, because of that nonexistent 35, this trip takes me about an hour and two
transfers to get to the office. Whereas the actual physical route is about three miles and, if I had not
broken my shoulder at the time, would have taken me only 15 minutes to bike. So bringing back the 35
route is very exciting for me, and I thank you so much for moving forward with that plan. I'd also like to
say thank you for all the 15-minute reschedulings that are going to be coming back for the E and H line.
My second comment, as I said, is also about that I-25 and Broadway Station ramp interchange. I will keep
it succinct because we've already heard some information about that already. But the main situation right
now is that people coming from that Ohio and Broadway intersection are asked to travel southbound on
the pedestrian sidewalks, which means they have to cross several of the intersections that happen with
the exit and onboard ramps for I-25.
As someone who is regularly in that area, as both a pedestrian, a bike rider, and sometimes even in a
car, I have seen so many vehicles make right turns on reds even when there are not right-turn-on-red
signs at that intersection. Exposing pedestrians and other non-drivers in that area and making them have
to walk that sidewalk, I think, just provides a very dangerous risk for them moving. So just like the people
said before me, let's restore that direct diagonal route from Ohio that will go through that parking lot and
bring everyone to the Broadway Station and minimize the need to cross as many intersections.

I think that will be the best thing that we can do for our non-driving community in that area. And that's it at
this point. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. Mr. Kroll, can you please
call on our next virtual speaker, please?
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Olivia Simard.
AUDIENCE: Good evening, Directors. Thank you for your time tonight. My name is Olivia Simard, and I'm
an Auraria Campus student and a Cap Hill resident. I don't have a car, so I rely solely on transit and
walking to get to school, work, and other errands.
This school year, RTD raised the price of the college pass for Auraria students to $400 per student per
semester. Obviously, this price is steep for college students, so AHEC has subsidized the pass for
students, bringing it to $250 per semester. For context, though, the cost of students was $150 per
semester last school year and free the previous school year.
$250 per semester is a completely unacceptable price for college students. We believe RTD and AHEC
can reach a better college pass deal, structuring the contract on a semester-by-semester basis. All
students, except those who choose to opt out, could pay a student fee calculated on recent ridership
estimates, not two-year lagging estimates like they are now. The end of each semester, the following
semester's fare could be increased or decreased, according to how much the program was utilized.
On our end, we plan to pass a student referendum so that transit passes can be re-instituted as a student
fee. It will require a lot of unpaid student labor to get the referendum passed, so we need to know that
RTD will offer price AHEC and its students can afford to make our worth it. We need to be able to tell
students roughly what price they are agreeing to if they vote to reinstitute the campus-wide pass system.
Auraria students are Denverites who could continue using RTD services for the rest of our lives if we have
a positive experience with RTD Transit now. This school year, the agency has made us feel like a
forgotten stakeholder group. We need your help to fix this issue and lessen the major cost burden of
transit passes on our students. Thank you for providing me with the opportunity to speak tonight.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for joining us and for sharing your comments. Mr. Kroll, can you
please call on our next virtual speaker?
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Amy Kenreich.
AUDIENCE: Hi, guys. Sorry, I just ran up my stairs, so now I'm really out of breath. I'm trying to get my
kids to cook dinner while I wait in line here patiently. So thank you for letting me talk.
I am a former West Washington Park Neighborhood Association President. I am also a Denver crossing
guard. And I live in district A. I'm here to talk about the I-25 and Broadway interchange project.
Like Ian said and other speakers said, there has always been a desire path that cuts across what used to
be a dirt parking lot directly to the station. Now I believe that the plan for that parking lot is that it will be
paved. And there's a really beautiful tunnel cut underneath the new southbound wedge ramp with
probably at least a 10-foot sidewalk there.

So in my opinion, in using this area on foot and observing people use the area, I mean, there's just going
to be even more people cutting through this parking lot. And what I'm asking for is for RTD to move a few
car storage spots-- AKA parking spots-- to make this an accessible pathway for everyone, not just people
that are able-bodied. When our neighborhood association was in talks with DOTI about this project, this is
one of the things that we asked about.
And DOTI told us that they're not in charge of that parking lot. They indicated that they preferred a
pedestrian pathway through there, but that that wasn't a possibility. I got the impression that RTD was
blocking that. And I do know and understand that the RTD system, light rail system is very much a huband-spoke system in and out of downtown.
RTD's station at Broadway is very much built historically for out-of-town commuters to drive in and park
there. But I'm asking you guys if you want the 17,000 people that live in this neighborhood to use this
station to please consider putting pedestrians first. That's it. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. Mr. Kroll, could you please
call our next virtual attendee, please?
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Holly Cheng.
AUDIENCE: Hi. Can you hear me?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Holly, you are now recognized.
AUDIENCE: Can you hear me?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
AUDIENCE: OK. Yeah, I'm Holly Cheng. I'm a public health nurse within the community. I'm here to
speak about the proposed cuts to Access on Demand. Admittedly, I work in maternal child health.
I'm not an expert in this area, but I do know that programs like Access-A-Ride, although I'm grateful for
these, they don't fully address equity issues. They're often long wait times. Residents may not know
ahead of time that they need to be at a particular destination. This isn't-- it's not equity. It's not equitable.
Why are we expecting folks with disabilities to know where they're going so far in advance ahead of time?
There are research studies across multiple states that show social isolation increases in those with
disabilities as access to transportation decreases. This matters because decreased social participation
increases major depressive disorder and other chronic illnesses. I could sit here and cite reviews of over
hundreds of studies, but many of them show significantly increased depression in those with disabilities.
And one factor that reduces those feelings of loneliness and depression was access to meaningful work.
Any of you can tell me how long you could keep your job if you had to preschedule your ride in advance
every day. I know that I couldn't do it, especially with children. I don't know where budget cuts need to be
made to make up for this program, but I think they do need to be made. Prevention, in the long run, will
save us money. Major depression in this country costs us over $210 billion in economic burden back in
2010.

So you can imagine what it costs us now. In 2025, the expenditure summary proposed budget for the city
safety is 36%, i.e. policing, most likely, transportation and infrastructure is 8%, and housing stability is
4%. I don't think we would need as much policing, although I don't think we need what we have now.
But if we actually put money into things that keep people safe, maybe we don't need 36% of the budget
going towards policing. So I think we have an opportunity here to be a forward-thinking, preventionfocused community. And I don't think cutting Access on Demand is how we get there. So thank you for
your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments and for joining us. Mr. Kroll, our next virtual speaker,
please.
JACK KROLL: Yes. And at this point, I see one final hand raised, and that is from Tim Keenan.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Tim, you are now recognized. Tim, if you're there, if you could please unmute yourself,
introduce yourself, and you'll have up to three minutes. You are now recognized.
AUDIENCE: Yep. All right. Can you hear me now? Can you hear me now?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Tim Keenan, I'll just ask one more time. If you're able to speak, please go ahead. We
are unable to hear you at this time.
AUDIENCE: OK. Sorry.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We can hear you. Yes. Thank you very much. Please go ahead and introduce
yourself, and you'll have three minutes.
AUDIENCE: All right. Sorry about that. Good evening. I'm Tim Keenan.
I'm a totally blind impaired transit rider. And actually, segueing from Holly's comment just now, I just got
back from an appointment with Amazon out in Aurora. And I'm going to be starting to work at the sortation
center out there here shortly.
And if some of these recommendations-- I know you guys don't have the final recommendation. But if
staff does recommend that Access on Demand be limited to the 3/4 of a mile radius from a bus stop
and/or the time of day, I wouldn't be able to-- Access on Demand would not cover me to get to work and
to get back again. And I'll be working from 2:30 to 6:30.
So obviously, buses don't run at 2:30 in the morning. And it's actually really cool for me to be able to go
work at an Amazon. They have more accommodations than I would have thought for somebody who's
blind. But now I have to worry that this is going to be disappearing on me by May, and I hope that doesn't
happen.
And you guys are about to get be deluged not only with staff's recommendation here, but a bunch of
public feedback that they've been collecting, which is great. I'm glad that they've continued to reach out.
But that's going to be a lot for you guys to process, I would imagine, in a pretty short amount of time. So I
just wanted to implore y'all to not feel like you're hurried to just pass this recommendation unless you're
sure that it checks all the boxes and then it's data-driven and you understand where it came from.

I was going to hit on one more topic. Oh, and that was just that the maximum service scenario in the
survey that staff provided to paratransit riders was 40 trips a month on Access on Demand, which would
be enough to get you to work and back again and nothing and nowhere else unless-- especially if they
don't allow multiple stops, like you could stop at the grocery store on the way home. I don't think that's
acceptable. I think I would urge you to the recommendation be for 60 trips, at least, on Access on
Demand because, as we've seen, not everybody can use Access-A-Ride. Thank you very much for your
time, and thanks for all you do.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for joining us and sharing your comments. Mr. Kroll, were there
any further hands raised? Yes, please go ahead and call on our next speaker, please.
JACK KROLL: So we have one additional speaker here, it looks like-- Madalyn Drewno?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Hey, Madalyn. You are now recognized, please.
AUDIENCE: Hi. My name is Madalyn Drewno, and I just wanted to reiterate points that were made in
support of not-ERIK DAVIDSON: Madalyn, If you can hear us, we cannot hear you at this time. If you could please
unmute, introduce yourself, and you'll have up to three minutes.
AUDIENCE: Hi. Can you hear me? Can you hear me? Hello? Can you hear me?
AUDIENCE: Madalyn, I can hear you. And let's see if we were having some technical difficulties in the
room. Just a moment, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. We are having technical difficulties. We'll hold for a moment. If the Board
Office could please let me know when that's resolved. My apologies, Madalyn, if you could please hold for
a moment.
AUDIENCE: OK. Can you hear me now?
AUDIENCE: I still can hear you.
AUDIENCE: OK.
JACK KROLL: Madalyn, if you can-AUDIENCE: Yes. Hello? Are you able to hear me?
AUDIENCE: I still am able to hear you. Oh, they just dropped off. They're going to rejoin. Give us just a
moment. I apologize for the technical difficulties.
AUDIENCE: OK. Now is it working?
AUDIENCE: Not yet. Wait until you see the picture come back for their video.
AUDIENCE: OK.
AUDIENCE: All right. Can you hear us now?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can now hear you.
AUDIENCE: Awesome. Go ahead, Madalyn.
AUDIENCE: OK. Yeah. Thank you for letting me speak. My name is Madalyn Drewno. And I am making a
comment to say that the Access on Demand should not be cut or eliminated.
If it were to be cut or eliminated, it would be discriminatory against poor and working-class people as well
as people with disabilities and overall would make transportation inaccessible. This is a vital resource to
the community that should be invested in. And to just highlight points that were made earlier, I think it's
really important to critically look at where our tax dollars are going and to invest them in the community
rather than towards war and placing profit over people. So I urge the Board to not eliminate or cut the
Access on Demand program. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. Apologies for that
technical difficulty there. Mr. Kroll, have any further hands been raised?
JACK KROLL: At this time, Chair Davidson, I see no further hands raised.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And, Mr. Kroll, would you please read into the record any emailed comments that were
received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Yes. We received two email comments, both of which have been transmitted to the Board
at this juncture-- one from Denver Streets Partnership in support of the Vision Zero resolution you will all
consider later this evening and another from Greater Denver Transit, which touched on a myriad of topics
which were also mirrored in Mr. Bamber's public comments previously provided.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll, for reading that into the record. Thank you to all of our
participants for participating this evening. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public
participation at this time. We have no external entity reports this evening.
Given the nature of public comment, I do want to reorder our typical next section, which is our Committee
Reports, followed by the Chair's Report and the General Manager's Report. In this case, our General
Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson, is going to proceed with her report now before the Committee
reports. After she concludes her report, we will take a brief break. And then we will resume for our
committee reports. So General Manager and CEO Johnson, I'll now yield the floor to you for your report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And good evening to all of you that are assembled.
And to the public, greatly appreciate the comments that were presented during the public comment report
period. As introduced, I'm Debra Johnson serving as the General Manager and CEO.
This evening, I will share a couple of highlights and activities in our strategic endeavors that have taken
place since this Board last met on Tuesday, September 24, related to community value. Went to speak as
relates to Chair Davidson and I participating before the Transportation Legislation Review Committee on
September 25.
The discussion that ensued and the presentation that was made included this agency's 2023 through
2024 strategic initiatives, state of good repair and preventative maintenance activities that took place over
the summer, our people power and where we're going as it relates to our ability to be able to present to
this Board for its consideration, service changes in January for January of 2025, community and

paratransit survey responses, as well as RTD's financial outlook and the recently completed state fiscal
governance audit in which RTD met all nine ratios, the performance dashboard coordination on rail and
transit funding and potential legislation for 2025, including transit worker assault, deterrence measures,
and permanent funding for zero fare for youth.
On Friday, October 4, city, state, and federal representatives gathered at City Park in Denver to celebrate
the initiation of the East Colfax Bus Rapid Transit Project construction, which was made possible through
a $150 million Federal Transit Administration Small Starts Capital Investment Grant Program. This is the
largest grant award to the state of Colorado under the Biden-Harris administration, with the clear nexus to
the bipartisan infrastructure law and paves the way for the state's first-ever bus rapid transit service.
This service will transform how people move along the Colfax corridor, making travel by bus faster and
more reliable, and providing an attractive alternative to driving that is safer and better for the environment.
I had the pleasure of serving as co-EMC with Amy Ford, the Executive Director of Denver's Department of
Transportation and Infrastructure, Veronica Vanterpool, the Deputy Administrator of the Federal Transit
Administration, Senator John Hickenlooper, Aurora Mayor Mike Coffman, Denver City Council members
Chris Haines, Sarah Purdy, Amanda Sawyer, and Darryl Watson, Dr. Cogs Executive Director Doug Rex,
as well as Colfax Avenue Business Improvement District Executive Director Frank McIntyre were among
those who presented remarks to mark the occasion. Deputy administrator Vanterpool presented $150
million check to Amy Ford and me to mark that event and our successful grant award.
This past week on Thursday, October 17, I participated in the Front Range Passenger Rail Board of
Directors annual retreat. I want to clarify, I participated only on Thursday, not on Friday. Topics of
discussion included front-range passenger rails, financial strategy, key policy decisions and priorities,
advocacy and coalition building, and the Board's operations and vision, mission, and guiding principles.
On the topic of Front-Range Passenger Rail, on September 30, FRPR, CDOT, and RTD jointly submitted
a report entitled "Northwest fixed guideway corridor implementation plan" and report to the legislature-excuse me-- and the governor, as required by Senate Bill 184. The report synthesized summaries of
previous rail analyses, including the Northwest Rail Peak Service feasibility study, front-range passenger
rail's own studies, the state rail plan, the FasTracks unfinished corridors report, the 2014 Northwest Area
Mobility Study that's commonly referred to as NAMS, and the 2020 environmental evaluation related to
the Northwest Rail corridor.
The report further outlined options for joint service financing and potential funding sources, stakeholder
outreach, and other matters. At this time, no discussions with RTD have commenced regarding the
development of an intergovernmental agreement with FRPR or CDOT related to Northwest rail
operations. I want to ensure that the Board is aware of my commitment that I will most definitely apprise
this Board for its awareness once discussions ensue and will garner feedback to inform the development
of this critically important agreement.
Pertaining to customer excellence, the following day, on Saturday, October 5, I, along with Chair
Davidson, Director Tisdale was in attendance, in addition to Director Lewis and Director Paul Rosenthal.
Amy Ford, Executive Director of Denver's Department of Transportation and Infrastructure, participated in
RTD's commemoration of 30 years of light rail service. The central corridor line opened to the public in
downtown Denver on October 7, 1994, operating between I-25 and Broadway and 30th Avenue and
Downing Street along a rail alignment now served by the D, E, H, and L lines.

To mark the milestone, the agency hosted an event open to the public with a DJ, music, family-friendly
activities, and more. The event also celebrated the successful conclusion of the first phase of the
Downtown Rail Reconstruction Project, which crews completed on August 29, three weeks ahead of
schedule. Crews performed needed maintenance on the 30-year-old alignment to protect the community's
investment in light rail and serves as the agency's back-the-basic strategic initiative.
Commencing on Sunday, October 13, the free MallRide resumed service to a segment along the 16th
Street Mall. The project to revitalize the mall began in spring of 2022, meaning that the mall buses have
been rerouted to run along 15th and 17th Streets since that time approximately, two and a half years. And
service remains detoured between Curtis Street and Civic Center Station. The project is anticipated to
conclude in 2025.
As part of ongoing efforts-- and we heard a lot of feedback this evening, so I was prepared to share this
with all of you for your edification as it relates to where we are. So recognizing that we have garnered
customer feedback regarding the agency's paratransit services following the release of a paratransit peer
review that was commissioned earlier in the year with the assistance of the American Public
Transportation Association-- and that report was received in August by the agency. We continue to invite
all customers and community members, just as we heard tonight, to share feedback, as well as using the
online form that is currently available on the peer-review web page, which will remain open through 11:59
PM this coming Sunday, October 27.
Additionally, several in-person and virtual meetings were held in recent weeks to gather input and answer
questions from customers as well as advisory groups. I extend my personal thanks to everyone who has
taken the time to provide comments at meetings, send emails with ideas and suggestions, complete the
paratransit survey, as well as submit feedback through the online forms. The community's support of the
agency's outreach efforts is greatly appreciated.
It is important to emphasize that no final decisions have yet been made about the future of paratransit
operational adjustments. Moreover, at this time, the agency remains focused on ensuring
recommendations are developed that will support both the long-term success and sustainability of RTD's
Access-A-Ride, which is the ADA complimentary paratransit service, as well as Access on Demand,
which is the supplemental paratransit service.
Moreover, I would add, there are no budget reductions proposed in RTD's budget for 2025 as it relates to
paratransit programs. I will say that once again. There are no budget reductions recommended by staff in
the 2025 budget that you all saw as a discussion item earlier this month and that will be brought forward
in November.
I want to also stress that RTD strives to provide the highest level of service for all customers while
ensuring the agency operates within budgetary constraints to ensure long-term sustainability. As RTD
explores potential modifications and program improvements, additional input is greatly encouraged. Staff
intends to share results during the November Board meeting cycle with additional community feedback
and next steps to be reported during the subsequent month's meeting.
I want to reiterate as well that we recognize that this is a critically important service that we provide. We
also have fiduciary responsibilities to ensure that we're providing equitable mobility options, and we are
not anticipating to put forward a recommendation to this body in November. What we're doing is ensuring
that we compile information that has been collected, so we can make informed decisions moving forward
that are based on customer experience for those that utilize our paratransit services and that are based in

data and other analytics as we go forward. We also are in the midst of doing regression analyses as well.
And all of that will be compiled and provided to this body for your consideration when recommendations
are put forward.
Lastly, I want to switch gears and talk about our service changes, which we heard some comments
relative to that as well. The agency also continues to garner public feedback regarding the January 2025
service changes. Virtual and in-person meetings were held yesterday at noon and 5:30 PM respectively.
And service development staff will hold drop-in office hours tomorrow via Zoom between 5:30 PM and
6:30 PM, meaning that staff will be available to answer customers' burning service-related questions, and
no formal presentation will be given. The link is available on RTD's service change website by clicking the
Proposed January 2025 Service Changes link and navigating to the Public Hearings and Feedback
Meetings Information.
Customers can also provide feedback through October 31 by emailing servicechange@rtd-denver.com or
calling (303) 299-2004. Recognizing its October 31, we'll hope it will be a treat and not a trick. And for
those dedicated individuals out there who would still love their fax machines and want to utilize them, we
welcome faxes, or facsimiles, as we used to say, as well. That can be sent to (303) 299-2227. We want to
ensure that we're using every modes of communication as possible.
Throughout this process, the Communications and Engagement Team has continued to conduct
enhanced outreach to neighborhood organizations, civic groups, faith-based organizations, and other
entities regarding our proposed service changes. And also, an excellent two-minute video summarizing
the service change process is also available on the RTD website. And with that, Mr. Chair, I conclude my
report and welcome any questions from Directors at this time. Thank you very kindly for moving me up in
the agenda, so I could share those important aspects of where we are and what we're doing from a
community engagement vantage point.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, General Manager and CEO Johnson. Thank you for your report,
as always. And Thank you for being willing to go out of order this evening and for the clear statement that
no budget reductions are proposed for paratransit services at this time and clarification around the
timeline-- very much appreciated.
We will be breaking in a moment before the committee reports, but I'll just go ahead and ask if any
Directors have questions for our General Manager and CEO relevant to her report at this time. If you
could do a physical hand raise, I don't have the screen up here. Yes, Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Madam General Manager and CEO. You did
mention the budget. And there was also some public input tonight about 7A. And my question to you is
just anticipating ensuring that our financial outlook considers both if 7A passes, but also if it does not
pass, that you are preparing your financial for that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager, would you like to comment?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Mr. Chair. So as we proceeded forward with a proposed budget, recognizing we
don't know what we don't know, we did not take into consideration what the outcome of 7A may be. If, in
fact, that passes, then there will be adjustments made accordingly as it relates to said budget,
recognizing that this body will consider the final budget on December 3. Those modifications would be
made in a timely manner for this Board to take that under advisement.

ERIK DAVIDSON: And if I may, Director Rosenthal, thank you for the question. One discussion that has
come up at the Finance and Planning Meeting with CFO MacLeod is the consideration in the event of 7A
not passing, the Board contemplating as part of its fiscal policy reserve fund dedicated to TABOR
mitigation going forward. Obviously, that would not be a need should it pass. Thank you for the question.
Any other questions for our General Manager and CEO? Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Comment real quick-- the budget, for anybody who is interested, is currently-- the
proposed budget is available to be reviewed at your request. As is required by law-- RTD follows the law-I have reviewed it myself. Every line item is accounted for, and it's a clear accounting of what we're
looking at going forward in the next year, where that money is going, and how it is to be used.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Any further questions for our General Manager CEO? All right, seeing
none, we are going to take a break. We will reconvene at 7:20 PM Mountain Daylight Time.
Please go ahead and break. We'll reconvene at 7:20 PM for the committee reports. Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

All right, grab your seats. I believe we've restarted the recording. This is Erik Davidson speaking.
We are reconvened a little bit late, my apologies, as of 7:24 PM Mountain Daylight Time. We're going to
go to our committee reports at this time. We will start with the Audit Committee report. And I'll ask
Committee Chair Dishell, do you have anything you would like to share?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Nothing to report. I believe our last meeting of the year will be in
November. Please come if you are interested, as we will be looking both a retro on the internal audit
committee.
We're still in its nascency of the newly constituted internal audit committee. So we're doing a retro on
what worked well, what didn't work well. And of course, to the extent you're not on and you feel like you
are not aware of what's happening, please come or send me an email so that we can make sure we
improve our processes and policies.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Dishell. We'll now move to the Finance and Planning
Committee report. Committee Chair Tisdale, would you like to report?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Finance and Planning Committee met on
October the 8. The minutes are found in the Board packet at page 17. Our next meeting is on November
12, and we will be discussing the budget that has been tantalizingly previewed tonight. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Tisdale. At this time, I will ask Committee
Chair Whitmore of our Operations Safety and Security Committee, is there anything you would like to
report?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes, Mr. Chair, briefly. We met on October 9 and passed a Vision Zero resolution
5 to 1 That's on our agenda tonight after several months of discussion and crafting of that policy. Also, we
had two months of activity on the '25 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, better known as PTASP-a very healthy presentation and discussion two months ago and then passed that plan on to this body on

the meeting on October 9 unanimously; we did have a discussion on January '25 service changes, which
is ongoing with this body. And then under other discussion, we had some input regarding the Greyhound
Bus facility within our facility. And I know you're going to mention a little more about that here in a bit.
Our next meeting, last meeting of the year, will be November 13 for OS&S Committee. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Whitmore. Next is our Performance Committee report.
Committee Chair Catlin, is there anything you would like to share?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And forgive me. I left home without my notes.
So perhaps Jack Kroll, our Executive Manager of the Board Office, could fill in any blanks if-- I guess he's
not here. OK. Yeah, sorry.
So we did meet on October 7. And our consultant, RKO, walked us through some of the 360 review
questions to finalize those forms. And then we began the Board review process.
On October 21, we met again. And this time-- this was yesterday-- we talked about the agency
scorecards. And Executive Business Partner John McKay walked us through some of the draft metrics
that we will be seeing and with a promise that on October 28-- or excuse me-- on November 11, we would
do a deeper dive into those performance metrics with a real-time demo on the dashboard, which I'm
looking forward to.
October 28, Board members will all receive the evaluation forms for our GM CEO. There's a short
turnaround time with those needing to be returned by November 7. Then we will have a special meeting
on November 18 in executive session with GM CEO Johnson to discuss not only her self-evaluation, the
360 assessments, and the Board evaluations.
And then based on that discussion, Directors will have an opportunity to make adjustments to the final
performance evaluations. So that's our schedule going forward. I'm not sure if other committee members
have any corrections or not. All right, thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. All right, that concludes our committee reports.
We will now move on to the approval of the Board meeting minutes and committee reports. The Board
and committee meeting minutes were included in the Board packet.
I would like to note that I have received one request to modify the minutes, which is from Director Lewis.
He requested that we make a minor adjustment to the minutes of the October 9 Operations Safety and
Security Committee meeting to indicate that he raised the issue of the sunsetting of the Greyhound lease
at Union Station during other matters. I have spoken with the Board Office, and they are making that
minor adjustment noted in other matters within the minutes. At this time, I'll ask, are there any other
corrections from Directors for the minutes that will be approved this evening?
I'm seeing none, unless there is objection-- Director Harwick, please.
IAN HARWICK: Oh, I though you were going. Sorry. I thought-PEGGY CATLIN: I was just going to move the motion.
IAN HARWICK: Sorry. I got ahead of myself.

ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Unless there's an objection to considering the minutes all at the same time, may I
please have a motion to approve the minutes for the following meetings-- September 24, 2024 Board
meeting, October 7, 2024 Performance Committee, October 8, 2024 Finance and Planning Committee,
October 9, 2024. Operation Safety and Security Committee, October 17, 2024 Executive Committee. Do I
hear a motion?
JOYANN RUSCHA: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I do move.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear Ruscha as the movement, Tisdale as the second.
[LAUGHTER]
Is there any discussion on the motion?
IAN HARWICK: Now I'm really getting the bird.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Are there any no votes on this action? All right, hearing none. That will pass. All right,
we'll now move to the Chair's report. There's a couple of things I'd like to note this evening.
I'll actually start my Chair's report by just reminding Directors that there will soon be at least one opening
on the Audit Committee as of December 31. That is when my term on both the Committee and Board
expires. And to remind any Director that is interested in serving this capacity to please submit a resume
and a letter of interest to the Board Office by this Friday.
On that note, I'd like to thank our Audit Committee Chair Dishell, Director Catlin, our External Audit
Committee members, Mr. Olenberger and Mr. Brendel, as well as Chief Financial Officer Doug MacLeod,
who liaises with our external contracted internal auditors. For the continued work and commitment to
ensuring that RTD has an effective and continually improving internal audit function, I want to just
reemphasize something that Chair Dishell raised.
We are approaching a time when it's very important for us to do a look back at how the internal audit
function has been performing, how the audit committee is performing and identify any opportunities for
further improvement and enhancement on that now that we have had some time to work. So as noted by
Director Dishell-- and thank you for noting that. I encourage all directors to attend that last Audit
Committee meeting, if you are able, for that discussion.
As noted earlier by General Manager and CEO Johnson, I had the pleasure of presenting alongside her
at the Transportation Legislation Review Committee on September 25, TLRC as it is sometimes referred,
to share information about the state of RTD and to answer questions. Some of the questions that arose
were concerning the protection of our transit operators and frontline workers. And there were additional
questions around how to generate ridership together in partnership and including some questions around
transit-oriented development. I remain optimistic that there are opportunities for this body and this agency
to partner with our legislative partners in Colorado as we enter the next legislative session to look for any
and all ways to enhance access and utilization of transit in Colorado.
I also had the pleasure this month in participating in and speaking at the October 5th event mentioned by
General Manager and CEO Johnson celebrating 30 years of Light Rail. I'd like to particularly note that

many RTD members from various teams turned out for that event to directly engage with members of the
public.
And I was personally energized by the time spent chatting with members of our teams from
Communications to Rail Operations to our Police Department and continue to be inspired by their
dedication. I know Mr. Jensen is here. A lot of excited folks are there to talk about how we do what we do
on maintenance of way, which was very fun to see and for our customers to see as well.
And of course, thank you to the customers who participated in that event. We had a number of folks stop
by. And I continue to be inspired by their commitment to engage in conversations directly with RTD and
use the system and certainly acknowledge that we had other folks participate in the event, such as
Greater Denver Transit and their commitment to of transit to show some things to the public as well. So I
thank everybody who was engaged with that. It was an energizing event.
I had the pleasure of speaking as well at the opening of more bike shelters that RTD has continued to do
along US 36. As I stated then, I hope that those are not only just an amenity, but also a thank you to
many of our customers who represent some of the very best stewards of our environment that we have in
the region. This will highlight a few data points, as I did last time, from our September Board briefing
documents just to call attention to-- as of August 2024, RTD's year-to-date, sales, and use tax revenue
was at $560.7 million. That is 7.6% below the budgeted $606.6 million. Sales and use tax again remains
essentially flat from last year and is down slightly 0.3%.
On the expense side, year-to-date, operating expenses, as of August 2024, however, have remained
below budget by approximately 15.8%, maintaining a relatively stable net position. As of August 2024,
year-to-date, ridership was at 43.7 million boardings. That is 8.5% below budget, although 2% up from
last year at the same time. Bus operations in August 2024 had a service availability of 99.73% and ontime performance of 79.83%.
Light Rail operations in August 2024 had a service availability of 99.34% and on-time performance of
59.91%, which has been down significantly and reduced by the track maintenance and slow zones. For
reference, year-to-date on-time performance of Light Rail was 82.6% as of August. Again, I think this is a
good time to thank our customers for their resilience and our Maintenance of Way team for working
diligently to work through these slow zones that have been implemented for important maintenance that
we are making efficient progress through.
Commuter rail operations. In July 2024 had a service availability of 98%, and commuter rail operations
on-time performance for the A, B, and G lines were 95.1%, and the N line was 98.54%. For reference,
year to date on-time performance is 95.64 and 97.8 respectively.
RTD's Light Rail vacancy ratio as of August 2024 is at 15%. That is with 30 vacancies. RTD's bus
operator vacancy ratio, as of August 2024, was 3.36% with 32 vacancies.
As I stated last month, thank you very sincerely to our people operations team as well of all the folks
involved in our operations management for the recruitment and retention efforts that have led to
improvements in our vacancy ratios. As we are all well aware, this body at the October 2024 Operation
Safety and Security meeting were presented with an exciting service change forthcoming for January
2025, getting to actually see some of those vacancy ratio improvements in action. So thank you to the
team for that.

I'll just restate again, as I have been saying and will continue to say to RTD's customers, we know, I
know, how hard this year has been for Light Rail operations. And we know that you have had to continue
to exhibit patience and resilience. You have our thanks for that. The system is yours.
It is the public's system. Team RTD is here to operate and maintain that, and we sincerely appreciate
you. Thank you, Team RTD, for that perseverance and for working together and sticking together
throughout the year. That concludes my Chair's report at this time. And we will move on to the next
section of our agenda.
At this time, we'll move to the unanimous consent portion. I have a few notes I need to make about
unanimous consent here. There are three items on the unanimous consent agenda-- actions A through C.
Those items are the 2025 investment policy, the 2025 fiscal policy, and the 2025 Public Transportation
Agency Safety Plan, referred PTASP.
First, I'd like to note that I will be removing item B, 2025 fiscal policy, from the consent agenda as I have
been asked to move that to a roll-call vote. So that will be removed. Before asking whether there's any
other items to be removed, I'd like to note that during the Operation Safety and Security meeting held on
Wednesday, October 9, several Directors correctly noted that the Public Transportation Agency Safety
Plan, or PTASP, and related attachments included in the packet contained apparent typographical errors,
such as the names of individuals no longer employed with RTD, as well as some incomplete phone
numbers that were noted for certain individuals.
Please note that the documents included in tonight's agenda packet are the same as those that went
through the Operation Safety and Security Committee, as well as through Executive Committee.
However, I'd like to note that several of these apparent errors were, in fact, intentional redactions. That is,
certain phone numbers included in the exhibits are for personal devices and have been redacted prior to
the publication of the agenda packet. Similarly, the names of certain individuals who are no longer
employed with RTD are referenced in policies and procedures approved and compiled over the course of
the past year since the previous iteration of the PTASP was submitted to the Colorado Public Utilities
Commission, or CPUC.
Additionally, the PTASP exhibits, such as the organizational chart and the listing of emergency contacts,
are evergreen and subject to revision over time as necessary. This means that contacts, phone numbers,
org charts, and other materials on file with the Colorado PUC are periodically revised as necessary to
reflect current information, which will occur with the documents that you see included in the packet this
evening. So in closing, those PTASP documents and the corresponding exhibits that will be submitted to
the Colorado Public Utilities Commission prior to November 1 will be the full unredacted versions and will
also include the most current versions of policies, procedures, reference materials, and contacts available
at that time. So thank you for allowing me to note that and update everybody as to the discussions that
have ensued between myself and the General Manager and CEO and the Board Office.
If anyone at this time then has any additional changes to or discussion on any of the items on the consent
agenda, with the exception of item B, which has already been pulled, please advise me at this time, and
I'll be happy to pull them. Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah, I have comments on the investment policy, so if we can pull that just for a few
moments.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. We will pull item A, the 2025 Investment Policy at Director Lewis' request.

DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I apologize. I couldn't read this fast enough. You say, item
B, the PTASP, has been removed. Is that correct?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It has not. Item C, the 2025 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan has not been.
DOUG TISDALE: I'll request that the PTASP be removed from consent.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. We will remove item C at the request of Director Tisdale. At this time, we have
nothing on the consent agenda, and we will move to our recommended actions. Our recommended
actions will start with item A. That was previously on the consent agenda.
This is for the 2025 investment policy. It is for the Board of Directors to-- I'm sorry. I have made a little bit
of a mistake here. We do have the 2025 investment policy on the-- oh, I'm sorry.
Director Lewis, thank you. I made the wrong note of my letters. Thank you very much.
So this is for item A, the 2025 Investment Policy for the Board of Directors to approve the 2025
Investment Policy. I'll first recognize Director Lewis for a question or comment that you have.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yeah. On page 52, it refers to authorized personnel making
changes-ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm sorry. Director Lewis, I'm sorry. Director Tisdale rightfully pointed out I do need a
motion and a second on this. Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Tisdale.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Whitmore. Director Lewis, sorry. Please go ahead.
JAIME LEWIS: OK, thank you. On page 52 of the Investment Policy, it refers to authorized personnel
making changes or having the ability to make changes. And I would like to see that edited to say, "at the
discretion of the Board." And the reason why I say that-- if you look under the fiscal policy, basically the
same boilerplate sentence, it says that people-- the authorized personnel running the fiscal policy can
make changes based on the direction of the Board. So I just think we need to add "to the direction of the
Board" on page 52.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you, Director Lewis. Are you proposing an amendment at this time?
JAIME LEWIS: Correct.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Mr. Kroll, do you have the language clear that Director Lewis has just stated as
proposing for an amendment?

JACK KROLL: Can you restate it, please, Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Yes. It's page 52. The sentence starts with, "Authorized personnel may make changes,"
or something to that effect-- to the policies.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Before having discussion on the amendment, I'd like a second. And then we can go
ahead and discuss. I think there might be some discussion. Do I have a second?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'll second it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. I have Ruscha as the second. We're considering an amendment pursuant to what
Director Lewis has stated with the second as Director Ruscha. I have comments or discussion?
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, may we have the motion restated so that we can clearly follow it,
please?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you. Director Lewis, if you could please restate the motion.
JAIME LEWIS: I'm trying to find the page right now here. 52. Apologize. It's such a large document. It's
hard to find pages. Jack, are you closer than I am? Page 52?
PEGGY CATLIN: Packet?
JACK KROLL: I found packet page 52, and it wasn't on there.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm not seeing-- is packet page 52, Director Lewis, is what you're referring to?
JAIME LEWIS: The investment policy.
PEGGY CATLIN: Following persons are authorized.
DOUG TISDALE: Almost there. Hang on, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis, are you referring to on package page 52, "The following persons are
authorized to transact investment business on behalf of the Regional Transportation District, or RTD,
General Manager and CEO. Chief Financial Officer, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments, Senior
Manager of Budget?"
JAIME LEWIS: Correct.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And your motion for an amendment is?
JAIME LEWIS: At the discretion of the Board.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So your motion is-JAIME LEWIS: They make recommendations, but the Board approves the investment policy, correct?

ERIK DAVIDSON: The Board does, yes. And then that does-- so your motion is to add the following
persons are authorized to transact investment business on behalf of the Regional Transportation District,
comma, at the discretion of the Board?
JAIME LEWIS: Correct, because in our fiscal policy, it states that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. So just to clarify, we have a motion and a second. I'm going to restate that, open
up for any further discussion.
This would now read on packet page 52-- Director Lewis's proposed amendment is to read, "The
following persons are authorized to transact investment business on behalf of the Regional
Transportation District, open parentheses, quote RTD, close parentheses, colon--" or, I'm sorry, "comma,
and added language at the discretion of the RTD Board of Directors, colon, General Manager and CEO,
Chief Financial Officer, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments,l Senior Manager of Budget. With that
being stated, we have the motion as Director Lewis, the second instructor. Ruscha. Have I properly
characterized that, sir?
JAIME LEWIS: Yes, you have. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Is there any further discussion on this, Director Tisdale, please?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think it's wonderful to try to make things clear,
and I appreciate that. But I think that the unintended consequence of putting it in the appendix is to make
it unclear that the policy is stated in the investment policy.
And I think we should rely upon that and not be worried about trying to plug it in somewhere else where it
is not specifically designed to be plugged in. The appendix is controlled by the written policy, and I think
that is sufficient. Therefore, I am opposed to the amendment. Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Are there further comments? Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So the amendment read at the discretion of the Board? Or was it at the direction?
You used two different words, and I just want to make sure I have clarity. Director Lewis?
ERIK DAVIDSON: At the discretion. Is that correct, Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Discretion, correct.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. So the Board's discretion is done by approving this, right? That is our
discretion. We're acting as a body. It would not necessarily need to be a redundant remark in a document.
I would be against it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Any further questions or comments. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: I guess I'm just piling on. But yeah, it seems like if you put it into this appendix, every time
these people want to transact investment business, they have to bring it before the Board and get
approval and work it into our agendas and scheduling, which I think makes it untenable. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek.

JAIME LEWIS: Mr. Chair, may I respond?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: So in the fiscal policy statement, this is how it's read, "RTD financial assets are managed
in accordance with RTD investment policy, which is reviewed and approved by the RTD Board on an
annual basis." So I would presume that our investment policy would be aligned with the fiscal policy
language that the Board is involved in those decisions. So I'm just going to leave it at that and let the vote
lie where it lies.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I saw Director Dishell's hand raised.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you. I think, if anything, I don't see appendix 1 directly referenced in the
investment policy and approval. So if anything, it should just list the authorized personnel as opposed to
having that language there.
That said, I don't-- people, especially in investment decisions, need to be able to transact at the moment
where you can get the best price as a fiduciary, and we delegate that authority. So those are my thoughts
on amending it would just be to strike the whole thing. I'm not moving to amend the amendment, for
absolute clarity, but just my thoughts.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell, for the comments. Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Sorry, real quick-- paragraph 10 of this policy says the CFO shall conduct a review of the
policy on an annual basis and present the policy denoting any changes to the Board of Directors for
approval. So we approve this policy every year, like the other one. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you very much. I'm not seeing any other comments.
I'm going to do a roll call on the amendment. We are currently voting on the amendment prior to moving
to the main-- returning to the main motion. This will be to add language that we've discussed on packet
page 52, to say, comma, at the discretion of the RTD Board of Directors inserted between the close
parens and the colon. Treasurer Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director. Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell?

BOBBY DISHELL: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Respectfully, no.
ERIK DAVIDSON: This is Chair Davidson speaking. I, too, am a no. The amendment will not pass. That's
three yes and 12 no.
We'll now return to the main motion on the 2025 investment policy. Again, this is for the Board of
Directors to approve the 2025 investment policy that came through Finance and Planning. Any further
discussion? Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, this is a clerical item, so I hope that it can be corrected without amendment. But
in the table on packet page 38, the quotation marks around the rating restrictions are still present, but the
red line shows that we intentionally removed, I believe, those same quotation marks. Unless they were
added, in which case, I don't really care as long as it's consistent between the two.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for noting that. I believe we can remove that as a clerical adjustment.
General Counsel Snyder, can you confirm?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Mr. Chair. That's correct.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you. And I got a thumbs up from the Board Office. Thank you. I'll go ahead
and call a roll vote on this one, given that we did have an amendment. Treasurer Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan?

MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: This is Chair Davidson speaking. I am also a yes. That will pass. 15 yes, zero no.
We'll now move on to item B. This is the 2025 fiscal policy. This is for the Board of Directors to approve
the 2025 fiscal policy. Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: A second?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Tisdale as the movement. The second is Buzek. Is there any discussion on
this? All right, given that-- oh, Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I could, Mr. Chair-ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I was the one who just asked for a roll call vote, but I feel like I should just explain-and if staff might also be able to help us arrive at a decision. So it came up in Finance and Planning in our
fiscal policy under the FISA paragraph. And I apologize because I've now lost it on my screen flipping
back-- if we were simply encapsulating existing FISA policy as is and just restating it in this document, or
if we were making a change to any previous FISA policies.
So what I understood from staff is that we are just restating existing Board policies. However, there was a
discussion regarding real estate and property transactions. And it sounded to me from staff that we would
put all lease revenues into the FISA. The historical record shows that it's not current policy, and I don't
think it reads that way in the fiscal policy. So if staff could take time to address that, it would help me
arrive at a vote if we have time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I see that Chief Financial Officer Doug MacLeod has
joined us. Thank you for coming up. Please go ahead and make any comments you'd like on that. Thank
you. And Thank you, Director Ruscha, for the question.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. In the fiscal policy, in the Fund Balance section, the intent of the edits that were
made to that policy were really to summarize what the purpose of each of those funds were for, in
particular, the FISA. It does not go into detail regarding each one of the items included in the FISA
because the funding mechanisms-- I think there's 15 or so, maybe 20.

Within the monthly financial statements, every month, there's a report included in there that's in the Board
briefing documents as well as posted on the financial website of RTD, a reconciliation showing the fund
sources and the fund usages to track that. That's our real tracking mechanism of the details regarding
lease and land sale opportunities. Those are also tracked in there as a separate line item.
Just to note, there have been a few land sales that have been included in there amounting to a few million
dollars, I believe. There have not been any material leasing revenues. In fact, in 2011, when the Fiscal
Sustainability Committee was put together, that was one of the things is looking at leasing and land sale
opportunities. There were some excess-- what were identified as excess properties, and there was a
property disposal policy that the Board is notified if there are any intended property disposals.
Any proceeds from those sales go into the FISA, and any new leasing opportunities where RTD is the
lessor, those funds would be deposited and recorded within the FISA. There have not been any new
leasing agreements where RTD is the lessee, lessor where we are collecting money on those. I would
say, it's probably close about $100,000 in lease revenue that RTD collects.
And it's mainly from very small lease agreements, such as communications towers where we might own
the property. So it's very minor. There's been nothing really new that's significant since that time frame.
All the properties regarding DSP, any other excess properties were all sold as opposed to a leasing
opportunity for those. So hopefully that answers the question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Any follow-up questions, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think it does. But just so that we're all extremely clear, does the current fiscal policy- excuse me-- does this current policy, as last past by the Board or approved by the Board stipulate that
all lease revenues will go into the FISA? We just haven't had any material revenues to consider.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Is that what currently it says?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes, it doesn't specifically list leases within the fiscal policy. I don't believe
it really talks about the intention. It may. I'm not sure. I don't remember. But yes, they would all go into the
FISA reconciliation and be tracked.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And I apologize. I meant to say that whatever FISA policy at whatever date the Board
has last passed related to lease revenue-- that-- so I just don't understand what you're saying is that
policy exists. It might impact future lease revenues, but we are not changing anything in this fiscal policy
by right now. We're not moving away from current practice. We are simply high-level stating what that
practice is.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. MacLeod?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Is that correct?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, correct.

JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. And to that end, I am in favor of staying with our fiscal policies are in
our fiscal policy. Now that I have that clarification, I will be a yes tonight. So thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you, Mr. MacLeod, for joining. Thank you, Director Ruscha. Any further
questions or discussion?
BOB BROOM: Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I'm not going to vote against this, but I hope some future budget has some money
set aside to improve the acoustics in this room because I couldn't hear 15% of what he had to say.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Apologies for that, Director Broom. Thank you for noting that.
BOB BROOM: Maybe it's my age.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. I will go ahead and ask on this, given that, Director Ruscha, you noted that
you would be a yes on this, I'll go ahead and ask, are there any no votes? OK. Seeing none that will pass
with 15 yes and zero no.
We will now move on to our next recommended action. This is item C. This is the 2025 Public
Transportation Agency Safety Plan, or PTASP. This is for the Board of Directors to approve the 2025
PTASP in accordance with the requirements set forth in 49 CFR Part 674 and 673 and 4 CCR 723-7, rule
7345. Do I have a motion?
JAIME LEWIS: So moved-- Lewis.
ERIK DAVIDSON: A second?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. I have Lewis and Whitmore. Any questions or discussion? I see Director
Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And I do appreciate the information that you
provided in your discussion relative to this item because I am one of the people who pointed out the
various typos. I certainly appreciate and now understand better the deliberate-- they're not redacted,
they're simply not there-- telephone numbers, for example, that you listed.
But I am curious because there were a host of other just typos. And in the executive session packet, it
was page 317. And if you subtract 63 from 317, that'll take you to the page in the Board packet. And I
can't do that in my head quickly while I'm talking. But for example, there are typos there because the
caption of the document on that page is "rame work," when it means, of course, to be "frame work."
And then in the text, it says, "rame work." The F is missing. I don't think that's a redaction for security
purposes or because personnel might change. So I did give a detailed enumeration of those pages to the
Board Office for them to look at because I don't want us being embarrassed with a document that goes
out that has those types of errors. So we just clean them up.

That's all. Other than that, I had no objection. I thought it was a great document. I love seeing all that
information. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And I believe, as noted, we can make some clerical
adjustments to this as this passes through before delivering it. So thank you for noting that and providing
that to the Board Office.
With that being noted, I will go ahead and call-- I'm sorry. Is there any further discussion or questions on
this? All right. I'm going to ask, are there any no votes? OK, seeing none. That will pass with 15 yes and
zero no. Thank you very much.
We'll move on to our next recommended action. This is item D, the Strategic Plan Scorecard Financial
Metrics. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the Strategic Plan Agency Performance Scorecard,
thereby incorporating revisions to metrics related to the strategic priority of financial success. Do I have a
motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved.
IAN HARWICK: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Dishell and Harwick as the second. Any discussion on this matter? Again,
physical hands. All right.
I'd just like to note, thank you for Performance Committee bringing this through. I think we had a good
discussion around this. Chief financial Officer Doug MacLeod, thank you for bringing this forward.
And Executive Business Partner John McKay, thanks for leaning into all of the great work on this
alongside General Manager and CEO. I think this is a great byproduct and a huge improvement to
bringing forward some metrics and bringing some transparency. And I know there's much more to come
on that. So thank you very sincerely for the work on that. Director Ruscha, please, a question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, sir. Just recognizing that some people weren't able to attend this meeting,
would it be possible if someone from performance or staff could just give a very quick overview of what
material differences that are occurring this year from last year?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure. I guess I can start. And then I'm happy to open the floor if General Manager and
CEO Johnson would like to make any notes or call upon anyone. Generally speaking, many of the metrics
are the same as what has been on previous scorecards.
There have been some adjustments to the reporting cadence where necessary. And there also were
some things. One all particularly note is one that I've brought up several times, which has to do with our
budget variance. And that's listed on packet page 752, budget variability in a percent deviation from
adopted budget reported on a quarterly basis.
So I'm not prepared to be able to call out all of the deltas or red lines from what we had reviewed
previously. But the summary was that the Performance Committee discussed those changes. The
rationale for some of those items, such as the deviation from adopted budget as being important. Would
you like any further additions or highlights on that, Director Ruscha?

JOYANN RUSCHA: No, sir. That's sufficient. And also, thank you for pointing out the piece regarding
budget variance. I know that was important to several directors that have been raised over the years. So
thank you for your work.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you very much. All right, not seeing any other questions or discussion on
this. I'll ask, are there any no votes? All right. Seeing none, that will pass with 15 yes and zero no votes.
We'll move on to recommended action E. This is the Director Orientation, Onboarding, and Continuing
Education Policy. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the attached Director Orientation, Onboarding
and Continuing Education Policy. Do we have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved-- second.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Tisdale as movement, Catlin is the second. Do we have any discussion on this?
All right, not seeing any. We've had a great chance to review this at Executive Committee several times.
And I'll, once again, thank Director Guzman and Director Whitmore for your work on this. Thank you very
much to the entire Board Office team for your work in forming this.
And a lot was done on this, as well as our General Manager and CEO. Exciting thing for us to be adopting
and moving forward. Has-- Director Catlin, please. Sorry to miss you there. Go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, that's quite all right. I just wanted to make note that I have received email
correspondence from a number of candidates who are running for the RTD Board this coming fall, and
they're very appreciative and supportive of this particular effort. And just wanted to let you know that
those folks who may or may not be elected are really supportive of it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for noting that, First Vice Chair Catlin. Yes, it's a excellent work
here. Director Dishell, did you have a question or comment?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. There's a number of items that are bracketed in the policy. Are those intended to
be parentheticals within parentheticals? Or are they placeholders to be replaced with something else?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman, if you'd like to comment, I'll call on you. Or, Mr. Jack Kroll-- Mr.
Jack Kroll, please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Yes, the former. So they're intended to be in there.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Does that answer your question, Director Dishell? OK. Thank
you. Go ahead, Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Are you looking at the red line? Or are you looking at the final document? I'm just
curious, making sure because there's some that I could see where that question would come from.
DOUG TISDALE: The independent.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. I'll use the microphone per Director Tisdale. The independent study of RTD
website section has the brackets within the parenthetical.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Would you mind noting a packet page?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, or no-- 762.
ERIK DAVIDSON: 762, independent study. Yes, those are bracketed within parenthetical notation. Mr.
Jack Kroll, our Executive Board Office Manager, please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Yes, that's all correct. That's how it's intended to appear. And the style is you use the-yeah.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Director Dishell, does that answer your question?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yep.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, great. Any further questions? All right, seeing none. Are there any no votes? OK,
not seeing any. That will pass with 15 yes and zero no. Thank you very much.
We will now move on to our next recommended action. This is the final recommended action of the
evening. It is item F, Resolution in Support of RTD Vision Zero Initiatives. This is for the Board of
Directors to adopt the attached resolution supporting RTD specific Vision Zero initiatives. Do we have a
motion?
JAIME LEWIS: So moved-- Lewis.
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved-- Sloan.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Sloan as the movement and Lewis as the second. I believe we are going to
have an amendment. I'll recognize Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So I moved to amend the Vision Zero resolution before us as follows, to
replace the resolution passed in OSS Committee, which appears on packet pages 768 through 770 with
the revised resolution worked on in collaboration with Staff and GM CEO Johnson, which appears on
packet pages 771 through 773. And you also have a copy at your desks. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. That is the-- do I have a second for the amendment?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Sloan seconding the amendment. So what we are now discussing is the
amendment as proposed by Director Ruscha. Director Ruscha, thank you for submitting those ahead of
time. Is there any discussion on the Amendment? Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It was referenced in the email that we received. I just want to receive confirmation
that the General Manager and Staff are in support of this amended version of the resolution, since this is
not what we were given in Committee.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. If I could call on General Manager and CEO Johnson to please
comment.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Secretary Guzman, for your
inquiry. As indicated by Director Ruscha, we have had the opportunity to confer about the language that
has been submitted. Members of my team and I have worked in tandem and support the
recommendations that have been put forward for this body's consideration. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comment, General Manager and CEO in confirming that and
Secretary for the question. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, would a drafter of the amendment just mind walking us through quickly some of
the key changes that were made between the two docs as we don't have a red line in front of us?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure. Director Ruscha, would you be willing to do that?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sure, if Director Harwick doesn't mind. OK, thank you. So I think the material
difference between what was in the packet and what was in committee, I should say-- both are in the
packet-- and the revised amendment is in the Action section-- therefore, be it resolved. And there were
two main differences here, just the one that we clarified that a Vision Zero plan would be done in
accordance with Vision Zero network principles, which is our guiding star. And second, that our GM CEO
would bring back to us no later than the end of second quarter next year a draft plan for us to look at and
discuss as a body.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell? Great. Thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. If this amendment passes, will we have another opportunity for discussion on the
resolution as a whole? Or is this the time to have that discussion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Once we take the vote on the amendment, Director Buzek will return to the main
motion for further discussion.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Just wanted to clarify.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Further discussion on the amendment. OK. At this time, I'm going to call a
roll vote on the amendment as presented by Director Ruscha and summarized just now and seconded by
Director Sloan. Treasurer Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell?

BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: This is Chair Davidson. I am a yes. That has two no votes, 13 yes votes.
The amendment will pass. At this time, we will return to the main motion and any discussion or questions
concerning the main motion. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you to all the sponsors who have worked on this.
They have done quite a bit of work for the various months that you all have been working on this very
critical issue, which is at the heart of what RTD already does.
If you look at the various strategies that this Board has already adopted, particularly community value and
customer excellence, this is certainly included already in those. I do have some concerns about regular
amendments-- amendment after amendment after amendment on this proposed resolution. I'm hopeful
that it will be actually sent back to committee for us to work on it some more.

I think that already much of this resolution is already being done by RTD. If you look at, as mentioned by
the General Manager before, work on BRT, bike shelters, things like that that RTD is already working on,
that RTD already has relationships with CDOT, Dr. Cog, Denver DOTI, and agency cities, towns, and
counties across the RTD region. But I think it also takes it a step further.
[AUDIO OUT]

AUDIENCE: Brandy, this is the captioner. Did you lose the Board room?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK-- that are not in our purview. I also am concerned, and I'd like to hear from my
colleagues whether this opens us up for litigation, that if there's one little section, one paragraph, one
word or what have you that doesn't comply with someone's perception, that we will be subjecting
ourselves to litigation. So in theory, any number of meetings in the future of the Board, members can say,
hey, we're not in compliance. So that is my concern that I'd like to hear some feedback on.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. I think I heard a question in there potentially for those
who have worked on the policy and as well as potentially for general counsel concerning liability. First,
Directors Harwick or Ruscha, is there anything you'd like to comment on with respect to Director
Rosenthal's questions?
JOYANN RUSCHA: If you wouldn't mind, Mr. Chair, if general counsel could handle the litigation
question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Of course.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And while I look through the transcript.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure. General Counsel, would you like to comment on Director Rosenthal's second
question?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. The short answer is no. I don't
believe that this opens up to any-- opens RTD up to any additional liability.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Counsel, for the comment and answer. Director Ruscha, any
comments you would like to make? If not, I can certainly come back to you if Director Rosenthal-- OK.
Director Ruscha, please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. We did lose a CART connectivity for several seconds there. I think, if I
understood correctly, the concern was that we might be obligating ourselves to things that are not in our
purview. And I apologize for-- is that accurate?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I believe so. And, Director Rosenthal, would you like to clarify? Yeah, OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. That's not-- I guess I'll just go back and say what we've said before
during previous committee discussions and group discussions is that this Vision Zero resolution and this
initiative is not-- my colleague is correct-- is not entirely new. Rather, it enhances things that we do and
provides opportunities for us to drive safety initiatives forward and become and remain a leader in the

transit space, particularly as it relates to pedestrian safety and an accessible and welcoming transit
environment. So I'm not sure if that adequately addresses the concerns.
Again, I apologize to my colleague because I didn't hear all of them. But I would posit that this was done
over the course of 14 months. There was a lot of community engagement, stakeholder engagement, staff
engagement.
And I respect the right of my colleagues to dissent. But I hope as a body we can move this forward and
encourage staff as we pass the baton. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I saw another hand. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I agree with Director Rosenthal. I have concerns about the
potential for financial impact to the agency. There are some sections in here where you can clearly see
financial impact. And I can read between the lines in many other sections to see where there could
potentially be some significant financial impact.
Don't get me wrong, please. I agree completely with the concept of Vision Zero and reducing
transportation and transit-related injuries and deaths. I don't want anyone thinking that I don't by
dissenting. And I do appreciate all the work that went into this. I really do.
Here's another thing that concerns me is that we don't control the mechanisms that can make this policy
effective other than our rail right of way and our parking lots. And if that's all this is talking about, we
already do all kinds of things there. But I don't think that's all this is talking about.
And I think because of that breadth, it goes way beyond the scope of what we as a Board can control or
impact. I think there's some unintended consequences. And I have some difficulty with some of the
language. For example, in the fourth whereas, it says that it is never ethically acceptable that people are
killed or seriously injured when moving within the transportation environment. Is it ever acceptable in any
other fashion other than ethically? I mean, there are things like that that are problematic.
For example, 2A a run-on sentence that is a word salad that I don't understand. It says, clearly outlining
the agency's strategy for tackling-- don't understand-- and reporting transit injuries and fatalities by way of
multidisciplinary leadership-- what does that mean-- cooperation and collaboration with relevant
government agencies and community stakeholders, a comprehensive systems-based approach-- what
does that mean-- community engagement and continuous process improvement-- don't understand it.
Then we talk about modal shifts. What does that mean? We want people off of bikes and into transit? We
want people to stop walking into transit? Or is it we want people not in cars and using transit?
And saying that we should adopt policies that maximize ridership. My god, don't we do that? If we don't do
that, we're failing as a transit agency. So because of that, I see this as a feel-good resolution that we can
say, look, we're on Board with all these other entities who appropriately adopt Vision Zero policies
because they can control the mechanisms that can make this stuff happen.
So for that reason, I will vote no. Thanks. Bye.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Thank you. A few notes and comments-- thank you got alt all for all the work
that's gone into this.

I think it's really important to start, and I think no policy similar to when we did the policy focused on Net
Zero is going to be perfect coming out. And I think the notion that any time someone votes it should be
permanent forever is a vestige of older policymaking that doesn't account for the fact that the world
around us changes and changes quickly. And we need to be able to come back and make those
adjustments.
The one piece here that's missing for me that has been in other similar type of resolutions is a financial
appropriation. We have both the draft plan coming back at the second quarter of 2025 as well as the
staffing resources necessary to come back at the end of 2025, which implies either no staff resources will
be necessary or no cost will be necessary to prepare said draft plan. So it would be great to see some
sort of fiscal note there, or FTE allotment, or whatever the case may be.
And separately, I do want to note that we do not actually adopt policies that maximize ridership. If we
adopted policies that maximize ridership, we would run five minute service along Colfax, Federal,
Colorado, and we would not run service to many areas of the district. So we actually very much do not
currently adopt policies that maximize ridership. And so it's great to see that is a focus here because it
also contributes to our carbon policies. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. I see. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I personally appreciate and applaud the work
that's gone into this. I think it's terrific.
I think it's inspirational. I think it's motivational. I very much appreciate-- and not including it in a multitude
of other issues, but a singular letter from Greater Denver Transit to support it.
And I think, as Director Buzek said, it is exceptionally well-intentioned, but I think it needs some additional
work. And that's because the committee didn't have the opportunity to address it. This all comes up after
the committee acted. And it's very different. We don't have the benefit of a red line, which actually would
have been appreciated.
I understand. But that having been said, I think the committee could respond to some of these things and
give it a good show. So therefore, I moved to refer this item back to the Operation Safety and Security
Committee for the November 13 meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. I have a movement motion from Tisdale to bring this back to committee. I
have a second from Buzek. Any discussion? All right. I'm going to go ahead and-- give me a moment here
to adjust my notes.
I'm going to call for a vote from Director Tisdale's motion and Buzek's second to send this back to the
Operations Safety and Security Committee. Treasurer Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Guissinger-- I'm sorry, Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: This is Chair Davidson. I am also a no. I have 10 no votes and five yes votes. That
motion will not pass. We are back to the main motion and in further discussion and questions. First Vice
Chair Catlin, please.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I agree with Director Dishell in that we need to start some place, and this is
a good start. And maybe some of it is symbolic, and we need to tweak it a little bit.
But I think it's important that we are the first transit agency in the country to adopt such a resolution. And
we will have opportunities to reassess and adjust this as we go forward. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. Further discussion questions? Director Sloan,
please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I would also like to point out that it's an opportunity for us to collaborate with other
jurisdictions who are working on a Vision Zero plan at this time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan. Additional comments, discussion, questions? I just wanted
to follow up with General Manager CEO Johnson. It's OK if no comments at this time, but pursuant to
Director Dishell raising the question of a fiscal impact-- and I believe there's been some other comments
around financial obligation, Director Rosenthal as well. So I just want to see at this time, given your work
with the folks who worked on this, if there's any comments you'd like to offer.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And I appreciate the dialogue around this. And
I will specifically call out Director Harwick because he and I had a conversation relative to this. I
mentioned at this juncture it would be difficult for me to allocate full-time equivalents relative to the people
power needed, hence the wording where it talks about assess the viability of dedicating staffing resources
because at this juncture, I don't know what I don't know.
We would collectively be looking at the work that has been done to the points that have been raised
previously in the vein that we have been doing work as it relates to Vision Zero relative to ensuring that
we're training on roadway worker safety. We have rail safety awareness relative to crossing tracks, how
we train bus operators using the Smith system. So all those myriad of different elements are going to be
compounded and going forward. And we will deduce whether or not there is a full-time equivalent
necessary. Or is it more a cross-departmental matrix team that comes together relative to their work as
relates to enhancing the safety element, which is inherent to our RTD's culture just by virtue of our highlevel care of transporting people? Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, General Manager CEO. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And since the issue of a fiscal impact has been also brought
up in discussion with the general manager in terms of the position or staffing that will be necessary, to my
question to my colleagues earlier in regards to will RTD be impacted in a way that is not in our purview
particularly any other construction projects, investments in the community, things like that, does the
General Manager believe that this would impact fiscally our agency, again, on things that are not in our
purview?
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager and CEO Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much. Once again, as it relates to elements that are contained within
the resolution, for example, when it talks about a draft, what I discussed with Director Ruscha is just that
a draft, so we can get an understanding of the direction in which we're going. I would be remiss to state
that I had a brief conversation with Director Lewis just tonight during public comment when there were
conversations ensuing about what the ramp at I-25 and Broadway or, more specifically, at Ohio.

That's something I have to delve into because, once again, we don't have auspices over arterioles and
things of the like. So if anything, it's working in cooperation with varying municipalities for the betterment
of creating optimal operating environments for those that are operating transit vehicles and those
individuals that are walking or utilizing scooters or mobility devices to access places-- so recognizing that
there's other public rights of way. I believe that we would be fostering the relationships in which we have
with varying municipalities and jurisdictions in talking about their specific coordination that we would need
moving forward and recognizing as well that comments have been made about this being a good jump
off.
This could possibly translate into a transit-first priority of which we have auspices because while there has
been discussion about this could be the first transit agency, I don't know if that's necessarily true, but we
could be forward-thinking relative to a myriad of different elements by putting this top of mind. So after
conferring with my staff, we have some work to do, and we're going to keep this Board apprised because
I can't tell you the cost. And I'll be the first to wave the flag if it will require additional resources,
recognizing we have a myriad of different other initiatives that are important.
But we want to ensure that when someone steps off of one of our transit vehicles, that there is
infrastructure in place, that there are curb cuts because as we often see within the media, somebody will
disembark from a bus. And it's like, oh, somebody was-- and I'm not making light of this, but it's just
something that is true. Oftentimes, it's somebody was struck, and they just disembarked from an RTD
bus.
But we don't have auspices over that arterial or that infrastructure. So I think this. Amplifies the need to
work in partnership because that's things, to Director Buzek's point, that are out of our control.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Go ahead, Director Rosenthal. Thank you, General Manager.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, General Manager. And one final point and a request to our colleagues
who are going to remain on the Board who are going to be here as of January 1, whereas I will not be, a
commitment from those Board members who are sponsoring this resolution tonight that they are open to
working, to tweaking it, to working with the General Manager and her staff, to working with other Board
members who are going to be interested in tweaking this resolution. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And I heard it a couple of times-- and just to say that to the extent that it may be
a component of decision making for some, it's important to remember that being first doesn't necessarily
make you a leader. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek. Any further questions, comments? Yes, Director Ruscha,
please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And this isn't to influence anyone's vote. But just for the record, this
resolution does not supersede our fiscal policy, our strategic plan, or our TAMP, our PTASP, or any other
process that we have in place that I think act as appropriate fiscal and planning guardrails.
Also, I would just-- if I hadn't clearly said it on the record, I wanted to state that I have full faith in our
General Manager CEO and her team as we pass the baton on and they help us figure out next steps. And
as it relates to collaboration, I think I can speak for my colleagues who worked on this with me, that we

would not have brought this forward if we had not been able to come to an alignment and approach this
from a team effort. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. I just wanted to hear, I guess, one step further, if I may, just a
commitment to tweak this in the future, if that is the goal of some of the Board members, that there may
be some changes that may need to be necessary. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. We are a collaborative body, and this is a co-governance model of naturally
Boards-- we will continue governing. If tweaks need to be made, then tweaks need to be made.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Not seeing other discussion. I'll offer up, thank you to the team for working
on this, both the staff level and our Board Directors who worked on this. As stated, it may not be perfect,
but there are many things that's true of.
And we just talked earlier about audit. That was something I spent a lot of time on early in my tenure
here. As much as I'd love to believe that we got it perfect, this is why we need to do the look back.
So a resolution is only going to be as good as the follow up that occurs on it. Thank you, General
Manager and CEO, for commenting on the work of your team and the willingness to look into what might
be possible. I'll offer that this agency-- we frequently talk about how we're the only intermodal transit
agency in this region for 23 42 square miles here. And our funding level is something that, as you know,
as I'm passionate at looking at here, we really have to be doing a lot with the region to partner with the
state and legislature with our municipalities.
And our future cannot be alone in this. That goes for our climate goals, and that goes for any number of
things that often seem to happen in a silo. And we got to get out of silos. So I appreciate that this is a step
in the direction of embracing Vision Zero resolutions that other municipalities and other entities have
passed.
I think this represents an opportunity for us to engage with them, to partner, and start to look at some of
the interesting ways we've all decided to develop out this country in our geography over the last 50, 60,
70 years. So thank you for the work on that. I am in support of this.
I don't see any further questions or comments, so I'm going to go ahead and call a roll vote given the
robust discussion on this. Treasurer Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, and a commitment to look at it next year as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director. Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson speaking. I am also a yes. That is one no vote and 14 yes
votes. That will pass. Thanks for keeping me on my toes, everybody.
All right. We're now going to move on. We're done with our recommended actions. We'll move to our
report of Director activities. Would any Director like to report on their activities for the past month?
Director Tisdale, please.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Just very briefly, as you know, I am the Chair of
the Transit Board Members Committee at the American Public Transportation Association and on the
Executive Committee and the Board of APTA. We had our annual Transform Conference in Anaheim,
California from September 27 through October 2.
And I am very happy to say that we had a huge attendance. We had great participation. And I wish we
had more RTD involvement because as of January, the seat that I hold will be vacant. And we have a lot
that we can accomplish at APTA. So I encourage those of you who are remaining and the candidates
who might be listening in-- if so, get a life.
[LAUGHTER]

But nonetheless, a word of encouragement to say, please get involved with APTA. Thank you very much,
Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. There are many of us who do love this work. Other
Directors? OK, not seeing any. We'll move to other matters. Are there other matters to discuss and bring
before this body? Yes, First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, coming up this Friday, we're going to be able to report some good news. And
that's when GM CEO Johnson and some other elected officials, including the Secretary of State, and the
Boulder County Clerk, and the Denver Clerk and Recorder are going to announce our zero fare for get
out to vote early and election day. And so I just wanted to let everybody know that will happen on Friday
at 10 o'clock. And it'll be nice to come out with some good news.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for noting that, Director Catlin. And yes, thank you for the team for making
that possible. Please go vote. Other matters?
All right. Seeing none. Bear with me. We're almost there.
Before we adjourn, I'd just like to note that our November Board meeting, which was originally scheduled
for the same week as the Thanksgiving holiday, has been moved. The Board Office was-- or I'm sorry, the
Board was pulled by the Board Office. Thank you very much for helping us in assisting with that.
And the majority did agree to move the November 26th Board meeting to Tuesday, December 3.
Therefore, all of November's committee items will roll to December 3. And I'll ask everyone to please
update your calendars accordingly and do what you can to be here.
Seeing no other discussion, I'll entertain a motion to adjourn.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. Hearing Ruscha. We will adjourn as of 8:43 PM Mountain Daylight Time.
Thanks, you all. Really appreciate you. Have a wonderful and safe night.

