2020-12-01
RTD Communicaitons and Govt Relations
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. I'm Lynn Guissinger. I'm Chair of the Communications and
Government Relations Committee. And that committee will now come to order.
We have convened as of 5:34 MST on December 1, 2020. I respectfully ask everyone connected
to this call to mute your phones and set your ringers to silent. Under the current circumstances,
the official meetings of the Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public
health, safety, and welfare.
During this time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with
the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website at RTD-Denver.com Scroll to the bottom of the page to the link to the Board of
Directors.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you'd like to be acknowledged
during tonight's proceedings, I ask you to please announce your name and wait for me to tell you
before proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion.
Please note, at the appropriate time during our discussion and voting later in this evening, I'll call
on each Director in turn. So please know your time will come, and hold your comments until that
time if possible.
At RTD, safety is our core value. And tonight, I'm bringing you a safety message from our
governor. It was addressed to my fellow Coloradans a few days ago. He said, earlier this
evening, Marlon and I found out that we have both tested positive for COVID-19. We're
currently asymptomatic, feeling well, and in good spirits.
It doesn't matter who you are or what you do. No one is immune from this virus. Now is the time
to be more cautious than ever before There is more of the virus circulating across the country,
including Colorado, even than there was in spring.
I urge all Coloradans to wear a face mask in public, stay at least six feet away from others, and
avoid all social interactions with those outside your household. If you experience any symptoms
or believe you may have been exposed, get a free, quick, easy test at-- you can visit COVID19.Colorado.gov/testing to find a testing site near you.
We wish the governor and Marlon all the best in getting through the virus and hope that
everyone will follow their advice. Dr. Fauci said today with the governor that 40 million doses of
vaccine will be available in December to be distributed to states by population, so change is on
the way.

And I guess I would finish by saying there is no evidence of spreading on transit of major events.
So we encourage you to take all those safety precautions as you get on our trains and buses.
All right. Tonight, we have two recommended actions. The first recommended action is CRL
Associates' final option year. It was recommended by the Communications and Government
Relations Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or her designee
to enter into an agreement with the local government liaison services, your CRL Associates, Inc.,
to exercise the second one-year option, January 1, 2021, through December 31, 2021, to extend
contact number 16-VO-025 at a cost of $94,500.
Funding for this contract is included in the 2021 budget. This recommended action supports the
following General Manager's goals-- core goal number five, effective communications and
community outreach. Our AGM of Communications, Pauletta Tonilas, I believe, will address this
briefly. Ms. Tonilas?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, Madam Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second, Rivera-Malpiede.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I have to take a motion. OK, we have a motion from Buzek and a
second from Rivera-Malpiede. Thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Great. Thank you so much, Madam Chair. This is Pauletta Tonilas,
Assistant General Manager of Communication. What we're asking for tonight is the Board's
support for the second and final one-year option on the contract with CRL Associates amounting
to $94,500.
This is to continue our local government relations liaison services with elected officials and other
key stakeholders across the Denver metro region. CRL Associates has been a longtime partner of
RTD in helping us not only build but maintain good relationships with local elected leaders and
other key stakeholders across the region.
They have very capably represented RTD through our local interests across the region as it
relates to transit, important across our region and serving the whole metro area. Also, CRL this
past year has been instrumental in helping us with a couple of additional tasks, which has been
through the pandemic. The various telephone town hall meetings and Board meetings that we
have done virtually has been at the hands of the assistance of CRL Associates-- in particular,
Roger Sherman.
Also in helping us prepare our new CEO, Debra Johnson, in orienting her to local elected
officials and stakeholders and doing a number of briefing documents to help Ms. Johnson get up
to speed on local government and the issues and the dynamics and how we can partner with our
local stakeholder partners. And so we ask for the Board's support tonight in continuing our work
with CRL Associates in this final one-year option contract. Thank you very much.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'll run through the Board quickly, see if there are any
comments. And then we'll take a vote. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No comment. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Always satisfied with CRL's work, so I'll be supporting this. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No comment, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No comments or questions. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Director Guissinger. I do have a comment. I think that CRL is
just an outstanding organization. And they've done great work for us.
And I don't know. Do you know how many years they've been with us? Feels like 20, a nice,
long-PAULETTA TONILAS: Well, actually, it has been a number of years in different capacities.
This particular contract was put out in 2016. We issued a request for proposals. So for this
particular contract, it's been since then.
But in the years prior, as you will recall, some of you who have been Board members that are
ready to complete your term with RGB, CRL Associates also was our FasTracks public
information consultant for six years. And that was after FasTracks passed in 2004. We put an
RFP out for this particular contract. And CRL and CIG, the Communication Infrastructure
Group, were the collaborative joint venture that assisted us in public information, public
involvement, and engagement as we started off implementing the FasTracks program.
So our history and relationship with them does go back quite a ways. And they're still with us
because, again, they have performed capably, in our opinion.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, if I could just finish, yeah, I agree, absolutely. And I know that
Maria Garcia Berry was so instrumental in getting FasTracks passed way back in 2003, working
on that for 2004. So I'm all in favor of supporting this, and congratulations. I'm sure you'll have a
great year next year, and it's been my pleasure working with you. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Lewis?

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I actually do have a few questions and a few
comments, as well. The last time this contract came to the Board, I think we generally-- or I'll
speak for myself there.
There were questions about the outcomes and objectives, as the CRL contract was pretty vague.
And so I'm curious as it comes before us again. What are some of the outcomes that we would
have specified at the beginning of the year as well as objectives in terms of achievement with
this CRL contract?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Director, thank you very much. This is Pauletta Tonilas. So various
scopes that CRL performed for us-- it's not only regular communications with elected officials
and representing us at various meetings, but it's also providing advice and strategic thought on
how to approach different local elements out there with our cities and counties that we work
with. They also have navigated some of the relationships with the Metro Mayors Caucus in items
that have come before the caucus as they try to rally around what the next transportation
infrastructure funding support will be and how RTD can support that.
We have monthly progress reports from them on the work that they do. And so it really is a
myriad of phone calls and meetings and strategic documents that they have presented to us-also, the administration and facilitation of the Citizens Advisory Committee, which is one of our
key community engagement activities that we perform. And so that gives you a bit of an idea,
hopefully.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It doesn't. It doesn't speak to the specific achievements or outcomes. I was
looking more for outcomes. But one of the things that you did touch on, which I was curious
about, is you'll present to us later on your communication plan and strategy.
You mentioned in your introduction that CRL are responsible for many of the RTD Board
meetings. And so I'm curious as to how the work that CRL does interfaces with not only your
communication strategy but the work that the current Board staff are doing and how much of that
work is duplicative.
PAULETTA TONILAS: So for instance, the effort of how we bring virtual meetings to the
public-- CRL is a key part of that in the infrastructure that they provide through CRL that allows
us to do these meetings virtually, which, of course, has been our world over the past nine
months. And again, Roger specifically has helped us navigate this new world of how we bring
RTD virtually to the public. And he has been troubleshooting a number of things as we've all
learned this approach of, how do we engage with our public?
As it relates to local government relations, it's a dynamic and ever-changing aspect of what we
do. And there might be an element that arises around, for instance, the N Line opening, where we
can utilize their relationships to help us with some clearer understanding of the N Line issues.
That's another example.
SHONTEL LEWIS: With getting information out, is that what you're saying? I'm not sure I
understood you correctly.

PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, correct. So as it relates to elected officials-- and I'll use the
example of the N Line-- the elected officials along the N Line corridor. As we were approaching
and getting ready to open up the N Line, CRL was engaging with various local elected officials
on different items as it relates to even how we were going to do the grand opening. That's
another element of a dynamic thing that wasn't part of a specific scope item to begin the year.
But it evolved. And it came about because of the pandemic and how we were going to approach
the grand opening celebration and ceremony. And so CRL was part of our discussions and
strategic approach of how we were going to implement that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I see. I guess the way in which you describe it, which is why I asked about
the outcomes, the objectives, and the achievements, which is obviously lacking in here-- but it
does sound like there's some duplication. And as we are looking at even laying off employees,
I'm concerned that we might be paying for services that we already are paying for in-house that
are already accounted for within our budget. That's the first piece.
You mentioned the public comment and the public engagement. And I can at least speak to the
last five safety meetings that we've had, where we've had some pretty continuous concerns with
the public around engagement and the software that we might be using.
And I'm not sure if we could justify paying almost $100,000 to have these meetings come online
when smaller agencies have managed to do that for much less. But I'll just say that. So I'll just
end with a few comments.
I don't think I'll get the hard-- the outcomes or the achievements that I'm asking about. But I will
recall. When we were having conversations as a Board about our General Manager, our previous
General Manager, and how we come up with our General Manager's goals, one of the first ones
we had was quality over quantity.
And so I did have the opportunity to sit down with Roger. And Roger showed me a list of
meetings that he had. And I'm always curious as to, sure, that's great that you all have met with a
lot of people. But what's the value? What's the outcome? What is RTD benefiting from that? And
at least from my perspective, if it doesn't appear-- from my perspective, I'm having a hard time
seeing that.
I'll also speak to something that is probably going to be a bit more uncomfortable for Board
members in the work that CRL does for RTD candidates, for a select few candidates. And I'm
concerned about that relationship, that we'd have a contract with someone who also works on the
campaigns of RTD directors. While not an attorney, it does give me pause. And I'll just say that.
And I would hope that we would hold our contractors to the same standards that we would our
employees. And so if it's not sufficient for us to put forward goals for anyone within our agency
and expect productivity and achievement and not the same for our contractor, I imagine we
should probably ask ourselves why.

So I'm certainly going to be a no for this contract, because as I asked last year, the measurable
outcomes are often missing from the CRL contracts even to our CAC. What is it that our CAC is
able to accomplish with the support of CRL? I'm having a hard time finding that. Those are all
my comments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Lewis. Any further comment, Ms. Tonilas, on that?
PAULETTA TONILAS: So yes, and thank you, Director Lewis, for that. And again, I think I'm
happy to even provide additional information that's more specific about the outcomes, which is
not in this Board report. So I agree with you on that.
One thing I would say, though, on behalf of CRL Associates in being a solid partner is that they
willingly came forward to us this year and offered to reduce the amount of their contract,
because they know the financial challenges that the agency has. And I find that to be an
upstanding approach. And I think it was out of respect for the organization that they also care a
great deal about and have worked with for a long time. So I think that we are seeing some
streamlined cost savings in this contract for what we're getting in terms of the month to month
and throughout the year efforts that they put forth on behalf of the agency.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I appreciate that. And I'd just like to separate that my assessment of CRL is
not an assessment of their character or their integrity. I respect that they did come forward with
that 10% reduction. I was simply speaking about the achievements, right, the objectives, the
benefit, the value add to the agency. But I do appreciate that you shared that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I'll be a yes vote on this, because I've always really appreciated
working with Roger and the CRL team, although I do think it would be useful to see a list of
proposed or expected outcomes. It just makes reasonable sense to see something like that in
writing.
So if that could be done, that would be great. But onto a different topic, let me see. Oh, yes. I
was very, very excited to learn that CRL folks are helping the GM in terms of stakeholder
briefings.
It seems to me that Roger and his crew have a tremendous expertise and experience and
knowledge of the local political scene and the local stakeholders. And we are in the process now,
with the Accountability Committee and just generally-- I mean, we're in a period of self analysis
and changing and growth.
And one of the areas it seems to me that we're working on is building more effective partnerships
and relationships with our stakeholders, especially in the north. It's pretty strained. And that can
be changed by work and by new attitudes and new ways of reaching out.

And I love the idea of using CRL and asking them to help us with that, helping us with their
expertise and improving effectiveness in our partnerships. So I would urge that to happen. OK,
that's it for me. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. There's three points I'd like to bring up, and the first would be
that even though we have this contract with CRL, there are additional tasks that are done outside
of it. So I'm looking at our truck register right now. And for the year right now, there's a PO for
the town hall meetings, which is about $56,000.
There's POs for the Board meetings. Then there's the outreach and liaison services. So really, the
amount of money going to CRL-- and even historically, not just this year-- is more than just the
dollar amount that's presented in this recommended action. And while there is a reduction-- and
certainly, all of us would appreciate that-- my point is that there is more of the agency and the
taxpayers' money that is going to CRL than is presented just in this packet item.
And just looking at the amounts for this year as a total. But keep in mind, there appear to be at
least a few months that are not filled yet. We're right now sitting at over $140,000-- so not just a
few thousand dollars' difference, but quite a bit.
And I have to agree with quite a bit of what Director Lewis-- actually, I don't disagree with
anything that Director Lewis said-- but especially in light of where the agency is right now and
what is-- CRL is going to Metro Mayors Caucus. But beyond that, arranging the opening day
party, I don't know how many, as an example, city of Lakewood City Councilors have been
contacted by CRL versus if they went to a Metro Mayors Caucus. So I'm not sure how much that
outreach really is.
No matter what, I don't think we should be spending this amount of money on this contract. I
think there is a lot of these things that actually should be done in-house at RTD.
The other item that I have brought up in previous years is the one, also, that can make some other
Board directors uncomfortable. And that does have to do with the campaign contributions.
This relationship is, in my opinion-- maybe mine alone-- I'll use the words "far too cozy." Far too
cozy. You can look at these things on the Secretary of State's website tracer. And one member of
the Board had a delinquent campaign fee, which apparently they had closed the account. And
Roger Sherman just paid the fee directly, a penalty fee, directly.
And you'll see members of the CRL team. So while it may be said that it's their own personal
contribution, it's very easy to see it's fairly coordinated. It doesn't take a detective to figure this
stuff out.
And looking at the past, there were eight companies or seven other companies who looked at the
RFP. And yet after eight looked at this, only one went through with submitting it.

In the past, I talked to one of the companies who had looked at the RFP and said, the way that
this is written, it was written-- the RFP was written by CRL. So I have to wonder with this dollar
amount, which is a healthy amount of change, what's going on with this.
There's just too many problems with this. And we continue to do this. And here, we see that
more Board directors got campaign contributions in this last election. There's Board members
right now sitting who are going to press a yes or no tonight that are taking contributions.
There are ones who are going to take a seat come January 1 or whatever the date is, at least one.
And I didn't look at all the members of CRL. But there's a lot of good reasons to vote no. So
that's what I'll be doing tonight. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: No questions or comments for me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I do support the one-year continuation,
the option year with CRL. And I do welcome the opportunity to continue working with former
RTD Board directors Roger Sherman and Maria Garcia Berry.
I think the point about the various meetings is well taken. But I think that Director Lubow also
very adequately addressed that and pointed out that our mission to communicate, to collaborate,
to cooperate is served in the first instance by having people such as CRL out there in that
community, creating those relationships and establishing that clear communication.
So I think, on balance, it does make sense. And I do appreciate all of the other comments, as well
Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Can you hear me OK?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep.
JEFF WALKER: OK, great. Yes, I'll be supporting this. I've always found CRL-- their service,
their communication with the local jurisdictions-- to be very helpful for me and also to be very
thorough.
A lot of what they do is not tangible. It's more qualitative and quantitative, despite the number of
meetings, like was brought up earlier. What's the result? And I think the result is that recognition
of the communication channel between RTD and the jurisdictions and the jurisdictions back to
RTD.

So I've always found them helpful and informative to help guide the decisions and just having
that presence out there. So I'll be supporting this. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll be supporting this motion. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a couple of comments and questions.
First, Pauletta, you are our AGM of Communications. Is that correct?
PAULETTA TONILAS: That's correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: Did Director Lewis clear it with you that she's posting this meeting live on
Facebook?
PAULETTA TONILAS: I wasn't aware of that.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I just wondered if we had any procedure on that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't report to Pauletta, for clarity.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry. Pardon me?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Did you add something there, Director Lewis? I guess not.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I got you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Carry on.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's OK. I just didn't know if that was a new policy or procedure or if-- when
we talk about publicizing what we do and being open and transparent, I think that that open and
transparency goes all the way down the line. And I think it's great that we are being broadcast
live on Facebook.
But I think open and transparent would have been Director Lewis would have let us all know that
that was going on. And maybe I could learn how to do that. I don't know how to do that myself.
So since we are talking about how we do our outreach and the kind of things that CRL does for
us, I think that, in my experience, they have done a lot of work. They've done a lot of outreach in
a variety of situations.
And just for the record, they have never given me any campaign funds. But then I didn't get any
support from the union, either. But some directors got a lot of support from the union. So some
directors got support from CRL.

I think that people support who they believe in and that that's OK that they do that. So I
personally am a yes vote on this. And I think that we have benefited from CRL in the past, and I
expect that we will again in the future. So that's all I had to say. Thank you. Thank you for
listening to me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would like to emphatically support
this contract's extension. I would like to just say for the record that Mr. Sherman has worked
hand in hand with me through this pandemic year, that he has been so very fluid for us. And he
was able to help us move forward the platform that has allowed us-- not just tonight, but for the
last 36 meetings-- to hold public participation on this platform at no extra cost. So I want to say
thank you to Roger Sherman.
And additionally, CRL was the first contract lobbyist for us who called us and said, because of
the pandemic, we want to offer you a 10% discount. And I cannot begin to thank them enough
for understanding what a difficult financial situation RTD has been in and find them to be really
a very true partner with us in moving forward as well as their work with the CAC and making
sure that they have a voice at the table. So thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're welcome. And I will just add that I will also be supporting this. I
think that, in addition to lowering the contract mount, CRL recently-- but Director Williams in
the meeting-- I think it was a GMLC meeting-- was asking for additional support for the Board
and new Board members to get involved with their legislators and local governments. So I think
legislators are Brandeberry and McKenna. And I think that Roger was volunteering and hoping
to do more of that.
And at the same time, I hear some of the concerns about outcomes and cost at a time when the
agency is watching those very carefully. And so I think I will support this. I think that CRL is
doing a lot of good for us. But it is probably time for us to have a meeting-- and I know Pauletta
does much more than I do-- to sit down and just go through and make sure what we're doing,
how we're spending the money, and all of that. So I will volunteer to make that happen.
But I will also be supporting the contract. So let's go through and do the vote. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, although I do appreciate some of the concerns that have been cited and
look forward to you, Lynn, sitting down with CRL to make some of that happen. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, and I just want to add one little thing here. I think it would be great
for when things get back to normal and RTD Board members and staff go to different events, as
we did in the past. Rarely, rarely, are they ever recognized as elected officials.
And as Director Walker so poignantly pointed out in a previous meeting, those Board members
of RTD are elected like anybody else. And so maybe that could be one of those measurable
outcomes. I mean, you could certainly measure that. Anyway, that's all. Thank you. Yes vote.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I am a no. And for the sake of transparency, I am live streaming this,
because my constituents and many of yours, as well, have asked for access to this. And so I am
providing access to the folks that we serve.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No, and I want to add, to Director Shontel Lewis, you go, girl. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: I'm a no.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: You missed Director Whitmore.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore, sorry.

TROY WHITMORE: I'm a yes, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Did I miss you? OK. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Now me. I am a yes. I want to point out, Director Lewis, you're only
transparent when you get caught.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm an emphatic yes. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I'm a yes, and I'm looking forward to working with Roger to satisfy
the concerns we've heard. So I'm sure he will want to do that. Thanks.
We have a second recommended action tonight. It is recommended by the Communications and
Government Relations Committee that the LTV Board of Directors revise the minimum annual
guarantee to be received by RTD from Lamar transit.
Due to impacts of COVID-19, the committee recommends a net revised revenue guarantee of
$1,085,030 for 2021. This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals- mission-oriented goal number three, strong financial management, and strategic priority goal
number six, move RTD toward a stable financial situation. Do we have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved. Second, Whitmore.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I heard a second. Who was the second? Second, Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Whitmore.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It was motion, Rivera-Malpiede, and the second from Whitmore. Thank
you. All right. Ms. Tonilas?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you very much. We're asking for the Board's
support in revising the minimum annual guarantee for Lamar transit, which provides our onvehicle advertising services. And this is because of the reduced exposure and availability of
advertising across our system because of the pandemic.
The way that our arrangement with Lamar transit has worked is that the agreed-upon minimum
annual guarantee in normal times has been $3.4 million. But again, because of the reduction in
service and the effects of that on the advertising ability, we're going to be fair in working to
credit our contractor and then look at how we adjust that for the year ahead.
As you recall last year, the Board approved us doing a one-year extension for this contract to
give us the opportunity to compile and develop and release a request for proposals for an

enhanced approach to system advertising, this being to include digital customer information
displays that serve a couple of purposes-- namely, enhancing the customer experience that allows
us to share information digitally across our system about system impact, customer alerts, service
alerts, but also messages that we want to share with our customers.
And so the digital approach combined with our on-vehicle advertising is the enhanced approach
that we have been working towards an RFP. And that was delayed, also, because of [AUDIO
OUT]. But we do have that RFP now out on the street, I'm happy to report.
But again, getting back to how we then approach next year with Lamar while we're going
through the RFP process, we believe it's fair to reduce their minimum annual guarantee that they
pay us upfront at the beginning of every year to the $1,085,030.
And we arrived at that in two ways by first calculating a credit that was based on what happened
during normal times and the availability of this system and then, once we went to our pandemic
service plan on April 19, factoring that in at the 60% reduced service and the availability across
our system. And so that credit that we believe they deserve for 2020 is $954,970.
And then figuring the revised MAG for 2021-- because we will, of course, continue with the
60% level of service, which means less eyeballs on the ads across our system-- those all factored
in, the $954,000 in credit with the revised MAG of $2,040,000, arrives at $1,085,030.
So we're asking for your support in us moving forward with this so that we can continue our
advertising program while we're going through the RFP process and the selection of a vendor,
which we expect to do by June. And that's my comments, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. We'll go through again with comments. Director
Broom?
BOB BROOM: No comments. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No comments. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. While I cringe at the thought of any reduction in
potential revenue for the agency, I do believe that it's the fair thing to do in light of these COVID
circumstances. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No comments or questions. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No comments or questions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Nothing for me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, I have a question. And the question is I understand the need and desire to
be fair under the drastic circumstances we've been living through. I was just wondering, in terms
of the credit being given for money that was already paid to us in 2020, is there any provision in
the contract to allow that to happen?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you, Director Lubow. This is Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General
Manager of Communications. Adrian Mabry, who is our Manager of Projects and Contracts, is
on the line. And I am going to toss it to Adrian, and he can answer to the provisions of the
contract that allow us to do this. And that's factoring in, of course, what everybody else has been
doing, which is having to address extraordinary times with the pandemic and looking to do the
right thing. So Adrian?
ADRIAN MABRY: Good evening, directors. Adrian Mabry, Manager of Projects and Contracts
in Communications. To answer your question, yes, there are a couple of provisions in the terms
and conditions of the existing contract that lead us to the discussion of providing a credit against
the minimum annual guarantee, which they paid at the beginning of 2020-- namely, a provision
that is what most of us are familiar with in terms of a force majeure, action of nature, things that
are outside of anybody's control.
Nobody went out and specifically created a problem. We're all having to shoulder the burden, as
it were, in regards to the situation that's been presented. And so there are provisions in the
contract that lead us to the conversation and, in all fairness, a conversation that's with a company
that has provided good service for us for well over 16 years. So I think that's pretty much it from
my standpoint.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Mabry.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
JUDY LUBOW: I figured it was probably an act of god clause in the contract. And I was hoping
there was something there. So I appreciate getting that information, and I appreciate trying to be
fair. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten?

NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Just one question, and that is on packet page 5, under what's
noted as 1, credit for reduced service in 2020, and then bullet point, MAG revenue for 2020.
Why is it reading 366 days? Is there a reason? Or did I miss it?
ADRIAN MABRY: 2020 was a leap year. This is Adrian Mabry. 2020 was a leap year. So for
the calculation for this year, we figured it against 366 days.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, got it. Thank you. That's the only question I had.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: No questions or comments for me. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: No questions or comments. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No questions or comments. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just echo Director Catlin's previous
comments. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, it all seems reasonable to me. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have no comments. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have no comments either, so we'll go back through and do the vote.
Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I'm a yes. The recommended action passes, and the vote is 15 to 0.
And is directed to state the vote on the previous recommended option for the final option year for

CRL Associates. The recommended action also passed. There were 12 yes votes and 3 no votes.
The three no votes were Director Lewis, Director Menten, and Director Mihalik.
All righty. That's all the recommended actions we have tonight. We have five updates. And
December is always the time where we have our federal update. Usually, Patty Doersch's team
are out from DC. But of course, they're coming from DC to us tonight.
We're starting with a Communications update from Ms. Tonilas, and then we'll hear from three
public affairs lobbyists and the Citizens Advisory Committee. Ms. Tonilas, it's yours again.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I'm going to keep this quick,
because in the Board packet is the PowerPoint presentation that synthesizes several of the
highlights that the Communications team has to share from the past couple of months, including
a couple of big things we want to make sure you know about moving forward.
So there's only a few pieces that I will articulate tonight. Obviously, our new CEO, Ms. Johnson,
we have been working to provide great exposure for her in terms of through the media, through
social media, helping people to get to know her. We will, of course, continue to do that. We have
gotten various inquiries and media requests for interviews with her. And so we're being mindful
of her schedule and scheduling those as we can.
Also, the FlexRide service, I'm happy to report, is going well with the booking of FlexRide
through our customer care center now. This is a significant convenience for our customers
compared to what it used to be before, which we have replaced 24 phone numbers of how people
used to contact FlexRide into one contact point. That's happening now through our customer care
center.
Also, wanted to give you all a little snapshot of what we are planning in terms of an enhanced
Board engagement strategy. So the pandemic really has changed how we would typically support
our Board members in the engagements that you do in your district. We have continued to and
we will continue to do telephone town hall meetings moving forward for each of the Director
districts and, of course, support you in any community events or festivals if and when those
return in the coming year.
But we, in partnership with CRL Associates, strategized about some other ways that we can help
the Board members engage more fully to shape communications, build relationships, develop
dialogue between you and the elected official partners that you each have in your district. And so
some of the activities that we're going to be working with each of you on and providing for you
in terms of support are developing a directory of the elected officials and key organization
contacts in your areas, providing a toolkit and assistance in helping you do mayor or elected
official roundtables.
And the example I can give that's been a good model is one where our North Metro Board
members have met regularly. And this started years ago, where Directors Buzek and Whitmore
have carried on the plan of meeting with elected officials in their area for breakfast or for

different meetings. Now, that might not be what we do now. But perhaps moving forward, there
is a way that you can do some roundtables in your area.
Also, when is it appropriate for Board members to speak during public comment at the city
council meetings in your area, for instance? Speaking engagements, virtual meetings-- we're
happy to work with Board members on planning where you can plug into some of those virtual
meetings in your district.
And then also utilizing our media partners in helping Board members with guest columns or
opinion editorial pieces and blogs, perhaps thought leadership pieces that we can assist you in
placing in the community papers in your districts. And so these are just some of the things that
we're thinking through of how, marching forward in the year ahead, we will further enhance how
we support our Board members.
Also, our People Who Move People campaign, we've put on the shelf a few times because of the
pandemic. But after the first of the year, we look forward to sharing more about the people who
move people, our agency family, and the various aspects of jobs, employees, humanizing stories
across our agency, and how we can help tell the stories about RTD.
And then during our last presentation in October, we shared with you a thought that we had
about how we can utilize our infrequent riders and getting them to ride a little more frequently.
Now, obviously, right now, that's difficult. But our One More Trip campaign and initiative with
others across the agency, we also look forward to rolling out after the first of the year as
appropriate.
We're trying to get those infrequent riders to take just one more trip, even, through a 12-month
period, and that also being an opportunity for us to generate additional revenue. But namely,
helping people to open their eyes to where transit takes them and how easy that interfaces with
their life.
There has been a lot of discussion about our past programs-- namely, in the RTD Accountability
Committee. And many Board members have had discussions with their stakeholders about how
we might look to adjust these programs, obviously reminding everyone that the great work of the
Pass Program Working Group is the outcome that we now implement through our pass
programs.
But we have worked extensively with our clients that have EcoPasses, Neighborhood Passes, and
also college and university passes to address the pandemic and making sure that this is going to
work within their budget limitations. So you'll, of course, be hearing more about that moving
forward. And with that, Madam Chair, I'm happy to take any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Let's start at the other end. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you
have questions or comments?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do not. Thank you, Madam Chair.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, ma'am. I don't.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Pauletta. Good oral report, but
even better information in our packet. So I appreciate all your hard work during pretty rough
times. That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: I just wish I were going to be around to be part of it all. That's it. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: We wish you were, too.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Good information, and I thank you. No other comments, ma'am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Hi, Pauletta. Thank you for that information and just all the creativity that
you're bringing to that group. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. On the lines of the new-- well, not new anymore, but virtual
meetings and all of these different options. Some time ago, I want to say it was maybe early
summer, I had made a request through the Board Office that was, I know, sent to at least IT but
potentially also Communications. Can I just get a sheet of all of-- what is our Zoom options?
And how many participants does our account allow?
And it's just a list that could be shared with the Board of Directors back at that time when we
knew we were going to have a lot of virtual meetings. And I never did get that list. I know the
Board Office followed up. Pauletta, is that available to be shared? Because that's one of these
components that you're talking about. But I'd kind of wanted that earlier, some months ago.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, thank you, Director Menten. So we have actually worked
collaboratively with the Board Office staff over the past months as we've all investigated and
evaluated the best ways that we can do these virtual meetings. What I will tell you and what I
know, just to give you a quick snapshot-- they all have their benefits, and they all have their
drawbacks.
And so we are continuing to look at what is best for us on the community engagement side but
then also for the Board meeting side. But I'm definitely happy to work with the Board Office,

and we can compile for you or create or share what exists that can help answer your questions.
So we'll make sure and follow up with that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, thank you. That's it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Just one question and also a comment thanking Pauletta for the good work. The
question has to do with the pass program outreach, where part of what was presented to us
indicated there was going to develop a comprehensive marketing program to support the sale of
passes for employers, neighborhoods, communities, et cetera.
I've heard in the past that some people feel that they would love to have the ability to have a
pass. But they just don't fit into any of the categories that would enable them to get it. And I'm
wondering, has work been done to try to further increase the access of people who could benefit
from passes to them?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, Director Lubow, thank you very much. This is Pauletta Tonilas.
So yes, there have been quite a substantial marketing effort on all of the pass programs and
especially what I would say is our newest pass product, which is the LiVE Program, right? So
that had a very focused and global marketing effort. And that's working with many of our
community partners to help make sure that people know they should and can have access to this
program and to try to make it as easy as possible for them to take advantage of it.
And we will continue to do that. On our News Stop, our online newsroom, we actually have
some videos that we put together that help educate people about our pass programs-- one in
particular about the LiVE Program. And those were very effective short videos that got some
good viewership. So I would invite the Board to visit our News Stop section of the website for
that. That's part of how we continue to keep the content fresh.
But yeah, I mean, we're always looking at ways to grow all of our pass programs. This has
obviously been a tough time over the past month to do that, because if anything, what we're
doing is crediting many of the institutions and organizations and working on adjusting for 2021
because of the pandemic and how many people are telecommuting. And we will continue to do
that.
But we'll follow up with the Board and continue to keep you apprised of the efforts of the pass
programs and how we march forward as an agency to work with our stakeholders and collaborate
on what makes sense for all of us moving forward.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I actually only have two questions, and I appreciate the work
you put together here, Pauletta. The first one is on packet page 11. It says Board letterhead and

contact cards. Is that something that you and your team are presenting as new? Are you
revamping that? I was just a little unclear [AUDIO OUT] for this page.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, hi. Thank you, Director Lewis. So we always do support the
Board Office and the Board members with these types of materials. But we have refreshed some
of them-- so for instance, the orientation guide for the new Board members.
And also, we're working on the Board Member section of our website. And our intent-- and
again, this has a lot to do with the design limitations we currently have with our website-- but to
make the Board section of the website more front and center and more easily available. I
personally don't like you have to go to the bottom of the website to get into that section.
But other items we've refreshed-- the Board letterhead and the contact cards that you all have and
the business cards. And so you can contact Board Office staff to get new materials. And that is
available not just for the new Board members but for all Board members.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you. That's helpful. I know, in the past, I've asked for access to
the Board letterhead. And so I appreciate you giving me that information. The second question I
had was similar to Director Lubow's with the LiVE Program. Well, she asked about the pass
programs.
I'm specifically interested in the LiVE Program and the partnerships that we have with our higher
education institutions and what kind of outreach we expect for, one, the LiVE Program,
particularly with lots of folks losing their jobs. And I probably sound like a broken record at this
point. But with our higher education institutions, as well, if you could just talk a little bit about
your thoughts there.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Sure. So our market development team has staff dedicated to outreach
and marketing our pass programs. And of late, what those folks have been doing largely has been
working with our partners to deal with what's at our fingertips, which is the pandemic. And so
we will continue to do that. It has been a tremendous amount of legwork to make sure that we're
serving all of those clients for these various pass programs.
As it relates specifically to the LiVE Program, we have not stopped that effort at all. In fact, if
anything, we have stepped it up to make sure that people during this time, many folks who are
some of our more transit-dependent customers-- that they know that they have access to this
product.
And part of what we found out over the past several months or year, I should say, is that many
folks, while they weren't-- they actually were a candidate to get one of our other pass programs
which has a larger discount than the LiVE Program. So we've been making people aware of that,
as well.
So those efforts have not stopped or slowed down. They are continuing. But working with
individual clients has been a very hands-on and time-intensive process over the past months.

SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I appreciate that individual. I support-- I think I was probably thinking
more of what the overall strategy was in terms of communication for our folks who might be
studying virtually. But they are paying for their passes in advance, and it's not necessarily based
on ridership or usage. And then what the overall, more comprehensive strategy is that we might
put forward for the LiVE Program. So thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you. We'll definitely follow up with you, Director.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. That was great, Pauletta. I'm wondering if you could review a
little bit about the process for mostly the folks who are tuning in to our meeting tonight, the
process in which higher educational institutions go about getting the pass.
And I was in that higher education system at CU Denver and Boulder for quite a long time. And
my fee-- let's see, I was there from 2003 to 2012. And in that entire time, my transportation fee, I
think, was $77 a semester. And I rode everywhere.
And so I was very keen to see it increase. You might recall. I don't know if you were here. But I
made a big fuss, really, about increasing it to $100 a semester or something, maybe somewhat
more, because there's so many students there. And yes, they were riding, and it wasn't a
pandemic.
But nonetheless, whether you're going to school in person or virtually, if you want to ride public
transit and it's part of your fees, you just go. So could you, A, talk about the process, how these
higher educational institutions get into that RTD pass program? Because every higher
educational institution in the Front Range isn't in that program. And then what is the fee of those
who are?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thanks very much for that, Director Folska. This is Pauletta Tonilas.
Let's take the last question you had first, as far as the fees.
So I don't have that off the top of my head. And each one of the colleges and universities has a
unique pass program agreement with us. And each of those institutions determines their own
unique way that they want to handle the fees and the funding for those to provide those passes.
And so with that question, we'll follow up and get you more information about that. I don't have
at my fingertips the specific fees for each of the university partners. But I did hear you loud and
clear that we have a lot of colleges and universities that currently do not participate in the
program.
Our team has, over the years, tried to get various schools in the program. It's a continuing effort.
I think, right now, it's a challenging time for us to get additional partners in any of these
programs. But I will say it's part of our goal moving forward for 2021 to look at how we can
further enhance not only getting more clients into the program but how we look at our pass
programs moving forward to accommodate some of what we are hearing from our partners.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, correct me if I'm wrong. If I may, Chair Guissinger-- correct me if
I'm wrong, Pauletta. I think that the student body votes in or out.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, Director. That is the case on some of the school agreements. I
don't believe it's necessarily a universal element of all of those pass programs for CollegePass.
But I do know that some of them do have their student body vote, as you said.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So I think junior colleges or community colleges like Arapahoe, Aurora,
Denver-- they could all benefit from those passes. Because quite frankly, even if it's $100 a
semester, that is a pretty darn good deal for most people. And of course, there's other products
that you provide. Thank you very much. I don't have any other questions.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thanks, Director.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Pauletta, about the One More Trip, I'm thinking
that in the wake of the pandemic, we're going to need a much, much larger effort. We can't just
assume it's going to spring back, and then we can focus on those marginal gains.
And I recall that Jeff Trangrich's research is part of this. And that's really good, because we can
take advantage of that to figure out what is perhaps a hurdle in bringing people back and to
analyze changing patterns and then to come up with a campaign that's much broader and a fuller
scope to do that, to bring people back, first of all, before we can talk about one more trip for
people who are infrequent.
So I just wanted to suggest that. I strongly feel like it's pretty key. I had a posting on Nextdoor
recently. And immediately, somebody popped up, and she said, I wouldn't ride, because you're
not enforcing the mask requirement.
Well, to the extent that is a pervasive view and that it lingers even after the pandemic starts to
subside, I think we'd want to know that and, in my mind, alter our enforcement policy. But
whatever we end up doing at least recognizes that, takes it into account.
Another piece might be the changing patterns that we'll see as people do start to return to work
but not so many days a week, et cetera. I feel like the One More Trip is not going to be sufficient.
We need to launch a bigger effort. So thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you, Director. And I agree with what you said. It was really
intended to more update the Board, since we updated you about it last time.
But this is one small component of how we can look at helping our ridership recover. And in this
case, I'll just add, it's more about the essential workers or people who have to take essential trips- helping them understand maybe how much more easily accessible certain places might be than
what maybe people realize. But a broader effort and another survey is part of the plan after the
first of the year, Director. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Pauletta, thank you for the presentation and also
for the updates that enhance that presentation. And I guess I'm curious as we're talking about
outcomes. The accessorized customer portal and the FlexRide with customer care, I'd just be
interested to hear what some of our customers have to say about that and if it is, in fact, then
easier to use and effective. That's all. Thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that a question? Or is there something you want to hear as it goes
along there, Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, just a follow-up to measure the effectiveness of those two programs do
technological improvements. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just had, I guess, one question. We made a special
effort on the N Line to promote it when it started up. And I just wondered if there were any
lessons learned on that that could be then applied to other lines throughout our service area, any
measurable successes that we could emulate.
And then finally, how is the N Line doing? I don't know that we've had an update. Maybe that's
for the Operations Committee to do. But I'm kind of curious as to how the N Line is really doing.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, Director. Thank you so much. So I will start. This is Pauletta
Tonilas and then Michael Ford. I'll toss it to Michael, and he can talk to you about N Line
operations.
So what you're referring to earlier is the N Line promotional fare that we started when we opened
the N Line, which has a local fare for regular fare throughout the corridor. And this is a sixmonth program that was agreed upon and approved by the Board for the purpose of evaluating
the relationship between fares and ridership.
Now, obviously, we're in a strange time. So as far as our lessons learned, we would have to take
a look at the overall ridership versus where we were but then how we apply the pandemic to that.
We have not heard a lot of feedback from people about the promotional fare. But I think it's
largely because of how many people are working from home and not riding transit as much. But
we can continue to compile some information for the Board on that, and then I'll toss it to
Michael about how the N Line operation is going.

MICHAEL FORD: Director Broom, this is Michael Ford, COO. I will have to get back to you on
some updated statistics. Last time I was understanding the update, I saw about 1,200 passengers
a day on the latest report I have. Our time performance is doing fairly well, within the 90
percentile category. But I can get more information. But about 1,200 riders per day is what I
have right now in terms of the data.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks. And I believe that the ridership report on the N Line is-and that may be what you're talking about, Mr. Ford. But I believe that's on the schedule for next
week's Finance and Audit Committee. So you'll hear some of that.
I just want to-- I think this is great work that Pauletta has put together. And Pauletta and I have
actually started having at least some initial conversations about the importance of a really holistic
approach to plan to bring back ridership. It's marketing, and it's beyond marketing. And it's some
of the things that you asked questions about tonight in terms with the pass programs.
And I think that this is a really good time to take a look at those programs. The LiVE Program
that Director Lewis was asking about, I think there's something over 900 people who haven't
completed their application, because they haven't uploaded a photo. I shouldn't say "because."
They haven't completed their application, and part of that is they haven't uploaded a photo.
And that, I think, is an indication that it may be a barrier. And it's something we need to look at
and see for the population that we're trying to attract. We're in a different place now than we
were pre-pandemic, obviously, because then we had workforce issues that were making it hard to
really focus on increasing ridership. And now that needs to be a huge goal for us.
I think that the questions about the higher education institutions, those are front and center
because so many of the schools don't have people coming back at this point. Without knowing all
the details, I think, as Pauletta said, the situation at those schools varies. I think they have to go
back to their students every time there's a change, every time there's an additional fee that goes
up. I think at CU, I think it's if there's a 10% change in the overall fees, not just in our fee. But
they go back to students.
So there are things that need to be looked at. Auraria didn't come back this fall. It didn't renew
for the fall. And I know Teresa's been working, Rico has been working hard to move that
forward. But I think that our new CEO, Debra Johnson, and our Chair are both setting a meeting
to try to work with them and bring them in.
And I think that, as Dr. Folska said, those community colleges should be places that we're really
working to increase transit ridership. The students do vote. And Arapahoe, Front Range, I think
some of them, they are in. But Front Range, which has several facilities, several campuses
around, I don't think that they do participate.
So there's a lot of fertile ground there. And I hope that we'll look at these all. I think it's a good
chance to look at the EcoPasses. Judy Lubow was saying, how do we make it accessible in a fair

way to many people? Because people with the pass in their packets will ride more. I think there's
no question.
So I appreciate this discussion. And I know that Pauletta does and others. And I hope that we can
move this forward on many fronts.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, if I might?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, mm-hmm. Go ahead, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. This has been such an issue for our entire
community. And as a member of the Working Pass Program Committee, I can tell you that the
issue is really very, very serious for the entire community.
I don't know if people know this, but I am a displaced Aurarian, which means that my family
was moved out when Auraria started. And one of the things about, for instance, Auraria Higher
Education Center, which is in my district, is that they really have a lot of folks who are in college
that are the working poor and are doing things.
And so I think that one of the issues that has come up continuously is that perhaps our EcoPass
program is outdated in terms of the insurance kind of model that it has represented for a very
long time. And it's time to really revamp that thinking.
But I do think that the Accountability Committee is looking at this very seriously. I looked up
my Working Pass Group minutes from 2017. It was clearly an issue then. And I think it is even
more an issue today that we need to take a look at this. And I really do appreciate the General
Manager's willingness to sit down and look at this outside of the box, as well as Ms. Tonilas and
her staff, because I think that this is our time to go ahead and take a look at it and see what's
working and what's not working and how we need to move forward to serve the entire region.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Any other comments? Great. We will start with our updates,
federal updates. Squire Patton Boggs. Patty Doersch, are you there?
PATTY DOERSCH: Yes, I am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I'm not sure who else is with you, so if you'll introduce the rest of
your team. And the floor is yours.
PATTY DOERSCH: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. Hi. I'm Patty Doersch, partner
at Squire Patton Boggs. As always, this presentation will be a group effort. So joining me tonight
are Mike Dino and Phil Bianchi. They'll be presenting tonight.

We do have a PowerPoint presentation. We will not read to you. But we will track it, since we
have three speakers.
I just want to start with saying, as always, it's really our pleasure to provide this update every
December. We only wish we could be together in Denver presenting this. And I do want to
recognize the service of those Board members who are leaving RTD at the end of the term.
That's one part of this meeting that's always personally bittersweet for me.
I want to start now with packet page 29, give you a general overview of what we want to cover.
This is anything but a typical year-- politically, public health, obviously, in so many ways. But
right now, we find ourselves nearly a month post-election. And we still are waiting for official
presidential results. This will all play out through the electoral college process, and I don't think
any of us has ever paid this much attention to the electoral college process than we have in this
election.
I mention this because President Trump's post-election actions do affect policymaking in
Washington right now. They're impacting legislation for some of RTD's most immediate
priorities-- for example, reaching a deal on another round of COVID relief funding. That's a
vehicle for advancing additional funding for transit. And then finally, getting consensus on a fullyear spending bill for the rest of fiscal year 2021, that's, again, the vehicle that could carry,
finally, RRIF CRP 6.
So Congress is scheduled to be in session for just two weeks this month to wrap up all activity
for the 116th Congress next Friday, December 11. And I would like to hand it off to Mike Dino
to talk a bit about election results and then the election's impact on RTD's congressional
delegation.
MIKE DINO: Great, Patty. Thank you very much. This is Mike Dino. I'm a principal with Squire
Patton Boggs in the Denver office. And I want to echo Patty's sentiments about everybody who's
moving off the Board. I enjoyed working with you all, and I've just started this year. It's been a
year where I haven't been able to see as much as I used to. So I wish you luck and would love to
see you nonetheless, whether you're on the RTD Board or not. So I look forward to that as the
COVID crisis recedes.
I'm on slide 3. And basically, Patty mentioned the electoral process. And that's kind of what
we're watching. December 14 is an important day. That's when the electoral college delegations
in the states get together and formally cast their votes on December 23. Those votes are delivered
to state and federal officials as part of the formal electoral process.
And then on January 6, Congress counts the electoral votes and declares the results. And
certainly, things seem to be getting slightly to more normal phase, as we see states certifying
their vote and such. But it is unusual and probably will continue to be that way.
Well, President-elect Biden will be inaugurated on January 20. We do see some changes in the
Senate and in the House. But we still have a runoff election on January 5 in Georgia that will

affect the majority of the Senate. Certainly, I think everybody knows if the Democrats win,
they'll have a 50-50 split with the vote being decided by the Vice President.
And in the House, the Democrats' majority, their margin of majority, narrowed significantly.
And so that will affect, certainly, the new Congress going forward. But one thing that seems to
be coming out of this is that infrastructure continues to be talked about in an important way and
particularly in a way that the new Congress and the President want to deal with early on and
aggressively.
Moving on to slide deck 4, our delegation that is involved in the RTD district all got elected
handily, reelected handily. The new Congress begins on January 3. And we'll have a new
Senator, and Senator-elect John Hickenlooper will replace Senator Gardner.
And Senator Gardner was on the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee. And he
will be sorely missed not being on that committee and not being in the Senate anymore,
particularly if they hold onto the Republican majority. So that will be a dynamic that we'll have
to adjust to.
Senator-elect Hickenlooper's assignments will not be made until January. So we won't know
what committee he's on for another month until the new Congress starts.
And then we get into 2021 and the new election cycle. And Senator Bennet is up for re-election
in 2022. And he said that he plans to run for re-election. So that's a quick update on the political
activity in Congress moving forward.
PATTY DOERSCH: OK. Thanks, Mike. I'm going to get back to giving a brief synopsis of what
can be done post-election. We're in the lame duck period right now, as I mentioned before.
President Trump, as of today, has 50 days left in his term. He is largely disengaged from day-today governing. He is focused on vote challenges. And he still believes that he can affect the
electoral college vote.
Most law professors and electoral experts are saying it's basically a checkmate situation for him
right now, because the six most contested states, in every one of them, the state officials have
certified those votes. So that takes a lot for a certified vote to not determine the electoral college
representatives. And then the electoral college representatives cast the votes in the electoral
college. They're tallied, as Mike said, on January 6, and it's a done deal.
So it's unclear if even he believes he can affect that. But he is seeking, many believe, to foment
his base, to maintain his very strong popularity. Every time he goes out and says, it's 100%
rigged, it's a total fraud, his base loves to hear that.
This is potentially to preserve his success in a possible 2024 race. And Trump is by far the most
popular Republican America, regardless of the election results. And he clearly intends to
maintain that position.

So that is the dynamic going on that has had him affecting the transition in some ways but not
directly working on the legislative priorities that were a concern pre-election. But those
legislations still needs to be advancing, still needs to be accomplished. And that's mostly left to
McConnell to pick up the reins, whereas, for example, on COVID, where Secretary Mnuchin
was negotiating on behalf of the President.
So there's two major bills that we expect to move before the end of this year. They're both bills in
which RTD has a genuine say. First of all, COVID relief funding.
The new members of Congress are not seated until January with the exception of new Senator
Mark Kelly, who was-- that was a special election that just happened to be held on Election Day.
He is seated. But no one else is seated until January. So we have the same members of Congress
fighting over the same issues on which they've been locked in a stalemate for months.
So COVID, I can't say I'm optimistic about getting another COVID relief bill. Republicans have
little political incentive to do another big deficit spending for COVID relief on President Trump's
watch, because they know that's something the Democrats will certainly be willing to do
themselves under Biden in January.
Trump-- it's not that he's not interested in COVID. But he's interested in moving past COVID.
He is interested in talking about the vaccine. And that's where his priorities are right now. A
concern for us here is that if Trump's no longer participating, he's no longer pushing a really,
really high number for a top-line number for a COVID bill, it's left to McConnell.
McConnell has a much lower number in mind. From RTD's perspective, the smaller the relief
bill, the less likely it will include transit funding. Transit is a second-tier priority in this bill
behind health care, funding for schools. And Republicans' price for this bill is liability limits
under here. So the bigger the bill, the more likely we will get robust funding for transit.
One bright spot that just came through today is there is now a bipartisan COVID compromise bill
presented not by Pelosi or McConnell but by rank-and-file, well-respected senators-- for
example, Senator Mark Warner, Susan Collins, and others, Mitt Romney.
They proposed a $908 billion bill, so not a trillion. Too many Republicans drew a line in the sand
that a trillion is too much. And in that bill, there's $15 billion for transit. So that's a very good
sign for us.
It's not the $32 the industry has coalesced around, but there's every reason to believe that this is a
broad funding provision. It's not narrowed, like before, to the top 14 cities. It's broad money for
everybody. And $15 billion, I remind you, is about 1 and 1/2 times the annual formula
apportionments for transit. So that's a robust number.
Now, for 2021 appropriations, for this, I am optimistic. House Senate and the White House will
likely reach agreement on a spending bill, because they must. Because no one wants to see a
government shutdown on midnight, December 11, when the bills run out. And RRIF CRP 6,
there's nothing standing in the way of inclusion in an omnibus bill.

And to move on briefly, I want to touch on the 2021 appropriations bill. Every year, it seems like
we get a CR. Until we have a full-year bill, FTA won't apportion the grant dollars. It's too much
work to apportion to 2,200 grantees for just 10 weeks. So we're waiting on a bill.
But as you know, the 2021 transportation bill that passed through the House includes RRIF CRP
6. We have the support of-- we've cleared one chamber of commerce. We have bipartisan,
bicameral support from our delegation.
And just recently, after literally two years of fighting us on this, DOT is now on board and
supporting this. They say success has 1,000 fathers. We have so many folks coming out,
claiming paternity for this provision. So I feel good about it moving.
But again, keep in mind. If we just get another full-year CR, that's just a full-year continuation of
the 2020 bill from last year. That doesn't get us R6. We need a new omnibus bill to which you
can attach new policy provisions, like R6.
So we're hopeful that that can advance. We'll know more in the days ahead. But right now, no
one is speaking of a government shutdown.
And then briefly, again, on FasTracks reauthorization-- as I said at this same meeting last
December, the 2020 elections were likely to delay action on a new surface transportation bill. So
we expected that there would be an extension of the FasTracks rather than a multi-year bill. And
that, in fact, played out to be true.
On October 1, the day the FasTracks expired, a one-year extension was included in the CR. After
2021, though, the path forward is less clear. It's not clear if Congress will move a reauthorization
bill as part of any broad infrastructure stimulus bill early in February.
I'd love to say that's the case. But the stimulus bill, from what we understand from some Biden
surrogates, is just a way to pour money through existing formula programs to get the money out
the door. A new reauthorization bill would be new policies and new programs, so they aren't
perfectly aligned.
And also, it's extensive deficit spending to do a multi-year bill again, because again, Highway
Trust Fund revenues are insufficient to themselves on the bill. And we would be stuck with the
situation with enormous deficit spending, something that we know Senate Republicans aren't
interested in moving.
But at this time, I want to pivot now to my colleague, Phil Bianchi, to speak briefly about what
we know about Biden's plan to build back better, so slide 35 in your packet.
PHIL BIANCHI: Hi. Thank you, Patty. This is Phil Bianchi. Quick introduction, I guess-- I've
been with the firm for just about five years. But it has been my privilege for the last year or so to
work with RTD and with Patty and those of you I've gotten to work with.

Anyway, I'm going to just give a quick overview. We mentioned earlier that infrastructure could
be an early legislative focus for Congress in 2021 and potentially for President Biden. So I'm
going to get into what that means.
The transition plan from the Biden-Harris campaign includes some ambitious top-line talking
points. But they really haven't provided a ton of details at this juncture. So there's not a particular
timetable. There's not a particular legislative vehicle. But they have focused on what they want to
do.
And from a transit standpoint, the Biden Administration, I think, would be very focused, taking
a, as we have on our slides, chicken in every pot approach by providing each American city with
100,000 or more people with high-quality and green public transportation options. But it's worth
noting that that includes things that aren't necessarily considered traditional transit, things like
pedestrian walkways and dedicated bicycle lanes.
That said, the Biden transition team, just broadly, has four primary goals that they're trying to
keep their policy targeted to. And those are COVID-19 and the continued fight against the
pandemic, the economic recovery from the pandemic, racial equity, and climate change.
Fortunately, again, public transportation touches on all four of these baskets.
Necessary for the transportation-- as you know, it's necessary for the transportation of essential
workers for the ongoing COVID response. And of course, it transports workers of all
backgrounds, just generally, as part of an economic recovery and as part of just general
operations when we get back to business as usual, hopefully in the not so distant future.
And again, they really have focused on and President-elect Biden has discussed often that they
are focused on providing large cities with high-quality, green transportation. So they're going to
be focused on a mission. And they're going to be focused on non-transportation or nontraditional transportation as well as whatever, expanding high-speed rail-- or not high-speed rail.
I'll get to that in a second-- expanding investment in transit.
And obviously, it'll be supportive of labor. And Joe Biden is often referred to in the past as
Amtrak Joe. He has noted that they want to, as they said, spark a second great railroad
revolution. So there's certainly a lot of opportunity for RTD going forward and transit in general.
But that's what I have so far. I'll turn it back to Patty.
PATTY DOERSCH: Thanks, Phil. And I do share the optimism. He's saying all the right words
here, Biden is. But again, as Phil has mentioned, we just don't have any funding levels. We don't
have any legislative proposals. We have very, very ambitious platitudes that we support.
I just want to finish up now a little bit. We've touched on this already, the prospects for
infrastructure legislation in 2021. We really think it's going to happen, particularly from his
surrogates or Biden surrogates. We're hearing a lot about a bill advancing soon.
But how is it going to be paid for? That's always the question on infrastructure investment.
Recently, the Chair of the Ways and Means Committee, Richie Neal, he's from western

Massachusetts. But he controls tax policy for the nation as a whole, because that's the way things
work in the House.
And Richie Neal has said-- he noted, apropos the importance of infrastructure legislation, that
interest rates are remarkably low right now. So it's a perfect time for the federal government to
borrow money for infrastructure. And how the federal government borrows money, this is the
deficit spending. This is where they issue more treasury.
So that's how they pay for bills. They don't generate new revenues. yet you still provide new
funding. It's the federal government issuing debt. So the Democrats have basically embraced
that, which is good news and bad news.
From purely an infrastructure perspective, that means they can fund it basically as much as they
want, because there's almost no limit on the amount of debt the US government can issue. This
concludes our prepared remarks, and we're happy to take any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I think we'll run through again. Director Broom? Director Broom?
OK, we'll move on and come back to him.
BOB BROOM: Just a comment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BOB BROOM: All of these stimulus programs, like the helicopter money and so forth, I don't
think they're as effective as appropriating money for actual projects. Then the money still gets
spent on workers and so on and so forth. So the money gets out there.
But when you're done, you end up with a new road or a new harbor or a new airport. You don't
just end up with a new pile of IOUs that future taxpayers are going to have to pay. And I don't
know why that's so hard for Congress to grasp. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any comment, Patty?
PATTY DOERSCH: Couldn't agree more. But that's the pitch that's made. It's not infrastructure
spending. It's infrastructure investment. And that is starting to resonate.
It's just the level of deficit spending. The CARES Act in late March was $3 trillion. This is the
largest peacetime deficit spending in the history of America, and that's getting harder and harder
for Republicans to swallow.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for the comprehensive report. I always look forward to it. I have no
questions or comments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin?

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I have no further questions or comments. And I, too, appreciated
the report. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, thank you. Patty, thanks. I've always wondered. I've heard that the state
and local support or parts of the COVID relief acts have been a line in the sand.
Why is that? I mean, I know that transit is a component of it. And I've heard the criticisms. But
I've never understood what the objection was by the Senate Republicans against state and local
funding, which presumably, I mean, is an issue for virtually every one of them or for their
constituents and their communities. So I'm just curious about that.
PATTY DOERSCH: Well, it's more driven by President Trump than it is by congressional
Republicans. But they're carrying his water on it now. You may be aware that the president has
branded several cities as "anarchist cities." He views funding for-- the state and local money, he
views it as money going to Democratic-led institutions that would never vote for him.
That is literally the calculus that's being made here. You've seen this already. There's one transit
grant program, USDOT grant program, where Secretary Chao's announced that cities designated
as anarchist cities are ineligible to apply for the funding. So that's a direct correlation between
cities branded by the president and their inability to receive federal funds. It's just another
version of that.
SHELLEY COOK: So even though some of it would go to red states and smaller rural
communities, it's still that issue that's driving that line in the sand approach?
PATTY DOERSCH: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you.
PATTY DOERSCH: And also, just to add to this, it's also a notion of-- and this is some language
that's actually in the CARES Act language. Many of these states have large, unfunded pension
liabilities as one of the many expenses.
And Senate Republicans and, to some extent, the White House, they're not looking for these
states, these big urban areas, to close their funding gaps and meet their pension obligations by
these handouts at the federal level. These are meant to address COVID-related injuries and
impacts directly. So that's another thing, too, is that they don't have enough-- Republicans are
concerned they won't have sufficient control over how states and locals spend the money, and
they're certain that their priorities do not align with the vast majority of the recipients of that state
money.
SHELLEY COOK: Got it. Thank you, Patty.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. Well, guys, it's been a fun eight years with
you. I've enjoyed your updates and getting to know you and all the great work that you do for
RTD in Washington. What do you think about that CRP next year? Do you think that will come
through?
PATTY DOERSCH: Claudia, I want it to happen before December 11. I want it to be in the next
bill. We've gotten this through the House twice. We got the fix in 2018, but USDOT literally got
an anomaly in legislation and undid it.
We crossed every hurdle. There's nothing left that they can put in front of us. The only thing that
could stop us is not the RRIF language itself. It's if we don't get a true omnibus bill, if we just get
a full-year extension. The provision has support. We just need a vehicle that can get it across the
finish line. I think it's happening. And I don't know. Mike, do you want to-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And my last-PATTY DOERSCH: So sorry. I just want to give Mike an opportunity to speak, because I know
it's the last time we'll be before you, Director Folska.
MIKE DINO: Can you repeat that, please?
PATTY DOERSCH: Oh, Mike, I just wanted to give you an opportunity to speak, since this is
our last presentation before Director Folska.
MIKE DINO: Well, yeah, I've been thrilled to work with Director Folska. And we missed our
DC visit this year, the fly in. And I don't know, Patty. I don't think they're going to be doing it
again next year. Are they?
PATTY DOERSCH: I doubt it. It would be mid-March. They're not going to have anything
better.
MIKE DINO: Yeah. So for the new Board members and the ones returning, that's probably not
something to look forward to.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So my other question, maybe, for anybody there, what's going to happen
to the Highway Transportation Trust Fund?
PATTY DOERSCH: That's a great question. It's going to continue to limp along with its current
funding level. And Congress is going to continue to authorize funding greater than the Highway
Trust Fund revenues. And I think we're going to provide more general fund transfers.
Eventually, we'll get closer to an additional revenue source or an alternate revenue source. It's
not possible to talk about VMT much longer without actually doing something about using a
VMT fee. But this isn't the year, I don't think, to raise the gas tax.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right. Well, that's kind of interesting. Didn't the Trump Administration
change the formula for surface transportation?
PATTY DOERSCH: He wanted to.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You think it'll [INTERPOSING VOICES].
PATTY DOERSCH: He never advanced any legislation to do it. I mean, it was a proposal. But
the only person who could change the formula is actually the Congress. That's why I mentioned
Congressman Richie Neal on this. He would have to take the lead on it, and he's already
basically starting to say-- when he says interest rates are low, the time to borrow, that means he's
not going to raise new revenues. He's going to deficit spend. So he's not going to increase the gas
tax.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah. OK, well, thanks again, guys. You're awesome to work with. And
it's really been a pleasure getting to know you. Thanks.
PATTY DOERSCH: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Nothing from me, Madam Chair. I always do appreciate the work that you
all do.
PATTY DOERSCH: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. Well, bittersweet, bittersweet. I really have enjoyed working with you
guys. It's been a pleasure getting to know you. And yeah, what can I say? It's just been really
nice.
I just wanted to comment in addition to that that it warms my heart to know that President-elect
Biden is called Amtrak Joe. And the reason that warms my heart is because Amtrak is floating an
idea that I'm sure you guys are aware of, the network modification.
That could possibly help the Front Range Passenger Rail Commission's Front Range rail, which
could possibly help RTD. There's a lot of possibilities there. And we're going to be discussing
this later on in the Planning Committee.
So at some point in the future, we may be asking you to be much more interested in Amtrak and
help us follow what's going on with that potential money. But until that time, [AUDIO OUT].
PATTY DOERSCH: Happy to do that.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, sayonara. Bye-bye.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thanks. I don't really have any questions, but I guess this would be a
good time to mention, since we're talking about the federal government and, of course, RTD, that
I'll just go on the record that I did fail in my duty over eight years in that I did not get our
national debt clock installed in our RTD boardroom. Because that would have been truly an
achievement.
And unfortunately, I was not able to do that. But I sure would love to see it in the future if
somebody wanted to take that on. So that's my only comment. Definitely have concerns about
the debt that this country carries. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: I guess nothing from me Thank you all for the update, Patty and Mike. It's been
nice knowing you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I do have one specific question relative
to this bipartisan proposal that we heard about for the $908 billion COVID relief package-- not a
stimulus package, but a relief package. And you mentioned that does have $15, 1-5, billion for
transit in it. Is that correct, Patty?
PATTY DOERSCH: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Now, I also saw that Leader McConnell has indicated that that is a no-go
as far as he's concerned. But is there a sense that this could be appended to the necessary CR to
avoid the government shutdown.
PATTY DOERSCH: Yes, there is talk of that. And the thing is that we hear so much chatter and
so many different rumors. There is viable rumors that they could attach them. But the caveat to
that is that for the longest time, the appropriators have kept the two separate. They're like, the
annual appropriations process must be separate from the supplemental appropriations for
COVID.
So that's why I think it may or may not happen. But again, this is a lame duck where the seated
president has lost. Anything is possible in this lame duck session. But I wouldn't otherwise
expect the two to travel together.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And we do we have just two weeks before they all leave town. Is that
correct?
PATTY DOERSCH: That's what's scheduled. The House is scheduled to go out on the 11th. The
Senate may stay later. But if they're close to getting a deal on an omnibus bill, they'll stay in

session. They'll stay probably at least till-- I could picture them staying the following week till
December 18.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, fine.
PATTY DOERSCH: They don't have to leave town on the 11th.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, Thank you. I appreciate that. I've got to give a report to the Legislative
Committee tomorrow, and you're supplementing some of the points that they sent to me. So I
thank you.
PATTY DOERSCH: You're welcome.
DOUG TISDALE: That's all, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker? Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Deficits don't matter. That's the phrase I remember hearing from long
ago. So I don't have anything to add. Thanks for the report as usual. I'm going to miss you guys
like crazy, the trips and all the prep work you did and all the information you gave and the
success that I think we had on those trips.
So thank you for your service. Thank you for this update. I'll keep an eye on it. And as soon as I
get to go back to work downtown, I'll be on that zero. Thanks. Bye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Nothing to add, just a great, comprehensive report. Always
appreciate it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: What he said.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Okey doke. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sorry, I dropped my phone. I have no other comments other to
say thank you so much. I agree, an incredibly comprehensive report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And thanks from me. And you've been doggedly fighting for our CRP
return. And I've got my fingers crossed that maybe we'll get somewhere. And thanks to all of you
for all your good work. Let's see.
PATTY DOERSCH: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Next round is-- yeah, thank you. Brandeberry McKenna. Jenifer?

JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Yes, hello. Thanks so much. And I'd like to start out and just echo
Mike Dino's comments that all of us at Brandeberry McKenna have really enjoyed working with
the Board members who are on their way out.
And I would just say, we're all in the same general metro area. So it's kind of a bummer that this
has been such a strange year, and we haven't been able to see one another. But hopefully, come
spring and summer, that will change. But thank you for working with our team. We really
appreciate the partnership.
It has been a weird year and continues to be a very different year. We're basically, in Colorado,
on our third round of the 2020 legislative session. As you recall, they went out in March, came
back in May for about 3 and 1/2 weeks. And now we are in a special session with the old body,
the 2020 elected. None of the new people are serving in the current special session. It's the older
leadership and the other members.
So as I think we saw, it seems to be a three-day session. I think, for a while, people were
concerned it might go on longer. But they convened yesterday, as we outlined in our report.
Very specific legislation designed to take advantage of a little bit better budget situation and to
provide a buffer, since there hasn't been any federal action since the initial CARES Act. So the
priority legislation is going to get through. And I think they will conclude, finally, the 2020
legislative session and the special session some time tomorrow.
Leading into next year, as you all know, we had an election here in Colorado. And probably a
couple of biggest changes in that election is not very-- I don't know if it's ever really happened in
my tenure. A sitting member of the joint budget committee decided to run for leadership. And in
that leadership election, Daneya Esgar was elected to the House Majority Leader. Current
Majority Leader Alec Garnett from Denver will be the next speaker.
And I think what's of interest and will be impactful to the district is the Speaker in the House
appoints the Joint Budget Committee member, and he appointed Representative Leslie Herod
onto the Joint Budget Committee. So a little bit of shakeup on that.
They have not, in the House or the Senate-- and I think partially because of the special session-released the full committee assignment. Over on the Senate side, they have similar leadership
with President Garcia and Majority Leader Fenberg staying in those roles.
But unlike the House, the Senate members themselves vote for the JBC member. And Senator
Chris Hansen from Denver challenged Senator Zenzinger, who had been on the Joint Budget
Committee, the Democrat on the Joint Budget Committee. And he was successful in getting on
there.
So two very seasoned legislators and well-respected legislators, new to the Budget Committee.
Senator Moreno will be the Chair. Senator Rankin won his State Senate seat. It was fairly close.
He will remain on the committee as well as Representative Ransom from Douglas County.

So those are kind of the highlights of the leadership election. We still do not have committees. I
do feel very comfortable, and I think conventional wisdom is that the current Transportation
Chair, Senator Faith Winter, and Representative Matt Gray will maintain their Chairmanship of
Transportation.
And I think the other thing to note about the election is the Democrats did pick up an extra seat
in the State Senate, so a very overwhelming Democratic majority here in Colorado. Going
forward on transportation, there's some, I think, similar themes to what's happening at the federal
level, which is a priority for the legislature and the Administration to look for some statewide
funding for infrastructure.
Unlike the federal government, because of TABOR, in Colorado, we're not able to deficit spend.
And the pieces that put together how do you get to money here will be mostly a conversation, I
think, around fees. And that has had some success in the past and some not success in the past.
And then given the outcome of the fee initiative and it passing, I think there's just going to have
to be a little more balance to how that conversation moves forward. But do know I think we will- the statewide funding isn't going to be about adding a lot of revenue to RTD. But the sponsors
have reached out to us, want to work with the district, and have made clear that anything that is
successful will have some requirements for multi-modal spending.
As these transportation solutions, I think Roger is certainly familiar with this. In Colorado, lots
of conversations about increasing transportation funding, not a lot of success. I like to say,
unfortunately, we spend a lot of time talking about how to spend the money before we ever get it
in hand. And we haven't had a statewide successful transportation plan in my 20 years.
That being said, this governor, I think, is making that a priority this upcoming session. So I think
we have an opportunity to be at the table and see how this progresses.
I think the other issue, as you're all aware of, is in the second half of the first part of the
legislative session, we got rid of some very negative legislation, Senate Bill 151. And part of that
was an agreement that RTD, kind of led by Director Malpiede and Director Guissinger, with the
Administration and the Transportation Chairs-- the creation of the Accountability Committee.
And our team has been monitoring, as I know you all and Pauletta and her team-- all of the
various subcommittees and committees of the Accountability Committee. And I think it's pretty
likely that there will be some legislation that will be carried by the Transportation Chairs again.
What we've been told is it would start in the House.
And it's an effort, I think, by the Accountability Committee to look at various statutes in
Colorado that have restrictions on how the district is able to manage some of their affairs with
the goal of trying to loosen those so that, going forward, our new General Manager and the
Board and staff have flexibility to manage things like their parking assets, have a little more
flexibility potentially in transportation or in development, and fare box recovery, et cetera. So we
have not seen a draft of that. But we've been assured that we can be at the table as that is being
put together.

I think finally what I would say is it's not a lot of time between now and next session. And first
round of bills are due this week for next year. So I think things will start to move quickly in the
last month of the year in terms of what's out there that may be of an operational impact to the
district. And we'll keep you updated.
And finally, I really would like to thank the new GM and the Board and the staff for working
with us to ensure that Deb is able to have conversations with the administration, the
Transportation Chairs. And I think before the end of the year, we'll have some additional
meetings with leadership and possibly some of the Budget Committee folks.
The reviews we're getting inside the building have been just incredibly high. And I think folks
are feeling for the first time at the state level a partnership with RTD where we can all be rowing
together going forward and not being that kind of-- and so on our behalf, thank you to everybody
for all the hard work. And we'll look forward to getting out of the third session of 2020 tomorrow
night and keep trying to get ready and prepared for 2021. And I'm happy to answer any
questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. I think, in the interest of time, if you'll hang on,
Jenifer, we'll get an update from CRL Associates, and I'll take questions and comments for both.
Roger?
ROGER SHERMAN: All right, thank you, Chair. I'm not going to go over the items that were in
the written report. But I do want to touch on a couple of things. First, thank you very much for
your support for our extension. We certainly look forward to continuing our work with the
agency and you all this coming year.
And also, like my friends at the federal and state level, I also want to thank those of you that will
be leaving the Board at the end of the year. We certainly have enjoyed working with you, and we
all hope you'll stay in touch and stay engaged.
We're also looking forward to the new Board members joining us. And we did have an
opportunity to participate in the new Board member orientation earlier today. And that was great.
I've also had individual meetings with several of the new Board members, and we'll be finishing
that up in the next couple weeks.
The one other thing I wanted to mention is Director Broom had asked for us to look into the
Thornton Water Project situation. And so I've made a few calls and talked to folks. Thornton has
been working on the project on and off for several decades and has had a longstanding dispute
with Larimer County, which has ultimately resulted in litigation which is ongoing now.
They actually had oral arguments in front of the judge in September, and everyone's waiting on
that judge to rule. I spoke to Chuck Culig. He assured me there is no direct impact to RTD
operations. RTD has a great working relationship with Thornton should anything come up.

Really, Thornton's concern is about long-range growth. They have enough water currently for an
additional 5,000 or so housing units. But the concern is developers may skip over Thornton and
take their business to other nearby cities, where the water supply is not an issue.
Everyone I spoke to thinks that Larimer County and Thornton will ultimately work this out.
Thornton has gone ahead and started building uncontested portions of a pipeline in Windsor and
Johnstown to keep the project on schedule. Theoretically, there could be an impact down the
road to ridership, but that is likely decades away. So there certainly isn't any immediate issue that
might impact RTD ridership.
With that said, I do have a call scheduled with the mayor on Friday. I was not able to talk to her
directly because of the Thanksgiving holiday. But we're scheduled. So I may get some additional
insight from Thornton regarding the situation.
And then really, one thing that I think-- the dispute is really centered only between Larimer
County and Thornton. So I'm not sure how much RTD's voice would impact Larimer County's
thinking. But I'll report back to you after I've had a chance to speak with the mayor on Friday.
And I think that's-- I'll take questions or if anyone has any questions on the written report, as
well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I think, again, in the interest of time, since you had a fairly short-I believe we will go ahead and do the Citizens Advisory Committee update and then ask the
Board for questions or comments on all three reports. The CAC Co-Chair, Joanna Morsicato, is
here with us, I believe.
JOANNA MORSICATO: I'm here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Welcome.
JOANNA MORSICATO: Thank you. I will try to make this brief. I think we know most of you.
We'll miss Board members that are leaving and are excited for new ones. So I'll keep that real
simple.
We've been meeting virtually because of COVID-19. We have our own new members that joined
in August, and all of our 17 positions are currently filled. I'll take about two sentences to
summarize something I think is really important.
And that's that your Citizen Advisory Committee has some awesome people with a lot of good,
in-depth experience. We have former mayors and city council people, real estate experts, people
who've served on state and local transportation committees and TMAs. We have people who
have worked both in the private and public sector as transit and transportation planners and
managers. We have affordable housing experts. We have a senior clergy who was the founder
and convener of the Colorado Black Leadership Caucus.

We have just an awesome group of folks. And we hope we can continue to work with all of you.
We're excited for the new General Manager, who we met at our meetings this month.
So I'm going to try to get this to be brief. But I did want people to know how we really want to
help out. And I think we have quite a core group here that can provide input to just about
anything you need help with.
Briefly, in November, we did get to meet Debra Johnson. And also, Zamy Silva came and gave
us an overview on the Civil Rights Division. In October, we actually got some of the people
running for RTD directorships to come and talk to us briefly. And we also met with the CoChairs from the RTD Accountability Committee.
We've done all kind of things this year in spite of having to have a lot of virtual meetings. We
were briefed on the LiVE Program. We participated both in getting updates on Senate Bill 151,
and several of us testified against it. So we've been active in that realm.
We were active with the Reimagine RTD project, and we had three workshops with that team.
We've had presentations from the RTD CFO on budget and finance. We were part of the CEO
GM search, and they had a session with a recruiter and with Barbara McManus.
I know this is a long list. So that's a good thing. We've reviewed the RTD Code of Conduct, and
we've had updates on the 16th Street Mall Project and the Colfax bus-- our BRT project.
We've done a lot of different things. We have a member from the CAC, Ben Bryant, who served
on the Reimagine RTD Advisory Committee. Early on, when we could still go out with people,
we helped to conduct transit experiences to introduce people to RTD. That's not happening so
much just now, obviously.
We've done a lot of things. We co-hosted three RTD candidate forums with the Metro Mayors
Caucus. It's been a busy year in spite of everything, which of course, you guys all know already.
We're looking forward to 2021. We will not meet this month. We need to elect a new Co-Chair
in January-- my cohort, Joe Limarsh, whose term is up. And so we'll be looking for someone
new on our team.
We also are looking at more information on security and the Code of Conduct coming up.
Something we would like to start up again as soon as we can is that we'd like to have two of our
members meet with one Board member over breakfast or lunch so we can actually just visit
sometimes. And we did this very successfully with Roger's help in the past. So hopefully,
sometime in the near future, this can happen again.
We'll continue to do our quarterly updates with this committee. And actually, we'd love to
participate even further. So I hope I didn't go too quickly, but I think we've had a lot on the plate
tonight. So thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Joanna. That was great. And I agree. I think you've got a lot
of talent there. And hopefully, we can-- it's been a hard year to, like you said, bring together the
lunch meetings or our annual-- I don't know if they're doing some sort of annual get together.
But I echo what you're saying. It's great that you're working on all those projects. And it'd be nice
to be getting you even more involved. So thanks. If you'll stay tuned, we'll see if we've got
comments and questions on any of the last few speakers from the Board. Why don't I give you a
little break, Broom, and we'll start with Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, you got to give me a heads up when you do that so that I'm ready.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, sorry. You want me to come back to you?
KATE WILLIAMS: That's OK. Yeah, no, I'm good. I'm good. I'd like to thank the CAC. I have
very fond memories of the two CAC members with one RTD Director. And I actually went to a
meeting where I think there were five of the CAC members and me.
And in both times, I learned a lot, and I felt like their input was really valuable. So I'd like to
thank them for that. I don't have any other questions or comments. That's it for now. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, thank you. Joanna, thank you for that report. You guys have been
busy, and that's the way it should be. Tremendous report, a lot of activities through the COVID
situation. We look forward to interacting more in person. Very proud of this group and the
makeup of this group and their skill set that they bring.
Roger, you brought back memories. I was on city council in Thornton 1994 to 1998. And many,
many nights were spent discussing the future water situation of Thornton. So I'm sure that they
will work that situation out, but it's a very important growth mechanism for Thornton and the
North Metro area.
And thank you, Jenifer, for your great report. I enjoyed working with you and your firm. I'm sure
I'm not telling you anything that anybody else really didn't know. But the caliber of people that
we have working for us and on behalf of us is outstanding.
And I do appreciate Jenifer and Megan and Julie and others that are assisting with the
Accountability Committee. They've got a good relationship with several of those members.
They've been monitoring those meetings and been of great assistance.
And I wanted to make sure that you all had the opportunity to notice their reports on all the
Accountability Committees. It's very helpful, because those tend to run together for those of us
participating or witnessing. So appreciate that, Jenifer, immensely. That's all I have. Thank you,
Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale? No, excuse me, Jeff Walker.

JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So let's see. Where do I start, with the state? I've been tuning into
some of the Accountability Committees. And like I said last week or the week before last, I find
them very interesting.
I'm looking forward to some of the things that I think might go forward. I think loosening
restrictions on RTD, how it manages its own business, I think, will be a good thing for the
agency and therefore for the passengers and customers and other partners.
To Mr. Sherman-- and Brandeberry McKenna, I will miss seeing you guys. I miss seeing you
already, but I'll miss working with you and having the opportunity, I guess, to see you.
So Mr. Sherman, so recently, the East Area plan went through Denver City Council. I'm
wondering if there is anything like that going through any of the other jurisdictions. And the
reason I'm asking is because that has the potential to increase or allows for an increase in density
in that area that it covers. I'm wondering if other jurisdictions have seen the benefit, at least for
transit and other utilities, for that density and if there's anything going on like that in other
places.
ROGER SHERMAN: There is a couple planned updates that are in the works. South Lakewood
is going to be taking another look. Of course, it's passed the growth limitation a couple of years
ago. I have had some conversations. I've heard that the mayor would like to do some
comprehensive-- but take a bigger approach. I don't know if they've actually formally started it
because of this crazy year.
The other one that is likely to come up is Louisville. They had a large redevelopment proposal
that was turned down by the city council. The Planning Commission made a big deal about the
fact that the comprehensive plan had not been updated. And they talked specifically about the
need to strengthen and enhance the transit, transportation mobility requirements and language in
the comprehensive plan.
So those are two that I know of. There likely could be more, but I'm not aware of them off the
top of my head.
JEFF WALKER: OK. That's fine, and that's encouraging that one of those cities among 36 is
looking at it, also. Because there is nothing that will benefit the efficiency and utilitarianism of
transit than good, strong density. Not just density for the sake of density, but well thought out,
well planned with appropriate incentives and safeguards and nice, white sidewalks and all that
other stuff that helped build that atmosphere that you see around Union Station and Larimer
Square. That's not for everybody, but for those communities that want that strong transit
presence, that's how it comes about.
And also, for the CAC, Ms. Morsicato, it's nice to hear your voice again. I think there's a wealth
of talent on that committee. And I've always thought that.

I'd like to see a stronger presence for that in RTD's role. And I know that some of those two-onone meetings or three-on-one, I guess, when Ros was there-- but anyway, with those meetings,
there's always a question about, what can we do? How can we be of greater service?
I was on Denver's Planning Board for a few years. And that served as the policy gatekeeper for
things that went on to city council. I think something like that would serve well, because there is
so much talent and knowledge on that CAC. And some of the larger policy issues that we face, I
think, might serve well having that direct connection. Like, if it doesn't get past CAC, it doesn't
go forward at all, just like it does on a lot of planning commissions.
But anyway, that's it. Thank you all for your service. I'm going to miss hearing you guys. And
that's it. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Doug Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I did want to say specifically,
regarding the Brandeberry McKenna report and the summaries of the Accountability Committee
meetings-- the many Accountability Committee meetings-- the highest compliment I can pay is
that in reading the reviews of the meetings that I specifically did listen to or watch on the video,
the summary comported with my understanding of the meeting. So I thought that was very well
done. And I have confidence in reading the summaries of the meetings that I didn't attend.
And then next, concerning the Citizens Advisory Committee, it is so good to have an opportunity
for the CAC to come before this Board and share information and just to communicate with us.
And I really welcome that and want to ensure that we continue that on a regular basis. Those are
my only comments, Madam Chair. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Nothing to add, just thank you for not only this report but years of updates.
And we'll miss working with you. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No question or comment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, I wanted to say thank you to Jenifer and to Roger and your colleagues for
giving us such good service. And it's been a pleasure working with you.
And I also wanted very much to thank the CAC representative. It is a great group of people. And
I so hope that between the Board and the staff and the CAC folks, you can come up with even
more creative ideas for effectively helping RTD, because you're a good group of people. Thank
you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate the report. But I did want to
comment on the CAC, because I think there's opportunity not with just this work group, with
other members of the public that RTD pulls upon, to use them in a way that provides us the
opportunity to solicit their expertise, their experiences, and to contribute to the work that RTD is
doing.
And so I hope in the future, while I really appreciate all the work that they've done in terms of
learning more about RTD, that they're in positions where they can provide us with not only some
input but some thought partnership, even some recommendations to Director-- I can't remember
what Director stated that, so I apologize.
But I do believe that the CAC, with all the talent and expertise that they have, is really
underutilized. And we have an opportunity to really change the way in which we engage with the
general public, starting with the CAC, to help us to not only look at our Code of Conduct, for
example, but to provide some feedback and input.
I also think, with the safety and security stuff that we've been discussing and the lack of
engagement that we've had from our broader stakeholders, that this would be an opportunity for
us to really lean on them and learn from them and help to build and establish the direction we'd
like to go as an agency. That's all I have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. First of all, I want to thank you,
Brandeberry McKenna and CRL, for all the work that you've done and for the time that I've had
to get to know you and work with you. It really has been a pleasure.
For the CAC, really, I think the Board has said this over and over for now eight years of my
tenure on this Board. I believe that it's been a fine group of people with a lot of talent.
Unfortunately, I think it's been untapped talent. And it's there for you to draw upon should you so
desire. And I hope that you do desire to do that. And thank you all very much for your hard work
and good service.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, no comments or questions. Thank you, Jenifer, Roger, and Joanna.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I agree with Director Tisdale that the comprehensive
summary of the Accountability Committee has really been helpful for me, since I've been unable
to log in to many of them. And I really appreciate that.

But I also wanted to thank, well, Brandeberry McKenna, CRL Associates. And also, Joanna,
thank you so much for your update of the CAC. I found that to be very helpful.
And I believe that the involvement of the CAC and the interest in utilizing its talent has really
stepped up since I started on the Board. And I just look forward to additional contributions in the
future. It's very, very appreciated. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I'll echo what most other people have said and thank
Brandeberry McKenna, CRL, and the CAC. Without all of you, we can't do what we do. Thanks
so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just one request for the CAC. When you're doing
your plan for what you're going to work on in the coming years, I'd like for you to take a look at
the area out around the IA. The next big hotspot.
It's already really taken off as far as development is concerned. And then the question is, how is
RTD going to serve this new area? Some of the facilities that are going in have 10,000
employees.
And there are a lot of them that are in the pay ranges that use RTD. And so they're going to
expect us to step up. And we can't just always poor math it and say, we don't have any money.
We can't provide any service. So you need to take a hard look at that. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And thank you all. I agree. If you're attending most of the
Accountability Committee's meetings and subcommittees. I appreciate the summaries that
Brandeberry McKenna provided and all the work that all of you do. Joanna, thank you so much
for coming.
I think I agree with something I think Director Catlin had said to you, that your efforts have been
more helpful than they used to be. But there's certainly room for improvement, and I hope that
we can do that, because you're doing good work. And thank you all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, may I speak, too?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, [INTERPOSING VOICES], the Chair wants to speak, too? OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. Let me start with Joanna. And Joanna, you
know, I'm an alumni of the CAC. And I know that you all represent the community that we
represent in totality in terms of all the different voices at the table. And I really, really am so
grateful for the Citizens Advisory Council and the work that you do and the issues that you have
brought forward and your commitment to work with us to make sure that we are extending our
voice to every part of the region.

Director Walker, I just want to share with you that I have been involved both in the northeast and
the east neighborhood plans for the city and county of Denver. And the plan is to have updated
neighborhood plans in every area, since they had not been updated in decades.
And I think that it does include every kind of possible mode of transportation, including transit
and first and last miles that are pretty exciting. And I think that we're going to continue to see, at
least in the city and county of Denver that I know of for sure, their commitment to providing
transportation demand management components to every possible way that they can.
I cannot begin to thank Brandeberry McKenna for their work with us in terms of working with
the state legislature moving forward, the vision and the work of the district, and CRL for
working with us hand in hand to make sure that we are able to really provide communication out
in the community and with their work with the CAC. They really do an amazing job.
The other thing I wanted to share with Director Broom is, in fact, the Transportation
Management Associations are working very diligently in all areas of the district that partner with
RTD. And Northeast Transportation Connections is working around the airport, as well as
Commuting Solutions and Smart Commuting are all working to make sure that not just visitors
but also employees are getting information about how to access transit services and to get to and
from work or wherever it is it's going to be. So Madam Chair, thank you so very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, and I apologize for skipping you. Again, thanks to all of you
who came tonight. I would say I feel like we're in great hands with all of our representation.
Thank you so much.
The last thing on our committee before we start our next committee is an Accountability
Committee update. And Brandeberry McKenna provided, I think, the most significant piece of
that, which is that the Accountability Committee is offered the option to do a mid-term report.
Their charter goes through next July. And they'll be doing the final report and public hearing and
all of that before then. But they are planning to do the December report and work with the
Transportation Chairs on the statutory changes in the RTD statute that Jenifer discussed.
So that's the biggest thing happening. I guess I would encourage you. I think the summaries are
great. If you get a chance to listen to some of them, I think somebody said last week they listened
a time and a half. And I thought it was a good way to listen to a meeting after the fact or just join
the meeting. There are two tomorrow and one on Monday.
And the Operations Committee is looking at some of the things we discussed tonight-- fares and
discounts. And one thing that they're talking about is that the LiVE Program offers a 40%
discount. I think it's a federally mandated program for people with disabilities, and seniors are a
50% discount. And the youth discount is at 70%. And they're looking at, should those be
simplified, brought together?
Obviously, all of these issues that they're looking at need input from RTD. Most of these ideas
are not new. And we'll talk a little bit more about some of the other ideas.

And I want to mention how much work our staff has put in. I think our Board Office, Barbara
and her team, Jujna and Pauletta and others have been working very hard to get information to
the committee. And I think that that's getting more effective as the committee is getting in deeper
and wanting to hear the background more.
The Governance Committee is working at possibly subregional using the DRCOG subregional
forums. It's complicated. There could be some good things that come out of it. One of their goals
is that Colorado taxpayers and our district taxpayers seem to be more open to funding local
initiatives, local transit, than statewide or potentially district-wide. So that could be a source. But
I think there are a lot of complications with that. And I think our new CEO, Debra Johnson, will
have some good input on that.
The Finance Committee is going to get some information this week on budget, the CARES Act,
and how we use the money. They've been looking at the statutory changes that they're moving
forward. Rutt Bridges, who chairs that, has been looking at whether RTD has a role and just to
bring the vaccinations.
So there are a lot of things going. If you get a chance, join in. And if you have comments or
concerns, Troy is attending, as well. We're both trying to get to, between us, all of the meetings.
And I'm happy to answer questions, or we can move on to Judy Lubow's committee next. Any
questions? Great.
JUDY LUBOW: This is Director Lubow. I just want to say thank you so much, Lynn and Troy
and everybody that's working on this. It seems like an incredible amount of work. So thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're welcome. You're welcome. It's interesting. Next meeting date is
February 2, 2021. Do we have a motion to adjourn?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Director Williams. Second, Director Williams.
JUDY LUBOW: Do we meet in five minutes?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep. So we'll take a-- it is seven after. Let's meet at 8:15. It's about seven
minutes. Give everybody a quick break. And we'll be back. All in favor of adjourning, say aye.
ALL: Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. You're adjourned. Thanks. We'll be back. Thank you.

