2022-04-12
Special Board Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: I will now call the Tuesday, April 12 Special Board Meeting to order. We are convened as
of 5:32 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted, unless you're recognized to speak. Thank
you all for joining us this evening.
Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest
of public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held by Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The video recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a live
stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Colleagues being elected as a member of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to enhance
and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it is our collective duty to our
constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual respect,
cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are values we can all agree upon.
As such, I encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by this Board and to act in
accordance with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the RTD website.
Thank you. Ms. McManus, will you please call the roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Here
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here. Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm here, also.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 accounted for. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: All right, so with 15 present, 0 absent, we have a quorum. Next, we'll move on to our public
comment portion of the meeting. This is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would
like to address the Board.
Those who would like to address the Board but are unable to attend Board meetings can submit their
comments in writing at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Barbara, were any email comments received for
tonight's meeting?

BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, we'll move on then. If you wish to speak and if not already done so, please raise your
virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. If you are
dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the Board, please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have up to three minutes to speak. Ms.
McManus, do we have any speakers in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, Chair. We have one speaker, Danny Katz.
VINCE BUZEK: Of course, Danny Katz. Welcome. Please state your name, and let's hear your comments.
DANNY KATZ: Great. Thank you. My name is Danny Katz. I am the Executive Director of CoPIRG, the
Colorado Public Interest Research Group, and I appreciate the opportunity to speak tonight. I believe you
all are considering whether to adopt or support a bill-- SB 22-180, which is a bill that-VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Danny. Can everybody mute that's not speaking? Thanks. I apologize.
Keep going, Danny.
DANNY KATZ: No problem. No problem. Thank you for that. I believe you're considering whether to support
SB 22-180 tonight, and so my comments are related to that. Matt Frommer, from SWEEP, and I sent, I
believe a month or two ago, a letter encouraging consideration of a fare-free transit program. And so I'm
here tonight to encourage you to support what has come out of that SB 22-180.
For me, unfortunately, I think we're going to see another dirty air summer-- ozone pollution summer. And
during that summer, we'll see signs that say and have communications that say, please try to reduce the
amount of driving that you do. And I think it would be just an incredible opportunity for RTD to be able to
offer a month or more of fare-free transit during that time.
Fare-free transit is not going to solve all of our problems. And in fact, I recognize fully it will be challenging
for you all to meet that. You have plenty of other things on your plate. But I encourage you to consider
taking this big step and diving into this program.
I do think it will result in an increase in ridership at a time when, I think, we really all want to be recruiting
people back to ride transit. We've seen some successful programs around the country, most recently in
Utah in February. I also think this provides a wonderful opportunity for our whole region to work together,
from local government leaders, to businesses, to nonprofits like my own. Having something that we can all

get behind, like a fare-free transit program, is something that, I think, would allow all of us to work together
at a time when, again, I think oftentimes people have been siloed.
This bill is not perfect. I wish it was even more money and support for you all to do this program. But I'm
hoping that you still support it, because I think anything we can do to pull down state dollars to support
operating and fare reduction costs for you all would be an important step forward. And just know there are
groups like mine and many others who are ready to assist in whatever way we can if you take this bold step
forward.
We all want to-- we all recognize we cannot succeed as a region without RTD succeeding. And I think this
is an opportunity for all of us to come together, and I'm really excited to try to organize lots of different
groups, and businesses, and others to support you all as you move forward. So I encourage you to support
that bill, and let's get it through the legislature. Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Katz. Are there any other speakers?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. We have Molly McKinley. Ms. McKinley, please state your name and give us
your comments, please.
MOLLY MCKINLEY: Good evening, Board members. Molly McKinley. I'm with the Denver Streets
Partnership. I'm also here, like Danny, in support of Senate Bill 180. I'm a frequent transit rider and an
asthmatic, so this bill also feels personal to me, as do all of the efforts to improve air quality in the region
right now at the legislature.
As you know, reducing vehicle miles traveled and increasing public transit are key to addressing our air
quality and climate crises. And at the Denver Streets Partnership, we're really glad to see the governor,
legislators, CDOT and you at RTD coming together on this bill. We're excited about the opportunities that
this bill provides to expand access to public transit through free service in the Denver region.
The poor air quality in the region impacts all of us, but disproportionately impacts low-income communities
and communities of color. We've seen that these communities have higher rates of asthma, other
respiratory diseases, and as we've seen recently, because of the underlying conditions, higher rates of
COVID-19. So our current transportation system negatively impacts people's health and quality of life, but
it doesn't have to be this way. So we support this bill and the other proposals to improve air quality.
We, like Danny said, recognize that this is just the first step. And it must be a first step of many towards
using public transit as a means to addressing our air quality and climate crises. We agree that reducing or
eliminating fares altogether is a critical part of making transit more accessible but has limited value if the
bus only comes once every 30 or 60 minutes or not at all on evenings and weekends. So just want to thank
all of you for-- any of you who've worked on this bill so far, and hope to see you all supporting this bill.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Ms. McKinley. Are there any other speakers?
BARBARA MCMANUS: There are no other speakers in the queue.

VINCE BUZEK: Great. We'll move on to our recommended action items. We have two action items on the
agenda tonight listed as items IV for actions A and B. The first action is for the Board of Directors to adopt
resolution number blank series of 2022 regarding the Board's commitment to regional stakeholder
partnership to ensure that the transit user experience across RTD system is reflective of the agency's
mission of making lives better through connections. Do we have a motion?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved. Rivera-Malpiede.
VINCE BUZEK: I see I have Rivera-Malpiede as the moveant and Director Broom as the second. I would
like to ask General Manager Johnson to present any pertinent information regarding this action item to the
Board. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, good afternoon, and thank you, Mr. Chair. It's good to be with all of you. I am
Debra Johnson, the General Manager and CEO of the Regional Transportation District.
As public transit is interwoven into the fabric of the communities it serves, when a community is disrupted
by the actions of individuals, so too is its transit system. Suffice to say, a surge in criminal activity and, in
particular, a notable increase in the sale and use of illegal drugs across the Denver metro area, as well as
across the nation, has created significant and complex societal impacts to communities, as well as public
spaces and services, including public transit, as evidenced by the events that transpired just this morning
in a Brooklyn subway station.
We all have witnessed the harm caused by these unlawful and unwelcome activities. Moreover, many of
the individuals who engage in the sale and use of illegal drugs also experience mental health housing,
financial and prior legal complications, creating additional challenges for them. And for one reason or
another, many of these individuals have found their way to Denver central core, and in particular, to Denver
Union Station and its bus concourse. I extend my sincere appreciation to you, Mr. Chair and Director RiveraMalpiede, for your support and collaboration in bringing this recommended action for your consideration
this evening.
As I have said before, RTD cannot solve these societal issues alone. Beginning in December of 2021, I
began to regularly engage with Denver Mayor Hancock's Deputy Chief of Staff to identify solutions and next
steps. And through our conversations, came the Reclaiming Denver Union Station Steering Committee,
which has been instrumental in charting a path forward. The Steering Committee identified subcommittees
to engage in specific subject areas, such as policing and enforcement, public health, communications and
community engagement, and CPTED, which stands for crime prevention through environmental design.
Through the Reclaiming Denver Union Station Steering Committee, the agency's partnership with officials
from the city and county of Denver, as well as ATU 10-01, has created robust opportunities to share
solutions, explore novel strategies, and develop holistic responses to the unwelcome activities that have
become prevalent, not just in the surrounding Denver Union Station area, but throughout the region.

Through these efforts, RTD has begun to implement significant changes to the operations and design of
the bus concourse and surrounding areas, which will culminate in the creation of pay fare areas.
On April 3, the RTD transit police division began to deploy police and security impact teams that have been
deployed on bus, rail, and at facilities. The work of the Reclaiming Denver Union Station Steering
Committee has also leveraged significant criminal justice and public health campaigns that have yielded
significant positive results and have begun to restore a more welcoming environment on the Denver Union
Station campus.
One such public health campaign to be launched this week for the purpose of providing behavioral health
and support services in and around Denver Union Station-- this campaign will include representation from
the Department of Housing Stability, the Denver Public Library, and RTD's own mental health clinicians and
homeless outreach coordinator. This model, with the city and county of Denver, is one that can be replicated
in various forms throughout RTD's 2,342 square mile service area.
Though I'd be remiss not to point out that one municipality's approach may not be suitable for another
location, because the challenges presented and resources available to address those challenges may not
align. While every municipality has certainly been impacted by a myriad of societal issues and each must
rise to the occasion to mobilize forces to mitigate the unwelcome activities associated, a one size fits all
approach will likely not work for all communities involved.
As elected officials, each representing a vast constituency of over 200,000 residents, you as Board
members have a unique voice within the communities you represent and are able to identify, amplify, and
address concerns with fellow electeds. This resolution will serve as the Board's collective statement to the
region that each of you is committed to engaging in stakeholder partnerships with local office holders with
the shared goal of providing a welcoming transit environment throughout the region for RTD employees
and customers, as well as adjacent residents, businesses, and visitors through coordinated security, legal,
and social health and human service efforts.
RTD must continue to be a committed partner in these efforts, but the agency must also rely on local support
from the communities we serve. I thank each of you for your commitment to make lives better through
connections and showcase the value of the Regional Transportation District to the community. I will yield
the floor to you, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam General Manager. I'm going to go next to Director Rivera-Malpiede.
And perhaps you can shed some light on this with your comments, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr, Chair, and I want to thank the RTD Board of Directors,
because this is our opportunity to stand up as leaders for the region. I've been spending a lot of time at
Denver Union Station. And one of the things that I want to share with all of you is that this is much bigger
than an RTD issue. This is a societal issue that we need to join forces with all of our jurisdictions and key
stakeholders.

I really appreciate Danny Katz and Molly's comments. I'm going to ask them to join with us to ask
municipalities and jurisdictions to join with us to come up with solutions together. It's going to take the entire
village.
I want to share with the Board that I spent some time with Chief Paul Pazen from the Denver Police
Department. And he and I spent a lot of time, in fact, with you, Mr. Chair, sharing with us the numbers and
the escalation that they are now averaging one death by fentanyl a day. That's just the average. We all
know the stories. They're awful.
This afternoon, there was a major fentanyl bust in Adams County with 60,000 pills. We've had a beautiful
toddler lose their life, a 10-year-old, a 12-year-old. People are buying fentanyl online for $3 a tab. This has
gotten into crucial, crucial areas of distress for the entire community.
I want to ask my fellow Board members to join with me to do a walkthrough at Denver Union Station by
district, however you would like to do it. I'll be calling each Board member and asking you to invite your key
stakeholders who can make policy decisions to join you so that we can come together for solutions for the
entire district. This is not just a Denver issue. This is permeating throughout the entire region.
And I think this is our opportunity to work together to show strong leadership and to ask for the support that
we absolutely need for mental health and security services so that we do provide safe and reliable service.
I cannot begin to tell you that I've heard from Board members being on our transit service with people
smoking fentanyl, and not just them, but constituents. This really is an issue of crisis, at this point. And I am
pleased that the Union has joined with us to work together for solutions.
So Mr, Chair, with your permission, I would like to contact every Board member and invite them to go for a
walkabout at Denver Union Station and have the pertinent people there to brief all of them on what is
happening with the long- and short-term solutions are from RTD, but what are the resources we need to
make this a complete success for the entire region? And I would be remiss if I didn't take this opportunity
to thank our General Manager and her team for their outstanding leadership in trying to get in front of this
huge, societal issue. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Rivera-Malpiede. And it is an eye-opener when you go down there and
quite interesting. And if I may, Director Rosenthal, before I go to you, just a couple of things. A resolution is
not an action item. It's a call to arms, basically, and to shed light on what's going on. It doesn't spell out
what the action will be but talks about what it can be.
And I think the work that you Director Rivera-Malpiede and General Manager Johnson have done at Denver
Union Station can be a guide-- not a perfect template, but a guide for what can happen in other districts.
For example, not too long ago, Director Bouquet and General Manager Johnson and I had an hour-long
Zoom meeting with Lone Tree Mayor Jackie Millet to talk about their concerns at the end-of-line station in
Lone Tree and some of the similar issues they're experiencing that we experience here in Denver Union
Station.

We've begun that conversation and that dialogue with Lone Tree Mayor Jackie Millet who is eager to assist,
and lend support, and lend resources to help RTD accomplish the goals that we set forth in this resolution.
And this is something that each Director, really, that is impacted by this and affected by these types of
problems undertake with their stakeholders, with General Manager Johnson, and whoever else you want
to bring along to address these issues. With that said, Director Rosenthal, I'll go to you next.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and really appreciate your work on this resolution, and of
course, previous Chair, Director Rivera-Malpiede, for your leadership, as well, on this resolution and
certainly leading this Board on these issues raised in this resolution, and of course our General Manager
and your team for working collaboratively in the community with lots of stakeholders. I think it shows the
tremendous work that you have put in. And despite the distance we still have to travel, we've come a ways.
And I think that, certainly, we can certainly see that, as well. And I appreciate your efforts.
So I definitely support this resolution. I think it's very helpful to us to say our statement of where we're at.
And certainly, I hear the community emailing me, calling me, telling me in-person about some of these
issues. So I can certainly echo that they are still a concern. However, I can also see the actions taken.
A question for, perhaps, the General Manager-- and I believe Director Malpiede this-- to make sure that we
are motivating some of our partners in the community. I'm curious as to who will get a copy of this resolution.
I think it, hopefully, should be distributed fairly widely, not just in the media, but I think perhaps the
Governor's office, the legislature, city councils, mayors might all benefit from knowing the efforts that, as
mentioned earlier, the General Manager, her team, also the will and the sense of this RTD Board. Thank
you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Rosenthal for those comments. Director Dishell, you're next.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Actually, that was a question.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, was that a question?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, so who-- so how are we going to get this resolution out there in order to make
sure that people know that, actually, we passed this, in other words?
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. General Manager Johnson, would you care to address that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Sure. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and to Director Rosenthal for the question. As
I said in my opening comments, I'm amenable, as it relates to the dissemination. I look to you all as a policy
body, recognizing that we have been working with a plethora of different community stakeholders. This is
an opportunity for the Board collectively.
So if you would like to advise me on who you would like to disseminate it to, I'm more than willing to have
staff assist in that effort. But at this juncture, recognizing staff has done yeoman's work as it relates to
engaging at a staff level, I look to the Board and perhaps, as related to Director Rivera-Malpiede's

statements, I know she and I have been working closely. And perhaps she will lead that charge. And she's
nodding her head. So Mr. Chair, if I may, I would ask if we could yield the floor to Director Rivera-Malpiede.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede, please go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair, thank you, General Manager. I'm going to respectfully
ask that each one of us as Board members get the resolution and send it to the folks we think need to see
it. I think that's part of our responsibility as leaders in this arena.
So I will be sending it out, in addition, to all of my local elected officials and non-profit organizations. You
know your community better than anyone else. Who should read this, and who could possibly come to the
table to help us come up with some solutions? Thank you, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for those comments. Director Rosenthal, does that address your question?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: It sure does. So thank you very much, and thank you, Director Malpiede, as well.
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. Thanks so much. Director Dishell, you're up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much, and thank you to Director Rivera-Malpiede, GM, and staff, and
Chair Buzek for your work here. But my question is hopefully a shorter one, which is, it would be great to
get Director Rivera-Malpiede that data that you had referenced to be able to share that out.
And whether we lean on our local lobbying group to prep that into a sort of one-pager that we see go around
the capital, or-- I know that we organize those groups. So if there's a way that we can get it into a pretty
one-pager, because I find that to be much-- incredibly compelling. And of course, we'll send the resolution
in the interim. But I think that will be helpful and appreciated. I'm happy to help in whatever way makes
sense.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Was that a question, or you're good on that? All right, good deal. Thank you.
Director Lewis, you're next, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I could-SHONTEL LEWIS: General Manager-- oh, go ahead.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry. Sorry, Director Lewis. GM Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. And I apologize for talking over you. I know it's awkward in this virtual,
so I apologize for that. But I did want to the direct a response to Director Dishell's comments. We are
engaging with our legislative delegation and, on a recurring basis, working with our lobbyists and Michael
Davies, we disseminate pertinent information to them as relates to what's happening at RTD.
So I just wanted to ensure that you all were cognizant of that fact, because we intend to provide them with
this information. But more specifically, that's at the state level. And to the point that Director Rivera-Malpiede

said, we're looking at the local level as it relates to your engagement. So I just did not want to miss the
opportunity to shed light on what we are doing here at staff. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that clarification. And Director Dishell, thanks for those comments, as well.
Director Lewis, I think it's your turn, now.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right, thank you, Mr. Chair. I actually had a similar question regarding the data. I just
wanted to-- this is a question of clarity regarding the one death per day for fentanyl. Was that on our system,
or was that within the city and county of Denver?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That was in the city-- within the city and county of Denver, according to the
Police Chief.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Do we have data, General Manager, or anyone on your staff, that we might be able
to take a peek at regarding the occurrences in which criminal activity is happening, where some of these
things might be substance use or some of the issues that you all might be dealing with is mental health
occurrences?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please do.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So recognizing that we do have a cross-coordinated effort with Reclaiming DUS, and
we have interim Chief Martingano working in tandem with Lieutenant Ferris of District Six that incorporates
the Denver Union Station campus, there is data that we have available that we're compiling, recognizing
that we use secondary officers. We use our Transit Watch app. We're in the process of compiling that as
we go forward.
To the point that you raise regarding the fentanyl usage, one pill can kill, and there's one death per day. I
did receive that information as well at a briefing. That was provided to us in the Mayor's Office. So I will
circle back as relates to the data that we can provide.
Because I don't want to over-promise, because we're relying upon our partners at the city and county of
Denver, as well as other police departments that are collecting data going forward. And if Chief Martingano
is on the call, Chief, if I could have you speak to that to clarify anything that would enhance the response, I
greatly would appreciate it, sir.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Thanks, CEO. I just want to clarify the question. Director Lewis, you were asking
if there's a correlation between mental health issues and the drug activity?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No. If I might repeat it, would that be OK, Mr. Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please do.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. No, I was actually more curious of what kind of data that you all had. It
sounds more-- at least, it's my interpretation, and you can correct me if I'm wrong-- that it's more anecdotal
at this point-- stories from individuals. And so I was just curious if the hard data that you might have from a
quantitative and qualitative perspective, quite frankly.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yeah, I will get that data for you. We have all the numbers that have been
generated by Denver Police Department for the Union Station area. So once we get the updated numbers- we actually have a meeting tomorrow in regards to their latest efforts-- so I will get that to our CO to
distribute. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Is it fair to assume that that data is broken down by occurrences but also
what activity-- that the activity would be tagged to or logged in a specific way, so drug use, or mental health,
et cetera, et cetera?
STEVE MARTINGANO: So the data that we receive from Denver Police Department is going to be more
of the criminal citations that they issue related to drug offenses. We do have our internal mental health
clinicians that we receive data from them quarterly. So I will reach out and see if they could give us an
updated number before the quarter runs out here in regards to contacts they make in relation to mental
health issues. But like I said, Denver PD is going to give us criminal statistics based off of contacts they
made and criminal citations that were issued.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great. Thank you so much. And I would assume that there-- oh, go ahead, General
Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I was just also going to add that we do have our Transit Watch app, which we have
been encouraging people to utilize. So that is a form of data analytics that we can use. Because we also
just recently incorporated a field that talks about drug activity into that program. And so we can assess that
data, as well. Because as I mentioned, in several instances when I was engaging with the media, the intent
of leveraging that and encouraging usage is so we can use data to make informed decisions as we talk
about deployment. So that's another aspect that could provide a cross-jurisdictional understanding of where
we are, as opposed to just Denver PD.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much for that. Because I actually am a bit more interested in the internal
data that we might have for the occurrences that are happening on our system, not to say that the DPD
information isn't important. I do think it is, which is true for other police departments. But I'm more specifically
interested in the data that we might be collecting as an agency.
So one of the four-- Chair Rivera-- Director Rivera-Malpiede-- I think about the harm reduction center as
we're having a conversation about these issues. And so just wanting to make sure that they're closely
involved. And then, to your point, Director Buzek-- or Chair Buzek. Excuse me. Mixed you two up today.
To your point, Chair Buzek, around this really being about commitments and not about action, I am curious- and I appreciate the commitment. I am curious as to if we will have a follow-up conversation or if we'll get
regular reporting or updates as a Board on what the progress is with this commitment.

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. And I'll speak on behalf of the General Manager, because it's her job. But yeah,
absolutely, this is top of mind for all of us, because it is such an important and critical issue facing RTD. So
we will definitely be having regular updates on this issue. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And then, finally, I just want to say what this commitment is not
saying is that we are criminalizing folks who may be having concerns around poverty. We're not
criminalizing folks who are dealing with substance abuse, and we're not criminalizing folks who might be
having mental health things that they are dealing with.
And I just want to state that-- I know you said that at the beginning of this, General Manager Johnson, but
I think just to say it again that this is not about over-policing or criminalizing activities that aren't criminal
activities. That the intention is to have a comprehensive approach to safety as an agency so that safety, as
it's defined by the myriad of stakeholders that we have, is actualized. So I do appreciate this.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I can, Mr. Chair, I just want to say to Director Lewis-- I've said this all along-- we're
approaching this, at least from my vantage point, with my team, with firm compassion. I think that is the
operative phrase is firm compassion. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, thank you, Director Lewis. Thank you General Manager Johnson. Thank you
Chief Martingano. Director Tisdale, you're up next. But before you start, can you tell me-- the Transit Watch
app, when you have that-- what did you use to say about that?
DOUG TISDALE: If you have the Transit Watch app, you'll never ride alone. And I think that's critical. And
actually, I'll start with that comment. Because at the APTA legislative conference, I was speaking with the
Communications Director for BART in San Francisco. And we were comparing Transit Watch apps, and
she was very impressed that we had included drug activity in our Transit Watch app, which definitely puts
us cutting edge on agencies around the country that are using that.
Speaking of around the country, I do want to put this in perspective, because I know that there are people
outside of RTD who ultimately either will view this meeting or will read about it and say, oh, what's Denver
doing? What's going on with RTD? I want to point out that our challenges are not unique. This is, in fact, a
national problem that transit agencies across the country-- actually, around the globe-- are dealing with.
The APTA CEO-- the American Public Transportation Association's Chief Executive Officers-- conference
was held in Denver this weekend. And I took the APTA Vice Chair, Kevin Hozendorf, on a tour of Denver
Union Station, because he had never spent any time at Union Station-- he'd gone through it once several
years back when we had an APTA conference here in Denver-- and he wanted to see what we had done.
So I very happily obliged his interest and took him on a tour of the station, the commuter rail platform, the
entire bus concourse, and the light rail station, and the pavilions above the light rail-- above the bus
concourse so that he could see what we were dealing with. And he confirmed to me that they have similar
issues at JTA-- the Jacksonville Transportation Authority down in Florida. And he inquired as to what our
plans were.

So I shared some of that with him as I knew it. But I know that the JTA CEO Nat Ford was in town, also, for
this meeting and obviously knows our CEO Debra Johnson very well, and he'll be in touch, I know, to follow
up on what we're doing. Because I think in large part, we are helping to lead the way. And the essential
part of it is for us to collaborate and cooperate with all of the governmental entities and agencies throughout
our very large region so that we can come up with a good plan to address this very troubling issue. Thank
you, Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Tisdale for those comments. Madam Secretary, you're next.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you all. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and all the work that's been done by Director
Rivera-Malpiede and staff. You've said this is not an action item, but it is a commitment to action. And I
think that's what's essential for us to recognize our responsibility.
I really appreciate the intent to engage the Board in this effort, because it is so important. I would suggest,
rather than each Board member sending it to people who they think of the resolution-- if it passes, and I'm
assuming it will-- that RTD Board, as a full Board, send this out to every jurisdiction, every County, every
municipality as a full Board action. And then, in the cover letter, state that their Board members will be in
contact with them to put this into true action.
I think that would be more meaningful than each Board member sending it out to people they think of. Plus,
there's a lot of overlap in counties, in particular. So that's one suggestion for what we do after it passes.
Another one is I really like the idea of an invitation to a tour of Union Station, because that is so important
to all of us. Is it is our hub. But the spokes are also important, and we need to reassure people that we're
thoughtful enough that we're not just going to push people away from the station itself and onto bus lines
and rail lines.
And in connection with that, what is RTD itself already planning on doing? I believe we've gotten a great
briefing tonight on that. I'd like to see that in writing and also the data requested by many people. But I
would also like to see, not only what is RTD already doing, what is still needed? What is it willing to do in
partnership with the jurisdictions, so that the Board members have a firm basis when they're talking to
jurisdictional stakeholders about what we can offer, what we're looking for?
I think that would be much more meaningful than going out without that information. So I would also
appreciate the briefing that we're going to get to include that. That said, I think this is a terrific effort. It's
going to be a metro-wide effort that everybody is going to be aware of. And I hope it bears fruit and that we
can be really proud of our success in this area. So thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Secretary Sloan. And I'll ask you to work offline with Director Rivera-Malpiede
and General Manager Johnson with regard to the dissemination of the resolution. Thanks. Next, we have
Second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am really appreciative of the Transit Watch app and being able
to use it as a tool for collecting data. I think that's really important. And I think that's an important part of our

messaging, to not only some of our stakeholders, but are our riders, as well. I think that's really an important
piece.
And I know where we're talking about Reclaiming Denver Union Station, and I was pleased to hear that
Chair Buzek and Director Bouquet met with Mayor Jackie Millet to address issues down in Lone Tree. I
don't know if this should be directed to General Manager CEO Johnson or Chief Martingano, but I'm very
interested, also, in understanding some of the data around Civic Center Station.
Because I have a number of constituents who bring that to my attention-- the safety issues associated with
that-- on a regular basis. So that's all I have. Thank you for this good work, Director Rivera-Malpiede and
Ms. Johnson. I just really applaud you on all your efforts to try and make this a safer place. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. And Ms. Johnson, do you have a response? Is that why your hand is up?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and yes. Director Catlin, thank you very much for your
comments. So as we look at this holistically, I don't want to leave the impression this is just the laser focus
on Denver Union Station, recognizing that this is an intermodal hub and that that serves as the core, more
or less, of the system as a whole. Recognizing cross-coordination with commuter rail, light rail, and bus,
we'd be remiss not to focus on that. Because those are the spokes, as Director Sloan had referenced.
And as such, we will provide you with data. I want you to know that I am amenable to working with anyone
who you all put forward. I will support you in that effort, as Director Bouquet knows. He talked to me some
time ago in this public forum, and I said I'm more than willing with take meetings. And I have done that, as
well.
So one last piece of this I want you all to know is that we are creating a web page that will chronicle the
efforts that we are doing as it relates to making this a safe environment. There was a recommendation to
put forward a fact sheet. And I came back to that individual and said, that's static.
What we're going to do is chronicle what we're doing as we look at improvements collectively. When it
comes time to do interviews, or there's videos, and things of the like, there will be a central repository, for
lack of a better term, where we can direct people so they can keep us accountable. And we will put that
information up in a very transparent format. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Buzek, and thanks to everybody for the work. I want to go back a little
bit to where Director Catlin was coming from, because I've been riding around in parts of Denver that I
haven't been in before. And what I see is that, in many ways, downtown Denver is a scary place. And it
never was before.
I have had interesting encounters with people at 18th and California, and on the number 6 bus, and places
where I never used to. So it is not Union Station. It's not Civic Center Station. It's indigenous, unfortunately,
to the downtown area of our city, at the moment, which RTD is a big part of.

And I'm really happy to know that we are engaged, as is the city, and county, and hopefully all of our fellow
elected public officials who work at the state capital, which is in the middle of the area that we're talking
about. So I just want to thank Director Rivera-Malpiede and all of you for being engaged, involved public
officials here in our wonderful city and our state capital and to realize that it's not simply, as General
Manager Johnson has said, Denver Union Station problem. It's a systemic problem. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Lewis, I see your hand up again.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I would just like to add that my constituents along the A line would probably appreciate
an update regarding the catalytic converter thefts that have been happening. So just say it out for the sake
of the record.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds good. Thanks for that. Any further discussion on this action item? I see no hands
raised. I'll call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action item? OK, seeing none, this action item
passes unanimously, 15 to 0.
Going to move on to the second action item, which is for the Board of Directors to adopt a support position
on SB 22-180 concerning programs to reduce ground level ozone through increased use of transit. As the
bill was introduced, do we have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved. Director Williams.
BOB BROOM: Seconded.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams and Director Broom. Director Williams is the moveant, and Director Broom
is the second. I would like to ask General Manager Johnson or Michael Davies, Government Relations
Officer, to present any pertinent information regarding this action item to the Board.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Before I yield the floor to Michael Davies, the
agency's Government Relations Officer, in an effort to manage expectations with the staff's
recommendation, I want to ensure that there is mutual understanding that your consideration and possible
approval does not constitute the initiation of a fare-free program.
If this bill were effectuated into law, it would create a grant program within the Colorado Energy Office for
RTD and other Colorado transit agencies to apply for funding to implement a minimum of 30 days a farefree transit service program during ozone season. This is very analogous to the federal bipartisan
infrastructure law that appropriated funding. That law did not establish eligibility criteria for the federal
discretionary grant programs.
Hence, before I can implement any fare-free program-- be it 12 days, 13 days, or 30 days-- I must again
come before this Board with staff's recommendation for consideration of a fare-free program. As this body
creates agency policy, including fare policy, please note that ATU President Lance Longenbohn-- I should
say, ATU 1001-- President joins me in this position, the program can be implemented in light of our previous

discussion with a commitment-- let me say it again-- with a commitment of regional support to provide
security and social health and human services, as RTD can't combat societal issues alone.
I broached that, as Director Tisdale mentioned, the APTA CEO seminar. I spent three days-- Friday,
Saturday-- well, really, it equated three days-- Friday evening, Saturday, Sunday, and half the day
yesterday. And I've talked to my colleagues around the country that have instituted programs. And I know
it's easy to look at data.
But recognizing that there has been a large influx of issues that have basically complicated these, my
ultimate-- my ultimate obligation is to create a safe and welcoming environment for our employees without
fear of looking over their shoulders. So recognizing that, I want you to understand my commitment, because
I do believe in the program. But also, I have an obligation to ensure that our employees basically have a
safe working environment. So I wanted to state that for the record. So with that, I will now yield the floor to
Mr. Davies, who can orient you to the bill, as well as the staff's recommendation. So Mr. Davies, please
proceed.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, thank you. Hello, Chair, members of the Board. Michael Davis, Government
Relations Officer. I'm just going to quickly go over a summary of the bill and try not to repeat too much of
what General Manager CEO Johnson said. So SB 180 does create a grant program that is housed within
the Colorado Energy Office.
The grant program is eligible for RTD to apply and receive up to $11 million per year. The grant will cover
80% of the cost of offering at least 30 days of fare-free transit service during the ozone season of 2022 and
2023. The ozone season is defined in this bill as June 1 to August 31.
Expenses that are eligible under this grant program include replacing fare box revenue and quote, "other
expenses necessary to implement the program" The bill does not define other expenses necessary to
implement the program, but the bill does give a lot of discretion to the Colorado Energy Office to publish
and set policy and requirements for how the grant program works. So some questions may not be able to
be answered until the Colorado Energy Office actually implements this grant program.
With that said, that is essentially a summary of what this legislation does. Staff is recommending a support
position in alignment with the strategic priority of community value. As you all heard tonight, there was a
few public comments prior, and I think it expresses some of the community value that is out there and
community support for this program.
And I think it's important to note that RTD, like any transit agency, has financial constraints that limit its
budget flexibility. This bill presents a unique opportunity to replace the fare revenue and experiment with
fare-free transit. And so with that, I will end my comments, and I'm happy to take any questions.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Davies. We'll go to questions and comments. Director Broom, you're first.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I was just going to mention that I was appointed and reappointed by the
governor to serve on the Regional Air Quality Control Council-- the RAQC. And obviously, because of that,
I really strongly support this. I guess I'll leave it at that.
The RAQC has been a strong supporter of RTD over the years. And the one thing that I remember
specifically was when the Volkswagen settlement came out, they directed quite a bit of money to RTD for
our programs. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Broom, and thank you for your service on the RAQC. Director
Rosenthal, you're next.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you to the General Manager and Mr. Davies on your
work on this bill, as well as our lobbyist, Brandeberry McKenna. And of course, thank you to the bill's
sponsors in the legislature for sponsoring this bill. I'm, obviously, fully in support. It's a great idea. And I
believe it, hopefully, will help have folks use transit rather than use their vehicles.
I do have a couple of questions. So in terms of the 30 days, I was wondering, does that have to be
concurrent-- so it has to go for 30 days straight through, or can we break it up for two weeks and have farefree and then, maybe a month later, go fare-free? So how would that be situated with the number of days?
General Manager Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: To the point that was raised by Mr. Davies, we have yet to receive guidance. Quite
naturally, this needs to be effectuated and will go to the Energy Office. We've yet to know the eligibility
criteria. Mr. Davies, would you like to add to that?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, thank you. I don't have much more to add, but the bill just states at least 30 days
is the language that's included in this bill. There is no reference to concurrence-- a concurrent 30 days. So
that would probably have to be clarified. My understanding is that the intent behind the authors is to offer
30 days consecutively.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK, so perhaps we can get that clarified. I appreciate that. And then the other thing
that I'd like to bring up, with the fire season starting particularly earlier and going later-- and of course, it's
not just here in Colorado. We're also the recipient of fire-- smoke coming from California and other places.
And of course, ozone is not just about fire. It's also about vehicles, and power plants, and things like that.
So perhaps, my suggestion is also have the bill's sponsors and the Energy Office also look at moving up,
and instead of June 1, to make it May 1 and/or make it instead of August 31, September 31, October 31,
to lengthen the time that we are able to take advantage of this program, due to the fact that ozone could
happen-- poor ozone could happen before and after this time period. Especially as we go into climate
change, I think we need that kind of flexibility. My suggestion. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments, Director Rosenthal. Secretary Sloan.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, thank you, again. And I, too, support this bill. And right now, I'm asking for a little
more information on what is the meaning of metro area support in terms of understandable concerns about
problems on the buses and the rail trains with non-paying customers who might not have the commitment
to I follow the rules. And so I understand the need for metro-wide support. We've just discussed that,
essentially.
But I would appreciate some more specifics on, is this asking for some type of formal agreement, such as
an MOU or an IDA? And what percentage of the jurisdictions would need to be willing to say, we'll pitch in
and agree to support? And what types of support should they be committed to? It seems like that needs to
be fleshed out. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. General Manager Johnson, do you have a response?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Mr. Chair, thank you very kindly. I think I would be remiss not to reference the
public commentaries that we heard at the beginning of the meeting, recognizing that Mr. Davies and I have
been working with SWEEP and CoPIRG. And there was the comment by Mr. Katz where we're going to get
the business community together, and we're going to have people support.
So as we go forward, we're going to identify what that support mechanism is. For instance, when we met
with Mayor Millet Lone Tree, for instance, she was saying, what could we do with the health and human
services piece? So basically, it's a clear-cut nexus to what the previous discussion was entailing as relates
to the commitment going forward.
Because quite naturally, if, in fact, we create an untenable situation whereby it is an unsafe area, per se, if,
in fact, this came to fruition and the Board did grant me the authority to institute a fare-free program, safety
is top of mind. And we have to ensure-- as my understanding, what happened during the course of the farefree system that was put in place during the pandemic-- we have to ensure that there is a health and safety
component involved therein. So we will be in the process of working this through with our partners. And Mr.
Davies, would you like to add any additional information to that?
MICHAEL DAVIES: No. I think that largely covers it. And I think from a staff perspective, the intent of
whatever we can recommend to implement is ultimately a program that attracts and retains customers. And
having a welcoming environment is a crucial part of that process, I think.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those responses. Secretary Sloan, was that good? Are you through?
MARJORIE SLOAN: That's all I have. I believe more details do need to work out. The intent of the program
is to encourage ridership, improve our air, but this other piece seems very amorphous to me, about support
of partners.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sure that'll be fleshed out over the coming months, but thanks for those comments.
Secretary-- Treasurer, sorry. Treasurer Whitmore, please go.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I do appreciate CEO Johnson briefing us at least on our twostep process of this action. There's a myriad of steps for staff and our partners. This situation with ozone is
serious, and we know it's real. And we need to do what we can to help those with asthma and those that
are suffering through these times.
That being said, this whole process is fraught with challenges. We've heard many of them tonight. And it
will be, definitely, interesting to see how this works as we move through it. But I truly believe it is a worthy
effort that is fully justified for a number of reasons. If nothing else, as Mr. Davies mentioned, this gives us
a good look at a fare-free scenario that's not tied to COVID that helps us to understand how that may or
may not work. I am concerned about security issues. I had a conversation with the North Metro Mayor on
Friday where her statement was, I don't have any security surplus whatsoever right now. So those are kind
of deals that we're going to have to work through. And I'm sure we can work through that. I do appreciate
the work that will happen and that the experience that CEO Johnson has had in other places will be very,
very helpful. So with that, I will quote one of my favorite state senators-- good bill. Vote yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Treasurer Whitmore. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much. Excuse me. Mr. Chair, Michael Davies and Ms. Johnson, and I
know Director Guissinger has been doing some work, as well behind the scenes to help get this through.
And for clarity, I'm ultimately a yes.
But I also want to be clear that I think this process is how Band-Aid policy gets made-- policy that doesn't
address the root cause. If the root cause or the root goal is to decrease GHG emissions, then the state
could have come to RTD and said, I could throw you $28 million. What's the most effective way to reduce
GHG emissions?
If the goal was to increase transit ridership, legislature similarly could have come to us and said, we have
x dollars in the budget. You're transit experts. I'm not. What's the best way to improve public transit?
And so while I will-- there would be a lot of things that would need to happen for me to be opposed to free
fares, I just want to lead out with some clarity that this is an election year. Instead of us being the punching
bag, at least, so far, we happen to maybe stand to benefit, which is great. But it would be great for those
listening in to really think about the way in which we make policy when we're serving communities as
opposed to being prescriptive for something that's going to catch a headline and sound good but might not
really move the needle.
I think the second piece and second component is I have genuine concerns that we-- without the right
messaging, that people are going to think they're going to have show up and go service-- service that comes
every 10 minutes, with just isn't our reality. And are we inviting greater criticism of RTD service and unfair
disgruntled customers in this? I mean, there's a lot to be fleshed out and not a lot of time.
It says it's for the state's fiscal year 22, 23 budget, unless I'm misreading that. And if the state session ends
on June 15, unless the Governor signs this bill right away, in order for staff to have the time to bring

something back for us to approve it, that really means we're looking at free fares in August, realistically.
Today's April 15.
Am I misreading that for this year? That if this were to pass, the earliest we could do-- if this doesn't get
signed until late July, early June, what's the earliest it could come to the Board for consideration to still fit
within the time frame prescribed?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, Director Dishell. I think you raise a good point on the logistics of this bill and the
logistics of implementing this program. And I think we have to just wait to see when-- if this bill passes,
when it gets signed. And then, following on that, when the Colorado Energy Office actually publishes a
notice of available funding.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may add on, Mr. Chair, to Director Dishell.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So in my opening comments, as I said, we would have to come back to you to institute
a fare program. And while there is a grant opportunity readily available, I think it's incumbent upon the Board
to decide the level of commitment as relates to a fare-free program, recognizing that we had discussions
last fall relative to this agency being committed that basically came out in discussions in August that we
had put monies aside to at least fund 12 days.
So the point of the matter is, where is the appetite, holistically, for the Board of Directors in instituting any
type of fare-free program? This is just supplemental money that could be utilized to fund that endeavor. So
I think, holistically, the team and I had been looking at the June time frame going forward with the
commencement date. So the enactment of said law that would create this grant program would provide
additional parameters for you all to make the decision about the duration, if that's the desire in which you'd
like to go. I hope that addresses your question, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. I think, if it's at all possible, just making sure that we have the flexibility that if the
Governor isn't-- if this isn't quick to pass, and the Governor isn't quick to sign, that we can still get this done- that we can still have two years of fare-free programs, if that's the intent.
Because my concern is, logistically-- and again, do we as a Board decide to take the chance that the money
is going to be there? Because I am genuinely concerned that we won't have the time to really do it right, if
the Board only-- and maybe it's already ready to go. But if there's any way we can work in some wiggle
room to push an extra year if the DOE doesn't promulgate rules on time. Because I don't know that it's a
prudent fiscal decision to approve free funding when we're expected to get 80% of it if the rules aren't out
in time for us to know we're actually going to get that money.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Mr. Chair, if I can add one clarifying point-VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, please do.

DEBRA JOHNSON: So Director Dishell, when you talk about being ready to go, as I shared before this
forum-- in this forum-- the team and I have been working since the fall in reference to the logistical aspect
in working with our operations teams as relates to all modalities that we provide, as well as working with
our Union partners. The only trepidation I would have is our people power problem, recognizing what you
said. And so that's why we were taking a judicious approach relative to a shorter duration of time going
forward.
But from an operational vantage point, we have done the groundwork to ensure that we're ready. So I just
wanted you to understand when we talk about-- if we'd be ready to go with this program, because at the
outset, we would need, I believe, a month. We would like to advertise and set the parameters to manage
those expectations, to your point. So I just wanted to ensure that this full body understood that component
of it. Thank you very much for indulging me.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you for indulging me. And my last question is, do we have the 20%? It says they'll
fund 80%, but we have to come up with 20%. And maybe that's not an appropriate question for this forum,
but do we have it with confidently?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. Recognizing my previous comments relative to making the commitment
as related to 12 days, when you factor in and you do the math-- $340,000 or $350,000 times 12-- we would
basically have the opportunity to have those moneys going forward. And I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. Thank you all for indulging me, and I'm finished.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Dishell. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And yeah, thanks, I really appreciate Ms. Johnson's comments
there. I think that staff has been working hard-- Ms. Johnson, and Michael Davies, and others.
I think the target generally is August. We've been-- this is not-- well, I appreciate your thoughts, Director
Dishell, in terms of how they might have approached it. And I think it was approached-- brought to the
agency. I think that the agency, and Ms. Johnson, and Mr. Davies have been very involved in these
conversations.
This could be a really great thing in terms of bringing ridership back. In terms of our 20%, if it raises fares,
that will help bring some of that money back when-- the Utah Transit Agency-- UTA-- put this in effect in
February. Ridership was up 58% on Saturdays over January, 16% on weekdays, and 32% on Sundays. I
say that, and celebrate it.
At the same time, I share the concerns that Ms. Johnson has mentioned about safety, and security, and
workforce and just really want the agency to be able to put its best foot forward. I think that working together
with our partners is a huge step towards doing that. You heard Danny Katz and Molly McKinley. The

Colorado Forum has met with this twice. The business community is interested. I think there is a lot of
interest.
But I agree. We have to make sure that people understand we are making a lot of changes. I think staff has
done a great job, in terms of starting to-- all of the things we went through earlier around DUS and the
efforts we're doing. Those are still going to be in progress. But this is an important step.
And I think it's an important step in terms of working with the state, the funding from the state, having, as
Michael Davies said, the unique opportunity to have them help fund-- mostly fund-- this free fare test. And
if you didn't see the news today, EPA moved just today to downgrade the metro area serious violator of the
Clean Air Act for ground-level ozone to a severe violator. And that brings a lot of consequences with it.
It means, also, that it's a much more-- it's harmful in itself. It's its own safety issue. And areas with a higher
concentration of Latino residents, the news said, experienced a bigger bump in recent years and a trend
that's expected to continue. We had 48 days that violated the Clean Air Act Ozone Standards.
So I think this is a very good step. It's the timing is tough. And it's going to take a lot of work. And I think-- I
hope we move forward and give it a go. I will be a yes vote. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, First Vice Chair Guissinger. Director Davidson, you're next.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll keep it brief. Really just a comment. Appreciate, Director
Dishell, your comments about the effectiveness of addressing climate change. And hopefully we'll have
more opportunities, whether it's ridership or climate change, to weigh in on these types of things and lend
our expertise.
I just wanted to call out briefly, Mr. Davies, I really appreciated the comment-- and it was brief-- about this
being experimentation with free fares. And the experiment jumps out. And the extent to which this actually
does help with ridership or help with climate change-- and perhaps they're hand-in-hand in terms of
encouraging more ridership on transit-- I'd be very curious-- and I'm sure this is the plan, given that we are
becoming more data-driven, which I appreciate, under the leadership of you, General Manager and CEO
Johnson-- that it would be very useful to look at the type of data that Director Guissinger, you just brought
up after the fact.
If we were to move forward to something like this, what happened to ridership? Is there anything we can
compare to vehicle miles traveled during that time frame and really understand, did this have the intended
effect? So just wanted to call-- I appreciate the comments. I've heard a lot of conversations.
There's a number of debates out there about free transit versus not, and what's right for some areas versus
not, and whether these types of things have impact on climate. So really just a comment. Happy if there's
a reaction out there, but just to say, I hope that if we do go forward with this, we'll do a really thorough
analysis of the data and what happened across multiple systems after the fact. So thank you very much for
the opportunity to comment.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Davidson. Director Tisdale, you're next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think it is important, whenever we can, to
demonstrate our collaboration and cooperation with our fellow governmental agencies and to communicate
that-- to communicate that to them, to our riders, and to our constituents. And I think that this is one, great
way to achieve that goal. I hope it will be successful.
And I have reason to believe that it will be. And I hope that our enthusiastic support for this will send that
message loud and clear to all of those people. And I also hope that our great spirit of collaboration with the
legislature will induce a spirit of reciprocity when it becomes relevant to the RTD in the future. Thank you,
Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for those comments, and we can only hope. Director Williams, you're next.
KATE WILLIAMS: I hate it when I have to follow Doug. Jeez. He's so fantastic. I find it very interesting-and I'd like to put this on the record-- that we are looking at the two opposite ends of a coin.
We are looking at all of the problems that we have with safety and security with riders and people who are
not necessarily riders in our facilities at both ends-- at Denver Union Station and down in Lone Tree-- who
are less than desirable. But we are also looking at fare-free, which nobody is stepping up to the plate to
allow, also encourages more of those kinds of people in and on our system. So I am 100% in favor of
anything that helps us to make transit more accessible for everyone. And fare free is one of those.
But I think we need to look, as I say, at both ends of the bookends here to see if, in fact, our ridership
numbers are going to be people that we would prefer to have riding and not necessarily a 20% increase in
people that we would not prefer to have riding. So just a thought. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Williams. Director Cook.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. I'll try to keep it brief, too. I think, as Michael Davies has said, this is an
opportunity. I'll tell you, folks out here and in generally, I've talked to the news reporting about 30 days,
potentially, of fare-free riding, have been excited by the prospect and are already talking about joint
marketing efforts.
And I take advantage of that to talk also about the need to work on security associated with it. So I think
this gives us an avenue for creating those bridges to identify solutions to problems that we may anticipate.
So I just hope that the stance we take isn't, we'll do it if-- if we get the support, but rather, this is an
opportunity.
We want to do it right, so it's a good experience. Let's figure out how we can do it together. So that's my
thought there. And the 30 days, to me, was pretty key. So thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Cook. Director Rosenthal, you're up.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And so just a real quick-- I know it's my second bite at the
apple, here. Just looking at when the bill was introduced on March 25, and then it was actually heard four
days later in the Transportation Committee in the Senate. And then, basically less than two weeks later,
heard in Appropriations Committee and now referred to the Committee of the the whole the entire Senate
floor.
This bill is moving along fairly quickly. It doesn't sound like anybody is sitting on it. And of course, the
legislature has only a month left to enact action. So I think it's moving along.
And just reading the tea leaves, it doesn't sound like anybody's keeping it. And I fully expect the governor
to sign it fairly quickly. Thank you. Especially since it was his idea-- publicizing it. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. Davies or General Manager Johnson, would you all have the
opportunity to co-create that regulation with the Energy Office?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, Director Lewis. I think we'll have the opportunity to have dialogue with them. We've
had a good working relationship with them up to this point in crafting the concept of this bill and providing
information to them. So we've had a good working relationship, and I don't think there would be any reason
that we won't have that in the future.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great. So it's possible to build in the flexibility necessary to make this work for RTD?
OK. Thank you. That's it.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for those comments. And seeing no other comments, close out our discussion
and take our vote. Are there any no votes on this matter? Seeing none, this matter passes by a vote of 15
in favor and 0 opposed.
Next, we move on to other matters. Are there any other matters to come before the Board in this Special
Board Meeting? Seeing none, I will now entertain a motion to adjourn.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So moved, Director.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis moves, and Director Tisdale seconds. Any no votes on that one? No, I don't
think so. Thanks for participating. The meeting's adjourned at 6:53 PM. Committee Chair Davidson, we
need a break before the Finance and Planning Committee meeting?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair. Let's take a five minute break, and we'll convene two minutes
before the top of the hour.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, everyone, for being here tonight at Special Board Meeting.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.

