1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, September 6, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 6:07 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Present

Arrived
6:00 PM
6:00 PM
6:00 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Absent
Present

6:04 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Committee Chair

Absent
Present

6:00 PM

Bill James

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

6:00 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

6:00 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present
Present

6:00 PM
6:02 PM
6:00 PM
6:00 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Remote
Present

6:04 PM

Directors Deadwyler and Francone were absent. Chair Tobiassen participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Susan Cohen, Heather
Copp, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Nate Currey, John Elias, Sherry
Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Shayne Ford, David Genova, Erin Klaas,
Adrian Mabry, Mike Meader, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois,
Henry Stopplecamp, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Debra Baskett, Joe Christie, Mike Dino, Rick Fahlstedt, Ken Fleck,
Barry Gore, Hamilton, Matthew Helifant, Svetlana Grechka, Kent
Moorman, Roger Sherman, Yong Song, Karen Stuart, John
Thompson, Joe Tripplett, Lisa Trujillo, Gary Van Dorn, Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Discussion of the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation (APE) and FasTracks
Financial Plan
General Manager Genova reminded the Board that the Annual Program
Evaluation (APE) was reviewed at the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee last month. He stated that Heather Copp would review staffs
rational behind their recommendation as well as other scenarios that were
considered and the reasons why they were not chosen by staff.
Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of
Finance and Administration, stated that the August 6, 2016 Financial
Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet contained background
information for how staff established their forecasts. She noted that staff
compared the Baseline scenario with three other scenarios: Backfill from
Base, Backfill from FasTracks Reserves and from Base and Backfill from
FasTracks Operations and Reserves.
Heather Copp remarked that the Baseline scenario encompassed the
following:
 Moving a total of $130.8 from the Base in 2024-2030 to balance
FasTracks
 Issue Certificates of Participation (COPs) in Base in 2023 for $59.2
million for bus purchases
 Build Board appropriated and operating reserves in the Base System
to maintain equivalent of 3 months of operating reserves consistently
through 2040
 FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) is utilized to balance
FasTracks in years 2021-2024




Keep FasTracks reserves equivalent to 3 months Operations and
Maintenance (O&M)
By the end of 2040, Base System unrestricted fund balance will be
$1,352.2 million, FISA $0 and FasTracks unrestricted fund balance of
$539.6 million for a total available balance of $1,891.8 million

Heather Copp indicated that the first alternative scenario, Backfill from Base
Reserves, required the following actions:
 Moving a total of $336 million vs $130.8 from the Base System
 Increase COP issuance in base from $59.2 million to $239.6 million
 Reduce Board appropriated and operating reserves in Base System
significantly
 Keep FISA allocation going for a cumulative amount at 2040 of
$518.1 million
 Keep FasTracks reserves equivalent to 3 months O&M
 By the end of 2040, Base System unrestricted fund balance will be
$973.9 million, FISA balance of $518.1 million, and FasTracks
unrestricted fund balance of $356.8 million for a total available
balance of $1,848.8 million
She added that this option backfills from the Base to fill up the shortfall on
FasTracks and leaves the FISA account alone. She noted that since more
money would be needed than is available, staff would have to begin issuing
debt for bus purchases after 2032 to free up cash to fund FasTracks.
Heather Copp noted that the second alternative scenario, Backfill from
FasTracks Reserves first and then Backill from Base included the following
actions:
 Moving $305.6 million vs $130.8 from the base






Increase COP issuance in Base from $59.2 million to $239.6 million
Reduce Board appropriated and operating reserves in Base systems
Keep FISA allocation going for a cumulative amount at 2040 of
$518.1 million
Reduce FasTracks reserves from 3 months to 1 month O&M
By the end of 2040, Base System unrestricted fund balance of
$1,025.4 million, FISA balance of$518.1 million, and FasTracks
unrestricted balance of $304.1 million for a total available balance of
$1,844.6 million

She stated that with this scenario, there will still be a need to issue the
same amount of debt as the first alternative. While the reserves are a bit
higher, there is only one month of O&M instead of three.

Heather Copp noted that the third and final alternative was to Backfill from
FasTracks Reserves and FasTracks Operations and Maintenance:
 No base funding used for FasTracks
 Keep FISA allocation going for a cumulative amount at 2040 of
$518.1 million
 Reduce FasTracks reserves from 3 months to 1 month O&M
 Reduce service on W Line, R Line, University of Colorado A Line, G
Line, B Line, N Line, Flatiron Flyer, and eliminate Free MetroRide for
total savings of $352.9 million
 By the end of 2040, Base System unrestricted fund balance of
$1,545.8 million, FISA balance of $518.1 million, and FasTracks
unrestricted balance of $304.1 million for a total available balance of
$2,368.0
She added that while this scenario does not issue additional debt, staff had
to reduce service on every line in the FasTracks system and eliminate the
Free MetroRide. This option provides the greatest amount of savings but it
decimates the operating service in FasTracks.
Heather Copp remarked that staff’s thought process was that it was prudent
not to issue additional debt or cut service, therefore, the Baseline scenario
was the best option for the Agency.
Director Anderson indicated she spent the afternoon reviewing the charts
and noted that the Baseline scenario was the most appropriate option. She
commented that the alternative scenarios are very risky and RTD should
have more than three months of O&M reserves. She remarked that when
RTD gets to the other side of this, it will have the same amount of money as
the other scenarios. She added that arguing over a reserve account does
not make sense, but it is important to be fiscally responsible to all of RTD’s
constituents to ensure that RTD does not have to quadruple its debt.
Director Solano stated that there is still a lot of North Metro that needs to be
done and asked staff to set up meetings with the local jurisdictions to
discuss the APE, FiSA and RAM.
Committee Chair Hoy asked that staff set up meetings before the September
27th Board Meeting with any local jurisdictions that were interested.
Director Lasater asked if staff had factored in population growth for the
various scenarios. He stated that RTD needs to adequately and sufficiently
factor this in. Heather Copp stated that there were no growth projections
factored into any of the scenarios, but taking money from the Base system
does not reduce service. She commented that it would take away some
ability to potentially allow for increased service, but funds could always be
moved back to the Base system at a future time.

Director Lubow stated that she had asked Heather Copp to run an additional
scenario which returned funds to the FISA as they became availible.
Heather Copp indicated she had run additional scenarios which examined
reestablishing the FISA in 2030. She commented that staff could look at
refunding the FISA in 2030 up to $224.6 million, but that it would take all
of RTD’s unrestricted funds and money from the Base to get there. She said
that while there is a way of doing it, RTD would end up in the same exact
position as the Baseline scenario. She remarked it is financially feasible to
get there, but the political decision today would be moving Base money into
FISA and making that commitment.
Director Lubow said whatever scenario the Board adopts, Base money will
need to go to FasTracks. She remarked that RTD has been building
FasTracks on the backs of the northern taxpayers and they have continued
to contribute, but got nothing in return. She stated that what is happening
to FISA is not fair to the northern constituents. She indicated that the
people in the north want to get to 144th, not 124th, and she thinks this can
be solved with a small tax increase.
Director Bagley stated that one of the things the Board needs to consider is
when will the next recession hit. He commented that the Board needs to be
financially prudent and have substantial reserves instead of a marginal
amount of money. He stated that it is not just about the Northwest Rail or
the North Metro continuation. It is about every corridor and a lot of people
across the District feel that they paid and got nothing from FasTracks. He
added that to go out and spend more money and have more debt issued is a
concern. He remarked that staff works prudently to examine the best
options for the Agency and he trusts their recommendations.
Director Sisk indicated that there are a number of contrary points being
examined. He remarked that the FISA account was set up as a contract
with the voters that had not received their corridors. He noted that the
concern now is that by doing away with the FISA, RTD’s commitment in
2012 did not mean anything. He stated the other paradigm is that RTD is in
a financial crisis and the FISA money would allow RTD to borrow less. He
remarked that he would like to see staff review naming rights and other
revenue streams and added that RTD needs to examine the contracts it has
made with its constituents.
Director Anderson said that Director Sisk is correct and there has to be some
other ways to finance FISA, or as least look at other options. She stated
that the packet showed that some of the expected financing did not
materialize and the Board needs to be aware of that. She believes that the
most responsible way to get through the next few years is using the
Baseline option, but the Board will still have the same obligation in 2040 to

build the Northwest rail and the North Metro line. She added that she is
happy that the Eagle P3 Project worked, but the Board is arguing over
something that it should be proud of.
Director James thanked staff for exploring the various alternatives, and
clearly what they have showed the Board is that there are several routes to
get to the same place, but the Baseline option provides the least amount of
risk. He noted that staff is projecting what will occur in 20 to 30 years, but
those projections will be wrong. He stated that staff cannot accurately
predict the future because of the ever changing economy.
Director Lubow stated that there is an agreement to finish FastTracks. She
added that right now, it is the obligation of RTD and the Board to get it
done.
Committee Chair Hoy encouraged staff to sit down with representatives
from Adams County and US 36. General Manager Genova stated that staff
will have a variety of meetings with stakeholders from across the district.

D. Other Matters
Director Lubow stated that she saw a lot of letters to the editor in the Boulder Daily
Camera about the transit center at Denver International Airport (DIA). The
complaints stated that the escalators are far away and the signage is bad. She
indicated that while the transit center at DIA is not necessarily RTD’s responsibility
in many aspects, we need to answer to our ridership.
Committee Chair Hoy stated that RTD is working with the airport to address all of
those concerns.
Director Lubow asked if RTD could use the money from the Denver Transit
Partner’s (DDP) penalties to reimburse people who have missed their flights.
General Manger Genova stated that use of the penalty money would be at the
discretion of the Board. He remarked that there have only been two deductions,
but the majority of that share is $250,000 a month that began in June. That
deduction will continue to occur until all of the grate crossings on the University of
Colorado A line pass their inspection. He added that similarly, on the B line, if that
singular crossing is not approved in September, $100,000 will be withheld until it
passes. Right now, there is a design time for how long the gates stay down at
each crossing and half of the crossings do not meet that criteria.
Director Lubow stated that she would like to see that money be used for
constituent concerns at DIA.
Director Lasater said he rode the University of Colorado A line to DIA and he would
concur that the signage is minimal, but the ticket booths are convenient. He
indicated there is a walking distance to get to the train, but the platforms are well
marked. He suggested that the train operators inform passengers that the train has
to stop for an oncoming train since part of the track is single track. He stated that
when the train momentarily stopped, people had assumed that the train broke

down. He commented that if the train is stopping as planned, it would be nice to
let people know it will only be for a minute or two.
Director Solano stated that he travelled on the bus and train all last week from
Parker and he was only asked for proof of fare once. He stated that fare
inspections need to be consistent.
Director Lasater added that he saw inspectors do fare checks twice on the
University of Colorado A line, but no checks were done on light rail.
General Manager Genova stated that there is a security officer on the University of
Colorado A line to satisfy the Federal Railroad Commission’s’ requirement of two
employees on each train. He said the reason that those inspectors check fares
twice is so that they may capture additional boarding’s at various stops. He stated
that on light rail, having an officer on each train would require additional funds.
General Manager Genova introduced Mike Meader, the new Chief Safety Officer
(CSO) and Assistant General Manager of Safety, Security and Asset Management.

E. Next Meeting Date - October 04, 2016
F. Motion to Move into Executive Session
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, stated that an Executive Session is being held and
only the Board and necessary staff may attend. He remarked that the Sunshine Act
requires that the Board identify the session in as much detail, and there must be an
affirmative vote of 2/3.
Motion:
Director Folska made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purposes of discussing
CRS 24-6-402(4)(e)(I) Determining positions
relative to matters that may be subject to
negotiations; developing strategy for
negotiations; and instructing negotiators Discussion of positions relative to the commuter
rail Concession Agreement.
Director Solano seconded the motion.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Barbara Deadwyler, Tina Francone
Tom Tobiassen

Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
The Board moved into Executive Session at 7:38 p.m.

G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 8:27 p.m. directly from the
Executive Session.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

