Summary of the Operations/Customer Service meeting held on Thursday, March 13, 2008
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

March 14, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee Meeting held on
Thursday, March 13, 2008 at 7:16 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

Chair Daly, Noel Busck, Bill McMullen, Neill Quinlan, Wally Pulliam,
John Tayer

Barbara Brohl, Juanita Chacon, Bill Christopher, Bill Elfenbein, Lee
Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Chris Martinez, Dave Ruchman, Barbara Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Lloyd Mack, Rick Clarke,
Brian Matthews, Daria Serna, Tony McCaulay, Dave Genova, Caitlin
Magee, Paula Perdue, George Hovey, Trent Radcliff, Phil Washington,
Brian Matthews, Larry Buter, Bill Porter

Others:

Howard Alton, Stanley Gronek, Roger Chapin, Bruce Behnke, Jim
Wolf, Don Robinett, Tom Coogan, Dave Jackson, Jonnie Thomas, Ben
Lamoreaux

Call to Order:
I.

****
Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 7:16 p.m.

Recommended Action
Exercise the Option to Purchase 99 Replacement and 44 Expansion access-a-Ride
Cutaway Buses
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager Customer and Contracted Services introduced
this item. This procurement will replace 99 access-a-Ride buses and provide 44 buses
to meet the expansion of access-a-Ride service. The money for this procurement is
from Senate Bill 1.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Thursday,
February 7, 2008
Page 2 of 4

Director Tayer asked Bruce Abel to provide environmental specifications on the
vehicles.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise the option to purchase 99
replacement and 44 expansion cutaway buses to be used by access-a-Ride. The option
price is not to exceed $52,000 each for a total award not to exceed $7,436,000.
Motion:

Director Busck made a
motion for approval before
the full Board at the March
18, 2008 Board Meeting.

Second:

Director McMullen seconded
the motion.

Vote On
Motion:



The motion passed
unanimously.

Fares Adjustments for Special Services - Bruce Abel spoke to this action item. The
Federal Transit Administration recently introduced regarding the provision of charter
services. RockiesRide, Broncos Ride, BuffRide, RunRide, CU/CSU Football games at
Invesco Field and Race for the Cure are services that the District provides falls under
charter services. This will bring fares in line with what is charged for similar fixed route
service.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that RTD’s fare
structure for special services (RockiesRide, BroncosRide, BuffRide, RunRide, CU/CSU
football games at Invesco Field and Race for the Cure) be adjusted as indicated in
Attachment A in order to comply with the new Federal Transit Administration
regulations regarding the provision of charter services.

Motion:

Director Pulliam made a
motion for approval before
the full Board at the March
18, 2008 Board Meeting.

Second:

Director McMullen seconded
The motion.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Thursday,
February 7, 2008
Page 3 of 4
Vote On
Motion:

II.

The motion passed
unanimously.

CAD/AVL Presentation – Bruce Abel introduced Dave Jackson from Booz, Allen,
Hamilton to give a briefing on the Radio – A presentation on Computer Aided
Dispatch/Automated Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Action Plan was distributed to the
committee. A copy of this presentation is available for review in the Operations and
Customer Services Meeting Minute Notebook.
Mr. Jackson introduced the team of Dan Lamoreaux and Jonnie Thomas. The
District’s radio and CAD system are at the end of their useful life and needs to be
replaced. A redundant system is wanted with improved coverage.
The presentation proposed a path to address technical, institutional and logistical
challenges to have the new systems deployed and operational by December 31,
2012.

III.

Weekend opening of Civic Center Station – Bruce Abel introduced this item and
referred to the memo in the Board packet. Bill Porter, Manager Service
Planning/Scheduling spoke to this item. The Route 16LTD will now be terminating at
Civic Center. The 83Ltd will also terminate there on the weekends as it does during
the week. The General Manager’s unallocated funds will pay for this the rest of the
year and then this item will be added to the budget for the following year. This will
not be brought forward to the Board as a budget amendment until the summer.

IV.

Update on Mandatory Overtime by Operators in Longmont – Status Report – Bruce
Abel introduced this item and referred to the memo in the Board packet and asked
for questions on the memo. Chair Daly expressed his concern over the numbers and
the fact that street supervisors and dispatchers are being used to bridge the gap.
Chair Daly expressed a desire to see routes switched with First Transit losing some
routes. Roger Chapin of First Transit said that they are working hard to resolve the
problems and trying some innovative ideas. First Transit is working with the ATU to
come up with solutions.

V.

SEC Insulators – SEC Report –Cal Marsella introduced this item. Insulators have
broken on southeast light rail corridor which caused service interruptions. SECC
selected an insulator made by a company called K&M. They met the specs for the
project. During constructions they started to notice some problems with the
insulators. Lloyd Mack, Assistant General Manager, Rail Operations reported that
this winter over 20 incidents insulators failed. As a result of this, all the insulators
on southeast corridor will be replaced with insulators made by Siemens. Director
Quinlan asked who pays for the replacement. Rick Clarke responded that this is an

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Thursday,
February 7, 2008
Page 4 of 4
ongoing discussion with the contractor. The contractor is claiming that the magchloride that CDOT uses on the highway is causing the breakdown. Lloyd Mack
reviewed the differences between the Siemens insulators and the K&M insulators.
In all the years of operation on the Southwest light rail line and Central Platte Valley,
not one insulator made by Siemens has broken so staff is confident the replacement
will fix the problems on the Southeast light rail line.
VI.

August Run Board – Possible Impacts of Democratic National Convention – The
August runboard was scheduled to begin on August 24th the week of the
Democratic National Convention. As a result of the convention, staff is looking to
begin the run board on August 17 instead of the 24th.

VII.

May Run Board Status Report – Staff added over 8 routes for running time
adjustments. Route 66 will now terminate at Southlands Mall. Route B, staff is
addressing the overloads on 5:00 p.m. trip by adding a trip to the BX at 5:18 that
should alleviate standing. The Route Lynx has changed midday headway to hourly
from every half hour.

VIII.

Route Match – Status Report – Bruce Abel gave an update on implementation of
Route Match AVL mobile data terminals. On March 8, 2008 the new Route Match
AVL system went live with the reservation and scheduling component. Telephone
transaction times increased from 3 minutes per transaction to 10 minutes per
transaction. Phone lines were overloaded and queue times went way up. Staff
made the decision to revert back to the old Trapeze reservation system until the
issues can be resolved with Route Match. Staff is developing a new project
management scheme and will come back to Board with a revised target date for
implementation. As a result of the long hold times and difficulty scheduling trips, all
access-a-Ride trips on Tuesday, March 11, 2008 were complimentary as an apology
to the District’s acess-a-Ride customers.

IX.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

X.

Next Meeting Date: This next meeting of the Operations/Customer Services
Committee will be April 8, 2008 at 5:30 p.m.

XI.

Adjournment – Hearing no objection, Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 8:12 p.m.

