2023-11-06
Audit Committee Meeting
BOBBY DISHELL: The Monday, November 6 Audit Committee meeting will now come to order. We are
convened as of 11:00 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself
unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this morning. Please note that committee meetings of the RD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meeting, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube
page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
today's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before
proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to
indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press
star 6.
I would now like to call the roll for committee members. Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Erik Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: I am here. Jim Brendel. John Olenberger.
JOHN OLLENBERGER: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Jim Brendel. For the record, I see that we also have Directors Ruscha, Chair
Guissinger, Sloan, Guzman. I miss anyone? I don't think so. Great.
I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to
speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Jack. Yes, you have your hand raised.
JACK KROLL: I just would like the record to reflect that Jim Brendel was in attendance. He was just here
as a member on the other side of the meeting. And so we've since ported him over and he should be
here. If not, we'll get-- I don't see him here yet. But we'll get him in and squared away as soon as
possible.

We did not receive any public comment in advance and I do not see any indication that we have anyone
from the public here to speak at this moment.
BOBBY DISHELL: Perfect. Thanks, Jack. And yes, let's have the record reflect that he was here, just in
the other meeting. So with no participants in the queue, we will close public comment at this time.
There is one recommended action on the agenda this morning. That item is for the 2024 Internal Audit
Committee Function Charter, for the Board of Directors to approve the 2024 Internal Audit Function
Charter. Do we have a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Davidson.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson is the movant. Do we have a second?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Catlin as the second. I'd like to ask Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, to
present the item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. Good morning,
everybody.
This item is required by the Audit function charter. This is the internal audit function charter. We just have
a few small items of correction to make on those. Most of those are grammatical and we do have one
addition to this.
I would like to introduce Matt Marino from RubinBrown. He's our Chief Audit Executive here at RTD. And
Dave Haronik, who's also joined us from RubinBrown, is an Audit Manager. Matt, would you like to
discuss this item?
MATT MARINO: Yeah. So thank you, Doug. As Doug previously mentioned, we did have a few edits, and
then we had one additional edit that we would like to propose. And it would be to add a clarification of
adding the GM/CEO to the executive leadership paragraph on page 6. It's packet page 10 of the packet
that was sent out earlier. But other than that, it's really just little grammatical corrections and really nothing
that came to our attention that needed immediate update, other than these small grammatical corrections
throughout the document. Any questions?
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thanks, Matt. Any discussion on this item? Seeing none-ERIK DAVIDSON: Chair, Director Ruscha has her hand up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Ah, Director Ruscha, go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just briefly, do other transit agencies or similar government
agencies have-- well, I know that there are-- let me rephrase. In preparing, in drafting our charter
document and looking at these potential revisions, did we do any kind of comparative analysis to other
government agencies and what their charters look like?
BOBBY DISHELL: Matt, go ahead.

MATT MARINO: Yes, I can address that. We looked at other transit agencies and other agencies of
similar size. And we tried to pull from not only those agencies but also the professional standards to make
sure that we put together the most comprehensive policy document that we could.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair, if I may ask?
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So just for my understanding, is there another transit agency that would
be on that list just for our comparison? I understand it won't look the exact same.
MATT MARINO: A lot of what was developed came as a result of the APTA peer review. And so we really
took our cues from the APTA peer review that we, as a district, elected to participate in about, almost two
years ago, at this point, I believe.
BOBBY DISHELL: And I can, I mean, I was involved in the process. I know Director Davidson and
Director Catlin were also involved. Director Davidson, I don't know if you still have that Excel sheet that
sort of showed the various Board obligations against the internal audit standards somewhere. If not, I can
look for it. But happy, Director Ruscha, to chat. Or don't know if Director Davidson or Catlin, I'm sure,
would volunteer as well to talk more about how we came to the charter itself.
Director Davidson? The initial version that's now being amended.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Chair. Certainly happy to answer any questions. I know the work
product that you're referring to and I'll review whether that's available to share out with other Directors. So
thank you. I'll look for that after this meeting.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Great. Director Ruscha, anything further?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No. Thank you. That answers my question. And I just think for new Directors this
year, that might be helpful in advance of the Board meeting.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, that would probably be a helpful onboarding item for new
Directors, Jack. Maybe we can connect on how to make sure that gets programmatically implemented on
a go forward.
Are there any other questions on this matter? Are there any no votes on this action? With five ayes and
zero nos and zero abstentions, the motion passes.
There is one discussion item on the agenda this morning. That item is for the internal audit update. I'd like
to ask Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, to present this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes. And I would like to turn the discussion over to Matt
Marino, Chief Audit Executive. There have been some internal audits that have been completed. We're
very happy that we're making progress in this realm and we're following the internal audit plan. And Matt
will have a lot more detail. So Matt, please go ahead.
MATT MARINO: Is everybody seeing the agenda packet? OK. So I'm starting on page 21 of 84, which will
be our Internal Audit Update. So the first couple of slides are kind of a high level summary of where we're
at. And then we're going to walk through the audit results from here on forth.

So as a reminder, we did develop our audit plan comprehensively with reviews of management, as well
as interviews of Directors. And we put together an audit plan and proposed it to the Audit Committee as
well as the full Board of Directors, did get that approved. We're well on the process of executing many of
the audits. So I'm going to walk through some of those results and kind go through this slide a little bit.
So current accomplishments. We have completed three audits and there are two more that are completed
but that have not been yet issued. We'll issue those here shortly and talk about those in our next meeting.
If you go to the right there, you kind of see the overall results and whether we were on track, a little bit
behind, and so on.
So the ITGC, internal controls over IT, general controls over IT, was a little delayed. It was our first audit
out of the gate. Some just learning curve on organizationally on how we want to work through that. But we
did get it issued.
The procurement audit had some slight delays. And then the employee training we really hit our stride
and are pretty much on time. And then the remaining district fleet revenue vehicles review and district
non-revenue vehicles review are also on track. And then safety review is on track for starting in early '24.
Already kind of talked about the challenges a little bit.
We do issue this weekly to make sure we keep management up-to-date on where we're at in the process,
to make sure that everybody has adequate lead time as far as when audits might be kicking off, where we
might be in the process and so that everybody can provide their feedback. One thing that we did work
through throughout the process is as recommendations were made with regard to different audits, there
was a special emphasis from management to make sure that we not only provided corrective action plans
but those plans had achievable targets so that it's highly likely that those corrective action plans would be
implemented and achieved by the target dates that were communicated in the document.
So that was something that took a little bit more time to work through, to make sure that we could hit
those targets, but I think it was a good process to make sure that we say where we're going-- we do what
we say we're going to do with regard to those corrective action plans. Any questions on the update there?
I'm going to jump into a little more detail, but I wanted to talk about the process at a 10,000-foot level and
we'll jump down a little bit each time. Not seeing any hands up.
BOBBY DISHELL: I have one thought.
MATT MARINO: Go ahead, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. You noted the corrective action plans being there and making sure they're
implemented. What is the plan to make sure that the corrective action plan taken actually addressed the
underlying issue that it was intended to?
MATT MARINO: Yes. So included in our audit plan was some unallocated time to follow up on any
recommendations that were issued as part of prior audits. So we will follow up on different
recommendations after the target date has elapsed to make sure that those have, number one, been
implemented, number two, that it did alleviate the matter that was highlighted as the observation. So the
internal audit function will follow up on those.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. So if an action is intended to be completed by March 31, 2024, when can the
Board or this committee expect an update to see if that was successful?

MATT MARINO: We'll work with management to schedule as soon as we can. But we would like to close
them out so that we can report back as soon as possible. They'll also be a focus, which I'll get to in a little
bit later, there's different severities or magnitudes of the recommendations. So obviously, items that have
higher magnitude or higher severity will need to be followed up on more rapidly. And the items that are
what I would say best practice, we will follow up on those but they would not be with the same urgency.
BOBBY DISHELL: So just to avoid that sort of squishier language, because I think audit is pretty critical in
that audit doesn't report to management, it reports to this committee. And of course, we and management
step hand in hand. So from a management standpoint, is it reasonable to assume that three months,
generally speaking, three months after is an appropriate time by which we would get an update, this
committee would get an update on whether a corrective action plan was successfully implemented?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So what you were hearing from the CAE, it's been intentional that we have been
working in lockstep. Hence, we were adhering to the internal chartered audit-- sorry, internal audit charter,
recognizing that there's a myriad of things that we have to do. And so as we focus collectively as a
management team, considering that we're getting back to basics, all of these things are critically
important to us. Hence, we had a briefing last week in which the CAE was available and we went through
that. Hence, we signed off on that prior to coming here. So we are prepared to ensure that we adhere to
the timelines as outlined in the documents of which you are viewing today.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. That's-- sorry, I'll be more specific, right. I'm not questioning, right, hey, March
31, the date, March 31 is the date it's delivered. I want to know-- we said the corrective action plan to
address this issue was going to be completed by March 31. Did that corrective action plan actually
address the issue? Did the plan that we implemented to correct the deficiency, was that successful?
And I sort of heard from the Chief Audit Executive, it's a little bit of a softer timeline on when we're going
to get that report back. But that seems to be a pretty critical function is that if we're implementing a
corrective action plan that it gets implemented but that it actually worked.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Right. So if I may, really quickly, Mr. Marino. So when we're talking about, as we
go forward looking at our laser-like focus on learning and development, there's a myriad of different things
that have to take place. When I came into this organization, there was a decision made to do away with
learning and training. We're rebuilding that team. So contingent upon a lot of different external factors
right now, we have a stellar leader in Charlene Polege and Melissa, our manager, who was moving this
forward. But there's a lot of different elements.
So in turn, what I was trying to communicate to all of you is that, yes, we have a laser-like focus on this.
We're going to do whatever we can in our power to ensure this comes to fruition. But hence, we will
ensure that we're working with the CAE to deliver back, if, in fact, there are some issues that are beyond
our control, i.e., we can't get a consultant that can provide us with the subject matter expertise and
leveraging trainings. Those things basically are geared toward the readiness and availability of those
SMEs in that arena.
So that's what I mean. And that's why the answer may appear to be squishy. But we're committed. But
there's external, there's interdependencies upon which we have to depend.

BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
MATT MARINO: And may I ask a clarifying question?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
MATT MARINO: Would it be an expectation-- I'm just asking a theoretical-- if there is a critical or a high
level observation, do you have an expectation that we would at least report back to you within the threemonth period, even if it's not done, just if it's scheduled to be audited, when it will be audited, or if we've
audited it, is that kind of what you're asking us to commit to? Just to clarify.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. That would be great. Just to say, hey, yeah, we saw it, they did it. It's in
progress. We've communicated with management. Management said if we started a new training
program on day one, it might not be appropriate to know whether-- we need a year to know whether or
not this new program we put in place worked.
MATT MARINO: I think we could at least commit to at least giving you a status update within three
months after the planned completion date for the corrective action plan, if that's what you're asking. That
is well within reasonable expectations.
BOBBY DISHELL: That'd be great. Yes, Mr. Olenberger. I think you're on mute. No. We can't hear-- or at
least I can't hear you.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Sorry about that. The old mute key. Question for internal audit regarding
management responses. When it comes to-- do you guys review those management responses to make
sure that they have at least addressed the recommended action? I understand once the action has been
completed, you do the follow up audit and say, did it achieve what we were hoping to achieve? But do
you guys review it in the first place, so if you recommend A, B, and C, and the management response
only addresses A but doesn't say anything about B and C, do you guys review for that and work with
management to develop something that at least addresses the recommendation, whether or not
management agrees with the recommendation?
And Matt, I think, are you on mute?
DAVE HARONIK: I was going to jump in. I can address that one we do work with management.
Sometimes we even offer advice as to what maybe a good plan of action could be. There are times where
management can just accept the risk and say, we don't want to do anything about it, which is
management's right to do. We would just report out on those facts. But we do try to work with them and
make sure that everything is in the best light possible going forward and the achievable plan and timeline
from there.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK. And if management does disagree with a recommendation for internal audit,
will that be explicit in your report, basically saying, management disagrees with this portion of the
recommendation?
DAVE HARONIK: Yes. Luckily we haven't had to come upon that as of yet, but that is definitely
management's right and we would call that out. Sometimes you'll see in some reports that there'll be an
audit team response to a management action plan. But we try not to do that. We will work with that team
prior to that report being issued.

JOHN OLENBERGER: Great. Thank you.
MATT MARINO: Sorry about that. I'm unmuted now. So sorry about that.
BOBBY DISHELL: No worries. Any further discussion on the 10,000-foot? Great. Please proceed.
MATT MARINO: I think I saw a hand just go up, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: It sure did. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And again, I am not on this committee and I'm a new Board
member. So I apologize if this has been addressed previously.
There was a mention of measuring our success and our progress. And this might-- well, I'll just ask, in
these audit recommendations, do we have a function by which we are measuring that success? So it's
one thing to say that we will perform a corrective action. But in just looking at, again, the very high level
report given to us, that's still very high level, how does the committee, the Board, or management know
that the implementation is meeting a certain standard, I guess you could say, depending on the subject?
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Marino.
MATT MARINO: Yes. I just want to ask one clarifying question. Are you asking with regard to best
practices, strategic plans, all of the above? I just want to clarify. Because there's many ways to look at
optimal operation of the entity.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I guess I can just-- I'll just withdraw my question. And I'll be forthright. I was
surprised-- and again, I'm new. I'm surprised that we get a summary sheet of an audit report without much
additional information provided. So without knowing details of an audit, I think it would be difficult for the
Committee or the Board to understand if any corrective action plan is sufficient or, once completed, if-- I'll
just leave it at that.
MATT MARINO: Oh, I understand what you're saying now. I apologize. So the entire reports are attached
to the agenda packet at the back. We just had the summaries up front here in the slide deck. So the three
reports in their entirety are in the back of the packet.
BOBBY DISHELL: And the other thing I'll just note, Director Ruscha, is that earlier when we were going
back and forth on that follow-on audit, I think is aligned with what you were asking, which is making sure
that the corrective action plan is implemented and that it's addressing what it was intended to address
was sort of that language we were using. But happy to engage further.
Are there any other questions or discussion matters?
JOYANN RUSCHA: But I'm sorry. I just want to clarify. I did read the entire agenda packet. I mistakenly
thought there was additional information. And it sounds like there was not. This is the full report. So I
apologize. I thought there was additional information that we just didn't have.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Marino, please proceed.
MATT MARINO: Yes, thank you. And I do want to clarify that it's been of utmost importance to not only us
as the audit team, the Audit Committee, as well as management, that we are fully transparent and

providing all of the documentation to not only the Audit Committee but the Board of Directors, because we
understand that that was the expectation from the Board of Directors when we went through this process
last year. So I want to clarify that as well.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I wanted to say that in the five years I've been on the Board, I
was very, very pleased with those the three audits and the progress that has been made compared to
what we had experienced in previous years. So I was very impressed with the professionalism and the
organization of the audits themselves and look forward to seeing more audits, and actually look forward to
seeing, as you suggested, Director Dishell, some of the follow-up.
So I wanted to say thank you. This is such huge progress from where the agency was before. And I just
wanted to make sure, for the record, that I stated that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Catlin, and absolutely agree. Mr. Marino, please proceed.
MATT MARINO: Thank you. So just to review the Audit Plan at a high level, here's the remaining Audit
Plan. So if you can see, we do have follow-up on corrective action plans due built in quarterly. So we will
do that quarterly, to the extent that any corrective action plans need to have been implemented. So we'll
build that in on a quarterly basis going forward, now that we have reports issued.
And then the green ones are the done ones. The blue ones are done but not issued. And the yellow ones
are in planning. And then the various blue or the reddish/pink are the future planned audits. So we'll
continue with the Audit Plan, unless for some reason something needs to be moved either from a
management availability or we have a change in risk. But at this time, this is the Audit Plan that was
approved several months back.
So I'm going to talk through the Oracle IT General Controls Executive Summary. I'm going to talk about
the Procurement Report Executive Summary, as well as the Employee Training Executive Summary. I'll
talk a little bit about the report rating definitions and the internal observation priority, just because it's
important to understand that.
So I'm to jump ahead on the slides a little bit and go first on the three rating definitions that we have
issued. We have satisfactory, needs improvement, and unsatisfactory. So I'll walk through each one of
those. Satisfactory, just like it sounds. It's things in scope were generally in compliance and applicable
policies and procedures were followed. Needs improvement. The areas in scope were generally in
compliance but there are certain deficiencies that were noted throughout the process. And then
unsatisfactory. The in-scope areas of the project had substantial noncompliance in the areas. So that is
important to understand before we go through the results of the Audit.
And then when we make report observations, we have different priorities that we assign to those
observations. So we have High Priority, meaning it needs to be done, basically, if you look there at the
last line of that box, urgency of action, corrective action plan is required within three months or other time
period deemed reasonable by both management and internal audit. So it's something that requires more
immediate attention.
Moderate Priority, or just like it sounds, it's less in severity than High. And then Low Priority, or process
improvement, are your best practice sort of recommendation, things that we would like to see improved

but it's not absolutely critical, but it's still observations that we made. So I just wanted to frame that before
I go through the audit results at a high level.
So if we go to the first audit, the Oracle IT General Controls Audit. So just like it sounds, you're looking at
the IT General Controls that are applied to Oracle. So that audit did receive an Unsatisfactory rating.
There were five observations that we've elevated to the High observation rating, and then six at
Moderate. So when you look at the combination of five High and six Moderate, that's why it was assigned
the Unsatisfactory rating.
There are elements that we won't talk in detail, just due to the security nature of some of the IT General
Controls with regard to Oracle. We will discuss that later in the meeting during Executive Session. But I
did want to go over that at a high level and make sure that we point out that we've worked with IT
management, cybersecurity management, and all of management to understand how the different
elements of the observations will be handled. And we will be following up on those. Any questions with
regard to that one
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Chair. I just was wondering. If you want us to hold questions about
specific audits and results and discussions until the end, after we get through all of these, or if we wanted
to discuss both of these as we [INAUDIBLE] slides.
BOBBY DISHELL: You're coming in a little under watery, but I believe I heard your question of, do we
want to hold questions or do it as we go?
MATT MARINO: With regard to the ITGC, it might make sense to hold the questions with regard to that
one, just due to the nature of it. But the others, I would entertain questions right after I present it, if you'd
like to go through details on that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Ruscha.
DOUG MACLEOD: No more hands.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right. Mr. Marino, please proceed.
MATT MARINO: OK. I'll proceed. So the next audit that we did is we did a, it was a scope down review of
the procurement process of the District. But it was a review of the procurement.
Oh, yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah.
MATT MARINO: Sorry about that.
JOYANN RUSCHA: The request was, would you mind making your presentation fill your screen so that
we could see it?
MATT MARINO: I can do that.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I also have closed captioning. Well, it's Zoom talk-to-text. So that does
help a little bit. Yes, that way I don't have to flip screens. Thank you.
MATT MARINO: Thank you for asking. Sorry about that.
OK. So the next one is the Contracts and Procurement. So this was the second on the list of the Audit
Plan. So we were really just looking at the contracting and procurement procedures of the District overall.
We did have six observations with regard to this audit. And they were all in the Low rating or Process
Improvement rating. And the overall audit did receive a Satisfactory rating. We did perform the work
basically July through August. And we were provided with the corrective action plans from management.
And we have reviewed those and worked together with management to make sure that those were all
reasonable.
And then the next one is the Employee Training Program Internal Audit Executive Summary. And we had
one High risk rating, nine Moderate, and one Low. So this did receive the Needs Improvement rating
overall.
I do want to point out that management was very cooperative throughout the process. And as GM Debra
did point out that this process is a building area for the District and is kind of working on building that. So
while there was some thought on, would this audit provide any value? We did find it highly collaborative to
help highlight areas where there could be improvements in the areas and make it to build the training
program with regard to the District to where it would like to be, even though this is a snapshot in time.
Went through that. So here's the detailed audit. So the Contracts and Procurement is first. Does anybody
want to ask any detailed questions on the Contracts and Procurement Audit?
BOBBY DISHELL: I have one, which is an observation one. Why do we exclude leases, IGAs, and other
matters, especially recognizing that partnerships is such a core part of our strategic plan? Why are those
removed from audit?
MATT MARINO: Some of the leases and some of the other contracts will be audited as part of other
audits. So one like the Denver Transit Partners contract is slated for an audit, and some of the other
audits would bleed into other areas. But we did work with management to scope the area that we thought
was appropriate and achievable within the time period achieved.
Dave, did you have any other further commentary, other than that?
DAVE HARONIK: I would just add that we tried to focus on contracts that went through the full
procurement process to make sure that it was fair and equitable. And those are the ones that ended up
being sampled. So there could be a lease or something out there that was something more of a repetitive
nature or there's already a long-term contract that's out of our, I guess, audit period that did not get
sampled.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. And this may just be a language one. But in the target date, it notes that we're
only going to be populating new contracts for goods and services. Does that mean that new leases and
other new matters, IGAs, things of that nature will not be included in the repository?
MATT MARINO: I would need to clarify that before I can give you a full answer on that.

BOBBY DISHELL: Great. If we can get clarity on that, as well as-- I know it says it'll occur in stages-- but
if we could get clarity on what those stages are and how we plan to make sure that those get
implemented, just so that from the audit standpoint, and from the Audit Committee standpoint, we can
continue to track that, that'd be great. Right? Because otherwise we have no way to know when that
target is going to be hit, other than the repository existing by the end of the year.
MATT MARINO: Yes. And I believe I see a hand up from Leah Riley.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, Ms. Riley.
LEAH RILEY: My apologies. I did not mean to raise my hand.
BOBBY DISHELL: No worries. Now I have two of you with two hands raised. But no, none of them are,
not there. Mr. Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: I'll unmute my microphone this time. Tends to work better that way.
I was wondering, in addition to reviewing the adequacy of the management actions, do you also review
the reasonableness of the management action completion dates? And one thing that, just some verbiage
that caught my mind on the management action was on issue number, observation number two on packet
page 35. Small issue about saying, we're going to post these things in the newspaper. And that's a little
dated.
So management is saying that we're going to take a look at whether or not we can make that change by
the end of the year, but that making the change of just removing, we're going to post this in newspapers,
in quotes here, "would take much longer." So I look at stuff like that and I say, why does something like
that take so long? And I realize the RTD is a complex organization. But I'm learning too. I'm relatively new
to the committee here.
And so I just want to make sure that RTD's management is being nimble about some of these responses
too. And so I don't know if that's a question or comment for Internal Audit or management, or probably
both.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: If I may. Mr. Chair?
BOBBY DISHELL: Go ahead.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO.
So recognizing the question/comment that was received, we are trying to be as flexible and agile as we
can. As indicated in the comments by Audit Committee Olenberger, recognizing we are a subdivision of
the state of Colorado, we wanted to ensure, relative to getting this packet done, that we had appropriate
time to work with General Counsel to assess what might be optional or feasible as we go forward,
recognizing that we do use an online procurement system of which we have individuals or entities
registered so it will be fair and open competition.
We also didn't want to cut off our nose to spite our faces, recognizing that there could be some small
businesses, disadvantaged business enterprises, women business enterprises, minority-owned
enterprises, or things of the like, that may need to look at publications in a standard periodical. Hence, we

are going to assess that and be able to double back in the appropriate time frame, as qualified, once we
can get a legal rendering relative to our status as being a subdivision of the state of Colorado.
General Counsel, do you have anything further you'd like to add?
MELANIE SNYDER: No, I don't think so. Thank you, GM and CEO Johnson.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. And Mr. Marino, this may be in your plan. But just for the sake of
the record, so other Board members, to the extent they aren't able to attend today, can come back to it,
would you mind just quickly walking through just the observation and the corrective plan?
MATT MARINO: Do you want me to do it for each audit?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, for each audit. That'd be great.
MATT MARINO: I can do that. Yep. Yep.
So the first one this, and we're still on the Contracts and Procurement. So the first recommendation is
consider identifying adding tag key to identify the contract types. So corrective action plan, as we talked
about, the District is in the process of creating a cloud-based repository for this. And so that is a big
process. Because as you alluded to, the District does have just a few contracts and agreements that gets
entered into in any given year. But they are going to work on getting that, make sure that happens. And
we'll create the proper tags so that we can through the different types of contracts, whether it be an IGA,
a goods, a service, and so on, so that we can pull the appropriate contracts when follow-up audits or
other regulators come in to review our contracts.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Any questions on observation one? Great.
MATT MARINO: Number two, we talked about a little bit, but recommendation was to consider removing
the requirements for newspaper advertisements. As has already been mentioned, we're making sure that
we cover our bases with regard to Colorado laws, as well as federal procurement law, to make sure that
we have advertised in all the different areas that we need to. So management is looking at the options
and is looking to complete that by the end of this calendar year.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Any further questions on observation two? Thank you.
MATT MARINO: The recommendation with regard to observation three is continue working with
Information Technology to implement DocuSign or another similar alternative to manual procedures or
signatures. This has become much more common in the post-pandemic era of the electronic signature.
And so management is going to work with that. And that will be target date by June 30, 2024, on the
different options, whether it be DocuSign or some sort of other commercially available solution.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Just for clarification, so by June 30 we should know whether we're going to go
out to bid or not for that type of solution. And then from there, it would be another however many days
procurement takes to procure digital signatures, should that research yield that that is the choice. That
make sense?

MATT MARINO: Yeah. And I'm not, I guess depending on the cost of it, whether it would even require
procurement too. It may not. And they may be done sooner than that. I guess it would depend on how
substantial and whether it's folded in with other elements of contract management, if that makes sense.
BOBBY DISHELL: Perfect. If we could just be apprised of the progress, that'd be great.
MATT MARINO: Absolutely. So the recommendation with regard to observation four, continuing working
with Human Resources on establishing a Procurement 101 module for the Workday Learning
Management System so that our personnel can refer and learn about the procurement process. So that
is, Contracting and Procurement is working with HR to work on developing this training that will be
available to RTD staff. And that would be looking to implement that by June 30 of 2024 within the
Workday Learning Management System.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. And this is a request I think probably beneficial for the full Board. But at least for
me, it would be great if RTD Board members would also be able to enroll in that training. I think my
experience has been there's a lot of questions on procurement at Board meetings and perhaps could be a
useful training tool for new and existing Board members as well.
MATT MARINO: Thank you. Observation five, consider updating the procurement standards manual to be
simpler and reference other procurement procedures and processes. Contracting procurement will
undertake the proposed revisions to simplify and streamline the procurement standards manual. This is
obviously going to take involvement from not only Legal, Finance, and other departments to make sure
we're covering all of our different compliance and other laws and regulations. But estimated target date of
May of '25 with regard to that, just due to the substantial nature of it.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right. Any questions? No.
MATT MARINO: OK, observation six, consider utilizing OpenGov to create solicitations. OpenGov is one
of the options out there to do solicitations. So management contracting and procurement is currently
implementing a solicitation and contract bill solution to replace that current manual process. Launch of the
build process for templates, whether it be RFP, RFQ, or so on, is slated for December 31, 2023.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great.
MATT MARINO: And that is it for this audit.
BOBBY DISHELL: One quick question is, that's a lot for one person, Ms. Steele, to take on and to also
have one of the first three audits. Is that department appropriately staffed? Is there a line item in the
budget in order to make sure that those positions get filled so that these can be implemented
appropriately?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, please.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So recognizing we are in the process of budget development for 2024, when
working with the team, the CFO specifically, when we talked about various elements, we wanted to
ensure that we categorized them. Was this safety-related? Was there a regulatory compliance issue? Or
was there an obstacle in which one could perform their regular job? With that as the backdrop, yes, there

are additional positions that are being allocated for this division in the course of the 2024 budget, upon
which the Finance Committee and subsequently the full Board will consider.
BOBBY DISHELL: Perfect. Thank you.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: You're welcome.
BOBBY DISHELL: Further questions on Contract and Procurement Audit? All right, seeing none, let's hop
over to training.
MATT MARINO: This is the Employee Training Program review. So we'll go through. We already talked
about the overall results.
Observation one, recommendations, consider implementing a formal agency-wide training and
development framework that applies goals, objectives, strategies. Management should also consider
reviewing agency-wide training and development policy and procedures on an annual basis to ensure that
the different knowledge and skills are being updated on a regular basis. And then management should
also consider developing an annual training plan that outlines the training, development, and initiatives
based on addressing the employees' gaps and performance deficiencies identified to ensure the agency's
training plan aligns with the strategic goals and objectives for the year.
So the Corrective Action Plan. The development of the learning division will develop a employee training
and learning development framework and procedures that govern the agency-wide and make sure that
we're pushing towards the strategic initiatives for the District. This is a June 30, 2024 target.
As CEO/GM Johnson alluded to earlier, this is a major initiative for the District and is currently being
undertaken by-- I see I have a question from Director Davidson, and then I think Director Catlin after that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Proceed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. First of all, is my audio coming in OK?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, my apologies about before. So I think, I'm mindful of the fact that we conducted
this audit early in the tenure of our new Chief People Officer, Charlene Polege. I think my question is
largely for staff but also curious what dialogue occurred between RubinBrown and staff on the Corrective
Action Plan.
Several of these observations share a common theme of not having centralized oversight. So it seems to
me that a holistic approach, there's just probably a lot coming together. And as I understand from prior
meetings of other committees, as Ms. Johnson has shared with us, we have some new plans coming
together around our processes and procedures within the Human Resources function.
So I'm just curious, did we look at how these Corrective Action Plans and focus on observation one here
fit within any new plans that are being still currently defined by our Chief People Officer, Charlene Polege,
and Ms. Johnson? So long winded way of saying, I know that we have a lot of moving parts right now.
This audit was early in the tenure of some changes to Human Resources. I'm curious what dialogues
occurred and to what extent we have not just had one, two, three, four Corrective Action Plans, but how

those fit into the comprehensive plan that may already be underway for any changes to our Human
Resources function and processes.
BOBBY DISHELL: Ms. Johnson, please proceed.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you. And then I will yield the floor to our CPO Polege.
So recognizing the comments that you provided, Director Davidson, thank you very kindly for doing so.
Because you hit the nail right on the head. So this audit was undertaken, but recognizing that we
collectively as a leadership team already recognized where we had challenges and opportunities. More
specifically, as we look holistically trying to ensure that we can retain our people power here at this
organization, it's intentional.
Several weeks back, Melissa McDowell, Dr. McDowell, who serves as the Learning and Development
Division Manager, presented to the leadership team a framework relative to centralized functions and
things of the like. And those were taken under advisement as we prepare going forward into 2024 what
type of resources do we need. And I'm proud to say, just last week, under the leadership of Dr. McDowell
and CPO Polege, that we commenced with our supervisor and managerial training last week that will be
continuing on into this week and several additional weeks.
So I would like to say that, yes, we have taken this under advisement. There had been dialogue more
specifically. But I would like to yield the floor to the appropriate SMEs in this arena so they could better
address their engagement relative to the questions in which you posed.
So CP Polege, I'll yield the floor to you. Thank you.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Great. Thank you, GM Johnson.
So Charlene, Chief People Officer. I concur fully with what GM Johnson has said. And you are correct,
Director Davidson, many of these recommendations that you see are all-- it's not to say that the training is
not occurring. What is clear is that it's not centralized. It's very disparate. And we have a definite need for
improvement.
A perfect example would be we have 400 safety training courses available, 400. What we need to make
sure, are they the right courses? Who needs to take them? When do they need to take them? Do they
need to recertify? And we need to get that all in one location under one umbrella.
So Melissa McDowell has crafted, so this work in particular here is already underway, as GM Johnson
indicated. And really putting forward the appropriate resources and you'll see what the timelines that we
are taking this audit very seriously. We welcomed the audit, frankly, because it helps to structure the
movement that we need to make forward. So creating that One RTD approach to learning and
development, that will reach further than just required training but also into ongoing growth and
development of employees, which will help them have a long, fulfilling career at RTD.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson, does that address-- were there follow-on questions?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair, and for GM/CEO Johnson and CPO Polege's answers. That does
answer my question, and very helpful to hear how that was considered. I think just one small follow-up. I
noticed-- and Chair, you had asked about this in the prior audit-- Dr. McDowell's name appears a number

of times. Sounds like it'll be very busy. And June 30, 2024 is a big date for a lot of deliverables that are in
here.
Again, I know I'm skipping a little bit ahead. Apologies. But it does appear here on observation one. Is that
fair to say that because some of these corrective actions, like the corrective action in observation one, fit
into a broader, more holistic plan that is coming forward at June 30, is that why that date repeats?
And I guess I'll ask a second part of that question, which is, are we sufficiently staffed and have the
resources that we need to accomplish such a plan?
CHARLENE POLEGE: May I, Chair?
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
CHARLENE POLEGE: So yes, that is why that date comes together is because that is the date that we
are targeting towards with respect to the overall plan. And of course, we will prioritize the implementation
of certain areas of that plan sooner than others, so i.e., around safety. I think that goes without saying.
With respect to resourcing, yes, we have in our 2024 budget there is additional resourcing requested and
included in that budget for training and development specifically related to the outcome of this audit and
then the broader plans.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, CPO Polege. And thank you, Chair.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Director Davidson actually posed the questions that had come to
my mind. When I read this audit, it seemed rather daunting and really large, the effort. And I, too, was
concerned about available resources. But it sounds like it's well in hand.
Ms. Polege, I wanted to thank you for your comment about, we welcome this audit because it helps us
figure out how to move forward. And you had a vision for this and you wanted to move forward and this
just kind of supports that vision and gives you some structure. And my mind has always been audit
should be used as a tool for improving the agency. And the fact that you embraced this audit and
welcomed the suggestions just is just wonderful to hear. So thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Any other questions on training observation one? All right, let's proceed.
MATT MARINO: Observation two, recommendation, management should consider establishing a more
central oversight of the agency-wide employee training and development programs to ensure that
employee training and development plans are aligned with the overall strategic goals and initiatives.
So this kind of alludes to the somewhat decentralized nature of many of the functions of the District. And
so the management corrective action plan will review the organizational structure and then create the new
position of the Development and Training Division. And that division would have oversight responsibilities
for agency-wide employee training programs. And so target date for that is February 29, 2024.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Any questions on observation two? No. Thank you. Please proceed.

MATT MARINO: Recommendation with regard to observation three, management should consider
implementing a formal review and approval of the learning content in the system for alignment with the
RTD strategic plans. Management should also consider establishing standards for learning content of the
agency's employee training program to ensure the training materials are accurate and relevant.
So obviously, training is not useful if it's not accurate and relevant. And so management's corrective
action plan is the Development and Learning Division will develop procedures for the Workday Learning
Management trainings, including security administration, access, standards of learning, content alignment
with your strategic plan, as well as review and approval process and content revision. So this is just really
making sure that what's in the system is relevant and the most up-to-date information. Target date for that
being completed is February 29, 2024 as well.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. And was there a risk item? I noted that for 661 courses had contact personnel
who are no longer RTD employees. Is there financial or legal risk associated with those items, or was that
not analyzed as a part of this? If you don't have the right contact person, and you engage in a service and
someone says, hey, you didn't pay, or hey, you didn't engage, or hey, we're auto renewing your contract,
was that a risk here?
MATT MARINO: We did not look at that as part of the audit process, this specific audit.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. So there is, I guess the note is it would be great to understand what the role of
those contact personnel are to make sure that there's no issue there with other risks that may exist of
having a contact person who is no longer with the agency.
Saw Ms. Polege first. But Ms. Johnson, I'll leave that up to the two of you to-DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Right. I just want to provide some context. Because we do utilize Workday as our
human resource management system. I don't believe it will come to any surprise to any of RTD Board
members that are convened on this virtual platform that there are opportunities with Workday holistically.
And so when we look at data, it's just that somebody has not gone in and shored up that data specifically.
So there could be individuals that have separated from the organization, recognizing that this was a
system that was put in prior to me and Ms. Polege, but also in the midst of the height of COVID. And so
with that as the backdrop, I will yield the floor to Ms. Polege, as I wanted to provide that context because
that preceded her. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Ms. Polege.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you, Chair. Thanks, GM Johnson. I just want to affirm, those 661 courses,
really what would happen, because it's our internal Workday, I can create a course, load it into Workday,
and I put myself as the contact. I'm no longer here. What will happen is there will be a bounce back.
They'll just get a bounce back email which sends them down a path of trying to find out who in Workday
should they be talking to if they had questions.
So these are not external regulated courses. They're things that we've created internally. And so that's
why we want to put the control in at the centralized location, so that these items get updated
appropriately. And also, to ask the larger picture, is that the right training to even go into Workday in the
first place? So it's a great question, Chair. But there is, from our perspective, there is no legal risk. It's
more of a internal customer service risk.

BOBBY DISHELL: Perfect. Thank you. That's very helpful. Any other questions on observation three? All
right. Observation-- Ms. Polege, I see your hand is still up. No worries.
Observation four.
MATT MARINO: Observation four, management should consider establishing a process for analyzing an
employee's developmental needs in order to design and develop the agency's employee training for jobspecific, general business, and soft skills. Management should also consider implementing a policy
requiring employees to take refresher courses in areas such as safety, substance abuse, cybersecurity
awareness, and stay up-to-date with the changes. So this is really getting at tailoring the training, making
sure skills stay current but also making sure that it also helps improve any individual employee's
development in order so that they can maintain with the District for many, many years because they're
furthering their career with the District.
The Development and Learning Division will develop the training assessment plan and measure
employee knowledge and competencies, including pre- and post assessments with regard to individual
trainings. And then they'll also develop and make sure that required refresher courses are outlined,
whether there's upskilling required and any reskilling. And so target date, this kind of aligns with the
overall target date of June 30, 2024 as well.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Questions on observation four? Please proceed.
MATT MARINO: Observation five, recommendation, management should implement the corrective action
plans to improve supervisory practices with training that includes how to provide effective performance
feedback, recognize operators' achievements, and communicate in a productive and constructive
manner. The Development and Learning Division has developed the agency-wide manager and
supervisory training, which will start, pretty much a couple days ago, at this point, and it will continue
through June 30, 2024. This training will address that specific area and obviously kind of aligns with that
June 30, 2024 target date as well.
And I believe I have a hand up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Chair. So this one struck me as a borderline High, because it deals
with our workforce challenges. And given that it was an unremediated prior observed item, albeit by the
Colorado Office of State Auditor, not internally, but I just was curious how the Corrective Action Plans
have changed. So it mentioned that we had a Corrective Action Plan. That Corrective Action Plan was
paused due to the COVID pandemic.
I'd be willing to bet that these Corrective Action Plans that are now picked back up are new and different,
based on this plan that starts on October 30. Just curious to hear a few additional comments from
management, if they're able to comment on what exactly was planned, what was paused, and how things
have changed with the new Corrective Action Plan.
BOBBY DISHELL: Ms. Johnson, please proceed.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly.

So in reference to the comment about it being paused, due to the fact that when you look at training of
this magnitude, especially when we're trying to ensure that we are providing necessary, I would say,
interactive-type engagements, due to the fact that we were in the midst of COVID in 2021, we could not
have people assembled in the same room for various spacing reasons.
So this audit, being the Colorado Office of the State Audit, dated December, 2020, basically that was
provided to us in December of 2020, as you are aware. And we provided responses back in the first
quarter of 2021. So then there was an additional uptick as related to COVID and so we could not have
those individuals. And so that's how it was paused.
Recently, we put out a solicitation some time ago where we did a bench contract relative to having
subject matter experts relative to professional services and we were able to go through that process and
reconvene. That's what I will share. And I believe CPO Polege is best to describe the elements as relates
to where we're going forward and what we're doing. So Ms. Polege, the floor is yours.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you, GM Johnson. I would say with respect to going forward, I think it's
important, certainly was important for us and under Dr. McDowell's leadership, working with the external
third party, we actually went out to the leadership to say, where do we see gaps? What do we want?
What does that supervisor and manager training need to look like?
And so we've created a total of 24 hours of core training, 6 different modules. And then we will be adding
on to it. Previously mentioned procurement and contracting training, that will also be added on. So it was
really designed in-house. I can't speak to what was paused, as GM Johnson noted. But I can speak to the
purposeful intent of ensuring that we have modules on growing leadership, getting the most out of your
team, being an effective RTD supervisor and manager-- there's two separate modules on that-- a module
on employee ownership, as well as putting it into action and moving forward.
And I would just say that there has been a real purpose in a pre-assessment in all of these modules and a
post assessment, after the training, plus also built in time for application of knowledge. So not just, we're
coming to a training module, we're getting together, isn't that great. It's how did you apply it when you
returned back into the work environment.
And then also, supervisors and managers are developing an individual development plan. So based on
what I've learned through these six modules, what do I need to take away and really focus on? Because
all of us leaders, we show up differently and we bring our different skill set. And so real purpose. I keep
using that word purpose, but it was purposeful and thoughtful related not just to the 2020
recommendations in that audit but what does RTD need today.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comments. And thank you, Chair.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. In the top section under Internal Audit Observation, in the
bullets, bullet number three, it references the CBA. And I just wanted to make sure I understood. I don't
think this is what the report is trying to say, but I'm reading, I guess, are we suggesting that the CBA is an
issue identified or are we simply stating that we are following the CBA?
And if it is the latter, I guess I would just offer we might want to take that bullet and put it elsewhere in the
report and not list it as an issue.

BOBBY DISHELL: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly. So to offer up some context, recognizing as part of
the state audit that was conducted, I believe, in 2019, that third bullet to which Director Ruscha is
referencing, it was stating, more or less-- and the audit is readily available as well, so one can interpret
this for themselves-- but having engaged specifically with the auditors personally, recognizing that there
was a need to provide supervisory training, because oftentimes people stood behind the collective
bargaining agreement and rushed to discipline, as opposed to coaching and motivating and providing
clear cut direction on what somebody could have done, as opposed to issuing a record of contact or more
or less documenting something that an operator did not do.
So this is based upon the supervisors. Because what we have seen in this organization is that oftentimes
people were promoted just because they were in a position for a period of time. Anybody that has been in
different supervisor or managerial positions can recognize, you can be in the same position for 20 years
but have one year of experience 20 times over, as opposed to actually having 20 years of progressive
supervisor or managerial experience.
So this basically was geared toward, how does a supervisor better engage with a frontline employee?
And I'll give you an example. Does it make sense prior to somebody going out being the face of our
organization, engaging with a frontline customer and sharing with them that they were being called up on
disciplinary charges? And so there's a matter in which one can do that so you're not jeopardizing their
psychological safety prior to them going out on the road and having a higher level of care as it relates to
delivering service that requires safety aspects of which can be, I could say, diminished relative to having
something else top of mind when one is considering their job performance.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, Mr. Chair?
BOBBY DISHELL: I see Ms. Polege has her hand up. I just want to make sure, if it's responsive to your
question, that you get the full download from staff first.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sure.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you, Chair. I just want to add as well, as GM Johnson pointed out, that's
the actual bullet from the audit. The key point in that bullet-- so hence, why we didn't change it-- but the
key point is that currently feedback generally is only provided in that process. Like that's the formal
mechanism that we have for feedback.
So that is something that is restricted in the collective agreement. Represented staff do not have a annual
performance assessment process, where one might get a feedback that's not just corrective in nature but
also. So what we're trying to do is how one gives the feedback but also help supervisors and managers
learn how to create other opportunities to provide feedback, not just as it's prescribed in the CBA currently
and in the employee handbook, absent having provisions where we are able to provide annual
performance assessments.
So just wanted to say, the wording is exactly as it came from the audit, but it really is just highlighting that
there's a void of if the only feedback that's being provided is just through that process, let's work on
creating an alternate environment and certainly enhancing the tone in which it is supportive and corrective
in nature, as opposed to disciplinary, even though that's what the process is identified in the collective
agreement.

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So I just want to say, I appreciate GM/CEO Ms. Johnson's context or
contextualization of that statement. So that exact statement does not appear in the auditor's report,
although it's reflected. So there is more context there.
And so I would just offer feedback, for whatever it's worth. We might want to consider how that's worded.
Because it sounds like the CBA itself is the issue. The CBA itself, from the auditor's report. I didn't
interpret it to be an issue. I'm don't think RTD is saying it's the issue. And a CBA would not touch on soft
skill that we're identifying here.
So that's why I flagged it, because again, the bullets are prefaced by what the issues are. And so that's
why I just wanted to ask that clarifying question. But I do appreciate, again, the context provided and the
steps that we're taking to address them.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Anything further on observation five? One thing I'll note, and to the extent it
is allowable under the CBA, a number of the notes were about operator report outs, as opposed to
manager report outs. And in the corrective action plan we note that we're providing additional manager
and supervisor training throughout 2024.
Will we also be surveying or otherwise getting feedback from our represented employees, regardless of
which union they're in, to make sure that the training is working? Because it's one thing to ask a bunch of
managers that have been in this position in private practice. The managers all say, training is going great.
We got new train the trainer training. It is going awesome. And then you ask the frontline employees and
they say, what are you talking about? No, it's not.
So if you guys could just speak to how we're managing that side of it, that'd be great.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So if I can start. Specifically, when we do our employee ownership survey, there's
questions asked of all employees. And we intentionally do it during the service change, so we can have
operators readily available, since they are bidding on their pieces of work, engage in said survey so we
can garner their perceptions, attitudes, and opinions relative to their work environment and how they're
being treated.
And so more specific to this point, we did drill down into data relative to what it is. We do have employee
ownership task force, of which there are operators that are participating as well. So this enables us to
garner a better understanding of how might we go about leveraging supervisorial responsibilities.
Because considering that we have a plethora of frontline individuals, be they operators, maintenance of
way, track inspectors-- so I want to be clear that we're not just speaking only to operators-- that we garner
a better opportunity to understand what it is that they're doing holistically.
So that's just the baseline that I just wanted to share for context. I do see CPO Polege's hand up and Dr.
McDowell's hand up as well. So think it'd be advantageous for you all to hear from them, as they are
really engaging in the evolution of the supervisorial managerial training.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right. Whoever wants to go first.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Actually, Chair, if I can defer to Dr. McDowell, she can speak to the evaluation
process, because it's a key part of the framework that she's bringing forward at RTD so that we really can
assess the value and return on investment, frankly, of our training. So I defer to you, Melissa.

BOBBY DISHELL: Dr. McDowell.
MELISSA MCDOWELL: Thank you, Chair. Melissa McDowell, Manager, Development and Training.
So to the question about will we be assessing operators, the answer is yes. One of the things that myself
and my team have focused on with this training is ensuring that we're doing pre- and post assessments
and collecting data. There's no need in us doing the training, especially training that is this extensive, that
is essentially running for about eight months through June, the end of June next year.
So what we'll be doing is as we're going through the training, we're doing assessments of the managers
and supervisors to kind of see where they are before the training, whether or not they are, in fact,
implementing what they've learned. We've purposely structured the training in a way so that there's about
a month in between each module so that they do have time to go in and implement that. And so we will
be sending out also pre- and post assessments for the operators as well so that we can see if we have a
correlation between the trainer and things improving with providing feedback.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. Director Ruscha, I see your hand is still up, or newly up. Thank you.
Anything further on observation five? And thank you, Dr. McDowell and Ms. Polege and Ms. Johnson, for
the thoroughness of the response. Mr. Marino, observation six.
MATT MARINO: Yes. Observation six, management should consider implementing procedures for
internal assessment of safety training programs administered by the different RTD divisions to ensure
safety trainings are integrated and aligned with the overall safety strategic plans. Development of a
comprehensive safety training that includes safety measures in safety sensitive areas to ensure
compliance with federal and state safety regulations, and requiring safety training during the new hire
orientation process to ensure that new hires are knowledgeable about RTD's safety requirements prior to
starting their jobs.
Management corrective action is Development and Learning Division, engaging with the relevant agency
subject matter experts, will develop a framework whereby the safety and compliance training part of this is
carried out. Also aligns with the June 30, 2024 timing that we've talked about a few times.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Marino.
This, I know, was noted as a High priority. And it seems to fall in both Urgent and Important. And so I was
curious as to whether we could get some clarity around, the management corrective action plan states
that, will develop a learning and development framework that includes a safety and compliance training. I
recognize that the recommendations include actually creating those training courses.
It strikes me that there are other things in the entire audit and corrective action plan that may be critical
path. For example, observation three's corrective plan, which is due in February '24, may be critical path
here. But given how important, high priority this one was in not enforcing our guidelines in the PTASP, or
the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, I'm wondering if we could just get a little bit more detail
around the definition of what will be completed on June 30, 2024 with respect to the framework and what
then might fall out from there.

And I know Ms. Polege highlighted before that there will be prioritization of what gets implemented once
we have things in place. So just want to hear more about where this is prioritized, what's done by June,
and what follows thereafter.
BOBBY DISHELL: Ms. Polege.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you, Chair. So first off, I want to highlight that, correct, this is High priority
and it is urgent. In fact, during the audit, when reviewing with the auditor, both myself and Dr. McDowell
were highly supportive of this being a high priority.
I want to clarify a couple things. What's key here is it's the training, safety training does occur. It's not
centralized and it happens very disparate. And from our perspective, if we can't document, if we don't see
a document that the training occurred, we took the high water mark that then therefore the training isn't
occurring, even though we know that it is. Because this is so critical. We need to be able to not only say,
yes, we delivered the training. Who attended the training? What was covered in the training? When do
they need to recertify or what have you? So we really took a very high water mark here, for obvious
reasons.
So that training is occurring. It is disparate. We don't have solid records on that training, meaning in one
central place. And also, in certain instances it's not required. It's not listed as, Charlene Polege must take.
And then more importantly, the follow-up. Because if we don't have appropriate documents, it's difficult
then to follow up and say, has Charlene concluded her required training?
So the connection, and I'm going to defer here as well to Dr. McDowell, because she is leading this in
collaboration, as it says here, with Dan McCain. I'll defer to her. But what we really need to create is a
safety learning plan that by position identifies who needs to participate in what training, by what time, and
also, cleaning out, as you saw that pre-work, I think was observation three, of all of the courses to make
sure we're even delivering the right training.
So I just wanted to give that high level context. Because I appreciate, it is high priority and it's urgent. And
I would not want the committee to step away with the impression that no training is occurring. Because
that's not the case. But we need to, as an agency, be able to tell you exactly what occurred, who
attended, and what was learned. And today, we just can't do that.
So if I may, Chair, I'd like to ask Dr. McDowell just to step in and just add just a little bit of context there to
that question.
BOBBY DISHELL: Dr. McDowell, please proceed.
MELISSA MCDOWELL: Thank you, Chair. Yeah. So just to follow up on what CPO Polege shared, we
do, in fact, have safety training. So we have these modules that were already mentioned that the safety
and environmental team purchased. It's, again, 400 to 500 modules. The problem is is at the time they
were purchased, they were just kind of loaded into Workday. There was sort of no organization.
So we have that training. My team has also just collaborated with Safety to create a biohazard training
that was just launched last week. So we have a lot of trainings in place. And there are some mandatory
trainings that take place. But again, because we have all of these disparate departments that are
delivering training. Some of them are recording them. Some of them are not. We really just need that
general oversight to pull everything together.

And so one of the plans that I have for this is, let's take the training that we do have, for example, those
modules in Workday. There's something called a campaign, a training campaign in Workday, where we
will then say, OK, what are the top safety concerns that we need all new hires to own? So we need to sit
down, go through those trainings, collaborate with our safety and environmental team, and say, OK, these
are the 5, 10, 15 courses, however many that we think are most important that every new hire needs to
know.
So that when they are onboarded, they take our in-person training, and then within a few days they get a
message in Workday that says, hi, you've been assigned to take these safety trainings. Please complete
all of these training courses by, within 30 days. All of that still needs to be clarified.
So this is more about identifying what we have, filling the gaps and developing training for the pieces that
are missing, and then creating that framework, which is a holistic framework for learning and
development, that includes a section for safety so that we can make sure that everyone at the agency is
receiving the appropriate, not only receiving the appropriate safety training but also refresher trainings as
well.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you. I just needed to qualify-- and CPO Polege and Dr. McDowell did
a great job, but as it relates, when we talk about the cause, the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan,
I want to be clear that everybody has an understanding that we are adhering to statutory requirements.
This gets back to the previous observation whereby a question was posed relative to all these different
modules in Workday. Because what was happening before, be it good, bad, or indifferent, these modules
were loaded into Workday. But as you heard from members of the team, it's done in a disparate fashion.
So I just wanted to ensure that everybody has an understanding that our PTASP that we have, we are
adhering to it, for all intents and purposes. As it relates to the training, we're talking about somebody
being hired in their first day of training-- or sorry, their first day of employment, not having the training
outlined. So it's not as if we're putting somebody on a piece of equipment or sending someone out without
doing that. Because recognizing, when we look at operators and things of the like or rail operators, we're
talking about 8 or 10 weeks of training they must have before they're actually in revenue service.
So I wanted to ensure that I did not leave any ambiguity there as it relates to what we're doing and that
you understood where we are. And moreover, we do have a Joint Labor and Safety Management
Committee that was a recent adjustment, about two years ago, with the bipartisan infrastructure law that
came to fruition as well, and that we do have trainings that are taking place during the Joint Labor
Management Safety Committee as well.
So thank you very much. That's my responsibility as designated by the FTA as the accountable executive.
So I wanted to ensure that you understood that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So I have a question that sort of touches on what GM/CEO Ms. Johnson just said. So
before this came before the committee, this report, so to what extent was the Joint Labor Management
Safety Committee apprised of this audit and the recommended CAP? And yeah, I guess I'll just stop
there.

DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So thank you very kindly for the question. I do not personally sit on the Joint Labor
Management Safety Committee, but I do meet with our Chief Safety Officer on a recurring basis. I do
know that there have been discussions relative to this training, quite naturally, and issues that spawned
relative to the need for comprehensive documentation and consistent documentation has been shared.
I would say that we could get back to the committee and apprise you accordingly as to what meeting that
was conveyed. But I do not have that information at the ready to address in this forum.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, Mr. Chair?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Thank you for that. And just for context, and I'm not part of this
committee, but later if I were to vote on something like this, I would just feel more comfortable if those
steps were taken. Because I'm not sure, but I would think that it would be part of our PTASP, that that
would be required because we're talking about developing a framework. And so I don't know if that, in
terms of stakeholder engagement, if that's something that we also need to do. So that's why I asked the
question.
And then I had a second question, if I may. Somewhat related, and if this is not appropriate for this
committee, that's fine, I'm happy to have it addressed offline. But I was just wondering if this audit or this
finding was part of our regularly planned audit on training and onboarding or if this was just part of our
internal safety review that we are required to do?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Why don't we have Ms. Johnson take the first question? I'll take a stab at the
second and then defer to our Chief Audit Executive.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. So I do want to qualify, as it relates to the Joint Labor
Management Safety Committee, that we work in tandem, that committee is advisory in nature,
recognizing that we do have subject matter experts in the field of safety and environmental compliance.
So as we talk about what it is, we want to ensure that we're working with our union partners as specified
in the bipartisan infrastructure law. But this is not something that we have to get their approvals on.
And I don't say that in the sense that I don't value the partnership, but there's been quite a bit of confusion
nationally as it relates to the forming of the committee. And there has been some misunderstandings
relative to what it is. So we do have an established charter as it relates to what we will be doing relative to
the Joint Labor Management Safety Committee. And as we talk about training and things of the like, of
course we're working in partnership, because our labor partners are a critical component to this
organization. And I'd be remiss to state that 2/3 of our workforce are represented employees.
So I just wanted to qualify that this is not something that is within the purview of that entity but rest with
the accountable executive and the Chief Safety Officer. Thank you very much.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. And Mr. Marino, would you mind flipping back up to the slide that showed
the rest of the internal audit plan?
MATT MARINO: Yes, I can do that.
BOBBY DISHELL: --talk through our process. Because for the Internal Audit Committee, this committee in
its current form, I think probably agreed upon that this is a substantial improvement from the Audit

Committee as it previously existed. And so just, what we did-- and please keep me honest here-- is we
worked to find a Chief Audit Executive and elected, after discussing with management, to have that be an
outsourced function.
After performing sort of a, it wasn't a SWOT analysis, but a risk analysis.
MATT MARINO: Risk assessment.
BOBBY DISHELL: Risk assessment. Thank you. We looked and said, OK, these are the high risk items.
And as a committee and working in tandem with the Chief Audit Executive, these are the items that we
believe should be done in this first internal audit plan.
And then you can see somewhere on here was the 2025 internal audit plan. Or maybe it was a different
one. But basically, Director Ruscha, it's not as though there is a recurring, we audit this every x years. It's
that we work with-- and Mr. Marino, keep me honest here-- we work with our Chief Audit Executive under
our charter-- oh, there it is, 2025 Internal Audit Planning-- to decide, hey, here's where the agency is,
these are the items as a committee and as an audit executive that we believe should be audited as part of
internal audit over the next year, or over the next two years. And we go through, as designed, that
iterative process.
So it may be that Human Resources or something with employees is something that's there every single
time. But my understanding, and the committee's understanding is, I believe, that every year we're looking
at a new internal audit plan and every year we're deciding what is most important, what should be
emphasized, what should be pushed back. And we went through that iterative process last year, year and
a half ago.
So I'll defer the rest to the Chief Audit Executive.
MATT MARINO: Thank you, Director Dishell. You were accurate in that this was a collaborative process.
And I just want to clarify, highly collaborative, not only from me as the Chief Audit Executive and the
committee members, but we also solicited feedback from several members of management, as well as
several Directors on the Board of Directors. So there was a lot of people that weighed in on this so that
we make sure that we understood the full risk picture of what was going on at the District at that time
point in time.
So this is the plan. If for some reason things were to change in the future where we would need to move
something up because it becomes of more importance or higher priority, we would do that in concert with
working with the Audit Committee. But it was a very comprehensive review of the likelihood of things
occur, what would be the magnitude if it did occur, and what would be the ramifications to the
organization if the items were to not be adequate.
And I believe part of your question was, was this specific audit focused on safety? It was more on the
high level employee training. Because safety is such a large part of training at the District, safety did rise
as one of the recommendations. But it was not scoped as a training around safety. It was training
comprehensively.
BOBBY DISHELL: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you. Mr. Marino just made me think of something that I did not share.
Recognizing the high level of safety awareness and understanding in which an entity has to be well

versed in as it relates to delivering transit services, our safety practices, as you may be aware, are highly
regulated. We have recurring audits by the Federal Railroad Administration. We have audits done by the
Federal Transit Administration in which they use a third party. And then more specifically, as it relates to
light rail, rail safety transit oversight, that has been relegated to the state of Colorado and more
specifically to the Colorado Public Utilities Commission.
So I wanted to ensure that you all have an understanding that our safety practices are constantly being
evaluated as we move forward. So thank you very much, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity to impart that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yeah. So I appreciate the responses. But I think our GM/CEO
touched on what I was getting at. And I should have just maybe made my question more clear. But this is,
I think, something I could follow up with offline, or it's a learning process maybe for all of us is just, maybe
it's a general question.
We have audits that are required. And so what happens when there is an observation or a risk
observation made as part of another process, planned or, that might cross over into this committee's
work. And so I guess my question was, was there an identified risk as a result of our internal safety review
that we're required to do annually and is that how it came into this?
But I guess that it's probably irrelevant. The important part is that we caught it and that we're taking steps
to correct it. So I appreciate it. And I will not take up any more of the committee's time with my questions.
Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Mr. Marino, I think we were on five, six, or seven.
MATT MARINO: We were. Yeah. Let's see. Make sure I'm in the right one. I am. So let's see, Moderate.
There we go. We're on seven. So are we good with six?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yep.
MATT MARINO: OK, perfect. Observation seven is a moderate priority. The recommendation,
management should consider establishing a monitoring process to ensure that employees complete the
required trainings, which we touched on a little bit, that their trainings are occurring but a centralized place
whereby it is monitored agency-wide is not necessarily there. Documenting the enrollment and
completion of the training courses and maintain training records to meet regulatory requirements as well
as internal management of quality review. Implement standards for the training records documentation to
include trainee's name, enrollment date, all the relevant data that you would want to know if somebody
took a training.
Management corrective action plan, Development and Learning Division will develop the procedure for
documenting and retaining all of these records to make sure that it is available for, whether it be an
annual audit based on internal audit or the many other regulatory agencies that review happenings at
RTD, that that would be organized and available to be provided to those agencies, with a planned target
completion date of June 30, 2024.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Any questions on observation seven? Great. Observation eight.

MATT MARINO: Observation eight is a Low or process improvement recommendation. Recommendation
is that management should consider developing a cross training strategy to train employees on multiple
skills outside of their usual job responsibilities to increase their ability to work in different roles or functions
within the organization and thereby ensure minimum disruption of RTD's operation if there was a vacancy
in the future. Management should also consider developing a succession planning strategy to ensure that
RTD's long-term growth can be achieved.
The corrective action plan is the Human Resources will assess the need for developing training
succession plan for employees. Succession planning protocols will be embedded in the overall learning
and development framework that was already talked about in observation one. And then the Development
and Learning Division will develop a cross training plan for employees. Target date of December 31,
2024.
BOBBY DISHELL: Any questions, comments on observation eight? Great. Observation nine.
MATT MARINO: Observation nine. Recommendation, management should consider establishing a policy
requiring all training materials, enrollment and completion dates are tracked in the Workday Learning
Management System to ensure the accurate, reliable, and consistency of the training data. As we've
already alluded to, we have this system. The management Corrective Action Plan is the Development
and Learning Division will develop the procedures whereby all that stuff will be tracked within Workday
and develop a framework whereby providing the training happens agency-wide and that all that
information is housed within the Workday Management System.
And that's, as it kind of alluded to, there's many different parts or critical paths that need to occur and a lot
of things have to all line up. But we're still pushing towards that June 30, 2024 date to get all of these
recommendations implemented into the enhancement of the learning management at RTD.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Any comments on observation nine?
And I'll also note for the record that we've been joined by Director Tisdale. Welcome. Observation 10.
MATT MARINO: Observation 10 is a Moderate priority. The recommendation, management should
consider implementing a policy requiring the annual review and revision of training materials, update to
ensure that employees are trained with the latest training curriculum. The system would aid in this.
So management corrective action plan, the Development and Learning Division will develop the Workday
procedure whereby this annual review of the content would occur to make sure that what's in the Learning
Management System is the latest and greatest and most accurate for that specific subject matter. That
has a target date of December 31, 2024 .
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Questions or comments on observation 10? Is there an 11? I think that's the
last one.
MATT MARINO: Last one. Moderate priority. The recommendation, management should consider
establishing metrics for measuring and evaluating, assessing the effectiveness of training by utilizing
methods such as employee feedback, pre- and post assessment surveys, key performance indicators to
determine that the training was effective for any given employee.
The corrective action plan prepared by management, your Development and Learning Division will
develop the training metrics and key performance indicators aligned with the strategic plan and

competencies that might align with any one employee's requirements. And so this is part of that overall
plan to make sure the training is organized, the records are kept, but also that it's measured that the
training is effective and has been understood by any given employee. And that's a planned date of
December 31, 2024.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Questions or comments on observation 11? Mr. Marino, any further
presentation items?
MATT MARINO: I think observation 12, we did skip. We have one more. Low priority, process
improvement. Recommendation, management should consider implementing a policy requiring trainers to
take continuing education on a periodic basis to qualify to train employees. So obviously, your trainers
should be subject matter experts. And one way to maintain your subject matter expert is to continue
taking training.
The corrective action plan is your division will develop a learning and development framework for all RTD
trainers to ensure that their quality and consistency is also at the highest standard. And that will begin
with the train-the-trainer sessions that have occurred in October, October 2, 2023 and will run through-basically, this is completed at this point. And so target completion date of June 30, 2024, but that's really
the first step on this. And I believe I saw a hand go up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Ms. Polege, please.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Chair, if I may, I just wanted to, for the record, just make a point that as we see
there are actually 12 observations. Packet page 47 should actually say one High, nine Moderate, and two
Low.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Mr. Kroll, can we have that corrected? Or someone from Board Office? He's not
on anymore.
MATT MARINO: I'll work with Board Office to make sure whatever-JACK KROLL: I gave a big ol' thumbs up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Sorry. I did not have you on my screen. Mr. Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Chair. I'll keep it short. I just wanted-- I'd be remiss not to thank-- we
had a lot of discussions on this particular audit. It's obviously a critically important one. I think Director
Catlin well captured it that this is a tool.
But thank you to General Manager and CEO Johnson, Chief People Officer Charlene Polege, and Dr.
McDowell for very detailed discussion. I especially appreciate how clear it was around the not having
centralized data. And I appreciate the bar being set very high for measuring our compliance and data. So
thank you very much for that discussion. And Mr. Chair, thank you for leading us through that.
It's really exciting to have some good internal audit function moving forward. This is a great tool. And
Chair, thank you for leading us through it. Thanks. That's all.
BOBBY DISHELL: Of course. Thank you. Mr. Marino, anything further? You're on mute, but it looks like
you're--

MATT MARINO: No. Sorry about that. Yes, that is it with regard to those audits. And we'll discuss the
Oracle ITGC Audit in Executive Session in more detail. But I can go through the non-redacted portions, if
you would like.
BOBBY DISHELL: Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, I just did want to note for the record that there were
11 observations in the IT General Controls Audit. So to the extent you want the RubinBrown team to go
through those, we should go through the ones that have not been designated as confidential. We should
do that here in open session.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. Let's go ahead and do that. I appreciate that, because that is not where I was
going to go.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
MATT MARINO: OK. So the first observation is a moderate priority. The risk is failure to review and
update information technology policies or procedures could result in-- let's say, I'm sorry about that.
Observation, I need to start off there. The review of current information technology policy and procedures
noted the following.
The computer system and electronic data access control policy for granting access to RTD's systems and
electronic data was issued on July 13 of 2018 and it has not been updated to reflect current practice. The
electronic data protection policy for preventing RTD information from being disclosed to corrupted or lost
because of actions of unauthorized persons was also implemented at that date and has not been
reviewed to reflect RTD's current data processing activities. And the information technology risk
management for identifying and managing critical technology risks was also issued on that same date
and was not reviewed and updated.
Additional policies and procedures for the following activities had not been provided to internal audit.
System interfaces, change management, job scheduling, IT incident reporting. So the corrective action
plan prepared by management, the computer system and electronic data, access control, and electronic
data protection policies will be updated. The standards for system interfaces, change management, job
scheduling, and IT incident reporting will be created and/or updated, and staff will collaborate with internal
audit to create a system interface for policy and procedures. So target date of July 30, 2024.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Questions or comments on observation one? Seeing none, next, please.
MATT MARINO: So observation two, we'll skip over. Observation three, moderate policy, internal
observation, the review of randomly selected sample of 13 users noted the ServiceNow tickets did not
specify the description of the Oracle responsibilities that the new user needed access in order to perform
their assigned job duties. The description noted that the ServiceNow tickets stated that Oracle access
and additional Oracle access without detailing actual Oracle responsibilities, where as Oracle generated a
report, detailed the user access to the Oracle responsibilities assigned to the new users.
The craft action plan, staff will create a more detailed responsibilities request list for which the
ServiceNow system will have. The business justification will be required on the ServiceNow ticket and
justify additional responsibilities that might be required for those person to perform their duties.
BOBBY DISHELL: Any questions or comments on observation three? Great. Next, please.

MATT MARINO: Obser four, we'll discuss later. Observation five, moderate priority. Internal observation is
that we request supporting documentation evidencing the changing of transferred employees' access to
Oracle upon transfer. The requested supporting documentation was not provided to determine whether
the access of the selected sample of the 25 individuals that were transferred were changed to their
respective current job responsibilities. It was noted that there was a population of 533 transferred
employees during the test period.
The corrective action plan, IT staff will work with Human Resources to develop a policy detailing how and
when the RTD employees should be transferred. IT will work with human resources to establish an
automated process in which both Workday and ServiceNow that will establish an end-to-end termination
process. Additionally, IT will establish recurring tasks within ServiceNow to monitor and track quarterly
user account review process for supervisor and managers to make sure that your users have the access
that they need and do not have any more access than is required for their responsibilities.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Any questions or comments on observation five? Next, please.
MATT MARINO: Observation six is a High priority. It was noted that the Oracle database is maintained
using the default system accounts. The corrective action plan, the use of individual OS accounts provides
a level of tracking as to who is logged in and issuing access commands. The use of individual accounts
and disabling the route credentials into the OS became effective July 31, 2024. Target date-- or 2023.
Sorry, I misspoke, 2023.
BOBBY DISHELL: Next. Thank you.
MATT MARINO: Yep. High priority, observation seven. It was noted that the Linux operating system
supporting the Oracle database is maintained using the default system accounts. Use of the route
credential has been disabled and the individual accounts is now in use as of July 24, 2023. So target
date, that's already elapsed. And we will report back later.
Observation eight, moderate priority. The designated Oracle leads are required to review user access to
the Oracle responsibilities associated with their function areas on a quarterly basis. Each Oracle lead is
required to document the completion of user access reviews on the respective ERP access confirmation
document and upload it to the hub. We examined the user access reviews completed in Q4 of '22 and Q1
of 2023, and we noted the following.
The Q4 ERP access indicated evidence of user access reviews for information technology and inventory
was not available for those two areas. Q1 of 2023 was not available for Accounting, Payroll, and
Inventory responsibilities. And there was no evidence that change requests were completed for the
selected eight user access changes identified by the Oracle function lead in Q4 of 2022 and Q1 of 2023
user access reviews.
Corrective action plan. IT staff will work with Human Resources staff to develop a policy detailing how and
when RTD managers and supervisors review access of current and former employees. IT will establish a
recurring task within ServiceNow to monitor and track the quarterly user account reviews.
BOBBY DISHELL: Questions or comments on observation eight?
MATT MARINO: Observation 10, moderate priority. Supporting documentation, including job scheduling
history to identify job failures, evidence of scheduled job failure and investigation resolution and access to
edit job schedules, is restricted to authorized personnel were not available. IT staff will work with

governance and risk compliance module within the ServiceNow to assign a task on a recurring basis. So
that evidence can be captured and retained with regard to this. Target date of March 31, 2024.
Observation-- sorry. Any questions on observation 10?
BOBBY DISHELL: No. And I just want to take a quick pause. I know there's at least two committee
members who have hard stops at 1:00 and 1:15, respectively. This stuff is pretty important. Are there
other committee members who, or members of staff, key employees, who have a 1:00, a 1:15, or a 1:30,
just to make sure that we are actually-- should we go into Executive Session, that that is actually what
makes sense and we can achieve the business at hand.
Yes, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: I have another obligation at 1:30, just for your edification.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Chair David-- or Mr. Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Chair. Yeah. I know we're not there yet in discussing Executive
Session, but just since you raised that, I do think this is a really critical item. Unfortunately, I do have a
hard stop at 1:00 PM. I'm not sure. I'll defer to you as to how we might schedule to proceed. But I do
think, given the findings and the need to go into Executive Session to observe those that are redacted, it
may make sense to schedule a new date.
BOBBY DISHELL: Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm not on the committee so I shouldn't work around. I could always listen to it later.
But this is, I think this is very important information. I'm very impressed with the work that's been done.
And I also have a hard stop at 1:00.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. Given our GM/CEO's key employee on this, and others, are not going to be
available, I don't know, General Counsel, if I have to take a vote on tabling until a date certain or what the
exact procedure would be. But it feels as though it's pretty critical to have this conversation. It's pretty
critical to have everyone focused on it and not needing to be at their next meeting.
And so I would entertain a motion from the floor, unless I'm allowed to make it myself, to table the balance
of this discussion until a date certain after the RTD full Board meeting on November 21, 2023. Isn't that?
No, it's not on the 21st?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: It's November 28.
BOBBY DISHELL: November 28, 2023. I would enter-- am I allowed to, General Counsel, is that fine for
me to make as Chair, to place that there?
MELANIE SNYDER: I think so, yes, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to clarify, is your direction to staff that you're
looking for them to find a date that is after the Board meeting?
BOBBY DISHELL: No. Just chronologically, just add it as an agenda item at the end of the Board
meeting, because we know everyone's there.
MELANIE SNYDER: I see. So you would add it as a special. OK, yes, that makes sense.

BOBBY DISHELL: But I want to make sure the committee members can do that and that we are able to
do this. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Mr. Chair. I don't know if we need to really look at it earlier than the Board
meeting? That would be my preference. But I know scheduling is a problem. So I'll defer to staff on that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Olenberger, I saw you had your hand.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Yeah. Sorry, when you were saying the Board meeting, I didn't realize that the
intent was to have it after the Board meeting, because the committee members aren't necessarily-- we
have two of us that are not on the Board and are not necessarily scheduled to be that. Was that the
November 28?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. That would be the 28th. And I would-- It's a dangerous game to guess when we'd
be wrapped up with that meeting.
JOHN OLENBERGER: I guess the other, a follow-up question would be, would there be a way to have
this, if we were to do it on the 28th, I am actually available on the 28th, but if we were to do it on the 28th,
would there be a means to do it at a specified time, as opposed to a whenever the regular Board meeting
is wrapped up?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, please.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Director Olenberger. As it related to the question posed, I
was going to suggest that this could be the order, the first order of business after the Board convenes in
public session, and then move into Executive Session so it could be addressed at the front end of the
meeting. That would be my suggestion relative to getting everyone assembled. But I'll leave that to you all
to entertain. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. Thank you, Chair Dishell. I think the challenge with a conversation like this and with
the meeting on the 28th is, that's a big meeting for you all to approve the budget and setting aside the
appropriate time to do everything that's coming forward. We would be happy, as an alternative, to poll
Board members and committee members to find another date.
Obviously, the 28th would work just fine. But if you want to give the time and space to have the
conversations that need to have happen for that meeting that are already on the agenda, just point out at
this point, it's a pretty full agenda.
BOBBY DISHELL: Full agenda? OK. In that case, and I know we're coming up on that 1:00, we figured it
out before. I'm confident that this group can figure out a time that the five committee members, the
relevant staff, and a, ideally a good portion of the Board would be available sometime before the end of
2024 and ideally before the holidays start. Is that just sort of a head nod? I know, that's not parliamentary
procedure and Robert's Rules, but-LYNN GUISSINGER: And I assume you mean 2023, before the end of this--

BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, I do mean before 2023. Thank you. In that case, I'm going to move to table the
remainder of this discussion, as well as the Executive Session, until a date certain to be established by
the RTD Board Office after polling the relevant staff, committee members to establish such date.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second. Director Davidson.
BOBBY DISHELL: Any opposed? General Counsel, did we do that one right? Good to go. Great.
Thank you, everyone. I apologize to my fellow Board members for not running the meeting in a more
efficient manner to get to that Executive Session items. I hope you found the rest of the discussion helpful
and important, as audit really is, as is mentioned throughout the day today, a huge tool for us to help
manage the agency and take care of our business.
Are there any other matters to discuss? Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Just wanted to say, Chair, no apologies necessary. Thank you for running the meeting.
And thank you to everybody for, that's just a byproduct of how much there was to discuss here. So thank
you
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Committee member Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: I just had a request for the Chief Audit Executive and Internal Audit. If it would be
possible during the next meeting and when these audits are presented going forward, if, to paraphrase
what the recommendation and management response was, rather than reading it verbatim. Just gets a
little verbose. And I realize you might not have been prepared to do that during this meeting.
But that would be a request of mine, if none of the other Audit Committee members object to that, to
summarize, paraphrase what the issue are, rather than reading the report verbatim.
BOBBY DISHELL: That works for me. I think having it visually is there and then the paraphrase, that
should work.
JOHN OLENBERGER: And it's important to have that in the report. But I think it would be better to hear it,
kind of as we're having a conversation type, rather than a read the report.
BOBBY DISHELL: Absolutely. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I agree with Director Davidson, no apology necessary. I think this
discussion was very rich and very just, I just so appreciate the depth that we went to discuss these items.
Thank you all. As I said, much progress has been made over the last several years on this front. Thank
you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. A big thank you to everyone. Are there any other matters to discuss?
At this time, the next Audit Committee meeting is to be determined at a time before the end of the
calendar year 2023. The meeting following that is scheduled for Thursday, February 15, 2024.
This meeting is adjourned as of 1:00 PM. Thanks, everyone.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.

JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you.

