Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, March 7, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.
• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
• Federal Update - Patton Boggs
D. Other Matters

E. Next Meeting Date - April 4, 2017
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 2, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

March 1, 2017

Board Meeting Date: March 7, 2017

Subject:

Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.

ATTACHMENTS:


CRL LGR Report 02-28-17

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

Date:

February 28, 2017

To:

Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer

From:

Roger Sherman

Subject:

Local Government Relations Update

The following are items for March 7, 2017:
1. Transportation Funding – The Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) continues to be actively

engaged in discussions regarding increased transportation funding for Colorado. As I
have reported previously, the MMC reconvened the MPACT64 Coalition, which has met
three times since December. MPACT64 members are focused on ensuring funding for
mobility infrastructure (transit, pedestrians, and bicycles) is a part of any statewide
solution.
2. Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) – The next full caucus meeting is April 5 from 7:30-10
A.M. Meetings are held at the Metro Denver Chamber, 1445 Market St.
3. Citizens Advisory Committee – Eight CAC/Board member meetings will have been
completed by March 7 with three more scheduled. I am still working to schedule the
remaining four directors. The Committee will be updating the Board at the Planning/
Capital Programs/FasTracks Committee meetings on a quarterly basis beginning in April.
Director Lubow agreed to have the update occur quarterly, rather than monthly, so they
can be more substantive.
4. APTA Legislative Conference – I will be in Washington, D.C. for two days overlapping
the APTA Legislative Conference (I’m not registered to attend) and hope to have the
opportunity to visit with attending board members and staff.

1660 Lincoln Street, Suite 1800 Denver, CO 80264

p. 303.592.5450

f. 303.592.5460

www.crlassociates.com

Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 02-28-17 (3064 : Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.)

1.C.1.a

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 2, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

March 1, 2017

Board Meeting Date: March 7, 2017

Subject:

State Update -State Update - Brandeberry
McKenna

ATTACHMENTS:


Weekly Report 2.27 Board Update

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.C.2.a

To:

RTD

From: Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK)
Date: February 27, 2017
Re:

Update

Congratulations on the opening of the R Line! It was great to see RTD Board Members,
Executive Staff, State and Local Elected Officials at the event to celebrate this great
achievement.
BBMK continues to schedule and attend meetings with General Manager Genova to update
newly elected legislators on the District’s activities.
BBMK is working with the Chair of the House Transportation Committee Representative Diane
Mitsch Bush to coordinate a P3 discussion during the interim. We had orginally planned it
during the discussion but the Chair asked us to move the date as to not distract from the larger
transportation funding conversation under the dome.
BBMK monitors and attends transportation committee meetings as well as continues to
participate in discussions regarding state wide transportation infrastructure funding needs.
SB17-153 Southwest Chief and Front Passenger Rail Commission sponsored by Senators Garcia
and Crowder and Rep. Esgar passed the Senate. The bill replaces the Southwest Chief Rail Line
Commission housed in CDOT with the Southwest Chief and Front Passenger Rail Commission.
The new commission will assume the duties of the old commission which was set to repeal on
July 1, 2017. These duties include the coordination of efforts to ensure that track repairs and
upgrades required for continuation of existing Southwest Chief Rail service in Colorado are
completed, extending rail service to Pueblo and exploring the benefits of extending service to
Walsenberg. The Commission is also tasked with developing draft legislation that facilities the
development of a passenger rail system that provides service in and along the I-25 corridor. An
appointee from the District would be a member of the Board. This bill supported by CDOT is
a way to have all stakeholders involved in this discussion formally at the table.
HB17-1171 Authorize New Transportation Revenue Anticipation Notes sponsored by Reps.
Carver and Buck is scheduled for a hearing on March 29th at 1:30pm in the House State
Veterans and Military Affairs Committee. This bill requires that the Transportation Commission
submit a ballot question in November of 2017 asking voters to approve $3.5 billion in bonds for
transportation funding. The bill would also set aside 10 percent of all future state sales tax for
transportation projects.

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: Weekly Report 2.27 Board Update (3065 : State Update -State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

1410 Grant Street, C-307 | Denver, CO 80203
office 303.539.1320 | fax 303.861.0683

1.C.2.a

SB17-040 Public Access to Government Files sponsored by Senators Kefalas and Gardner and
Rep. Pabon is scheduled for a hearing on March 1st at 1:30pm in the Senate State Veterans and
Military Affairs Committee. The bill concerns public access to digital database records. The
Secretary of State is supporting this legislation. Several organizations such as the Colorado
Counties Incorporate, Sherriff’s Association and Colorado Water Congress have opposed the
bill. The AG’s office will be offering amendments to the bill which BBMK forwarded to the
district for review.
HB17-1177 Mediation for Disputes Arising Under CORA sponsored by Reps. Wist and
Garnett and Senator Cooke is scheduled for a hearing on March 16 upon adjournment in the
State Veteran’s and Military Affairs Committee. This bill is intended to encourage records
requesters and government entities to resolve disputes through mediation rather than in the court
system. The bill would require the requesters and records custodians to evenly split the cost of
hiring a mediator.
In addition to monitoring transportation related legislation BBMK continues follow closely any
sales tax bills which have a direct operational impact on the district.
HB17-1103 Sales and Use Tax Exemption for Historic Aircraft sponsored by Reps. Nordberg
and Pabon and Senators Moreno and Gardner passed the House Appropriations Committee this
morning. This bill is trying to address an issue of out of state historic aircraft owners wanting to
loan the aircrafts to museums in Colorado and want to make sure there is no tax imposed during
this process. The fiscal note only mentions a “potential impact.” BBMK will monitor the bill
however does not think it would have a significant impact on the District.
HB17-1127 Exempt Feminine Hygiene Products from Sales Tax sponsored by Rep. Lontine
and Senator Martinez Humenik passed the House Finance Committee. The bill creates a state
sales tax exemption, commencing January 1, 2018, for all sales, storage, and use of feminine
hygiene products. The bill has a large fiscal note and will likely not survive the appropriations
committee because of the current makeup of the legislature.
HB17-1195 Create a State Sales Tax Exemption for Diapers sponsored by Rep. Winter and
Senator Martinez Humenik was introduced and assigned to the House Finance and House
Appropriations Committee. The bill creates a sales tax exemption, commencing January 1, 2018
for the sale, storage and use of diapers. The bill further allows local taxing jurisdictions to adopt
the same exemption.
BBMK is monitoring bills related to Construction Defects and have included them for board
members that are interested in this issue.
SB17-045 Construction Defect Claim Allocation of Defense Costs sponsored by Senators
Williams and Grantham and Reps Wist and Duran is waiting to be scheduled in the Senate
2
Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Weekly Report 2.27 Board Update (3065 : State Update -State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

During the fall the Secretary of State’s office convened a CORA Working Group. There were
two bills introduced because of the committee’s discussions.

1.C.2.a

SB17-156 Homeowners Association Construction Defect Lawsuit Approval Timelines
sponsored by Senator Hill and Rep. Wist is scheduled for a hearing on February 27th at 2pm in
the Senate Business Labor and Technology Committee. The bill is supported by the
Homeownership Opportunity Alliance. The bill requires written consent of a majority of
homeowners in an association prior to initiating litigation, disclosure of the costs and duration of
litigation and a process for alternative dispute resolution.

3
Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Weekly Report 2.27 Board Update (3065 : State Update -State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

Appropriations Committee. This is a bipartisan measure concerning a requirement for the
equitable allocation of the costs of defending a construction defect claim.

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 2, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

March 1, 2017

Board Meeting Date: March 7, 2017

Subject:

Federal Update - Patton Boggs

ATTACHMENTS:


Federal Update 3 7 2017

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

1.C.3.a

FEDERAL UPDATE FOR REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT: MARCH 7, 2017
President Trump’s Infrastructure Proposal

Trump announced he “will be asking the Congress to approve legislation that produces a $1 trillion
investment in the infrastructure of the United States — financed through both public and private
capital.” It is important to note that the President did not pledge $1 trillion in direct Federal funding or
finance tools (such as Federal loans), but instead called for support for legislation that “produces” a $1
trillion investment, showing that he apparently intends to leverage limited Federal funds with both nonFederal public funding and private investment.
One question that remains unanswered is how this infrastructure package will be paid for. The two
largest revenue sources that have been identified as palatable by some Congressional Republicans – a tax
on earnings held overseas by US companies and the so-called “border adjustability tax” on imports –
have both been viewed by tax-writers as ways to pay for lower tax rates – not infrastructure spending.
Another outstanding issue is the timing for moving infrastructure legislation. Amid struggles by
Republicans in both the House and Senate to craft legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act, reform
the tax code, and pass spending bills for the remainder of FY 2017 and FY 2018, some sources are
reporting that passage of any large infrastructure bill could be pushed back to 2018.
Transportation Appropriations and the President’s FY 2018 Budget
For fiscal year 2017 (ending September 30, 2017), nearly all agencies and programs of the Federal
government continue to operate under a Continuing Resolution through April 28. Accordingly, the
Federal Transit Administration released partial-year apportionments of transit formula funds in January,
but New Starts funding – which is derived from the General Fund, not the Highway Trust Fund –
cannot be awarded until passage of a full-year appropriations bill later this spring.
For fiscal year 2018, Congressional leaders await the release of the President’s budget, set for March 16.
It is expected to be a so-called “skinny” budget with few details, due to the limited time the new
President has had to develop it since taking office. Trump is reportedly relying on budget advice from
the Heritage Foundation, which has called for deep spending cuts in both entitlements and discretionary
spending, and the conservative group has targeted Federal transit funding in the past. At this time, there
is no reliable information on how Federal transit programs (or other popular discretionary programs like
TIGER) will fare in the President’s 2018 budget proposal.
Regulatory Reform Task Forces
President Trump has committed to advancing infrastructure projects more quickly by streamlining
Federal permitting processes. Consistent with that aim, on February 24, Trump ordered all Federal
agencies to identify for elimination or revision those agency rules that stifle U.S. jobs and economic
growth. Trump made clear he supported environmental protection and safety, but was concerned with
regulations that burden U.S. competitiveness. Task forces will be created within each Federal agency to
oversee this regulatory reform effort.

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Federal Update 3 7 2017 (3066 : Federal Update - Patton Boggs)

Declaring that “the time has come for a new program of national rebuilding" akin to President
Eisenhower’s Interstate construction program, President Trump used the occasion of his first address to
a joint session of Congress to call for greater investment in the nation’s “crumbling” transportation
systems.

