Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on October 2, 2007 at
5:00p.m. Page 1 of 2
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

October 3, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, October 2,
2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Chair Martinez, First Vice-Chair Christopher, Secretary Brohl,
Busck, Daly, Kinton, Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer, Yamrick

Member Absent:

Directors Kemp, McMullen, and Quinlan

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Ron Dodsworth, David Genova,
Lloyd Mack, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Phil Washington
Rolf Asphaug, Rick Clarke, Sherry Ellebracht, Reed EverettLee, Nadine Lee, Caitlin Magee, Chris Quinn, Daria Serna,
Dave Shelley, John Shonsey, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Call to Order:

Rosemary Paolillo, Tom Paolillo, Jeff Leib, Kevin Flynn, Kim
Kucera, Joe Wingerter, Tom Acre, Roger Sherman, Joe
Racosky, John Esty, Tim Baldwin, Melvin Bush, Debra PerkinsSmith, Bill Roettker
***
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m.

I. Follow-up from September 18th Retreat
Chair Martinez opened up the discussion on the follow-up item from the
September 18th joint Board/Staff Retreat to focus on Tuesday nights as the
scheduled meeting time for Board meetings. Chair Martinez shared that
looking at the proposed change, there are six dates on the 2008 calendar that
would be in conflict and that the projected difference in the number of hours
in meetings would go from 130 hours in 2007 to approximately 108 hours in
2008.
There was a general consensus to move ahead with changing the meeting
times to every Tuesday starting the first of the year. There are some
outstanding details to be worked out such as which committee will meet on

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on October 2, 2007 at
5:00p.m. Page 2 of 2
which Tuesday, where to move the 6 dates in conflict and whether to
consolidate the Contracted Services Committee with the Operations
Committee or what to do with Study Sessions.
II. Other Matters
Seeing there were no other matters, the meeting adjourned at 6:55 p.m.

