2020-06-16
RTD Board Study Session
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening. I will now call the study session for Thursday, June 16, 2020
to order. We are convened as of 5:57 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone in
the meeting to ensure that your phones are still muted and that your ringers are set to silent. I am not
going to go over all of the things that I went through in terms of safety, because we just have that.
So this evening, I'd like to start with Reimagine RTD financials. Tonight we're going to hear a presentation
from Heather McKillop, our Chief Financial Officer and AGM of Finance and Administration regarding
Reimagine RTD and particularly with respect to ongoing financial impacts. Miss McKillop, welcome. And
please proceed when you are ready.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop. I'm also going to be joined by
Bruce Abel and Bill Van Meter later in the presentation. And we've kind of divvied up into multiple pieces.
So tonight what we're trying to do is bring together the conversation that we had in the Finance,
Administration, and Audit Committee around the finances for the future. We gave you that first look last
week as to what those numbers might look like. And then in the Operations Committee, we had a
discussion about Reimagine RTD.
And so what we're trying to do in this presentation is bring together what was discussed there in a more
comprehensive manner and so we can move forward from there and really discuss with you what we're
seeing for the future and what that might look like.
So with that, we'll go ahead. And let's go directly to the sales and use tax revenue slide. This was in your
presentation, but we wanted to emphasize this again kind of what we're facing going forward. This is
based on the May Leeds forecast. And we present that in relationship to our actual numbers through
2019, the September 2019 forecast, which is the purple line, and then where we are projected to be now.
And as you can see, it's a significant drop between 2019 and 2020, a smaller drop between '20 and '21,
and then we grow at a pretty good growth rate after that. But we don't get to our 2019 levels until at least
2025. So that is a significant decrease in funding.
The next slide, slide 5, shows this in a mathematical format. So basically shows you the May 2020
forecast for 2021, we're expected to be about $485.9 million. Our March forecast showed it at $678.4
million, or a difference in just sales and use tax of $192.5 million for 2021.
If you look at over this period of 2021 to 2026, we're showing about a $1.1 billion difference between what
we had forecasted just a few short months ago.
So where are we with our financial reality? On page 7, we talk about the deficit. So we are estimating for
2021 the deficit to be $252 million. Now that's slightly different than what we showed you last week, and
that's in the FasTracks area. And I'll talk about that in just a second.
So on the base system, we're estimating about $135 million deficit and on FasTracks, $117 million. That
is slightly higher because we received a lot of feedback and concerns that we had made some
assumptions about taking money from the FISA to help out making-- to help that shortfall. So we have
now taken out that number. So we have not taken money from the FISA. And based on doing that, the
shortfall went from $230 million to $262 million.

In the course of '21 through '26, that's a $1.3 billion dollar shortfall, $717 million of that from the base and
$592 million from FasTracks.
So our financial reality, now again, we're not assuming a 2021 federal bailout. Now if we get one, that
would be lovely and will help us along the way. But at this time, we cannot make that assumption going
forward. So we are not assuming that in the figures that you're going to be seeing.
On the next slide, our strategy. Hope is not our strategy. So hoping for a bailout is not going to get us
there probably. So we've been trying to figure out how can we do this. How can we move forward?
On page 10, we have condensed the base system cash flow for '21 through '26. If you want to see the full
cash flow as reflected with all of the figures that make up these totals, please go to Exhibit A. And that's
on page 23 of this packet.
But just a few numbers I want to point out. We talk about the total revenue available. For 2021, we're
looking at $509 million, again for the base system. Funds after debt service, $431.2 million. Our
remaining funds after paying debt service, O&M, and reserve contribution, a negative $118 million. And
then cumulative funds remaining after we fund any other projects, and that would be $134 million.
As we'll talk about, and we talked about last week, right now everything's on the table, whether it be
revenue sources, whether it be O&M, contribution to reserves, or projects. So all of that will be discussed.
On the next page, page 11, you can see the FasTracks cash flow. Again, this is a summary of what's on
page 24 of your packet. In this, we list, again, total revenue. As an example, for 2021 we're estimating
$226.2 million. Funds remaining after debt service is $41 million.
In this case, debt service and lease payments make up a very large portion of our sales and use tax
revenue, about 95% in 2021. That is a significant percentage of our sales and use tax dollars going to
debt.
We also have then remaining funds after debt service, O&M, and reserve contribution of a negative $116
million. And then we have no projects identified for 2021 right now, so our overall balance is a negative
$116.7 million. Again, you can see page 24 for the detail.
So with that summary of where we are from a financial standpoint, we're going to go through how did we
get here. And with that, I'm going to turn it over to Bruce Abel.
BRUCE ABEL: Thanks, Heather. We just wanted to have a little bit of a conversation with the Board to set
some of the context as to how did we get to our current situation, our current circumstance.
So, as with most things, it's the combination of a variety, a number of things that all come together and
give us this little bit of a tsunami. But from the FasTracks perspective, one of the issues that has been
evident for quite some time is that the O&M costs for the corridors exceeded the O&M projected costs
that were projected back at the outset of the 2004 FasTracks election.
2021 O&M costs for the FasTracks corridors are projected to be about 31% higher than they were
projected to be for 2021 back in 2004 when the ballot question was put together. So that's not
insignificant.
And the two big impacts are the O&M costs for the East corridor and the projected O&M costs for North
Metro corridor. Those are the two major components of the O&M costs for the FasTracks corridors being
approximately 30% higher than were projected back at the outset of the FasTracks project.
Service changes. Over the years, just as we have looked on a run board by run board basis, times when
we have sought cost efficiencies that we have not moved forward with. But really the other biggie, in
addition to FasTracks corridors, is sales tax.

We've had major shortfalls in sales taxes in 2008 through 2013, during the Great Recession, that had a
major impact on our FasTracks revenue stream. We had nearly a $290 million shortfall in this period. It
was not until 2013 that we rebounded to the levels of the 2008 sales tax levels during the Great
Recession.
We're seeing the same thing today, but we're actually looking for a deeper shortfalls in the projected sales
tax revenues in 2020 through 2025. Lots of conversation going on about whether it's going to be a Nike
swoosh, in terms of our rebound, or if it's going to be a V-shaped rebound. All we can do is monitor and
be flexible.
But given the shortfalls in sales tax from those originally projected back at the beginning of the FasTracks
project, we will not reach projected total sales tax revenues until 2032, when, at the outset, we were
projected to reach those levels in 2024. So an eight-year delay in reaching our projected sales tax
revenues for the FasTracks projects.
Loss of fares and sales tax revenues due to COVID-19. We've had some conversations about that last
month, and we'll have some more conversations about that in just a few minutes. But obviously, again,
loss of fare revenue, declining sales tax revenues due to COVID, again, all contributing to how did we get
here.
Growth well we're an aging system. Our facilities all go back to the '70s. We've got lots of maintenance
that we need to do, as we have been focused more on building than maintaining over the years. We have
a growing list of asset management projects that we need to be aware of and need to figure out how to
address.
So that's sort of how we got to where we are today. In terms of COVID, again, we've got fewer riders
resulting in reduced revenues. We actually have eliminated fares since essentially April. We anticipate
resuming collection of fares the 1st of July, but major reductions in revenue as a result of the elimination
of fares for this period.
On the expense side, increased expense due to enhanced cleaning. Social distancing, or as I like to refer
to it as physical distancing while we stay socially connected. But onboard each bus, we have essentially a
60% reduction in capacity.
A 38 passenger bus is carrying 15 passengers. A 53 passenger bus is capped at 40 passengers. That is
approximately a 60% reduction in capacity on each vehicle. On rail cars, 64 seated plus lots of standees
being capped at 30, again a major reduction in individual vehicle capacity.
When we combine that with a 40% reduction in our levels of service in terms of service hours, we see
major reductions in capacity, which we're able to accommodate right now because ridership hasn't
returned. If ridership were to return to levels in January of 2020, we would be in dire circumstances.
Because it would require three times the number of vehicles and operators to carry the same number of
people as we were carrying in January due to the reduced capacity that results from COVID.
So I think if there is any theme that we are really bringing out this evening is that we collectively, staff
working in consultation with the Board, need to face this head on. And what I'd like to do at this point in
time is turn it over to Bill Van Meter to discuss a little bit more about the COVID-19 Fiscal Response Task
force and the Reimagine effort. And then I'll come back and discuss the internal COVID-19 Fiscal
Response Task Force after Bill has discussed the Reimagine effort and its role in helping us address our
circumstance. Bill.

BILL VAN METER: Thanks, Bruce. So the timing could not have been better for Reimagine RTD in terms
of how to address this financial crisis from a service optimization and a service provision perspective next
year, in 2021. We already have engaged a consultant team. We have a technical working group and
advisory committee that are also engaged.
Now they were working towards a System Optimization Plan to be implemented next year that had a very
modest adjustment in service, a download adjustment in service, a very modest one. That's what we had
working towards and talking about with our stakeholders, with those committees, with you, the Board of
Directors, and with the public.
Based on the information that Heather and Bruce just went through, rule the world has changed. We
recognize that and we are changing Reimagine RTD to support this new normal and the new challenges
that these fiscal challenges, the new fiscal environment, present to us, the challenges this new fiscal
environment present to us. So Reimagine, particularly in the System Optimization Plan and that redesign,
is the timing is just right to really allow us to engage in thoughtful redesign of our services.
Going to slide 19. Our focus, of course, is changing, like I said. We've heard that, given COVID and these
financial constraints, System Optimization will have more of a financial constraint. In fact, it's going to be
challenging to maintain the current COVID-19 service levels as our weekday service levels in 2021, given
the financial challenges that we're looking at and talking about.
So we recognize that and that the Reimagine System Optimization Plan needs to reflect those fiscal
constraints and needs to be thought about in a socially equitable, effective, efficient, and sustainable
manner. These are priorities for Reimagine and to the System Optimization Plan, given these extreme
financial challenges and constraints that we are projecting that we need, or we will be facing and need to
address in 2021.
So we are optimizing the Reimagine RTD process, as slide 20 asserts. And that is identifying the
opportunity that I've discussed that Reimagine process provides to us for addressing our new normal, for
engaging the technical working group, the advisory committee, our stakeholders, and the public through a
public process for a service design that is socially equitable, effective and efficient, and sustainable.
That's leading boards, RTD Board direction. Of course, the Board has the ultimate policymaking and
decision making authority. And we've been keeping you well engaged and informed throughout this
process. It's our commitment, of course, to keep doing that through this process and to bring to you a very
sober but realistic System Optimization Plan by the end of this year for your consideration and adoption,
as well as identifying a fiscally unconstrained kind of goals based plan that will allow us to make
considered additions to service as we rebound, whether it's a slow rebound or a fast rebound, as Bruce
described.
So we are adjusting and recognizing these fiscal realities, these fiscal constraints through the Reimagine
process and assert and believe that we have a wonderful opportunity to make that process help us find
our way through to fiscal constraints and reality next year.
That's what I wanted to talk about in terms of how Reimagine fits into this, a real focus on a fiscally
constrained System Optimization Plan. I'd like to turn it back to you, Bruce, for closing.
BRUCE ABEL: Thanks, Bill.
As you can see, especially looking at the numbers that Heather discussed, we're facing a pretty daunting
task. In 2021, we are talking about a $251 million, $252 million shortfall. And for those of you that want to
find that in Heather's notes, that really comes from the $134.5 million base system shortfall and the

$116.7 million FasTracks shortfall that are on the cash flow sheet. So we've got a $251 million, $252
million shortfall in 2021 that we need to face.
And to put that in context, we are talking about O&M budget that, when we take capital out, we're looking
at O&M budgets that run $650 million to $700 million a year. So that is in excess of a third of our budget.
A daunting task. But it's really no different than any other unit of government. Cities, localities, states,
every unit of government that depends on sales tax as their primary source of revenue, like we do, is
facing the same type of challenge.
So towards that end, I know Paul Ballard sent out a note to the Board advising that he was forming an
internal working group to review our organization in light of our fiscal challenges. So I've taken a little bit
of literary license and called it the COVID Fiscal Response Task Force, because that's really what it is. It's
a task force formed for a specific purpose and a specific period of time to address the financial
ramifications of the COVID impacts on our finances.
This task force will really be doing a top to bottom review of the organization. I like to say top to bottom,
stem to stern. We will look at all RTD projects and programs. We will look at staffing levels throughout the
organization, potential levels of service that we can deliver to our customers and still be fiscally
sustainable on an ongoing basis.
The internal working group that we've put together will consist of myself, Lou Cripps Jr, who is the Senior
Manager of Asset Management, Susan Cohen, who is the Senior Manager of Finance, Doug MacLeod,
the Controller. We have also enlisted the assistance of Brian Iacono, the Senior Manager of Materials
Management, so that we can have eyes and ears on the procurement process as we go through this
project. We want to work together to analyze implications of different courses of action so that we can
develop alternatives and options for the Board's consideration.
I just want to say that one of the things that has already, several of the things that have already been
done, there has been a hiring freeze imposed in the organization. No positions will be filled without being
reviewed by Paul Ballard, with a little input from the COVID Response Task Force.
We have already put a hold on non-critical procurement. We will obviously move forward with critical
procurements, things such as we're moving forward with the replacement of the roof, replacement of the
boiler out at our operating facilities. But other procurements have been placed on hold as we proceed to
look at what we need.
Our timeline is we need to complete our work by roughly the end of July. We want to integrate the task
force work with the midterm financial plan process, the MTFP, so that the findings can be incorporated
into the 2021 through 2026 MTFP, which will also serve as the basis of the 2021 budget.
So that is the internal working group, or the Fiscal Response Task Force, that's been charged with
chairing by Paul Ballard.
| what I'd like to do is just take a moment to talk about some of the tools in our toolbox that we'll be
looking at to address our challenges. And I want to make very clear to the Board, at this point in time
we're not talking any recommendations but we're merely trying to identify some of the tools in our toolbox
so that we can all begin thinking about them as staff works with the Board to identify options for the
Board's consideration as we move forward.
I don't know, one of my beliefs, and I don't know what Board members believe or don't believe, but I can
say, my belief is that there is no silver bullet. No single silver bullet is going to address our problems, but
it's going to be lots of smaller pieces working together.

So we all need to be thinking about not only these ideas but whatever other ideas that I'm asking you to
please provide to both Heather and I as the Task Force and the Finance Department work together to
address our issues for 2021.
The tools on the revenue side of the task force. Heather's already talked about CARES Act II. That's not
something under management control so we can't count on it. But what we do want to do is be flexible so
that if it does happen, we haven't boxed ourselves into a corner that we can't respond accordingly. But as
Heather said, as related to CARES Act II, hope is not a strategy so we don't count on it.
Sales tax. We need to monitor and see if the Nike swoosh, or the V-shape, we know it fell off the cliff with
the pandemic but how it will reemerge, we just have to monitor. We have the Leeds forecast as our
primary forecasting tool, and that's what we used as our numbers as we proceed through the financial
analysis.
Other sources of revenue. I think the Board is aware of talks that RTD is involved with in Greyhound. And
is that a potential for another source of revenue to help support the RTD organization?
Does the board want to use reserves? Again, these are all questions for you all to start thinking about as
we move into some very fiscally challenging times. What's the purpose of reserves? To face some real
fiscal challenges. Is this a fiscal challenge that the Board deems rises to the occasion of using reserves?
Sale of land. Do we have land that we can sell? But if the answer to that is yes, we might need to ask the
question if we want to reconsider how the proceeds are used. In 2014, the Board created the FasTracks
internal savings account, the FISA, and said that any land sales revenues would go into the FISA. If we
sell land in 2021, does the Board want to temporarily suspend that guidance for the year in order to help
address the revenue shortfall?
The FasTracks internal savings accounts, the FISA. We can all recall that the original FasTracks ballot in
2004 had funding included to increase levels of rubber tired service, recognizing that not all areas were
going to see rail investments. In 2024, the Board created the FISA and said that rather than continuing to
use these "rubber tired funds" for service expansion, they would go into the FISA to try to advance
construction timeline because of the sales tax shortfalls that we realized because of the 2007-2011
recession.
Do we want to look at the FISA and not put the 2021 rubber tire account into the savings account? Do we
want to borrow from the FISA account? These are all questions that we'll be asking the Board's
consideration as we move forward and try to identify courses of action.
Farebox revenue. How will ridership and revenue rebound? We know we've got reduced revenues. We
have social distancing, which is going to generate additional reductions in revenue because we have
lower ridership capacity. We also have people's reluctance to return to transit. We may see telework
continuation eroding ridership. So how is all of that going to impact RTD, where 70% of our ridership is for
work trip purposes? So those are some of the questions that we pose on the revenue side of the
equation.
On the expense side of the equation, we need to look at our service levels. Our core mission is on the
first slide of Heather's PowerPoint. Our core mission is moving people. So I would think that we would
want to minimize service reductions because that is our core mission, moving people.
We need to examine all of our corporate overhead structure. Task force has already asked every AGM to
prioritize the work done in their different work groups and their department's relative importance to

supporting our core mission. We will look at all of the programs, all the processes, all of the staffing levels,
because we need to bring our expenses into line with our available resources.
We should all expect to move forward as a smaller, more focused organization. And that's where we're
really glad that we've got the Reimagine technical working group and the advisory committees to provide
us guidance and work with us and the Board.
As I mentioned, we put the 2020 projects, capital projects, on hold so we can review them. The 2021
cash flow that Heather presented on the FasTracks side have already eliminated all projects. On the base
system side, they have essentially eliminated all projects. We need to prioritize projects. Going back to
flexibility, if our revenues do increase, we probably want to prioritize projects so that if revenues return,
we know what will be the first project to return, what would be the second.
We need to be flexible to help us adjust the mobility needs. At the same time, we need to really get our
organization in line with our available resources.
So I talked about no single bullet. It's going to be a lot of small actions that we want to talk about. One of
the first of those small actions that we want to communicate to the Board with about, following last week's
meeting, regarding furloughs, we've had conversations with many Board members.
We have heard from a number of non-represented staff that people understand that it will probably be
necessary to move forward with furloughs, given our financial issues. While no one really wants this to
happen, people have communicated they would like, if this is going to happen, we need to do it sooner
not later. They want to be able to plan their future, so that they can plan vacation, plan furloughs over a
longer period of time. So rather than having to jam vacations and furloughs into the last couple of months,
they can begin to address these issues now.
So we've spoken with a number of Board members regarding our desire to move forward and announce
that we will implement furloughs for non-represented employees. As has been previously discussed,
there would be nine furlough days between now and the end of the year. One would be wrapped into the
4th of July holiday, one would be wrapped into the Labor Day holiday, one would be wrapped around the
Thanksgiving holiday, one would be wrapped around the Christmas holiday, and one would be wrapped
around the New Year's holiday. This constitutes five of the four furlough days. The other four would be
taken at the discretion of the employee.
In prior meetings and during our conversations with the Board, we've heard the concerns regarding
employees at the lower levels of compensation. So rather than using the cutoff as 185% of the poverty
level for a family of two, we will use 185% of the poverty level for a family of three as the cutoff point for
the implementation of the furloughs.
As I said, this will be the first of many actions that we need to take to address our financial shortfalls. We
need to have additional conversations with the represented employees. We need to have additional
conversations regarding all of the revenue and expense tools that we just mentioned so that we can get
the sense of the Board and move forward with addressing our challenges.
So with that, I'd just like to open it up, turn it back to Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Abel. What I'd like to do is start with our
chair of the finance committee, then do our second vice chair, and then go in reverse alphabetical order.
Director Cook, you have the floor.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just to recap for everyone, the furloughs, the most recently
discussed item that Bruce brought up, the furloughs are a matter of 2020. They're actually a fairly modest

step in the big scheme of things, meant to help start us off with a better cushion going into 2021. And as
Vice Chair Bob Broom and Heather McKillops have affirmed, there likely, very possibly would be
additional amendments coming forward this year. So the idea is just to get some action going, earlier
rather than later, both because it will be less impactful for the employees affected, but also because it
increases our ability to get a better footing for that 20-21 timeframe.
OK. So that said, I didn't want people to read too much into this. For example, it applies, at this point,
simply because of a matter of timing, to non-represented employees. I don't want people thinking that
we're expecting, because we're moving forward with this piece alone, that it is only applying to, or we're
expecting the non-represented employees to bear the brunt of the shortfalls. This isn't meant to signal
anything like that. It's just a matter of needing to move forward and being able to on this one piece.
The second thing is there was considerable, and there remains considerable interest in the tiers. So I
don't think that by-- and I'm grateful for the fact that we lifted that floor. I think pretty much the entire group
is on board with that. But I don't think that it means necessarily that we've resolved the issue of the tiers. I
just wanted to put that out there as indicating enough interest remains about that to carry it forward. I
think we'd see it coming forward.
Madam Chair, I have a couple of questions as well, if you think I should wait. Or should I just bring those
in right now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If you don't mind, I'd like Director Broom. And then we'll go in reverse order
for questions, if that's OK with you, Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: That sounds good. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I don't have much to add to this discussion at this point. It's just going to
be extremely difficult to get a handle on how quickly the sales tax base comes back into play. Originally, I
thought it was going to come back very, very slowly.
But apparently, there has been a lot of people going back to work and there's been a lot of federal money
that has been put into the hopper that's being spent. And so retail sales are looking better than what a lot
of us thought they were going to look like. | so it's good to have the idea that we're going to have to take
multiple looks at this, that we can't just take one look at it now and look at it again next year. That's not
going to be the case at all.
The other thing that bothered me in this presentation, and something we don't talk about a lot, is how far
off the projections were for the original FasTracks programs, both on what it was going to cost to build,
what it was going to cost to maintain, and what the sales tax revenues were going to be going out for
many years. There was no assumptions that were going to be any recessions. It was all straight lined at
that point in time.
And I hope, if we're hiring consultants to do future projections, that they don't make that same mistake
and put some future Board in the same position that we now find ourselves at this point in time. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Broom. I'm now going to start calling on Directors,
going in reverse order. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a couple of things that I'd like to share. I would again
like to thank all of our employees who have been on the front line, the drivers and the cleaners and the
maintenance people who we recognize have been working so hard and who have been recognized

throughout the community for that work. But I want to remember that we are all family. As long as I've
been working with RTD, I've heard that said. And now the quote that's going around nationally is that we
are all in this together.
So it looks like now our non-represented employees are on the front line. They are going to be giving up a
percent of their income. And so I think we need to recognize them equally, as we have recognized our
other employees. And I want to give credit to all RTD employees. This is an awkward and uncomfortable
situation, I think, for everybody involved in it, and for the Board members as well. But that's why we got
elected to this position was to make these tough decisions and to be responsible for running our agency
fiscally wisely.
So I think that's all I want to say right now. Thank you for the opportunity.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I don't have too much more. I appreciate Director Broom's
comments regarding the errors of our past. Unfortunately, it's difficult to wrap our arms around now, but
we do need to plan to 2026 and 2034 and some of the other dates mentioned in Heather's presentation.
I just appreciate our Finance Chair and Vice Chair, their hard work and their sharing of information. Also
to staff, because none of this is a surprise. None of this is brand spanking new, which it shouldn't be. So I
just appreciate all the work that's been going on.
And to end my comments, again, I echo Director Williams, and my thoughts and well wishes to all of our
employees and the dedication and the sacrifices that they're making and will continue to make to see this
agency through to continue to move the Front Range of Colorado. Thank you so much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Hi. Thanks. Can you hear me OK?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
JEFF WALKER: OK, I'm on speakerphone, so I was wondering.
So thanks for the presentation. And you know, I get the feeling that staff is doing all it can to find cost
savings. And we're definitely treading in uncharted water. The expansion that we had coming in from the
recession that ended in 2009 was unprecedented also in its scope and length and breadth, et cetera. And
now it seems like we did a quick stop. And I guess on the reports that I've heard recently, spending and
jobs were a lot more robust than we had planned or than most economists expected. So who knows if
that will continue. I don't know. But anyway, I'm sure staff is doing what it can.
I did have one question about the COVID Response Task Force. Legal and Safety, Security weren't on
that. And I'm wondering if there's a reason for that, if that's by design. Or are the savings, potential
savings in those areas not large enough, not large enough for [AUDIO OUT]?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Abel.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you, Director Walker, Madam Chair. The members that I listed on the task force are
the individuals that will be reviewing input from each department. Have asked each department to review
their organization, their department, with an eye towards their programs, which of their division's
programs most directly support our core mission, moving people, evaluate the positions necessary to
conduct the functions, not the people, but the positions necessary to support our core mission, to
prioritize what functions and what positions are necessary to support our core mission.
That will be done, those evaluations are due to me by close of business tomorrow from every department
head-- or Thursday, I'm sorry, my weeks all run together-- from every department head. Safety and

Security will be providing such an analysis for their department, as will every other department in the
organization.
But the folks that will be reviewing those are the folks that I mentioned, that is Lou Cripps from Asset
Management, Doug MacLeod, the Controller, Susan Cohen from Financial, the Senior Manager of
Finance, myself, and then have enlisted Brian Iacono just to help us be the gatekeeper on the capital
side. He sees everything that the organization is buying, so he's got a great view of what we do.
Obviously, everything that we do is going to be done with the primary lens towards A, our mission
statement, and B, the guiding principles that Director Cook, Chair of the Finance Committee, made
reference to earlier. We will be looking for those guiding principles from the Board once they are
developed, and they are going to play a major role in how we do our evaluation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Did that answer your question, Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes. Yes, it does. I was thinking that somebody from one of those departments would
also have a critical eye on all of the functions across the agency, because those do bleed through, cover
all of the agencies, or they could be affected by any action in any department. But I know that there's
somebody on that task force that has a critical eye toward systems engineering, so I'm comfortable with
the makeup. I was just curious.
And the last thing that I'll say regarding furloughs is that it's nice to see the floor raised a little bit. You
know, I mentioned before that I thought that we shouldn't [AUDIO OUT], the Board members shouldn't
escape this unscathed. I made a pers-- well, I didn't do it directly, but indirectly I reached out to the
Speaker of the House. And right now there's not an appetite, or there wasn't an appetite at the time. So
that's not a big deal.
But we can contribute to RTD just the same. So I just want everybody to know that yesterday I made a
donation to RTD to let the folks that have been driving me around town for the last 18, 19 years to know
that I'm with them. And that's not just the operators, but the folks in the office that support the operators
and mechanics, et cetera.
So I just want that to be known that there are still ways that we can contribute financially and show that
even though we're not part of staff and those furloughs won't touch us, we can still show that we care.
Because most of the comments that I've gotten about furloughs is it's not just about the money, it's about
the solidarity and seeming that-- showing that we are all in this together. So that's it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Walker. Before I let you go, can you tell us where you
did your donations?
JEFF WALKER: I gave it straight to Miss McKillop.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Thank you so much. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I certainly can.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that. Sorry for the technical difficulty before.
I greatly appreciate the presentation by all. And the PowerPoint slides helped to highlight important
issues. And I'm also quite pleased to hear that after receiving Director Walker's donation, Ms. McKillop is
still with us and is not somewhere in Tierra del Fuego. So we appreciate that. That was an attempt at
humor. I can't hear you laugh, but hopefully you're smiling.
In any event, we had today, the American Public Transportation Association had a Go To Meetings forum
with the CEO and Chairman of the New York MTA. And there were some interesting facts that he

revealed. New York MTA, as of yesterday, Monday this week, is currently operating with about 80% of
their normal passenger load.
Let me say that again. New York MTA is operating on the subways at about 80% of their normal
passenger load. They're at about 75%, or 70% to 75% on their buses. So they have rebounded
dramatically in the past several weeks. Their retail sales report that we heard today almost tripled the
expectations.
So I bring these two factors up to say that while I am very sympathetic with the approach of extreme
conservatism in looking forward, I would submit that extreme conservatism is just as dangerous as being
overly optimistic. So there has to be this middle road. And I think that that's something that we sometimes
forget. Because everyone seems to be striving to see if I can be the most conservative voice in the room,
the biggest doomsayer in the room. And I don't think that serves us very well.
So on the economic side, I would submit that, yes, you need to be aware of the most optimistic forecast
and the most pessimistic forecast. But you're probably well advised to look for a middle road that is much
more likely to be seen in the future.
There is, then, the very challenging and difficult question of furloughs, which is an extremely complicated
issue, especially as it relates to our frontline workers, the people who have given us the ability to continue
to move people as we've been going forward through these challenging times, as well as an incredible
impact that we are potentially facing relative to people who have very challenged financial circumstances
not being highly compensated.
I know there is a goal of how much money that we need to raise in order to balance the 2020 budget. I
know there is a great deal of concern over the 2021 budget. But I refer you to my comments above
relative to some of that and say that perhaps it may not be, emphasis on the word may, not be as dire as
we hear.
In conclusion, I don't have specific recommendations to make. This is a study session, not an action
session. And I appreciate the opportunity to go on at some length. And I thank you very much, Madam
Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Mihalik.
Director Mihalik? I don't see the Director online. He may be having some technical difficulties. If you come
back on, just let me know and I'll put you back into the queue.
Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Chair, I have several questions, so I'm wondering if I could go around to the end, as
some other Directors may have similar question and they may tick them off. Would that be all right?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Of course. Of course it would be. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I wanted to thank-- I thank staff for the presentation. It was excellent and it
was very sobering. I did appreciate Director Tisdale's input that basically that we have to be careful,
always being sure to have the most up to date information because things change.
But nonetheless, it is very sobering what we're facing. And because of this sobering forecast, I think what
it calls for is a level of cooperation between the Board and the staff in creating the budget that is not
typical, is much more even than we normally have to give to each other, because the potential cuts are
huge and very difficult.
So I would just urge, if the Board asks for things, like for instance, information on a variety of furlough
options with different tiers, I would love to see that and see that quickly so that we could jump in and all

work together to figure out what the best way forward would be. So I just urge that kind of flexibility and
response on the part of the staff to the Board's concerns so that we can all move forward.
I also wanted to express my concern to all of our staff as we go through this difficult, difficult budgetary
process. So thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I do have a few questions. And I have a request. So similar request
as Director Lubow. And so I appreciate her bringing this up, because I know we've talked about a tiered
approach quite a bit, and we've yet to see that proposal come to the Board.
And so my request, my first request is for if we could get the presentation that-- oh, gosh, his name just
went out of my head-- Bruce provided, if he could give us that in written form. I didn't see any of the
information that he that he spoke about in our packets, and it would have been great to be able to follow
along to some of that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Is he still on the line? I just want to make sure he heard that request.
BRUCE ABEL: I will be glad to provide some bullet points. Those are my sort of top of head comments
and recap as to how we need to move forward. But I'll be more than glad to provide you bullet point
outlines of my talking points.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And I was particularly interested in the task force. I wasn't able to
capture everyone's name that you said. But one of the things that I saw was missing is folks from our
Transit Equity department. I think it's really important for us to have that limb as well. And I didn't hear
that. And so I just wanted to be [AUDIO OUT]. I just wanted to see who was on that and to make sure that
we had the right folks on that task force.
And the second question I have is about the furloughs. I will say I am quite surprised that staff went
forward with the furloughs. I'm not saying it's right or wrong approach. I'm just quite surprised that we
decided to do it in this way. I know we've had a number of discussions around concerns about the tiered
approach and having disparate impact and maybe some populations carrying the burden more so than
others.
And so I'm curious as to the rationale to how we got to the 185% of the federal poverty level for a family of
three and only having furloughs apply to non-represented employees.
BRUCE ABEL: I think that the essence of the conversation would be somewhat summed up in some of
my earlier comments. This is the first of a number of actions that are going to have to be taken to address
our fiscal circumstance. Our non-represented employees, while none of them are clamoring for this to
happen, none of them are excited about it happening, they have expressed a belief that it will have to
happen because of our fiscal circumstance and can we do it now as opposed to later, because nobody
wants to be left having to take a bunch of furlough days in the last eight weeks of the year and have them
all piled up.
And so in discussions with the SLT and representing their employees, we landed on, we still have work to
do om the represented side of the house. Our non-represented employees have said, if we're going to do
it, let's do it sooner as opposed to later. And so that is really the driving force behind this conversation this
evening.
As it relates to the issue of the level, I think one of the things that was communicated in prior
conversations regarding the initial furlough conversation was 185% of poverty level, and that is the SNAP

level, which is a commonly used line for programs. But we heard the Board say that there was a concern
about individuals at lower levels of compensation.
So the last conversation with the Board was around a number that was for a family of two, which was
generally between $15 and $16 an hour. And we heard the Board's comments and concerns about lower
earners, so we concluded that we would move this up to family of three, which is between $19 and $20
an hour. So that will still move us forward in the do it sooner as opposed to later, recognize the Board's
concern for the lower wage earners.
And from the tier perspective, there were a number of concerns that have been raised in the legal front,
so we move forward with the line that said family of three, 185% of poverty level, the SNAP level. And
that is how we will move forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis, if I could ask the Chair of the Finance Committee
to update, to give you more information. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Thank you. Because really, that change was at our urging and instigation.
Recall, we've talked about tiers. There's a significant number of people who would prefer to see that. That
isn't something that looks like it could go forward at this point, in part because the Board as a whole is
kind of split on it.
But where the compromise was was in the idea of lifting that floor at this point. So we brought that, Peggy
Catlin, Director Catlin had a suggestion about that. We brought that to Bruce. And they worked through it
in the background there and came back with it. And that's what I was hoping I had been communicating to
everybody today.
So my apologies if that wasn't clear. And I was careful mainly because of Director Lewis's concerns about
tiers, but not just hers, to make it clear that that issue still is front and center for a number of the Board
members. OK, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Cook.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Cook.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I do-- thank you, Madam Chair-- I do appreciate that clarity. And I was quite surprised.
It wasn't as clear, and so I do appreciate you saying that.
But it does-- I still have an inquiry about, I know it came up around the, like if it were legal, if this would
disproportionately impact a certain demographic of folks if we're not doing it at the same time. And it just
concerns me that we-- and it's not the intention that we unintentionally pit the represented employees up
against the non-represented employees simply by this action and not by our words. And so it's more just
a number of concerns.
And then once-- I just have a few more questions. To clarify, for the furloughs, are you saying that those
who meet the threshold of 185% of the federal poverty line are held harmless, or they just have less days
that they are required to take?
BRUCE ABEL: Individuals who fall below the 185% poverty line for a family of three will be exempt from
the furlough.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. All right, thank you.
BRUCE ABEL: They will not be furloughed. They will be exempt from that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you. And I'm actually going to switch gears, because I had questions about
the presentation. And I'm quite unprepared for this discussion for the furloughs.

So you mentioned the physically constrained optimization plan. And I didn't see a timeline attached to
that. And I was wondering if I-- I think it was Mr. Van Meter, if you could tell me the plan for that and how
it's changed and how that, if that has changed.
BILL VAN METER: Madam Chair, this is Bill Van Meter. May I speak?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please, Mr. Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: The timeline remains the same. And the intent is to start having in-depth looks at that
information through this summer and take it out for public input and comment late summer and into the
early parts of the fall, for Board consideration this fall and adoption before the end of the year.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So just to clarify, nothing is necessarily changed, that you all are still moving forward,
just with an understanding that we should do something differently with COVID? Because I believe that
was the same timelime you all provided us with prior to the Board's asking that you all change the
direction.
BILL VAN METER: Exactly. So we are changing the direction to reflect these fiscal constraints and
realities and the challenges that we have. But in terms of assuring strong advisory committee and
technical working group involvement, making sure that the Board of Directors is comfortable and informed
every step along the way, and that we have a robust public involvement process, which is going to be a
challenge and one that we believe we're up to in the COVID-19 environment, making sure that all of those
boxes are checked and that we have made sure that your constituents, your voices as the Board and
your stakeholders, and, most importantly, the citizens are heard and have provided their input on
priorities, important issues such as social equity, efficiency, effectiveness, those items that we talked
about.
But if in this new fiscal constraint, we can't really change the schedule, change the inputs and the results,
and make sure that you are making an informed decision when you, the Board of Directors, make that
final decision the state to swap.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Van Meter.
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, if I might add to Bill.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Director-- General Manager Ballard.
BRUCE ABEL: No, this is actually Bruce. I'm sorry. The only thing I-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Abel.
BRUCE ABEL: --I would like to add to Bill's comment is perhaps, as Bill commented. Virtually everything
remains the same. The one thing that, to go back and address Director Tisdale's comments, we are
looking at more of a scalable project that can be phased so that as conditions change we may, over time,
build upon a plan, whereas the original target was to have a plan for implementation on a date. One of the
things that we're really working very heavily with the committee on to get their philosophies, but also how
do we phase the implementation, make sure it's scalable so that we can address ongoing recovery
through the next several years.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I appreciate you adding some color to that conversation.
The last question I have for you is around the technical advisory committees. How are you-- have they-are we using them differently throughout this process than we had originally planned for, considering the
changes that have come with COVID?
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead, Mr. Van Meter.

BILL VAN METER: We're still, and from a general perspective, we're still using them the same way. And
that's to provide technical guidance and input in the consideration that we're asking them to make in
terms of trade-offs between service efficiency and regional expenditures and equity and those measures.
But it's within a completely new understanding and context of the financial constraints and the new
realities of what the recovery may look like, our fiscal, as well as physical constraints. And so we are
giving them that information and that understanding that the targets are changing, that the priorities are
potentially changing, and certainly the expectations for the end result for an optimized plan in 2021 are
going to be much more, as I said earlier, sobering in terms of the levels that we anticipate we'll be able to
provide.
And as Bruce mentioned, we are also looking at more robust service levels and alternatives such that as
financial constraints become lessened and opportunities arise, we have a path forward for how we can
improve and restore service.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. And that's, I'm guessing that that includes that some folks are just going to
permanently telework and we're-- that's considered in our planning and our thinking.
BILL VAN METER: We are asking the working group and our consultant team to take those sorts of
probable realities into consideration as they are looking at that future, yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. That's all, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And thanks very much for the presentation and the explanation of the
committee, Bruce, and all of that.
I'm wondering about the timing of all of those pieces. I think, Bruce, you said that you'd be finishing your
work by the end of July in order to move it forward within the MTFP. if I recall correctly, the target for the
System Optimization Plan is August still, will be-- I guess I'm wondering what the goal is. Is there a
number that you're trying to hit with Reimagine? How do you work those two together?
BRUCE ABEL: I think-- Madam Chair, this is Bruce, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BRUCE ABEL: I think that we're trying to make sure that the Reimagine process, the SOP process, the
MTFP process, all work together hand in glove. I think it's going to be an iterative process. And by that I
mean we need to continue to monitor our financial realities. We need to take that into consideration as we
look at the financial constraints that guide the SOP and develop what we believe is at least a founded, in
some level of reality, probability as to how we can phase growth from the near term, when we're expected
to be digging out of a large hole, to the latter stages of the MTFP, when hopefully we've seen things
recover.
But again, we want to be flexible so that if things do recover more quickly, the SOP is scalable and we
can scale our services accordingly, because that, again, is our core mission.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And this is Heather.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I just add to that. I think also consider it from the point of view is not only the
scalability of the SOP, but also the Board does have flexibility in amending their budget, right? So even
though we've only done it once a year, as we've been talking about, we're in quite a fluid state right now.
And that may continue well into 2021. So we will need to be flexible with how we make adjustments to the

budget, and it may be that we have to do that multiple times in 2021, like we may have to do in 2020. So
we do have that ability, flexibility to do that also with the budgeting process.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. I guess I'm still thinking that in order to come up with a System Optimization
Plan you need a target of what you're trying to-- I'm trying to think through how these pieces fit together.
Because you're going to be looking at all kinds of things in the fiscal, you know, in the committee. And at
the same time, moving forward, as I understand it, with looking at our COVID plan, and does that need to
be changed and potentially even cut more. And then how do we reinstate the service and all of that? Is
there a target that you're shooting for with that?
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BRUCE ABEL: No, that's a very good point. And I think that our starting target point, and I believe at
some point either Heather or I, I know we both intended to, but I believe Heather made the comment that
we'll be hard pressed to maintain the current level of service, which is the COVID service plan, at a 40%
reduction from January. I think that's sort of our initial target to see, can we, through our work in nonservice related reductions, reduce our expenditures sufficiently to have the resources to continue to
provide the current level of service?
And I will share with the group that that is not going to be an easy task. Because we've sort of done some
book end analysis, if you will. If we were to have to address this entire shortfall on service alone, it would
not be a pretty picture. We would no longer be moving people. If we looked at trying to balance this
shortfall on the basis of staffing adjustments alone, it wouldn't come close to reaching the level that we
need to reach. And so we will be somewhere in the middle.
And so for initial target, we're saying, hey, can we sustain a level of service roughly equal to that which
we are providing today in terms of bus service hours, rail service hours? And obviously, that also has
some impacts due to the capacity constraints that we also have to try to figure out how to address. So the
pandemic recovery plan will also, and Mr. Meader's shop, will also play into this very real.
I don't know if that answers the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Very well. Thank you. That's what I was looking for was kind of what the
target is.
And then I'll stick with you, Bruce. In terms of how what you're doing comes back to the Board, I can
appreciate you're going to be balancing a lot of things and you're going to be moving this item up 10
points and that item down 12 points and all of that. But I appreciate also Director Lubow's concern, and I
like what we're doing with the principals. But what will we be seeing? Are we getting a final report? How
do you bring this back to us?
BRUCE ABEL: Heather and I have had conversations about there are a number of workshops that have
been tentatively established for the MTFP process. It's so much easier to say [AUDIO OUT]. And so we
would anticipate using those workshops.
You know, you made reference to the guiding principle. And I think we're very much looking forward to the
guiding principles, because those are going to be indeed the principles that guide our efforts. We really do
view this as being an iterative process through a series of workshops. And Heather, what was the number
that was tentatively set aside over the next several weeks?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Four or five.

BRUCE ABEL: Four or five. So we really want to stay in communication with the Board, get the sense of
the Board as we come up with alternatives and options, which one pass muster, so that we can continue
to refine those.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. That sounds great.
With respect to the furloughs, I share other people's concerns about the employees. I'm sure this is hard
and people are trying to figure out where the future lies. But you know, I think, and I guess I share
concerns that I would have preferred the higher floor and a tiered plan. But I think, let's get it moving. This
is a good acceptable proposal for 2020.
Have we discussed the problem of the next step up? I think the floor is something slightly above $40,000.
So it's at least making $41,000. Can we set a floor at which they would-- their salary would not go down
below that, that 185%?
I'm not sure I'm saying this very clearly. I'd hate to see someone making a dollar more than the cutoff who
gets their salary cut way below. And I know that other people have said it so that that is the cut off. If
you're making more, you don't go any farther below than that. Is that part of the plan?
BRUCE ABEL: That is not part of the plan, but I do thank you for articulating that. Several people have
attempted to articulate that and this is the first time that I fully grasp that which you're discussing. But that
is not currently part, that is not part of the plan forward. Perhaps we can look at that for as we move into
future phases. Because again, this is the first of a number of actions that we're going to have to take to
get our fiscal house in order.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. I guess I would really hope that you could look at it for this phase. It just
doesn't seem like it's a fair process to move people down below what that number is. And maybe it's not a
lot of people. I don't know. But it may not be much. But it certainly would add to the fairness. So I'd ask
you to please take a look at that.
And that's all I have. Thanks.
BRUCE ABEL: All right. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Bruce, for your presentation and everybody's
presentation. It's, like everybody said, sobering and a very difficult position, and I think very painful. At
least it is for me.
I appreciate very much that we have a hiring freeze. And I guess that's a policy now. I'm wondering about
promotions. It's my understanding that recently three people have been promoted from a manager to-- or
from supervisor to manager in the Communications department in the last three weeks. And so are you
considering putting a freeze on promotions? That's my first question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm going to ask Miss Tonilas, our Assistant General Manager of
Communications, to respond to that.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you, Director Folska.
So I guess I was, I'm assuming what you're talking about is the positions in Customer Care, where, as
part of our department reorganization that was presented and approved in January, that we took a look
across the board at how we can help our department function more streamlined.
And there were a few actions within the reorganization that were designed to streamline functions and
give us more flexibility in how to use our staff. There were some very interesting changes that had been
made in the department where units were moved in areas that didn't make a lot of sense. So much of the

reorganization was moving folks back together where we could have crossover work based on what their
positions were.
But one part of the reorganization was looking at the jobs of three supervisors in the Customer Care
department whose job descriptions were very outdated and the work that they had taken on was very
aligned with similar managers within the organization. So as more of an internal equity effort, we put forth
the case that these three individuals were warranted to be managers for the functions that they oversaw
and the numbers of people.
And so that was, I'm assuming that's the three positions you're talking about. But that was not within the
last couple of weeks. That actually happened as part of our department reorganization that was put forth
in January. And as you all know, because I've presented this to you all several times since I came back to
RTD, I looked holistically and very objectively at the whole department to look for ways that we could
streamline and basically align our functional units in a better way. And that was the purpose of our
reorganization.
And so I'm hopeful that that answers your question. If it was something else you're asking about, I'm not
quite certain what that might be, because we haven't promoted anybody in the last few weeks. We have
had a hiring freeze. And I have had several positions in the Communications Department that were
vacant before I arrived. And it was a process to fill those vacancies. So that happened over the past year.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you for that response. I appreciate it. And I don't know all of the details, of
course, but my overall general question is, along with the hiring freeze, are you all going to put a freeze
on promotions until things settle up? That's kind of where I'm at.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Director Folska-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead. Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. I'd like to address that question. When we say we have a hiring freeze, it refers to
all positions that could be filled by someone from within the organization or from outside the organization.
So if someone makes a case, for example, we have a Superintendent of Maintenance for all the bus
fleets retired recently and a case was made that that position is critical. And I supported that and agreed
the filling. They will interview candidates from both outside the organization and from within the
organization. So if someone within the organization is chosen, then that in effect would be a promotion.
But other than that, I mean, that's really the only way that we would be having any promotions is if it's a
position that was exempted from the hiring freeze and then someone from within was, in fact, selected.
So that would be a promotion.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I see. Thank you for that clarification. I appreciate that.
Like others, I echo a lot of what we've heard tonight from other Directors, so I don't want to belabor that.
But I do think that our core mission is to move people and that we have asked our drivers and operators
to give a lot over the last six years, five years. And so my hope is that-- and I understand the book end
position and coming to somewhere in the middle.
But I think that we've received incredible sacrifice from them under very difficult conditions. And our
financial position wasn't really fabulous to begin with. So the pandemic has taken it to a completely
different level. But we've been struggling with this for a long time, so this isn't really anything new.
And I am looking forward, Bruce, to seeing what you bring forward with your task force and how we can
accomplish this sooner rather than later. That's all, Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Cook.

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. A quick couple of things. Bruce, as we have seen, the
numbers are changing. Some things are coming in better. I know that the forecasts will be refined. We'll
take a better look at fare collections once they start up again, et cetera. But what's the charge in terms of
dollar amount? Is it to solve the gap in the mid-term financial plan over that five-year timeframe? Or
what's your task force being charged to come up with? Is it a specific dollar amount or identifying the
possible changes within the parameters you provide people?
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
BRUCE ABEL: Well, a very good question. And I think the first way I know to answer it is that during
Heather's presentation, she made reference to $ 252 million shortfall in 2021. And that was approximately
$135 million in the base system. I'm flipping for the rest because I tend to use base system numbers in
my head.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: $117 million.
BRUCE ABEL: $117 million in FasTracks. So that is our target for 2021. But obviously our organizational
target is for over the next six years to continue to be sustainable financially. But I think our initial target is
how do we address a $252 million shortfall in 2021.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Thanks for that.
And speaking to Director Tisdale's remarks, if you recall, in March prior to assuming the COVID numbers,
or shortfall, we had already been confronting over the multi-year timeframe at the mid-term financial plan
a pretty significant shortfall. So even if revenues rebounded entirely in that V-shaped, then it seems like
we still have an issue. Hopefully that's all, I mean, quote-unquote, because now it seems, you know,
everything relative seems more addressable.
OK, then one last question, if I may. So I'll just foreshadow one of the principles I see emerging. Several
directors are interested in, have talked about the idea of employing alternative approaches to service
delivery, thinking big about that and not in ways that are more experimental but actually considering
whether one way to continue to provide service is to implement some new approach.
And to me, one of the big advantages of the consulting team and the stakeholder involvement, et cetera,
of the Reimagine effort is bringing to the fore that creativity. But you haven't yet mentioned that. You
haven't mentioned considering alternative means of meeting a service demand or providing services. And
so I just wanted to insert or, like I say, foreshadow what I see is a pretty strong principle coming forward
about considering not just the ways we can save and increase revenues but considering also creative
approaches, understanding, though, that it's not, there's no single silver bullet, like you said. But hopefully
this is another tool in our toolbox.
And kind of along those lines, saying that looking at the revenue side, it may be, too, that that group
would have, in terms of alternative approaches, might have ideas about how to respond to changes in
ridership that we see. So anyway, just putting that out there and hoping that you are all able to pull that in
to your explicit thinking there.
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, Bruce Abel, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BRUCE ABEL: Yes, that is very much within the purview and one of the real, very real benefits that we
have of dovetailing with the Reimagine project. Again, our charge is to move people. Our charge is to not

move buses and trains. And so if there are ways that we can do this creatively, that will be part of our
charge.
Now the original charge of the Reimagine project had that as the second phase after SOP. But we have
had conversations that the issues of partnerships with our local partners and new means of service
delivery, we need to move those conversations forward so that we can find the most cost effective way of
moving people.
SHELLEY COOK: Great. Thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: Paul Ballard.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. I'd like to expand on Bruce and Heather's answer just a bit. First of all, the
work of the task force will build a lot upon what Reimagine has done. A lot of the data will come from what
Reimagine has done. And I see parallel paths in the work that they're doing.
Secondly, all corners of the agency will have input into the work that this task force is doing. So every
aspect of the District will be able to have their input. But I think from the big picture, the work of this task
force will be to look at staffing, service levels, changing ridership patterns, all of those things that are
evolving daily, and then develop some strategies in all of those categories with the price tags attached as
to how much can be saved.
So as the committee does this work, it's certainly our hope that some of the other developing and
dynamic aspects of the process we're dealing with, in terms of sales tax and bus fare collection and
people coming back to work and riders coming back to work, will all come together so that we can put
together a tool box for the Board to use and it deals with whatever that particular number happens to be
that when we finally have to make a decision, we have a good idea what that number is and you will have
options and tools available to you to address what that number is.
So I think that's the big picture, as I see it. And Bruce and I have discussed this extensively. And so over
the next several weeks, we'll be trying to put that tool box together for your use. So hope that helps. I
think it's the bigger picture.
SHELLEY COOK: No. Thank you for that clarification.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that complete your questions, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: It does, Madam Chair. Thanks so much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I've heard awkward, uncomfortable, painful. And I concur
with all of those comments.
I was trying to do the math in my head, so it might be incorrect. But I think what I heard Director
Guissinger mention was that if we set a level that's at 185% of the federal poverty line for a family of three
but then take the full furlough days for that employee, that's roughly 7% of their salary for the rest of the
year. And that would indeed drop them below the federal poverty line. So I totally did not think about that.
And so I appreciated your perspective, Director Guissinger.
I was also very much struck by the FasTracks costs being 31% higher than projected in 2004. So that by
itself is a concern. But coupled with the two, including this one, the two recessions that we've had, it
seems to me that moving forward we need to probably recognize that there could be in fact another
recession prior to maybe even 2032 timeframe that you talked about.

And I would hope that Director Broom and Director Tisdale's rosy outlook will come to fruition and that we
can add back rather than scaling back at that point.
Bruce, you said that there is no silver bullet for a solution, that it's really going to be more like 1,000 cuts.
And I just have to make the case that there are no silver bullets, that we have to look at every single
source. And I'll just leave it at that. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me, not the silver bullet. I correct myself. I said silver bullets. There not only no
silver bullets, but there are no sacred cows. We have to look at everything. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. A couple comments and a question. I'll start with furloughs. And I
am in agreement with staff and support the direction they're taking and the fact that we're going to be
considering everything as we move forward. But we need to move forward quickly, because if we're
looking at nine furlough days and you wait till November to do that, no happy holidays for you. So we
need to spread that out over a period of time to make it manageable.
Question I have first has to do with slide number 13. And it's the how we got here slide and the different
variables that played into how we got here. And what I'd like-- and I don't need an answer to this tonight,
but if there's any way to give even rough percentages to these things in terms of if we're looking at the
$250 some million for next year, what percentage did each of these things play into That my fear is that
people will accuse us of using the COVID pandemic as an excuse for all of our woes. And we're not doing
that. And we're being straightforward and honest. I just want to know what that looks like, if that's
possible.
My next two comments have to do with the same language on slides 19 and 20. 19 is Reimagine RTD
after COVID-19, talks about the System Optimization Plan, saying it's a fiscally constrained plan to meet
the region's mobility needs in a socially equitable, effective, efficient, sustainable manner. And slide 20
has the same language.
When we talk about equity, we always forget about the geographic equity issue as well. So I would like to
see this as a socially/geographically equitable language put in there. Because ultimately, when we're
reimagining RTD and what service and system optimization looks like, I'm guessing there's going to be
some discussion about routes that may go away and may go away forever. And having represented an
area that, like many of the other directors, the suburban directors kind of are always wanting for more,
right? So I want to make sure that when we look at reimagining RTD after COVID-19, we're not only
talking about socially equitable but geographically equitable as well and what that might look like.
That's all I have. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Buzek.
PAUL BALLARD: This is Paul Ballard, CEO.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please?
PAUL BALLARD: Paul Ballard, CEO.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. Thank you, Director Buzek. We will certainly look at those issues. First of all, on
page 13, we'll take a look at identifying the dollars, as you requested. And then on pages 19 and 20, we
certainly understand the geographic issue as well. It's a constant struggle, as you know. And we will do

our best to balance the art of balancing geographic as well as service demand. So thank you for that
reminder. It's an important one.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Mr. Ballard. And the only reason I bring it up is that since I've been on the Board
and geographic equity has come up more and more, when we talk about equity, it's social equity that wins
the day. And geographic equity has, in the past, just dropped off the radar.
And I'm not saying that social equity isn't important. It's incredibly important. But so is geographic equity,
especially if you want to live up to what our mission statement says. So yeah, and I know, it probably
goes without saying that part of the System Optimization Plan is going to look at the geographical
impacts. But anyway, just want to keep that top of mind. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Buzek.
Director Menten, I have you down as last. Do you want me to ask my question first before you go into
your questions, or do you want to do your questions now?
NATALIE MENTEN: Please go first.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
You know, I just have one. This really is very daunting. And I want to take this time to express my sincere
thanks to our staff. They have been working literally around the clock providing information that the Board
has asked for. And I'm grateful that you've been so flexible to stop and then do whatever else comes up
to make sure that our questions have been looked at and responded to.
But I have one question. And you know, I can't sleep at night over this question, and I have to bring it
forward. And it has to do with the fact that on July 1st, we will be reinstating fares at RTD. And our service
level's going to be less than it is with the pandemic level. And I am really worried about charging $3 fare
for service that's half of what we'll be able to provide before all of this stuff has happened.
Have you thought about that? And can somebody tell me what your thought processes are around that?
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce, if I might start.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BRUCE ABEL: On Jan 1, when we reinstitute fares, we will be at the current pandemic plan level. And we
will continue through that level of service until the September service change, which will provide us the
next opportunity to monitor what's going on out in the world and come back with the Board with
September plan changes.
So I just did want to make one comment that Jan 1, we will be continuing our present level of service-excuse me, July 1-- we will be maintaining our present level of service, which is the pandemic, the
COVID-19 service plan, which represents roughly a 40% reduction in level of service.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And then, Madam Chair, this is Heather. So I think I can-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: --respond a little bit to that. So in our mid and worst case scenarios regarding fare
revenue, I had to make some assumptions along those lines that you're describing. So what does it look
like based on a 40% level? But I've also done it what happens if the fare revenue doesn't materialize
because potentially people don't ride as much due to that fare being charged, et cetera.
So we're going to be monitoring that very carefully. We get daily reports on ridership. And I have been
doing analysis comparing different weekdays against each other. And just to let you know, we had a
extreme slide between March, I think it was March 3rd or 4th was one of our highest days that we had
seen all year long. And then we saw a rapid decrease.

Our worst day for ridership was actually on-- one of the days was Tuesday, April 21. And then we've seen
a steady increase in that. And currently on Tuesday of, I think it was June 2, we were at about 143,000.
So we're carefully monitoring that and we will be even monitoring that more closely when we start
instituting fares and see what effect that may or may not have on riders coming back.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. I'm really concerned about the $3. And I just have to say
that. So I don't know if you-- I know the whole idea is that we need to cut everywhere. But the public has
also really been supportive in working with us. And I just would like to take a look at that if we could.
Thank you.
With that, I'll turn it over to Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I'll go to the discussion about the Operations and Maintenance being
higher. And what was noted, especially of one line, was the North Metro. I do want to confirm whether the
figures that we were using for Operations and Maintenance around the timeline of first quarter 2019,
which is when I wanted to push for an audit on whether we did that internally or externally, have those
figures changed since then or was that only in regards to 2004 estimates?
BRUCE ABEL: Director Menten, this is Bruce. Madam Chair, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BRUCE ABEL: The data that I have available at the moment presents both the 2021 estimate and the
2017 estimate as an escalation from 2004. I do not have any data for the 2019 period. But I can certainly
see if we have data. I believe that was your request and question, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's correct. I want to make sure [INTERPOSING VOICES].
SUSAN COHEN: Bruce, this is Susan Cohen.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry. Susan Cohen, go ahead.
SUSAN COHEN: May I speak? Yeah. I wanted to answer that question. The '20 to '21 estimate for North
Metro is the same as was used in 2019 with-NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
SUSAN COHEN: [AUDIO OUT].
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, does that answer your question, Director Menten, on that one?
NATALIE MENTEN: For that one, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Next is during our discussions over the last few months, which ranged from
what was really a Reimagine discussion and really has morphed into the budget discussion, they really
were joined together.
But the question is, at one point in time, I heard a number, a figure of what service hours were being
looked at to reduce service to fit into this Reimagine plan. And somewhere I have it jotted down. But I
seem to remember tens of thousands of hours. Can you refresh my memory, either that's Bruce or Bill or
somebody, as to what numbers are we using as a goal for service reduction?
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BRUCE ABEL: Back pre-COVID, when we are having conversations regarding the target level of service
for the Systems Optimization Plan, we were also in the early conversations regarding the mid-term
financial plan. Looking at those projections, we had been discussing that relative to the January 2020

service levels, an 8% reduction in service hours would be necessary to be fiscally sustainable within our
then financial projections.
I would have to look at the numbers to see what number of hours that was, but it was an 8% reduction in
the level of service. To put that in context, the COVID plan is a 40% reduction in the level of service.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you. I'll move to the next question.
Let me, before I jump to this one first, I do want to say that the plan with the furloughs for the nonrepresented is fine. I was looking for more. And especially looking at what the private sector has faced in
damage from the government shutdown, I didn't think that across the board, whether it had been the
seven day discussion or the nine day discussion over several months, was as great of a hardship
compared to many out there, what they faced. So I am in support of the plan. But I do fully want to see
this burden be shared among everyone, both in the represented and the non-represented.
So with that, I would like to know where the discussions are with the union, as so far what we have seen
through email, we have seen through social media blasts and things like that from the union, they're not at
all willing to discuss furlough and instead point to, the contract says there is only one option and we don't
want to come to the table on furloughs. That's the impression that I've gotten. Where do we stand on
discussions?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ford?
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard, CEO.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, yes. Go ahead, Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. That's a very good question. And our Chief Operating Officer, Michael Ford, has
been meeting with the ATU and has had some discussions. I'm actually going to sit down with the ATU
leadership next week, with Michael Ford, to continue those discussions. And we need to keep in mind
that the labor agreement that exists between the ATU and RTD provides only for layoff in reverse
seniority order. That is the contract. And we can implement that if necessary. And that's something that
the task force will certainly be looking at.
Mr. Ford has discussed the possibility of using furloughs with regards to the represented employees.
We've not made a lot a lot of progress in that area because they negotiated what they wanted in the
contract 2 and 1/2 years ago. So those conversations are continuing. We don't really have anything to
report right now, other than that the conversations will continue and intensify.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Meanwhile, on a parallel path, CBA discussions for the renewal, or new CBA,
are in the works also?
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you. It's Michael Ford, COO. We are continuing to work internally to position
ourselves for collective bargaining. We recently brought on a labor relations manager and I'll be working
with him. We've laid out various areas that we want to focus in on. We collectively work with all the
different departments to get their information. We've created a matrix of information to help us navigate,
and we're doing some strategies right now as it relates to that.
That's kind of the latest. So we'll continue to be meeting on a every couple week basis to determine our
next steps. And we'll be positioning ourselves and put ourselves in position for negotiations that are
coming up.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. With the question that was posed as how did we get here, and as a reminder for
somebody who wasn't listening to meetings over the years, especially going into last year, when we had a

November discussion about how we didn't know how we were going to make the mid-term financial plan
work. And that was obviously pre-COVID. And we're tapping into the Reimagine group.
But I really see them more of a-- I just really see them more of a service planning versus a organizational
overview at arm's length that is just a little bit different. I'm just wondering, we have the task force, you're
asking for Board input, and there are some of us that do want to speak out about transit vouchers or
different things to look at.
But do you think we have very well qualified individuals to deal with this budget problem that are going to
be able to look at this without as much bias perhaps, look at it objectively, and look at the cold hard facts
of what has to be done. So that's my question. Do you think we are manned up enough with everyone
who's looking at this?
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
PAUL BALLARD: I would answer the Director's question by saying yes. I am confident in the staff that we
have that they will take a hard look at the numbers. We have good bench strength in our financial
department. The people on the-- I pointed to the task force are up to the task.
So I would say absolutely yes, the people who are dealing with this will come up with a set of tools that
are solid, they're balanced, they're able to be backed up, and go through any analysis. So yes, absolutely
yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Earlier this evening, we approved a Accountability Committee. And one of the
comments that I felt like making at that time, being that the Board Director who testified in favor of it, is
that it's sad to see that compensation on it has gone out the door when SB151 was killed because of the
fiscal note.
One, the state would have done it, but also it would have been, to me, a very independent review, which
we greatly, greatly need. And so that is going to be one of the items that I'll personally want to see move
forward to reinforce how much we really need that. It was suggested years ago. And we're just getting
around to where-- let me ask. Do we have the RFP out for that? Because I went to our bid proposals
page and all I saw was something about external audit but it didn't provide the detail.
Is that RFP set to go out or is it out right now? Do we have the scope? Can the Board see the scope? I'd
like to request that. What is the status, please?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, please.
BRUCE ABEL: So regarding the compensation study, yes, we have a scope of work. We have been
working with procurement. We are looking at doing actually a sole source with the Employers Council,
because we are a member of them and they will give us a significant reduction in costs by doing it with
them.
And so I have asked our new HR, Senior Manager of HR, who has now been with us two weeks, a week,
two weeks, to review the scope of work and make any adjustment to that she feels is necessary. And
then it will be out shortly. I think she was meeting with them this week, too.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. I'll responded that very bluntly. That seems like way too cozy of a
relationship. They're going to give us a discount. We pay them a annual subscription.

I want to see an independent audit where we don't have a cozy relationship. We have a contract. They
come in. They do the job. And have the Board heavily involved in this comp audit. So I've got pretty big
issue with where this is going.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, can I respond to that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BRUCE ABEL: So I would just say to that that the Employers Council is an extremely well-respected
organization across multiple states. And so they're highly respected. They do a lot of the analysis that
other states and other organizations use come from them. So by going directly to them, we have a
significant savings rather than hiring outside firms that will use their data to provide that information to us.
And so I guess I would wholeheartedly disagree with that characterization of the coziness. I would say
they're extremely well respected. And they are a national organizations that provides this information to
many states, as well as transit agencies, local governments, et cetera.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. I'll accept your response. But I think we're going to have to have a continued
discussion. And I guess I'll just talk to other Board Directors about that.
And so with all of that, I think I got all of my questions asked. Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair? Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes. I've got an issue I'd like to take up now, since everybody's had a chance to talk. I'm
ready to vote on implementing the furlough plan discussed tonight. Could we go tonight to place this issue
on our next Board agenda for approval?
And then finally, this $1 issue is something that's never going to go away. Once you draw a slightly larger
line around to protect those employees that are just above the line, then you'll have a new set of
employees just above the new line. And you'll never get, you'll go through the entire organization before
you get done with that kind of a procedure.
But we're just kicking this can down the road week after week. And if we don't deal, and apparently we've
taken this decision away from the General Manager, and if the Board's going to make the decision, we
need to get on with it and make the decision. Otherwise, we're going to be into November and
everybody's going to be stuck trying to take all these days off in two months time.
So that's my proposal, that we vote tonight to place this issue on our next Board agenda.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. When Bruce did the briefing, he was explaining that I had already made
the decision to move ahead with this furlough.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
PAUL BALLARD: Right. And there has been discussion with a number of Board members. I know that
Bruce in his role as heading the task force tried to get some input in from a number of Board members.
But we're prepared to move forward and actually schedule the first furlough day for that July 2. Unless the
Board takes action, another action, we're going to go ahead and implement this.
BOB BROOM: Well, that's fine with me. I understood it to be the other way around.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, this is [AUDIO OUT] Director Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: I understood that this was going to be the first phase and then that the principles that
were coming forth would be for future actions, but that we didn't want to take away the General Manager's
management authority on this matter.
I also have one other comment that I neglected to make the first go around. And that is that we have a set
of goals that we established during our Board SLT retreat that are supposed to guide moving forward with
the budget and the financial plan. And it seems to me that this COVID-19 financial task force, or fiscal
responsibility task force, is probably going to be taking a look at some of those things as well.
So as Heather McKillop mentioned that we will have another opportunity to revise the 2020 budget as we
move forward throughout the year, I would suggest that as a Board we would also have some
opportunities to tweak our goals under the circumstances. That's all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Cook, as Chair-SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to clarify and apologize to Director
Broom. So backing up. The question is whether this is a managerial versus a policy decision. And
recognizing that there's a line-- I think Director Buzek has brought this up, too, in Executive Committee.
We know we're in kind of uncharted waters here. We're in an area where the magnitude of potential cuts
are large enough to impact policy, that they aren't mere trimming, in some cases. We're talking about
things that may shift our emphasis or the ability to provide service in areas and so forth. And so we are
trying to recognize the idea that this is kind of a hybrid area.
And what I had stressed to Bruce, after talking to folks, was it seems like we want to be consulted and be
meaningfully involved in a way that can reflect that difference in these sets of decisions. And so for this
one issue, we talked about, and that's how I characterized it to the other Board members, that we would,
understanding that they would be bringing this forward for our just to kind of put a knot on it, but on the
other hand understanding that they were going to proceed without our say so.
And I had assumed-- and this is my problem, my fault entirely, and I apologize-- I had assumed that had
been something that Bruce had talked about as well. But I could see where he would leave it to me. And I
did not get with you on that. And I apologize.
BOB BROOM: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that answer your question, [INTERPOSING VOICES]? OK. You know
what I'm going to do? There obviously is a lot of questions around this. So I'm going to go and go and
ask.
OK, Director Lubow, go ahead.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I just had-- a lot of different ideas came up through listening to other
comments. One of them had to do with how we got here. And I believe that part of the issue is that
FasTracks has such a huge debt load. And I'm wondering if that was contemplated in the FasTracks
process and the expectation, or is that something that happened and was not expected. So if people have
an answer to that, that would be good.
But another issue that I have is the concern that you hear out there. We've heard it from some of the
union people. But it's not just that, that we are somewhat out of balance in terms of the administrative
payroll and staffing level in comparison to our mission of actually moving people. And there's a concern
that we're somewhat out of whack.
And I do believe that that needs to be addressed as we do this work and analyzing where there should be
cuts and how is it appropriate to move forward that we need to look at that also. So I urge that that would

happen. And that would include, even though this is difficult to talk about, I think we need to think about
what it would look like to have a payroll cut. Would it be temporary, how much would it be, who would it
apply to, that type of thing, it seems to me should be considered a tool in our toolbox in terms of thinking
of cuts, even though it's difficult to talk about.
And one additional thing had to do with the new CBA discussions. And something that I've been thinking
about, that I think that there are some obvious, in hindsight, there have been some obvious issues with
the CBA, and that it might be useful to get some expert attorney who deals with that type of negotiation to
be an ally for us as we go forward.
OK, that's it for me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. You know, I think that this evening has been really a really deep
discussion in an issue that is really important, not just to this Board but to the entire region. And I think
that looking over the last weeks and listening at the Executive Committee and knowing that the Board
members have had long discussions with the staff about furloughs and all the things that we need to look
at, we are at the very beginning of some very difficult decisions.
But really, the bottom line is this. This is a staff decision to do staff furloughs. And this is number one on a
list of I don't know how many. And so I'm going to close it with understanding, after talking to many Board
members, that, yeah, we really do need to move forward with the staff recommendation of furloughs. And
we'll keep the Board involved at every step to make sure you know what the next steps are and what the
plan is.
But we've got to get this moving. We cannot wait. We are in mid June. And these nine furlough days have
to be done before December. We are out of time. So with that, I'm going to close this discussion and I'm
going to move on.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Chair, you said you were going to-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm going to move on to the next discussion. And I have a couple-SHONTEL LEWIS: You said you were going to go through the agenda? You said you were going to go
through the Directors, because Directors had a lot of discussion for that topic.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, but-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHONTEL LEWIS: --Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, Director Lewis, I think everybody has spoken a lot about this. And I
don't know that there could be any more clarification other than, this is in fact a staff recommendation and
it is under their purview to do this. And so what I'd like to do is I would like to go on-SHONTEL LEWIS: I would like some clarity. I would like some clarity. And I know you sent out the
Robert's Rules, where each of us gets 10 minutes for each issue. And I know I haven't used that time.
But I would like some clarity on what's a staff decision and what's not a staff decision. Because we did-- I
don't know about other Directors-- but I had a number of folks reach out to me, as you, as the Chair,
encouraged folks to reach out to the Directors about furloughs. And a lot of ideas came to me.
But I'm not sure of why we would have asked people to reach out to us, the Directors specifically, if the
staff was going to make the decisions.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard. May I answer that question?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.

PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. The bylaws of the RTD clearly indicate that all personnel actions are the
responsibility of the General Manager CEO, period.
Now, I agree with Director Cook when she said earlier that we had a conversation, the Executive
Committee and I. And the recommendation was made and I agreed that these are not normal times.
These are not normal personnel type activities. And I felt that it was important that the Board be aware of
what we're doing and that we get the Board's endorsement or support or understanding at some point.
And so we're here at this point. I've exercised my authority. We've discussed it with many of the Board
members. And we're willing to continue to have discussions down the road. But we're moving forward with
this, because we have a huge, huge financial hole and somebody has got to step first. Someone's got to
step up. And the members of the senior leadership team have said, that's our role, we're going to be
leaders, we're going to step up. And I supported them.
So normally that's a General Manager CEO's decision. But in light of what we're facing, I appreciate the
advice, counsel, and support that any and all Board members wish to share.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I appreciate you sharing that. I really do. And so my question wasn't about your
decision making authority. What I was trying to gain clarity on was to Director Cook that this was a onetime affair where staff would make a decision, and then for the rest of the phases that it would be a
decision from the Board. And so I wanted to clarify that. So you may have misunderstood.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. So we were talking about the furloughs and this first [INAUDIBLE]. And I want to
be as clear as I can be. I think there is an expectation on the part of the Board, and it was made clear at
the Executive Committee, that there needs to be not merely involvement to the extent we're being
informed, but actual meaningful consulting and back and forth in response.
I would ask both Directors Buzek and Guissinger if that is a correct representation. We worked out this
approach here for this instance coming forward. But my understanding of the Executive Committee's
direction was that there would be more involvement, especially as we begin to consider issues that affect
substantial parts of our employees and so forth.
And so what we worked out for this first one, I think, is a template. But for my part, the main issue was
that we would be meaningfully involved. The form of that might vary depending upon what we're looking
at. This is one of the first and relatively minor-- I know that's a terrible term to say-- but it is not a huge
impact in terms of our 2021 to 2026 timeframe.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, Paul Ballard.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. I just want to say that Director Cook and I are in agreement.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, thank you. Director Lewis, does that answer your question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does. [AUDIO OUT] Thank you very much, Director Cook. I really appreciate your
patience in addressing that question and your clarity in addressing that question as well, because it
wasn't clear, the delineation. And so I appreciate you making that delineation distinctly.
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Since I had been one of the ones raising it at the Executive Committee,
I think that was a very clear explanation. I'm happy to hear our CEO, Mr. Ballard, agreeing with it.

You know, we're facing some really tough issues. And I think Director Lubow best started to address this.
But I'm hoping that as part of this conversation, we can start to work closely together. I think we're going
to need to in making decisions, decisions about our workforce, which have been problems, we've had
problems with it for many years and have to view those decisions in light of those problems, and also in
light of our needs for social distancing and changing service and all of those things.
So I do think it's important that we all are working together towards the same end and that the Board be
involved in these decisions going forward as well. And I appreciate everybody recognizing that. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis, did that answer your questions?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It did. And I will just address Director Walker's point about us looking at our own
salaries. I am more than happy to do that, Director Walker. I didn't want you to think that I was ignoring
that. And I hope that SLT does the same.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Is there any other discussion on this matter? We have
another update from the staff.
OK, great. Hearing none, I'd like to turn everyone's attention tonight-- I'm going to ask our Assistant
General Manager of Safety, Mr. Meader, Safety, security, and Asset Management, to speak. And then I'm
going to turn the floor over to Chief Grado, so that two of them can talk a little bit about the Code of
Conduct. So Mr. Meader.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security Officer. And if
you'll allow me, Chair, I'll go ahead and kind of give just a brief 30,000-foot overview, and then I'll just turn
it right over to Chief Grado to go through some of the particulars, if that's OK with you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, thank you.
MIKE MEADER: Excuse me. So several months ago we started taking a serious look-- I say we, the
Security, the Transit Police Division-- at our overall security model. That model currently consists of RTD
Transit Police, our Transit Security Officers-- that is the Allied Universal contract that we have-- and our
secondary employment law enforcement. Those are the officers that we contract with from Denver,
Aurora, Lakewood, et cetera, around the District.
We're taking a look at this with an emphasis on how we can better contribute to our mission of moving
people in the safest and most secure manner possible. We focused on a few goals as we kind of are
working towards putting together a reorganization plan, a suggested reorganization plan.
Those goals are pretty much centered around these areas. One is about exploring and developing
partnerships for more mental health resources, more community homeless resources, those folks to try to
offer up some things in partnership for some of those vulnerable populations. We looked at how we can
maximize our presence across our entire system. And that really with an emphasis more on the bus side
of the system. The FTA regulations specifically dictate on the rail side, not on the bus, and we recognize
that we need more emphasis and more presence out on our bus system as well to make sure that our
operators and passengers are safe across the District.
We also took a real close look, or continued to take a close look, at our processes and procedures so we
can really maximize the efficiencies and the things, the way we do our security so that we can better
respond to the tens of thousands of service calls we get every year. And of course, in the meantime with
an eye on fiscal responsibility, really hopefully potentially creating some cost savings along the way. And
we really believe that we can accomplish all of those things as we look towards this reorganization.

So that's kind of an overall view of what we've been doing. We don't have a plan ready to show you at this
particular point in time, but we're close. But I want to turn it over to our Chief of Police, Bob Grado, now so
he can walk through really what we're doing now in those areas and what we're hoping to accomplish as
we continue to look at how we can better provide safety and security on our system.
So Chief, I'll turn it over to you.
BOB GRADO: OK. Thanks, Mike. And this is going to be somewhat of a little bit of a repeat of what Mike
just discussed. Again, this is Bob Grado, Transit Police Chief for RTD.
So yeah, the interesting part for us, you know, we're shrinking service and our ridership is down, but we
still have the same critical infrastructure, if you will, the same amount of stations. Our world doesn't get
smaller as service declines, so we're having to be very creative. And that entails taking a comprehensive
look, again, as Mike said, at the entire security model to include our security officers, secondary
enforcement, law enforcement contracts with Denver, Aurora, Lakewood, Arvada, and Lone Tree.
So we're going to take a look at that. We're already in that process and just seeing if we can move
everything around, reallocate and just be smarter with how we're doing things. And I think, just at the
initial look here, I think we can do things better and actually save some funds at the end of the day. It's
going to be a process. Because I always say it's tit for tat. If we remove one person here, we have to
make sure we have a replacement, whether it be part of this new model. So it's going to be a multi-year
process to get through this whole thing.
But part of that, interestingly enough, Director Lewis has been spearheading her desire to have more
mental health clinicians. And I couldn't agree more. Right now, we have one. And many people don't
realize we have one clinician here full time. And we got that through a grant. The City of Denver had a
grant that pays for 75% of that person's salary. So we are talking with them right now to see can we
duplicate that and allocate some of these funding savings that I was discussing to apply towards getting
more help there.
Just a interesting fact, Denver only has one-- Denver Police, they have one technician clinician for each
district. So we were happy to get the one. Although I'll say, I think our ridership, we have more of a
concentrated clientele, if you will, that have some mental illness. So we've seen a great benefit in our
current program.
And I'll even say, I'll go as far as to say, I'll say I think we've saved a couple lives this year with that
service. So my goal is to get it to where we have those folks on duty with our officers every day of the
week. Excuse me.
So I had mentioned a grant that we're working there to see if we can expand that. We should hear next
week with more on that and we'll share that with you. There's also a grant that our Leadership Academy
and then the Planning Department, Bill Sirois has been kind of heading up a grant, the Hope Grant. And
that is to bring in a full-time fully funded homeless outreach coordinator to work in the agency and help us
with our volunteer project, if you will. Right now we have a team from Denver Rescue Mission, Colorado
Coalition of the Homeless. And it's a great group.
So what we'd like to do is have somebody here full time to work with the different police agencies and all
the services out there and keep our staff smartly having that option for some of these folks.
I'm just going to kind of run through my list here, if you'll bear with me. I think studies, AFTA has provided
us with some information, and what we have learned is-- and this is probably not new news-- but

sometimes having a sworn post certified police officer present, they have more capabilities. And a lot of
times, in many situations you can do more with what that officer rather than having security officers.
I'm not saying we're going to abolish Security, by any means. We need to always have that service.
Maybe there's a way to reallocate some of that and also reallocate some of the contracted police services
we're doing. So I will get more details for everybody. It's security sensitive information, so we have to be
careful how we put that out there. But I definitely want to share more of that.
So at the end of the day, we've been working on this for a while. And then know we got Bruce's letter for
the COVID fiscal response task force. And I thought, well, this is perfect timing. So I think a lot of what we
are already working on is going to fit well into that. So I just wanted to put that out there and let the Board
know we are working on several things here, and I think we're going to have a good package to share
with you in the near future.
And that's all I have, unless there's any questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'll open it up to the floor and I'll go alphabetically. Hold on. Sorry, guys, I
gotta find my page here. OK. Director Broom, do you have any questions?
BOB BROOM: No question, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. Thank you both for the presentation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions. But I think that this is, it's good information. And I think it's a good
time for us to be thinking about some sort of press release perhaps. I'm interested to hear Director
Lewis's thoughts, since she's more of an expert on this than I am. But I like the direction we're going and
would like us to potentially make a statement to the world about what we're looking at. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Director Lewis, I'm going to make you last on this since you have a lot
of components to this that you want to discuss. Is that OK with you?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I actually don't have anything to add.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I had a discussion with Mike Meader about a possible update about how
we, our Transit Police and force, are complying with the new state requirements that have come out in
response to all the protest about police brutality. So I assume that that's going to be a different discussion
than this, I'm just wondering if that's accurate.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Meader?
MIKE MEADER: Sure. This is Mike Meader again. Director Lubow, yeah, the final form of the bill was
really just passed and released. So we're taking a look at that and reviewing it, and we'll put together
some items, just as you and I spoke, for the Board.
JUDY LUBOW: Excellent. Thank you. Because I'm very interested in learning about that. Thank you.
That's it.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Direct-- or Director Mihalik's not on. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Hang on. Thank you.
Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First of all, I appreciate and applaud the serious and very focused
work of Assistant General Manager Meader and Chief Grado in going forward with this. I think it is
exceptional and obviously very important and time sensitive. So thank you for that.
I do have a question, and I don't know whether it's Mr. Meader or Mr. Ford who would answer this. But I
did have a call earlier today from an operator who wondered, are we going to be sending out, once we
start collecting fares, operators in buses that do not have the plexiglass, or whatever the material is,
dividing the operator from passengers boarding, or will it just be on some of the vehicles, or can you
please describe that? Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Hi. This is Michael Ford, COO. We're going to continue to get these plexiglass-type of
protections up. We put those on our higher performing routes where we have more of the social
distancing issues. And we also have some other protective equipment that we want to be able to provide
our operators that will help provide some additional protection, kind of a screen that goes around their-it's a face shield that goes around. And we think that could be also another tool to use along with the
other PPPs that we use.
So we're going to continue to monitor those routes that are heavy, put those, update the equipment on
those particular routes to try to address the concerns I know that are continuing to be out there. And then
we're working very hard and diligently to try to get more materials and supplies so we can outfit all the
buses. It's not going to happen overnight. But we're going to be very sensitive to those bigger routes
where they're going to have more contact. And that's what we can do at this point.
DOUG TISDALE: And by the same token, providing alternatives where you don't have those plexiglasslike screens in place. So I appreciate hearing that. And thank you, Madam Chair, for your indulgence.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: I just want to say thank you to Mr. Grado and Mr. Meader for the update. And I think it's a
big step in the right direction. And hopefully it will give the officers a better ability to focus on what they're
actually there to do rather than dealing with situations that they might not be fully trained to do. No
shortcoming on the officers' fault, or no fault of the officers, it's just the situation, I think, that they found
themselves in.
But to have professionals, or at least seeking professionals to help deal with other situations, I think will
relieve a lot of the pressure that our officers and security staff face. That's it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm very pleased to hear the discussion, the
presentation by both Mr. Meader and Chief Grado. Very encouraged by the hints of innovation on how we
implement more mental health professionals to assist our officers. I know budgets are tight, but I
appreciate Chief Grado's mention of being able to rearrange him some monies or some priorities or some
tools to do this.

I had a good conversation with Director Lewis, I don't know if it was last week or the week prior, to this
very issue. And I appreciate her impetus on this matter and the staff looking at it in a very serious and
forthright and expedient manner. So thank you, gentlemen, and I appreciate the discussion. That's all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd like to thank Mr. Meader and Mr. Grado and everybody
on their staff for making adjustments. It's a hard change to go from being a transit policeman that isn't
armed to being a social worker. And I think that it's great that we are moving to address issues with our
population.
I'd like to suggest that maybe we open some discussion with some of the non-profits who do this kind of
work full time, and maybe we could start a volunteer group to ride along with transit officers and try and
work on these situations. There are other organizations who do this kind of work in the community and
perhaps they'd be willing to partner with us to do that.
So there's a lot of things we need to think about. But I'm glad to see that we are moving to serve our
community in a broader sense than just buses and trains. Thanks.
OK. Did I knock everybody off their feet? Hello?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, no, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I put you on mute and I thought I had unmuted.
Thank you very much.
I would just like to say a couple of things. The first thing is that it is really heartening for me to know that
we do have in place a robust collaboration with communities that serve our most vulnerable populations
in place. And it is not a new collaboration. And in fact, this group has been together for quite some time
and have been working together developing strategies on how to do fares, to provide resources to our
community members who are really struggling.
And for me, I think that is one of the most amazing things to be able to point to is we've been working on
this for quite some time. It's not a new thing for RTD, in that the Code of Conduct Ad Hoc Committee has
done robust work that we're excited to bring forward to you.
You've all received a copy of the red line of the work from the committee. And I want to thank the Board
members who have been involved with this, Director Whitmore and Director Mihalik, Director Williams and
Director Lewis and myself, along with our staff of Mr. Meader, Chief Grado, Mr. Ford, and Mr. Ballard.
But additionally, we had Kate Barton from the Downtown Denver Partnership, Robert Dorshimer from the
Aurora Mental Health Center, Carleigh Sailon from Mental Health Center of Denver, Denise Maes from
the ACLU, Aubrey Hasvold from the Colorado Coalition from the Homeless, Gary Bryskiewicz, I can't say
his name, from the Denver Health and Hospitals. He's the lead paramedic. Brita Fisher from the Hope
community-- from HOST, which is the homeless program out of the City and County of Denver, the Chief
of Police in the City and County of Denver, Paul Padzen, and Evan Dwyer from the Mayor's office, as well
as Miss McManus and our Associate General Counsel, Maricela Sandoval.
And I think that you're going to be pleased with the work that has been done. I want you to look at it and
give us back what you think, if you like it, if you don't like it. I'd ask the other members of the Board who
have been involved with this if they'd like to make any comments. But really, the just of it is to make it
people centered, to take out any kind of information that didn't pertain to specific stereotypes but making
sure we're dealing with people's actions. And I think that that's good.

And I'm most pleased that we took out paragraph 35 completely, which is the place where we really
started this journey. But I think all of these pieces together really show our commitment to community and
that we are serving our entire region and doing it in a very sensitive manner that really respects people.
So I would ask any other Board members who were on the committee if they'd like to make any
comments. So anybody?
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, this is Troy Whitmore.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. I couldn't agree with you more. I think you were the principal in selecting
members of the committee. And I'd mentioned this in a conversation with Director Lewis a while back on
the other topic of how pleased I was with the quality of participation by those members you just
mentioned that were outside of the RTD family, but really kind of became a part of the family in helping
us. The sincerity, the hard work, the detail, the thoughtfulness that they brought to the meetings were,
those inputs were so valuable. And we really had a good constructive conversation on several times.
And I just appreciated that group and I'd hope that maybe they can be of assistance to us in the future
with these other initiatives. And my dog is barking, so I will go back to mute. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other directors? Director Williams? Director Lewis?
KATE WILLIAMS: No. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
BOB GRADO: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
BOB GRADO: This is Chief Grado, if I may, just really quick.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please, Chief.
BOB GRADO: I just want to say thank-- yeah, I just want to say thank you. I think we are going to put
forward a great code of conduct. And it's been amazing. I'm really happy with the outcome of this. And I
think we've got a great document now. Huge help having all these people, all the input. I think I personally
agreed with everything we've done to this thing And I think it's going to make all of us better at the end of
the day.
So I just wanted to say that. Appreciate it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. OK. Then that's it on the Code of Conduct.
We have one last item on Other Matters. And Director Lewis, I'll turn it over to you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair.
I sent to many of you, and it's an old version at this point, a proposal to-- or a draft resolution to prioritize
funds for mental health professionals. And that includes social workers, someone who can help operators
when they are dealing with those who may be experiencing homelessness, health care workers, if that is
something that might be beneficial.
And my ask is, as we've heard, many Directors have heard, about the historical harms and the historical
trauma within our communities at the hands of some police officers, that we, instead of investing dollars in
our police contract, instead invest those dollars into providing mental health support.
I did have the opportunity to talk to Chief Grado this afternoon. And he informed me that-- or this morning,
excuse me-- and he informed me that one of the things that they had been working on was to hopefully
be able to expand the mental health professionals from one, which currently, to four. My ask is actually
quite different than that. I'm asking that we expand it quite significantly, and so really looking at our police

contract and our Allied Security contract and allocating those, or appropriating those dollars to deal with
folks who may be having a rough day or maybe having mental health challenges or may be experiencing
homelessness. Because we hear from our operators that that oftentimes, there are a lot of the calls that
we receive.
And so I'll ask again, as I did last week, and I know I've had some Directors who have provided some
feedback. And I don't want you to think that I don't appreciate that feedback. I'm incorporating all of the
feedback into the updates of this resolution, but asking that we can move to put this on the agenda for our
Board meeting next week. And that's essentially my ask here. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. So I guess what you're asking the question of
Board members?
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's correct. I would like to-- I appreciate Chief Grado's presentation. I also
appreciate Mike Meader's presentation. But I would like to submit this tomorrow with two other Directors.
And so my ask is if there are two other Directors who believe that this is the right approach, I'd love to
have them agree to sign on to this so that we can move this forward for official vote.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair, this is Lynn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know, I certainly share the concerns, and the protests have touched me. And I
think that there is a world moving out there. I just feel like I don't understand enough about what the
proposal is and what is being done. I wonder if it makes more sense to try to sit down with staff and figure
out where we are, what the numbers look like, and then bring it to the Board, you know, we would bring it
to a committee, just give it more information and more substance. But I appreciate what you're doing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I would say in response to that, like many Board-initiated items that don't necessarily
come from staff, essentially what I am putting forward is the intent to provide these opportunities for our
[AUDIO OUT] the opportunity to safety for our riders as well as our bus operators. I wrote within the
resolution a committee that has really worked on the specifics. I imagine that would be staff. And so I'm
happy provide you with that if you wanted to have a conversation. I'm available, just as I stated last week
that I'm happy to chat with folks who might want to provide some input or need some more specific
details.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, what I'd like to do is ask for Miss McManus to just kind of
give us how this works in terms of moving it forward as a resolution, so that we know what that looks like.
Miss McManus?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I do know that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. So then what I've gotten-- I'm sorry?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I thought I heard someone else on the phone. OK. So what I have so
far is a suggestion to really do a committee to look into this with the staff. Am I hearing a second?
Anybody who'd like to move this forward as a resolution.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [AUDIO OUT] I would support getting a committee to understand, yeah. It's hard for
me to say I want to move it forward, because I don't know what it says at this point. But it sounds to me
like Chief Grado and Mr. Meader are doing a lot of good work. And I think that sitting down together, in
light of the times and all of that, it's time to help with a focus.

PEGGY CATLIN: This is Director Catlin.
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree with Director Guissinger. And I would need to reread the memo. But I would
suggest that Director Lewis, rather than get a commitment tonight for the other two sponsors, that we
maybe take this offline.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Did I hear someone else on the phone?
KATE WILLIAMS: This is Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I am inclined to agree with Directors Guissinger Catlin. I
think it's an idea whose time has come, but I think we need to put some more meat on what it is that we're
trying to do and how we propose to do that. And I'd be happy to help with that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director. I will say, I did send this out to each Board Director with hopes
that I would receive the feedback and to put some more meat on it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, I think I lost you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I can now. Go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, OK. What I was going to say is the reason I bought this into Other Matters is
because I really wanted to co-create this with other Directors and to have folks have an opportunity to
weigh in and see their vision and their voices within this preamble. And so that was my hope. I'm more
than happy to move this forward, if other folks don't have anything that they'd like to add.
And I will say, we do have examples of this model. I know Chief Grado let us know, as we were working
on the Code of Conduct, the model that is instituted at the Denver Library. And so we do have examples
to pull from.
But I'm happy to take the conversation offline.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I think that would be great. And I would also be really pleased to, if you
put together, want to put together a committee, I'd be more than pleased to be on that committee as well.
But yeah, let's do take it offline. And I guess I'm trying to find the newest version that you're talking about.
And I think I just got the first version. Is there another version that you have?
SHONTEL LEWIS: If you'd like me to send that to you, I'm more than happy to.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'd like to see it, too. I don't think I've seen it. But I'm happy to help work on this as
well. This is Lynn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So I have Director Guissinger, Director Williams, and myself who are
willing to look at this and work with you on that. And then if we could take that offline, I think that would be
great.
Director Lewis, is that OK with you?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, yeah. I'm sorry. I said that. I'm sorry. I thought you were [AUDIO OUT].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
All right. Is there any other matter to come before this Board during this special Board workshop? It's
been a long day.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Very quickly, Madam Chair. This is Lynn Guissinger. And I received an email. I
think that there will be a Webex remote press conference tomorrow that our Chair will be in, along with
Governor Polis and Representative Gray and Senator Winter at 3:30. And so I'd say, keep an eye on your
emails. You'll be getting information about how to follow that tomorrow. Thanks. Bye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Anything else?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Just, you know, the average citizen probably has no clue in the world. Very
few citizens, let's put it that way, have an idea of what a RTD Board Director gets for compensation. So I
think it's appropriate to put it into the record. Because I don't know when we have last done that. They'd
have to dig it up. And maybe a fruitless thing.
But it's $12,000 a year. We don't have any pension. We don't have any, as far as I've seen the quotes,
any taxpayer subsidized health care, dental, any of those kind of things. I think the only benefit we
actually get is a $10,000 death benefit. And as for the $12,000 a year-- and I know you all know, this is for
the record-- $12,000 a year. I think the last time the legislature increased that was around the era of
2008-2009. So there's no cost of living increase. The entire time that I've been on the Board, it's been the
same.
So I thought it was just appropriate to mention that. Because for a listener, they may not know, are RTD
Directors getting the same as the government or do we get $170,000 or whatever it is for the US
congressman? And I just thought it was a good idea that that be put on the record that pretty much it's
$12,000 a year. You get a lifetime transit pass and a $10,000 death benefit. Far as I know, that's the
comp and benefits there serving the public. So I just wanted to again put it on the record. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Director Menten?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Miss McManus. And if you said it, I'm sorry, because my
phone's been going in and out. You also get $10,000 a year in expenses, unless the Board changes that
through resolution.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's a good thing to add. So if we're traveling to meetings, if we host a meeting
and we buy a bag of granola bars, our phone for the public to contact us, our internet service.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Or make COVID masks.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, go spend many, many hours making 1,800 COVID masks.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[AUDIO OUT]. So you are correct. So that is the one other thing is the expenses on those direct things
are covered. So thank you very much. I'll end the night with that. Great.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten. OK. Anyone else? Last time, last chance.
OK. Hearing none, I am going to entertain a motion to adjourn this study session.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
TROY WHITMORE: Whitmore, so moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I have Director Williams as the movant and Director Whitmore as the
second. It is 8:46. And I would just like to say all in favor-- if you're not in favor, say yes.
Hearing none, this study session is adjourned. Thank you all for joining us and have a good evening. And
stay safe. Thanks.

