Aug 28 2018 0530 PM Board of Directors Study
Session
NATALIE MENTEN: Tonight is a Communications presentation. And I'm just going to start by
double checking. Director Sisk, are you on the line with us?
CHARLES SISK: Good afternoon. I am here in Louisville, Colorado. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
[INAUDIBLE] on the phone.
All right, and we have one guest on the line but they have said that they will-- that's Mr. Triplett- and he will be muting his phone. You do not need to acknowledge that. All right, so we will
start this meeting off. And Mr. Reed, if you could start to lead this presentation, please.
SCOTT REED: Thank you very much. As you mentioned, this evening we are going to do a rare
communications presentation to the Board of Directors.
NATALIE MENTEN: I apologize. You know what I'm supposed to do first?
SCOTT REED: Oh, safety-NATALIE MENTEN: Who here has heard this already?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Doesn't matter. Mr. Meter is saying I must go with this. All right, at RTD safety is our core
value. I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. If we have a medical emergency
and 911 needs to be called, I will ask our RTD General Counsel to make that telephone call. Any
medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist.
If needed, an automatic emergency defibrillator AED is in a glass case located just outside this
room on the wall to the right. In the event we must evacuate the building for fire or any other
emergency, please calmly exit out the door you came in at the back of the room, go up the stairs
to the first floor, around the security desk, and exit through the front door.
Police and security officers will be there to direct you to a safe meet up area. Anyone needing
special assistance in the event of an evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as necessary. While
RTD takes every precaution to ensure the security of its passengers, vehicles, and facilities, the
agency relies on both staff and the general public to be aware of and alert to any suspicious or
dangerous activity on buses and trains and around station stops and platforms.
As such, I would encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD transit watch
app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate directly with

RTD transit security personnel on a real time basis in the event of an emergency situation. The
Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple App Store. Thank you. OK, Mr.
Reed. Now you can please begin the presentation.
SCOTT REED: Thank you very much. We rarely get the opportunity to do a full department
presentation to the Board. I think its been about five or six years since the last time we did that.
And a lot of it has to do with the fact that we just don't bring that many things for the Board to
approve through the Government Relations Committee with Sherry Ellebracht's group, we do
have the meetings on at least a quarterly basis and are able to present information there, and then
also, with various contracts that we bring forward.
So this is a really good opportunity for us to show what the Communications Department does. I
know there have been several questions from Board members regarding exactly what it is we do.
And the answer is a heck a lot. If you looked at the tables coming in this evening in the atrium
out here, you saw some of the examples of the different things that the Communications
Department works on. I have them around the room here as well.
And I think the breadth and the reach of the Communications Department is critical for being
able to communicate with all of the different publics that we engage with, internal, external,
elected officials, passengers, taxpayers, citizens, locally and then also throughout the country,
and really internationally. We have a lot of people who follow what we do. The other thing that
we do, I think very well, is we create our own materials.
And that's very important if you look at it from several different standpoints. Number one, the
quality of the work that is done is second to none. The responsiveness with which we are able to
put out materials, everything from brochures to the trailblazers to the mechanics handbooks to all
of the different materials, including the route and schedule maps. That is all done in house.
We are unlike many other transit agencies that have multimillion dollar contracts with public
relations firms, with advertising agencies, and external firms that, in my opinion, don't provide
nearly as good of flexibility or as good of quality. And they charge much higher per unit cost
than we incur. So that's something we've done very actively and intentionally over the years, to
create a marketing, a communications unit that is like a public relations firm, like an advertising
firm, and like a printing company, if you will.
But we do those all in-house. We just print-- just handed out the summary books here. This was
all done in-house. We did not-- we just used a simple copier, if you will, for this. This is not
printed. So this is an example of how quickly we can turn things around. This was just done
today. And we are able to provide to you that type of information.
What we're also asking is that we go through this presentation, we're going to have each of the
division managers come up and talk about the division that they manage, the functions that they
do. And each one of them, each one of the divisions has a mission, if you will. So we will very
quickly go through that. And I want to be sure that we allow plenty of time for questions. And
we ask that we hold questions to the very end because we will probably cover much of the

information that you may have questions about in the presentation and I think this will be the
most efficient way to go through this.
SCOTT REED: Microphone down. So if you look at how-- we'll go through the presentation
here. But if you look at how we are structured, again, with the various divisions within the
department, again, I think that is a very efficient way we are able to put together very specialized
teams. But also cross-discipline teams that are cross-functional, if you will. And when we have
major events, we have major openings, things like that, it's all hands on deck and we all respond
to that. And I think we respond very well.
So I have the division managers here. I'll ask Will Adams to come on up. We'll go through the
presentation information here. Yes, Will Adams. Come on up. So with the-- there, OK. There's
the overview. OK.
So the goals of this, we want to be sure that the Board is informed about just what I was talking
about, the capabilities, responsibilities, and the diversity of the work that we perform. I think a
lot of times that gets lost, all of the different things that we do. And keep in mind that the
highlights of each area we covered are from July 2017 through July 2018, unless otherwise
noted.
We do-- you know, this isn't a budget presentation, per se. This is to talk about in general the
types of things that we do. So we have a couple of different time frames involved in this. And as
I said, please hold questions till the end of the presentation. What we do is we direct and
collaboratively execute internal and external agency communications, as I had mentioned before.
We have a wide range of audiences.
And the different divisions that we include-- and this is in no particular order-- we're starting
with Customer Care, which includes a Telephone Information Center that I'm sure you all are
very familiar with. Government Relations, Market Development, Market Research, Media
Relations, Project Outreach, Community Engagement, Marketing, Special Events, and finally
Digital Communications.
So we will start with Customer Care. And Will Adams is the Senior Manager of Customer Care.
So with that, I will turn it over to Will.
WILL ADAMS: Thank you, Scott. Thank you for this opportunity. Again, my name as Will
Adams. I am Senior Manager of Customer Care here at RTD. Our mission at Customer Care is to
be ambassadors of the Regional Transportation District, fostering public trust and exceptional
customer experience on every interaction by providing comprehensive and accurate information
while enhancing and developing innovative platforms for customer engagement.
Customer Care has just under 100 employees. And we have four unique sections. The largest
division within Customer Care is the Telephone Information Center (TIC). You're fine. The TIC
has 60 agents, represented with five supervisors and one lead supervisor. We handle just under
100,000-- I'm sorry, 962,000 last year, 2017, which is 2,600 a day.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Pardon me, Mr. Adams, do you mind speaking into the microphone a little
more?
WILL ADAMS: Thank you. We handled 2,600 calls a day in the TIC. And according to the
2017-- thank you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Thank you.
SCOTT REED: You guys are pretty intimidating up there.
WILL ADAMS: Very nervous.
SCOTT REED: So just look at this view here.
WILL ADAMS: All right, so of course the TIC handles 2,600 calls per day. And according to the
last RTD-wide survey, customer survey, 2017, 69% of our customers prefer to contact TIC if
they have an issue. The TIC is moving into a new building at the end of September slash early
October, the 7-11 building.
The next group within Customer Care is the Digital Customer Relations Liaison Team. This
team is a powerful team of four, which is amazing to me. This team handles over 22,000 e-mails
a year and social media. So last year, 2017, they handled 22,000 messages on social, Facebook,
Twitter. They sent 4,600 messages and 112,000 engagements.
So an engagement there means that when RTD sends a social message, these people engage.
112,000. And 14 million impressions, that means that these tweets and posts posted on followers
and those followers liked what we posted.
This team also posts rider alerts for light rail disruptions and for commuter rail as needed. And
this team also collaborates and disseminates information that we receive from internal RTD
departments and helps us communicate to RTD Customer Care.
The next group is our division Customer Care Liasons. So this team is responsible for
researching all of the complaints, commendations, suggestions that we send-- that RTD
Customer Care sends to the RTD divisions, Platte, Metro, Elati, Boulder. This team actually
works with operators, researches all these complaints, and coaches operators.
Last year they handled over 16,000 complaints. And last division is Sales and Information
Centers. We have five RTD outlets, DIA, Civic Center, DUS, Downtown Boulder, and Boulder
Junction. This team handled $6.8 million dollars last year in sales. So just as a comparison, the
cashbox fair on our buses last year was $6 million. So they're doing a lot of sales.
They also handle lost and found. Over 20,000 items lost slash found last year that we helped
customers reunite with. Great, thank you.

SCOTT REED: Thank you, Will. And that is exactly what they do is they care for customers.
And I think they do an amazing job. We get many, many commendations from people who will
leave a laptop or something on board a bus or train. And they are so fast about being able to
contact that bus or train operator that they will have the laptop returned on the return trip. So it's
pretty remarkable.
And I think they do an amazing job when you look at the number of people that we interact with
every day. Next is Government Relations, Sherry Ellebracht Government Relations Officer.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Excuse me, Mr. Reed. And I'd like to ask a question to you and to Chair
Menten. There's a lot of information here and I won't be able to remember everything. And I
certainly can't write it down to look at it and glance at it. And I'm wondering if you would accept
us being able to ask you questions per category?
SCOTT REED: I leave that up to the Chair.
NATALIE MENTEN: Do you have questions at this point, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: A brief one.
NATALIE MENTEN: Why don't you go ahead and-- let's try to stack these up as much as
possible. But with the fact that we have most of the presentation here in front of us and you may
not be able to view that as well, I would suggest go ahead and ask that question now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. I wanted to get a better impression of the Customer Care
center. I think it's a wonderful center. I love the TIC. I understand that there are 60 people in the
TIC taking telephone information calls. Can you tell me-- there are four people in social media
that interface with our customers, complaints, and our internal employees. Is that their role?
WILL ADAMS: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. And then you have two other departments, they're Sales-- how many
people are in Sales?
WILL ADAMS: 13.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And then what's the other group?
WILL ADAMS: The Division Customer Care Liaisons, four.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Four in in the customer care liaison. And so they're the ones who find the
lost items and take complaints?
WILL ADAMS: No, the Division Customer Care Liaisons are responsible for researching all of
the complaints at the divisions. So there's--

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Internal complaints or external complaints?
WILL ADAMS: Internal.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So who takes the external? That's just the 60-- not just, but the 60 people?
WILL ADAMS: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, that's all. Thank you.
SCOTT REED: Now Sherry Ellebracht will run through Government Relations.
NATALIE MENTEN: And let me just ask, we'll have the three divisions, correct? All three?
SCOTT REED: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: TIC, Digital, yeah.
SCOTT REED: I'm sorry.
NATALIE MENTEN: Meaning, you're going to have three main speakers coming up. So Will
was first, Sherry's next. And then there will be the third main speaker?
SCOTT REED: In the Customer Care group, Will covered all of those.
NATALIE MENTEN: Right.
SCOTT REED: Now we have Government Relations. And Sherry, as a Government Relations
Officer, will cover that division. And then we will have the subsequent divisions that the
individual managers will come up and speak about those.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. I'm just thinking this through as if Director Folska
does have some more questions how to best save these for the end if possible.
SCOTT REED: Very good. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: You're welcome.
SCOTT REED: Sherry.
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: Good afternoon, Directors. My portion of this evening's presentation
is going to be brief because I come to you every other month with the Government Relations
Committee with our Chair and Vice Chair. And hopefully you've had a chance to look at the
three slides that were part of my submission. But mainly, it's to cover State, Federal, and local
issues, and to make sure that we're well represented at all of those different levels.

And there is one particular point that I would like to highlight, and that's the State Legislative
Session that we just finished. There were 768 bills and resolutions introduced. And I had the joy
of looking at all of them. Now, some of them I only had to look at the title to figure out that they
didn't impact RTD. But that's one of the roles that I get to do, along with our state lobbying team.
But I think it's important to realize how active our General Assembly is, so that it's a very, very
busy time when they are in session.
Of those 768 bills, there were 19 that could have had a very significant impact on RTD. And of
those 19, seven passed. And those are the reports that I send you every week itemizing what's
coming before us. And then an additional 93 bills we kept an eye on. We knew they probably
weren't significant to RTD but they could have some impact on our operations or our finances.
So I just wanted to highlight that part of our State Legislative issue.
And then of course we have our Federal. At the beginning of the year it's always very busy,
when Congress is in session the State Assembly isn't in session. And we have all the local
entities gearing up for the new year. So that really summarizes the comments that I was going to
make because I trust that you were able to look at the three slides that I had, basically covering
State, Local, and Federal.
And with that, I will conclude my comments and turn it over to Market Development.
SCOTT REED: This is an area that the Board is probably not all that familiar with but it's an
extremely important one. Theresa Rinker is the Manager of Market Development and they
handle everything from the EcoPass program to FlexPass to Neighborhood EcoPass,
CollegePass, and then the nonprofit programs. A lot of that is very much in the news these days
as we go through the fare change proposals that we have been talking with the public and with
the Board about.
So with that, I turn it over to Theresa Rinker.
THERESA RINKER: Hello. So as Scott said, my area is responsible for managing all of these
pass programs. So we have the EcoPass, which is for employers, FlexPass, which is also an
employer-based program. And then we have our Neighborhood EcoPass program which is set up
for communities and residents. The CollegePass is for college students. And the nonprofit covers
low income individuals through nonprofit agencies.
So for 2017, all of our revenue for all of these programs added up to approximately $55 million
dollars, which is quite a bit. And as you can see with these programs, we touch a whole variety
of people in our community. So we're working with business leaders. We're working with
employers, neighborhood communities, students, and of course, low income individuals.
Some of the outreach we do with Eco and CollegePass, we do a lot of transit fares where we go
on site and we explain the programs and help individuals with route and schedule information.
We do some safety fares. We've done a couple out at the Auraria campus, teach them how to use
their smartcard, how to tap it on the validator, and just how to be safe in general around our
trains.

We also conduct monthly technical sessions with our coordinators. And that's mainly to help
them manage and administer their programs related to the smartcard web portal and how to
deactivate cards and things of that nature. Nonprofit, we actually did a survey to better
understand the agency's needs and wants and what their challenges are.
We streamlined the program. We've helped monitor the cap. That's with that program, which is
the $6.8 million dollars. And we've streamlined a lot of their management and administration.
And they seem to be very pleased with what we've done. Our public involvement, we're involved
with the retail network with Kings and Safeway. Basically, we helped implement all of the
RPOS units in their stores so that they're able to reload and load MyRide cards with store value.
It was a big undertaking. We actually went out and had to train all the staff at every single store,
and there's about 150 stores total between Kings and Safeway in our district. So that was a huge
undertaking. Safeway now does offer the MyRide cards as well. And we're still working with
King Soopers to get them on board. We'll be working with them through this process of any fare
changes that we may have. They'll have to update their UPC codes.
So there's a lot more training that might be involved with that process as well. The other thing we
do is we facilitate bulk sales. So if a convention comes in town, for example, we'll work with
them to do bulk sales. They might want to buy our day passes. They might want our 10 rides, or
they might even want a smartcard. Or at this point we're looking at mobile ticketing as well.
We've done a lot with external partners as well as the City and County of Denver, and Boulder
County. And the last thing we do in my area is we issue the Special Discount Card. And this is
the proof of eligibility card for the disabled and the senior community. And they come in and we
offer them this photo ID and it allows them to ride at a discounted rate.
So we do quite a lot with the public as you can tell.
SCOTT REED: Thank you, Theresa. Next thing we have is Market Research. This is headed up
by a grand total of one person at this point in time. Jeff Tranguch is heading that up since Dennis
Yaklich left and went over to the asset management group. So with that, I will hand it over to
Jeff.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Thank you, Scott. And thank you, everyone, for lending me your ears for
the next few minutes. I imagine most of you have an understanding of what market research is.
My goal for the next few minutes is to educate you on how we serve RTD, how we serve the
district. And at the end I'll provide a few examples-- the list won't be exhaustive-- but just a few
examples of some of the work that we've done, just so you can understand how we use it and the
type of work that we do.
So market research serves two main roles. The first is that we help the agency make informed
decisions by providing the data to help make that happen. And the second is that we actually
have federally mandated requirements for reporting. So for example, we use our customer
survey, which is done onboard, tri-annually-- excuse me, triennially, basically to get an estimate
of ridership.

And we use that to report things related to Title VI, so demographics, like what percentage are
low income, what percentage are minority, so on and so forth. So we provide information to help
us make decisions. But we also have federally mandated requirements which we have to fulfill so
Uncle Sam has his data as well. We have a tremendous responsibility to provide data that is
accurate and helpful, using the means that we have necessary.
Our goal is to be seen as Switzerland for the district. And what I mean by that is that we have no
agenda. We have no biases. We really want to get information that is as close to the truth it's
possible, whether it's good or bad. So we really want folks to look at us as an unbiased party that
we're just giving voices to a bunch of numbers on a spreadsheet or a bunch of testimony that
we've heard from customers saying in an in-person focus group or something like that.
We collect data through a number of ways. We have qualitative capabilities, where we will do in
person focus groups, or we'll do in-depth interviews. For example, for our in-person focus
groups, we have a very valuable tool. We have our in-person customer panel, which consists of
15 riders. Obviously some ride more than others. But we do 15 to make sure that each district has
representation and they approximate our ridership.
And we conduct a two hour focus group, once every quarter. It's done in this very room with
minimal cost. We try to be as cost effective as possible. It's led by myself and we provide some
food and refreshments during that two hours to make sure folks are taken care of. But we
basically will use that two hours to explore anything that's of interest at the time. So it could be a
marketing campaign where we'll ask them to provide input on an ad.
You know, we're very close to ads. We look at them in a completely different way than our
riders do. So they provide invaluable data that we may overlook just because we're so close to
things at one point in time. On the quantitative side, we do surveys. We do onboard surveys with
our riders. We do phone surveys where we're looking for a random sample.
I know some of you, well, most of you heard of the fare survey that we just did that was the one
that we had to farm out. As you know, it's just me right now. So when we do larger surveys that
we know we need to have high precision and high accuracy, we will farm that out just to make
sure that the dollars that go into that, we can get the best data that we can so that we can make
the best decision using the resources that we have.
We also manage a panel of online riders. So we use that in times where we need a quick
feedback where we don't have, let's say, three months to conduct something. We will do that to
test ad campaigns or just get a general feeling of riders' attitudes toward us.
Some of the recent projects that we've done, this list, again, is not exhaustive. These are ones that
we are going to use again and again. So at that time they were conducted, they were very
valuable. For example, the first one there, the customer survey, we conduct that every three years
to get a glimpse of what ridership looks like on any given day. So we ask questions on which
type of fare payment they use, which fare type, was it local, regional, or airport.

We ask, you know, information related to household income so we can estimate what percentage
of our riders on any given day are low income. So they're used for federal mandated reporting
but we also use those-- I have people within the agency contact me at any given day saying, you
know, what percentage of folks pay with this payment method or what percentage of our riders,
you know, feel this way or something like that.
So not only do we use them once, we use them over and over again. And the fare survey in
particular, which we just did, is a district wide survey. So we typically do surveys with our
riders. This one is with riders and the misnomer non-riders. So we define riders as folks that have
used us within the past 12 months. I would argue that the percentage of folks who haven't used at
least one of our services in the past few years is rather small. But we use that delineation just to
define for purposes of our research.
That survey in particular will help us estimate what percentage of the population has a cell
phone, what percentage of the population is low income, what percentage of the population feels
we're safe, what percentage of the population feels that we serve their needs from a
transportation standpoint. So it will meet the needs, right now. It's informing the pass program
recommendations.
But it's also going to be used again and again in the future. We still use a survey from 2014, from
our market segmentation survey, to understand what folks use when they're making a decision to
ride. The last one I would like to discuss, this is a survey that we recently introduced probably
within the past year, it's the operators survey.
So to help our HR department fulfill the need that we have for operators, we conduct surveys at
the time they apply and the time someone is hired as a operator, both on buses and trains, to find
out, where did you hear about it and what made you apply? So knowing those two things, we
know what type of messaging is going to resonate with them and we also know the channels
which we think are going to be most effective in helping get the word out there and making sure
that people know, hey, we're hiring.
It's been effective. We've been using it right now. We're doing an AB test to find out which type
of messaging, whether it's saying, hey, we're hiring. Or hey, you should come work for us.
There's a distinction there. So we'll be testing that to see which one works best. And also in the
future, we're going to be rolling out similar surveys for mechanics and other types of positions
here.
So again, that's just a short list of what we've done. If you guys have any information needs, I
imagine you probably will over the next couple of weeks with the fare survey, just feel free to
reach out to us and we're happy to follow up.
SCOTT REED: Do you want to touch on these?
JEFF TRANGUCH: Oh, sure. So a couple just data points from the customer survey, this is
conducted on board. So again, this is giving us a picture of what does ridership looks like on any
given day. And we ask questions. You'll see there, 84% of our customers, these are folks that

were given a survey onboard, either a bus or train, said that they rate our services as being-- or
excuse, me a scale from excellent to poor. So you see the majority of their rating us at highly.
And you'll notice in the fare survey, too, which I thought was quite surprising, at least 70% or
better of the entire sample rated us high in terms of being safe, meeting their needs in terms of
transportation, and also being reliable. And you also see some of the more stuff in the customer
surveys on the board that you have presented here.
SCOTT REED: Thank you, Jeff. Next, we have Media Relations, which is a bit of a misnomer.
But that was purposely done that way because we wanted to definitely delineate who is
responsible for being the official spokespersons for RTD. And Tina Jaquez is the head of that, is
the Manager. But we also do quite a few different things internally as well.
So with that, I will let Tina take it away.
TINA JAQUEZ: Good evening, everyone. Yes, I am Tina Jaquez, Public Affairs and Media
Relations Manager. And tonight, Laurie Huff and Michelle Brier are here. And I think some of
you have had the pleasure of working with them. They run the Public Affairs team. So our goal,
ultimately, is to make sure that we communicate to all our audiences, the public, internal
audiences, meaning staff, as well as the community who maybe even doesn't use us.
So through that, media relations is one way we can accomplish that. So the next slide-- I kind of
wrapped up our goal in a nutshell. Sorry. Next slide, you can see there-- I've got this practice
down here. Next slide, you can see some of the accomplishments we have had over the past year.
And it will say the way we do that, we go about that, is through relationships that we build with
the media, so getting to know certain reporters and different outlets so they know who they can
come to for information.
We manage media requests. So we want to make sure that we're managing these requests for
information in a timely manner with the most current and accurate information. We proactively
pitch stories. So if we know that there is going to be something challenging, we want to be
prepared for that. But we also want to highlight positive things that happen, or maybe interesting
things and promote that to the media.
We'll do that through phone calls, through special e-mails to the media, or a news release with a
follow up call, so just trying to have a little bit of a personal hands on touch when we want them
to maybe highlight something that we're talking about. Additionally, we'll have briefings, one on
one briefings with individual reporters. And that's to make sure if we have something that's really
important to our community, that we want the community to understand, and we want to make
sure that they have the correct information and they're getting the story right. We'll sit down and
directly have a conversation with certain reporters to make sure they understand things.
We host media events. So it's kind of like giving the media a sneak preview at certain new
initiatives, or facilities, or vehicles. It gives them an opportunity to get a first look and provide
that information to the public through their outlets. And then additionally, we've got a lot of great
subject matter experts at RTD. So we offer media training for people within our organization

who the media might want to talk to. We want to make sure that they're comfortable speaking to
the media if they're asked to answer questions.
So along with that, and keeping our audiences informed and educated, we do external
communications. We use a lot of different channels to communicate directly to our different
audiences, depending on who the audience is. We have great relationships with a lot of our
stakeholders, a lot of the public information officers within the region, as well as our TMOs,
transportation management associations and organizations, because we know they can be an
extension of our message as long as we are making sure they get the proper message. And they
also coordinate a lot of activities with us.
So having those relationships are really important as well. We also work internally with a lot of
our divisions trying to understand what kind of messages are important about what they're doing
to make sure that we're helping them get that out. So Service Planning, Bus and Rail ops, Civil
Rights, if there's something that they think the public needs to know, we're there to help them get
that information out through different tools. We implement full communication plans to promote
services and initiatives.
For example, recently we rolled out, with the help of marketing and in conjunction with
marketing, R Line promotion so that we could promote the use of R Line. That's just one
example. And that includes offers to do presentations and tours and other things. We do a lot of
presentations and tours. I'll jump right into that. We know there's a lot of value in having one on
one time with different communities and understanding what their needs are.
A business community or school might have a different need. And if we can get out to them and
speak directly to them and present how to ride or whether their options are, we like to do that.
We do that a lot. And with that, we do community events. So if there's a public event like we did
Juneteenth with Director Deadwyler last few summers and other festivals and events where we
think we can get some good information out to the community, we do that. This last Juneteenth,
we had HR with us, which was excellent because we were able to get some recruitment messages
out at that event.
And then finally for external and internal, we do lots of writing. These two are excellent writers.
And so we do a lot of ghostwriting for talking points. Some of you we've written talking points
for events. We write newsletter copy, op ed pieces, email blast information. So we do a lot of
writing. And we like to write, don't we? So writing is a big thing that we do both internally and
externally.
And finally, I'll talk about internal communications. Because I say finally, but it is a really
important element of what we do. We understand that a lot of our employees are the first point of
contact for our customers. So it's really important for them to have the latest and greatest
information.
We create and distribute the Monday Morning Dispatch, which is the internal newsletter. We
update the internal website, the Hub. We have activities like On the Roads, where we go out to
the divisions and talk about a certain subject with employees. We also have a lunch education

session that we started called Facts and Snacks that we do at two divisions once a month, where
someone can come over their lunch hour and people can show up over their lunch hour and listen
to a certain subject or something that's going on at RTD.
And then finally, we have become-- we've started participating in a larger committee that's
looking at improving two-way communication with employees and understanding, again, that
keeping employees informed helps them have some ownership and feel some pride in the
organization when they're well informed. So that's a quick rundown of what we do.
SCOTT REED: If you could quickly go through the numbers here in terms of media relations.
TINA JAQUEZ: Sure. Between July of '17 and July '18, we had 6,338 news articles, 2,118
broadcast segments, and 17,598 social media mentions, with 2.25 million total impressions, and
$20.8 million in ad revenue. We disseminate 69 news releases related to services, initiatives, and
successes and challenges of the agency. So you know, I mentioned we write a lot. So we write a
lot of news releases throughout the year.
SCOTT REED: Thank you. Next, we have actually two coworkers, if you will, with Project
Outreach and Community Engagement with Lisa Trujillo. This function was actually done
jointly, if you will, through the public information team that we hired through the FasTracks
program. We had, originally, the CIG Group and then later, we had the Virtegic Group that
handled a lot of this. We have since brought that in-house and we hired away several of the best
Virtegic employees as well.
So we have, again, a much better bang for the buck, if you will, and much better control. So Lisa
Trujillo handles the Project Outreach portion of this. Lisa.
LISA TRUJILLO: Thank you. Can I go into the slide, advance to the first one? Good evening,
Board members. Thank you for allowing me to be here and talk to you about Project Outreach.
As Scott mentioned, well, we were established in 2017. And part of that reason was to absorb
some of the outreach that our fast track's PI contractor Virtegic did now that they're no longer
here. We've taken over some of those responsibilities.
My team, the Project Outreach Team, makes up-- well, we have two employees that make up our
team, myself and Pauline Haberman. Pauline is the Project Outreach Specialist overseeing the
SERE project. She does a fabulous job. Also, basically what we do is we provide public relations
for construction projects.
Our purpose is to outline external communications efforts for projects and revenue and prerevenue stage of development during the design, construction, and testing. Successful
communication yields consistent, accurate, and timely messaging while fastening productive and
positive partnerships with project stakeholders. Some of the-- so like I mentioned, we do
FasTracks construction, as well as base side construction.
PR for those two, including-- base side includes light rail rail replacement. Also park and ride
improvement projects, we do public relations for those as well. Something that we've also

acquired is our PR communications for third party contractors. And that includes, for instance,
that would be the Central Park Bridge project that's led by the City and County of Denver.
So since that affects our service on the University of Colorado A Line, we oversee those PR
efforts for that project as well and any other projects that affect our service. We also provide
project oversight of our PI contractor teams, such as the BRT State Highway 119, first and final
mile, 16th Street Mall, the 15L route improvement projects, any of those studies that come up,
we do oversee the PI efforts on those projects.
We also play a big role in providing safety outreach, especially during construction. I work
closely with Christina's Community Engagement team as well in getting messages out to the
schools, ensuring they understand safety, especially the schools near the alignments that are like
within a mile or half mile of the new construction. We also work closely with Tina's Media team,
as well, in providing information to be disseminated in internal communications.
And Laurie does a lot of our writing for us as well, so its a collaborative effort between all of our
teams. We are a fairly lean and new division. We are still evolving. And we are looking and
always open and looking for better ways to enhance our communication efforts. That is
definitely our personal goal. We are thankful to work for such an awesome communications
team. Like I mentioned, it is truly a collaborative effort from Will's team handling social media
on service disruptions, as I mentioned, Tina's team and what they do.
And our marketing team as well and helping us, you know, them create information and having
us hand it out to our stakeholders. So really, it's an honor to have such an awesome team. We
will work together like a well-oiled machine.
SCOTT REED: Well, thank you very much, Lisa. And the next is Christina Zazueta. And she
handles Community Engagement, which is, again, a very important part of what we do. And we
purposely set this up to be something that is very aggressive in terms of the outreach process.
And it's something that we have worked very closely with the Board on several different issues,
including the first couple of pilots of the-- what's the word?
CHRISTINA ZAZUETA: Mobile Labs.
SCOTT REED: Mobile Labs on that. And then of course we do the telephone town halls and
other things like that. So I will let Christina take that.
CHRISTINA ZAZUETA: Good evening, Board members. Again, my name is Christina Zazueta
and I am the Community Engagement Manager. As Lisa mentioned a moment ago, we are a
newer field in the Communications Department. And community engagement in its current form
does include some public information and outreach but also more community engagement.
So for our mission, we work collaboratively with and through groups, both internally and
externally, to address concerns, to share information, create partnerships, and discuss common
issues with the purpose of really creating a community around regional mobility and transit
safety. And some of those tools that we use or some of the tactics that we use are things that we

have done formerly in the public information aspect of things. So we have carried over some of
those older initiatives into the current frame, as well as develop some new initiatives that this
agency has not used before.
And some of the-- mostly what we're looking at now is removing from a time frame where we're
focusing quite heavily on FasTracks and now we're moving to a position where we're focusing
on our base systems, our bus services, and our existing rail as we introduce and welcome new
services into the fold.
The programs that we have done over the last 16 months include some of the things that we've
worked with closely with the Board. And that includes 15 telephone town halls, one for each
district. Also one additional telephone town hall, which was specific to the fare proposal that is
currently underway. And the purpose of that was to inform the entire district of what are the
proposals-- what is the proposal and what are the options and what we're looking at.
We engaged over 25,000 in those 16 telephone town halls throughout the district. And those
engagements are points of contact. That means they could represent a phone number, a single
phone number in a household, or it could represent the online portal. And that means that it does
have the possibility of having more than 25,000 reached because there may have been more than
one person listening or interacting online.
We've also carried forward the Art in Transit program, which we're still continuing to add
additional art pieces to the collection. But understanding that we have quite an extensive
collection that we've amassed over 20 years, I've been focusing on utilizing the benefits of that.
So with that, we've been promoting the existence of the extensive art collection. We've earned
three media stories. We've earned one business in the arts award. And we were featured in the
Rocky Mountain PBS show, which fortunately won an Emmy.
We're also continuing efforts with the Citizens Advisory Committee. And that committee is now
focusing on moving from, again, being a FasTracls orientated group to now moving more
towards base and improving not only our services but working on educating riders on how to use
our services. Newer aspects of what we're working on are, as Scott mentioned, is the RTD
mobile Lab. And some of you have been able to see it.
This mobile lab is a consensus building software tool. It's meant for smaller groups. And it's
meant to zero in on some of the focus issues and concerns for these groups. That works in
conjunction with the annual profiles, one for each district. And in those annual profiles, it's
information specific to each district so we get a better understanding of what is going on, get a
little bit more of a temperature of what's going on in each individual district.
We also are continuing the open house events, which again, many of you were part of. And we
continue the safety, communication, and education initiatives. Speaking of safety
communications, we have been focusing, as Lisa has mentioned, we've been focusing on G Line
safety communications. So that has included over 50,000 safety messages being distributed,
demonstrations in which we take our crossing out to the community and demonstrate to school
and special interest groups how to cross safely.

We are also currently working on having a-- working with local channels, for example Arvada
Channel 8, providing some safety messaging, especially now as we're testing in that community,
increasing the number of trains in that community. We are moving forward in providing this
information more on a district-wide basis. So we're not just focusing on new alignments but on a
district wide basis, we're partnering with emergency management agencies. We're developing
and building on existing relationships and working on some initiatives that are already underway
in which we have an interest in.
Moving forward, we do have a media strategy to continue to promote safety around buses and
trains. And we also want to promote and put at the forefront the fact that we have an extensive
and very specialized group of Officers and Transit Security Officers, which just focuses on how
important safety is, but also speaks volumes when it comes to the image that we put forward.
And with that-SCOTT REED: Thank you very much, Christina. Now we want to go into the Marketing group.
And this is, obviously, a very critical part of what we do. And we want to have Cheryl Holmes
and Steve Riley come up here and talk about this. And this is one of the areas that I am
extremely proud of, based upon the fact that we did set this up really like an agency, yet we do
the work in the house.
And we have tremendous cost savings from that but also I think the products that we offer, given
the number of awards that we've won, are really phenomenal. Now, I'm going to have Cheryl
come up here and sit here because I'm bound and determined to make her talk a little bit here.
STEVE RILEY: Good evening, everyone. Thank you for having us. I'm Steve Riley, the
Marketing Communications Manager, here with Cheryl Holmes, our Creative Service Manager.
I'd also like to acknowledge a few of our staff members who are in the room, Darleen Rollins,
Michael Mitchell, and Mark Digan, who are responsible for the design of the amazing
presentation we're discussing this evening as well as much of the artwork that is adorning the
walls, and also Sue Campbell who is our Distribution Supervisor.
Marketing Department, as Scott said, we are a full service agency comprised of marketing
communications specialists, graphic and web designers, and distribution personnel. So we do
everything in-house, from the strategy to the client relations, to the copywriting, to the design, to
the execution, and then the tracking. Pretty much the only thing that we do not do in-house is
commercial printing.
We develop effective, strategic, marketing communications initiatives that effectively promote
and educate about overall RTD benefits programs, services, individuals campaigns, and
openings. We define, extend, and maintain consistency and relevance in look and feel. So we're
sort of the stewards of the brand, if you will, the visual language, and the messaging for RTD.
We develop and execute these campaigns internally and externally on a multimedia basis using
print, web, environmental, and broadcast tools as appropriate.

We work directly and very carefully with Jeff and market research to define, redefine, and mine
our audiences to really understand who they are, what they want, and so that we can develop the
most targeted solutions from them. And we also collaborate with our clients, partners,
stakeholders, and communities very closely from a client relations standpoint. In marketing, as I
said, we are responsible for strategic planning, design, and execution. And I'm just going to get
kind of give you a very broad-based overview of exactly the types of materials we produce.
Traditional print materials, that's everything from advertising to brochures to direct mail
materials, to fact sheets, to other collateral. Outdoor and on-vehicle advertising, that's everything
from mobile billboards to traditional billboards to wrapped vehicles to the advertising on the
inside and the outside of our vehicles as well. That's image and programmatic ad campaigns
across all media, so espousing all the benefits of RTD and why people should ride and trust our
service.
All internal campaigns and notifications, whether it be for latest employee events, an On the
Road series that media relations might be hosting, a safety event that Lisa and Christina's team
might be hosting, we get involved in a lot of those types of opportunities as well. Marketing and
promotion of openings and events, so working very carefully with Adrian's team and helping to
promote and market all upgrades and openings and service, the R Line, University of Colorado A
Line, the upcoming G Line, and on and on.
We do all the service and change notifications including timetables, shelter boards, maps, and all
associated materials. And Sue's group is very diligent in making sure that those get out to our
stations and are displayed prominently in those locations. The migration of all of our programs to
digital channels, so any programs that we run externally always have a call to action that comes
back to our website to either the specific program page or a vanity URL or our home page so that
we can very accurately track and engage with our customers.
Also responsible for designing specifications of all station, facility, and park and ride signage.
Design and delivery of all fare media products. And of course, as I mentioned earlier, the testing
of everything via focus groups and surveys with Jeff's market research group.
One thing I will mention here is that we make sure that we appropriately translate these materials
as well and we work with, primarily, the major Spanish outlets in town, like La Voz, El
Seminario, Que Bueno, KGHM, and KXPK to ensure that we have multilingual representation
out there in the marketplace. Just some marketing highlights from 2017-2018.
261,000 total direct mails sent via our various programs, whether they be route promotions or
our new resident program. Total response rate to those was 9.2%, and that's compared to an
industry average of 2.9% for similar type mailings. So we're doing phenomenally in that area. A
3.6% click through rate on Google AdWords programs done in house, that's compared to an
industry average of 1.14%, so again, we are doing phenomenally well there.
335 million total ad impressions across all media that we encounter and that we work with. We
produce, in any given year, 8.1 million timetables and 4,600 shelter boards. We deliver
timetables and passes to more than 350 locations. We have multiple advertising trades that we

utilize with various publications and outlets to extend our marketing budget. And in the last year,
we've won four APTA First Place awards as well as one Grand Prize.
Just to give you a little bit of a flavor of the types of programs and products we work on, I just
wanted to go over a few of the very specific campaigns that we've worked on in the last year, the
Civic Center opening campaign. Cheryl, can you click further? Just showing you displaying a
little bit of the artwork and messaging that we have worked on for this campaign using really
bold bright colors and renderings and illustrations to really celebrate and highlight the opening
date and the benefits that were coming with this station to really develop a great sense of
anticipation and enthusiasm for this opening.
The R Line promotional campaign, we did a full scale campaign when the R Line first opened
last year of multimedia, everything from ads to billboards to wrapped vehicles to direct mails to
a ton of digital advertising, utilizing the very representative R and the green color of the line with
espousing some of the benefits that the line housed for people. We then came back this year and
we're running a campaign that really discusses, again in depth, what the benefits are of taking the
R Line to different types of events.
We focused on summer events this summer, obviously. And the tagline of "imagine all the places
you can go" on the R Line in all the different destinations and stations, and where you can get
not only from the R Line but connecting to other modes of transportation as well to get you just
across our entire district. The HR recruitment campaign, which we are focusing on real drivers
and real employees, and really trying to play up the benefits, the hourly wage, the bonus, the fact
that we will train you for a CDL, really this was born out of just operator study, which really
gave us what was important to new hires and also applicants in terms of applying for the jobs.
And just for example, we have a huge amount of awareness created from our HR campaign,
312,000 impressions, and a 0.08 click through rate on that campaign. We also ran a very
substantial image campaign last year that has continued over into this year that really took some
of the benefits-- we started with safety and security benefits and really making a point of why
people felt safe on RTD. We rolled that then into why people felt a sense of security on RTD.
And then we went into the options and things that people liked about RTD's different paths
programs and really explaining to them that we have a path option for everyone.
We're going to be running a campaign that we're currently developing on sustainability. So we're
really trying to get at the essence of what makes RTD relevant to folks. Again, this was born out
of one of Jeff's surveys, which looked at our communities and asked them what were the top
factors that people considered when riding public transit. And these were some of the top five
that came out of that discussion.
Our mobile ticketing campaign, as everyone knows, we've launched mobile ticketing. This was a
mobile ticketing for day pass campaign that ran primarily digitally. We showcased the interface
on the actual phone with some quick instructions. Download the app. Buy your ticket. Your
phone is your ticket. With a direct URL to the mobile ticketing site, as well as mentioned of the
fact that it's available on both the Android and the App store.

Our next ride, or real time campaign, locating your bus and train in real time, showing through
an illustration, basically, how the pinpoint works in terms of really displaying where your vehicle
is in real time and how you can find that out, along with some narrative that explains exactly
how to do it and how the program works. And again, showing a visual of how that works on your
specific phone. And last but not least, our safety campaign, as we know, safety is of paramount
importance here at RTD.
So just a few of the messages, we have sort of an anomalous figure in certain scenarios around
our bus and train system. First one reads distracted with an individual who's wearing headphones
and looking down at their phone walking onto tracks. And it says, don't let your mobile device
end your life. A second one which says, watch your step. There is some snow or inclement
weather. Someone is running for the bus and it says look twice, avoid the ice so you don't fall
and endanger yourself in front of the vehicle.
And then third one, which says mind the line, stand beyond the yellow line. And it has some
individuals who are standing adjacent to the light rail tracks, some of them are actually crossing
the line and a train is on its way and some of them are actually displaying the correct behavior
and being behind the line.
And that's just kind of a brief overview of some of the major programs that we have run in this
past year. And with that, I'll turn it back over to Scott.
SCOTT REED: And once again, Cheryl escapes without saying anything. It's kind of like the
Penn and Teller act of RTD right there. Next, Adrian Mabry heads up the Special Events and
Contracts group for RTD and does a remarkable job with a very small team. I think the APTA
Rail Rodeo and Conference that we just hosted a while ago was a prime example of that.
They set the bar at a very high level. Many, many compliments on that. And they really-- a lot of
people took notes and said we established the model for that. So with that, I will turn over to
Adrian.
ADRIAN MABRY: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen of the Board. Thanks for having us this
evening. As Scott mentioned, a small team, myself and two other project employees, that handle
the responsibilities that are in our area. And the responsibilities that primarily fall in our area, fall
into three areas. So we handle events, on vehicle advertising, and then the sponsorship and
naming rights. And I'll touch on the event-related aspects here first.
So it breaks out in about three areas. The one that you're most familiar with would be the grand
openings. In the last year, we've touched on the Civic Center reopening, the R Line opening, the
L Line opening, and we are in the middle of planning for the G Line grand opening. No, I don't
have a date for you.
Sorry, it's a Pavlov response when I start talking about it. But we are in the middle of those types
of activities. And so as you're familiar with, those typically involve a Thursday VIP event, the
Friday grand opening events, and then Saturday station parties, all of which our team is

responsible for the planning the logistics, the staffing, ambassador training, et cetera, for all of
these types of things.
One of my team has kind of taken on the ownership of the ambassador peace. And that has really
grown and blossomed over the last several years. With the grand openings and other industry
events that we've supported within the last year, we've covered and provided over 600 individual
shifts, encompassing about 2,400 volunteer hours and utilizing over 380 volunteer ambassadors,
just within the last year.
So a lot of activity just in coordinating people, instructing people, informing them, giving them
the information that they need to be out there, literally on the streets, during events and
interacting with the public and answering questions and providing information to them across the
entire agency. So a big chunk of that falls into that ambassador piece.
The secondary piece comes in special events that are more employee or community-related
partnerships. Our group handles the annual employee event, which just occurred this past-- I was
going to say this past month, but just earlier this month on a Sunday. Our group handles all of the
ticket distribution for that. Just that ticket distribution alone reaching out to-- going out to the
divisions and being the faces of RTD to all of our employees, so it takes over 100 hours to be out
of the divisions and fulfilling, literally physically fulfilling, the employee tickets to over 2,300
employees over the span of several weeks.
So we're out there doing that a lot. From a community partnership standpoint, we're involved
with things like Operation Give a Gift, which is our annual employee gift giving program. This
past year, we collected over 2,000 toys and donated those to a couple of agencies here in the
metro area benefiting several thousand children. We partnered with the US Department of
Education this past year on the solar decathlon event that took place out at 61st and Pena.
We were a supporter of that in terms of being out there and being present with the media trade
for them on that. And we do things with events like the People's Fair, where we negotiate a
media trade with an event like the People's Fair, where we are then able to support the youth
mural project. Many of you have probably noticed the large mural that is on display down in
Denver Union Station in the bus concourse.
That is the winning mural from this past year from the mural project at the People's Fair. And so
that's part of that community partnership. We go out and we're out there during the weekend
interacting with folks while those murals are being created. And then we have a partnership to
display that mural for the next year. So we're really excited about those types of things.
We also interact with, as I said, a number of industry events. Scott mentioned the APTA
International Rail Rodeo that just took place. We've also partnered with Rail~Volution and
Southwestern Transit Alliance Conference just this year. So this has been a busy year as we have
moved from design and build into operate and maintain. A lot of folks from around the country
are coming here for industry events. And Denver has taken a real center place. And we've been
excited and had a lot of fun being able to work with these different organizations to help them

hold their events here, as you can see from some of this stuff, we work with them on some of the
creative.
We do a lot of hosting of host events and helping them with tours and outreach into our agencies
so that they know they have better access into what it is that we're doing on a daily basis. Lastly,
the couple of other areas that fall into our area. I worked with the sponsorship and naming rights
program, which includes the University of Colorado A Line agreement that has netted the agency
approximately $1 million dollars for five years with a five year option. That program is going
very, very well.
And we're currently working with the University of Colorado to update their-- to introduce a new
wrap on their train. So stay tuned for the new artwork on their wrapped train that is part of the
naming rights program. I also work with our on-vehicle advertising partner, Lamar Transit, to
manage the on-vehicle advertising program, which is all of the kings, queens, tails, the bus
wraps, the train wraps, et cetera, that are advertising.
And that program nets the agency a guaranteed $3.4 million a year. And so we continue to look
for ways to grow and leverage that relationship. And then a couple of other things that we work
on is special employee ticket offers with things like the Rockies or the Avalanche. And our
group does a lot, when you've heard about other events or outreach or whatnot, we've spent a lot
of time helping other members of the communications department with promotional items,
equipment, tents, tables, chairs, table covers, et cetera.
We have lent assistance to the transit security team in doing some of their outreach events. And
we create and maintain an inventory of just generic RTD promotional items that are available. So
a lot of times when folks have a request to go out and meet with a group, they'll need 15, 20, 30
promotional items to give away. And we have a warehouse of those items as well.
So that's kind of our small little group in a nutshell.
SCOTT REED: Thank you, Adrian. I think it's also important to note as far as the advertising
process that we have, we are nearing the point where we will potentially exceed that minimum
on the on-vehicle advertising. Adrian's kind of shrugging here. But that would be the first time
that they have sold enough ads to actually get us over that guarantee point.
So we're hopeful that we may get to that point. Now we have digital communications. Tiffany
Angel is the Manager there. She is out of town dealing with a family medical situation. So
Lindsay Sutherland is here to talk about this. And this is an extremely important part of what we
do, and growing more and more so. All of us are, like I was earlier, looking at something from
RTD Dispatch on my phone. We are all pretty much addicted to our mobile devices and our
phones.
And that we are doing a very good job, I believe, in terms of plugging into that for our
customers, for the communities that we serve. And more importantly, for those who we would
like to serve in terms of trying to capture that and provide the amounts and types of information
that people really require. So with that, Lindsay.

LINDSAY SUTHERLAND: Thank you. Madam chairwoman, Directors of the Board-- sorry. I
hope you can hear me better now. It's my privilege to provide you with an overview of what our
mighty digital team does. We wear a lot of hats in our division and we work with folks
throughout all of RTD. But a majority of the staff that we've worked on over the last year has
been RTD's website, various mobile applications, social media for promotional purposes-- so as
opposed to the customer care group from Will's presentation that makes announcements about
detours and stuff along those lines-- we help advertise and promote different things such as our
participation in Juneteenth, or in Adrian's presentation, he had a picture of bike to work day.
So we do things along those lines. We also do several different digital marketing campaigns.
We'll also be doing some upgrades to the public information displays over at Union Station. And
we were very instrumental in helping the marketing group overhaul the talent gateway. So even
though we wear a lot of hats, the meat of what we do is RTD-Denver.com. I specifically put up
metrics from this year to date, because I thought it was important for you to know what our
riders or users are looking at.
So I wanted things to be as current as possible. And two things that I think are very important to
note are, first and foremost, our website is easily translatable into 12 different languages. All you
do is you go to the very bottom of any page throughout RTD-Denver.com. Click on translate this
page. And it will translate the-- it'll keep it translated throughout the entire time you're in any
RTD page until you tell it to stop doing that.
Another thing that's important to note is that folks who are using-- or accessing our web site are
doing so on mobile devices. The metrics that I pulled were from January to July. I actually
looked at them this morning and at that time we were at 65% of folks looking at it. We're now up
higher than that. And I think we'll be at 75% by the year's end. So what this means to me is
people who go to our website want to know what's going on now.
They want to know where their bus is, where they go on the train, which is also evidenced by our
most visited pages. So Schedules is by and large the most visited page with 3.3 million. light rail,
which also includes commuter rail, had 590,000 hits. And then the light rail map, 576,000. And
then in terms of fares, we had a little bit shy of 400,000, and then A Line schedules.
So this tells me that folks who go to our site want to know when their bus is coming, where they
can go, how they can get there, how much it'll cost, and when the next train to the plane will
arrive. I think it's also important to note that all of these metrics are either on pace or
outperforming where we were this time last year, which means people are coming to our site and
they're staying on it, and returning.
So along those lines, in terms of things that we've done to improve our website this year, we
enhanced the career section as part of the working with the marketing folks to help improve
applications. So we have beefier job descriptions, more information, more compelling
information to try to show folks why they should consider working for us.
We also launched the mobile ticketing app, which allows you to buy local and regional day
passes. You can buy them in advance and sometimes having a couple of minutes where your

train, you see it coming, and you don't have fare, you already have access to it on your phone
makes the difference. So either you're catching this train or you're waiting the next 15 minutes
for the next one. You can also buy tickets in advance, which is a pretty nice feature.
And then we work-- since I mentioned, we work across the company, we also pull analytics for
folks that have pages on our site to let them know how things are going. In terms of current
projects, our main project right now is moving our website from its current platform onto a
content management system. What this means is that we will be able to make updates to content
much more quickly.
We will also be able to get announcements out the door faster and just really keep the
information much more current because, as I mentioned earlier, folks are looking at our stuff on
their phones and tablets. They want real time. They want faster. And that helps to get it.
We're also trying to consolidate the FasTracks web sites so the information is in fewer places.
And we are developing a fare calculator that, based on different criteria, will recommend which
fare is best for you to purchase when you're looking to make one. And it's based off of where
you're going, how frequently you make trips.
So on the next slide, I dive a little bit deeper into mobile applications. So I already mentioned the
mobile ticketing app. The other two that are really worth mentioning are our Next Ride and our
Trip Planner. Next Ride, if you see the screen in front of you, it's the big one on the white phone.
That one tells you what the next three rides are going to be based on whatever criteria input. So
you can filter it based off of a location, be it I'm at Central Park station, like this example. Or if
you only want information on buses or rail you can do that and it will show you when the next
three will come.
And then the other one, Trip Planner, that is sort of along the same lines where you say, OK, I
want to do this. I want to start here. I want to get here. But then you say how you want to get
there. If you want to depart by a certain time or arrive at a certain time. If you want to walk and
then take a bus, or if you want to go to a park and ride take a bus, it gives you suggestions on
what will help you get to where you want to go most efficiently.
And both for the next ride, almost half of all of those happened during peak hours. And for Trip
Planner, about 34% happen during peak hours. So for Trip Planner, people are planning their
trips in advance. The other thing to mention on this site is our rider alerts which Will had also
talked about in the customer care presentation. We're going to be upgrading our system.
So a rider alert is issued whenever there is a route-- something is going to impact the route, be it
a delay, a detour, or a closure for a reason. With our new system, we are going to speed things
up. It's going to be much more efficient. And an alert can be issued from someone on Will's team
in as little as 10 seconds. There is additional value provided to the user in that they will be able
to customize how and when they receive the information.

So if they only care about a particular bus stop, they can get that information that way. If they
want information via text message or email, they can choose to have that too. And we will also
have a new feature where we will have more of an explanation as to why the delay, closure, or
cancellation are occurring.
So in terms of other accomplishments, you know, since we do the promotional side of social
media, I put in similar metrics to what Will had provided. We also helped with the talent
gateway, which is the collaboration with marketing and HR to improve the application process to
try to get more folks to work for RTD. So our role in that was really designing and then adding
the tracking code so we can figure out when people go on the site what they're doing, how they're
getting there, and like if there are certain roadblocks as to why they fill out an application but
don't submit it, at what point they stop.
We'll have these data and be able to improve things going forward. And then as far as plans, I
had mentioned earlier, we're looking to overhaul the public information displays over at Union
Station, looking to have stuff that has more longevity and can withstand varying weather
conditions. We're also going to continue to identify ways to improve the user experience on
rtddenver.com.
We like that we have positive traction and that people keep coming back. We want those
numbers to continue to increase. And we will also continue to pool analytics for others in the
company to help them make data-driven decision as far as their digital campaigns. Thank you for
your time.
SCOTT REED: Thank you very much. And now I do have a brief conclusion and then we will
take questions. And my staff members will be available to come up and answer those as well.
The conclusions. Through our department, the Communications Department, the combined
efforts we create and steer hundreds of millions, and actually billions if you saw some of the
totals there, of agency impressions on an annual basis. Successful communications today
requires immediacy and consistency.
And that's why we are constructed the way we are. We provide both. Also, we are accomplishing
much more today, despite having fewer resources. And that is based upon the fact that we have
given back millions of dollars in our budgets through the years. We are very limited in the
amount of advertising dollars we have. Adrian talked about our media trades, that is really one of
the very, very few ways that we are able to advertise. We have a very valuable product in terms
of our on-vehicle advertising.
So we are able to leverage that with media trades for outlets that are interested. We have outlets
where we'd like to penetrate that they are not interested in doing trades with us. So that is one of
the impacts there. Ultimately, our unique in-house structure saves resources. For example, I have
spoken to several other transit agencies around the country and boy, I'd like to have their
budgets. For example, LA Metro, their communications group has an $81 million dollar budget.
We have about $17 million.

So that is something that I think we are very efficient as far as that goes. And back to what I was
talking about before, the way that we are structured by not utilizing external agencies for public
relations, for marketing, for advertising, I think definitely provides us with more bang for the
buck with the limited resources that we have, and with being able to be very responsive and
responsible for the messaging that we do.
So I thank all of you. I thank all the staff members here. I am extremely proud of this team. I
can't say enough positive things about what all of you do every day and what we accomplish as a
department. So thank you. And with that, turn it back to the Chair for questions.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'll start with Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Scott, and all of you guys who took
the time to come and speak to us about what you do and what you're passionate about. I think we
all appreciate that. I have a couple of questions. I'll try and make them brief. The first one goes to
Christina. I'd like to see my district annual profile. I'm not aware that I've ever seen that.
So I would really like to have a copy of that. And then there's something else in your
presentation about a Senior Volunteer Program that I would also very much like to-- no, you
don't have to do it right now. No, sit down. This is all later. Later. There's like 12 people here.
And I'm sure everybody has. So just later. Those are things that I want to know about.
And then we-- oh boy, here we go, this is me open mouth, insert foot. So we used to have this
bald guy with glasses that you used to see on TV all the time. And he's gone. And I don't see
anybody else like that that is kind of the face of RTD. So I just wondered if there is-- and you
need to know this on the record, I don't watch TV. I like never watch TV. So it's possible that I
haven't seen that person.
I just wondered.
SCOTT REED: My hair is falling out more rapidly, so soon I may be the bald person-KATE WILLIAMS: You can be the next bald guy with glasses. I'm cool with that. And you don't
have the answer to this now, this is just stuff that I want to know that, you know, somebody can
get back to me on. Those are my questions. And then the only other question I have is really cool
stuff. We're doing some really cool stuff. I think all of you guys are doing great stuff.
Poor Will has to-- we talk a lot offline. So I'm wondering if we're going to get to have this kind
of a presentation from the other AGMs and their departments, or if this is a one off. And that
goes to David. He can talk to me about it later, too.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, that would be the Board's pleasure, if you'd like us-- I mean, we do
some of that when we do the orientation, the Board Orientation. But we realize that that's a lot of
information very quickly, very early on. But as we could fit these in, we'd be happy to do that.
But again, as the Board wishes, we could do it.

Can I just respond to the other one? The position you mentioned is a current vacancy, which
we're recruiting for. So we've advertised for that position. And we're currently reviewing the
applicants. So it's one of two key vacancies we have in the department.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. That's a great answer. That's what I haven't seen any bald guys
with glasses on TV lately. OK, that's all I have to say. Thank you, Madam Chair, and all of you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I am going to go to a question. Director Sisk, are you still on
the phone?
CHARLES SISK: Yes I am, thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great, I will let you ask the question, then, that was passed to me. You
can go ahead, Director Sisk. You had a question?
CHARLES SISK: Am I muted?
NATALIE MENTEN: We can hear you.
CHARLES SISK: Thank you. The question I had was to Scott. When Scott, you mentioned the
fact that you were bringing in a lot of these outsourcing, how much outsourcing are we doing
presently in terms of independent contracts?
SCOTT REED: Director Sisk, that's very, very limited. And I guess it would also depend on
exactly the discipline or the specific function. As far as overall ad agency contracting, we don't
have anything. I don't have anything in terms of a public relations agency. We have a media
buyer through Thayer media. And they do a really good job in terms of saving us money and
maximizing the return we get on the very limited dollars, plus the big bang that we get for the
media trades.
I can put together a list. Of the top my head, I mean, we obviously have the liaisons for the local,
state, and federal lobbying efforts. Not a whole lot. 360 Media helps us with some of the pass
sales oversight. Not much. So I'll put together a list for you. I'm kind of drawing a blank here.
CHARLES SISK: Madam Chair, if I could ask one more question and then I'll go on mute.
NATALIE MENTEN: Please do.
CHARLES SISK: Thank you very much. And thank you for your indulgence. Please go on mute.
I get that. I get that. Thank you, Director Williams. I heard you laugh very audibly. Anyway,
what I would like is, you know, it's been a while since we've had any real naming rights. And I
think we've been-- you know, I've been very disappointed in terms of not seeing some things
come before the Board.
Now having said that, I recognize that there are some terms about naming rights. So I certainly
enjoy seeing the University of Colorado flashed everywhere I can see. Where do we stand on

that? And then just as a secondary question, is the advertising dollars that we're getting in the
neighborhood of $3.4 million, how close are we really to the threshold of that? And why hasn't
that been exceeded?
SCOTT REED: If I may, Director Sisk, as far as naming rights, that is something that is a little
fragile, if you will. We had a very large potential naming rights deal kind of within our grasp but
we, because of certain issues that have continued to happen with certain rail lines, we have not
been able to close that deal.
We are hoping to be able to in the near future. We also have gone through the contract with
IMG. It's been named about four different things now. Has expired. So we're going to be going
back out for exactly how we determine to establish that naming rights process, whether we do
that in-house or we do bring in a vendor to do that.
So that is a pretty difficult scenario. I think a prime example of that is the Denver Broncos.
They're not even able to get a naming rights sponsor for their stadium. And even though I think
we're fantastic, I think they're just slightly more popular than we are. As far as the advertising
dollars, we do see improvements in that.
I defer to Adrian in terms of exactly where we are on that. But we have seen that increase. And
again, part of it is just the fact that there are so many different advertising outlets out there. We
are-- one of the big drawing factors for us is we are really mobile billboards. We are able to
advertise in Boulder where no one else can because you can't have billboards anywhere near
Boulder.
So that is one of the things if you look at the advertising that we have in the Boulder area, it's
pretty much full. So it's really a mixed bag as far as that goes. But we're quite pleased with how
things have gone so far. The other thing to keep in mind, the fact that we are getting that $3.4
million guarantee, when we have gone out for bid on that, that is a little over a million more than
anyone else was offering.
So the fact that our contractor is looking at that as preserving their market share is to our benefit.
So the bids that we've gotten have been notably lower than that $3.4 million guarantee.
CHARLES SISK: Thank you very much and everyone have a safe Labor Day. And I think our
Communications Department is just absolutely fantastic. And thanks for all you do for all of us.
SCOTT REED: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, we'll move on to Director Walker. Mr. Genova, did you have
something?
DAVID GENOVA: I was just going to quickly add that I believe that we're going out for RFP
for the advertising contract towards the end of this year. So you know, we'll have fresh
opportunity to look at what the market's going to drive there. And then also, by the end of the
year, too, we'll be putting out a digital advertising package. So that's something brand new which

we have not done before and we've been having a lot of industry interaction on that on exactly
what that could look like and how we could package that best for our advantage. And that would
work well.
So a couple new RFPs that will be coming out towards later-- towards the end of this year in the
advertising realm.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'm a big follower of RTD's Twitter. So whoever handles that, people
who handle that, they do a fantastic job with their responses to the questions and complaints, hey
RTD. Then there's, where was zero today, or something like that. They're very professional.
What is-So I've done some of this in past lives, bits and pieces, nothing major. So I understand the
challenges. A lot of people have different interests and they want that information conveyed in
different ways. So not everybody wants to know-- what was the note I here-- some people don't
want an answer they want a result, so no matter what you tell them, if the problem's not fixed,
the problem hasn't been addressed at all.
What are the two biggest challenges that your department faces?
SCOTT REED: I think if I only get two, I would say probably exactly that with the digital media,
how that has become so pervasive in terms of what people's expectations are. We talked about
that earlier with the immediacy and the accuracy. If you look at the fact that through our social
media, the digital team that works on that, you know, that's Virginia Johnson, kory McNail, and
Cherrie David. And then we currently have a vacancy there.
And it's astounding what they do. And the way that they're able to turn that around-- and as you
know, anyone who is a Twitter follower, the nuance is incredible. I mean, you have to be
accurate. You have to engage in such a manner that it's not antag-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You mean we don't? Sorry, I couldn't resist.
SCOTT REED: I wasn't talking on the national scale. As far as the-- you want to engage with
facts and not be antagonistic and be sympathetic.
So it's an incredible art. And they do a remarkable job. I think that's one of the areas that we're
going to continue to see emphasis and the need to be sure that we have the proper amount of
resources. And then also on the digital communications side, from the web-based programs that
we have, because so many people are using our apps, our Next Ride, MyRide, all the different
types of things that we have that are electronic-based, people are just getting very far away from
what, you know, back dinosaurs like me, what would be considered traditional, any type of print
media, things like that.

Even with the Telephone Information Center, we handle nearly a million calls a year. But that's
down from what we had because so many people are switching over to email, to the Twitter, and
other feeds there because of that immediacy. They want to hear it. They want to hear it now. And
you know, they want that bus operator to be, you know, disciplined within the next 10 minutes,
even though they were the one who missed the bus.
And obviously, I'm being facetious there. But it's astounding how, just as you said, sometimes
people don't want an answer, they just want action. And that's one of the big three biggest things
that we do deal with.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I noticed that in the presentation schedules had 10 times about 10 times
as many views as fares. Fares are consistent. I might need a quick refresher if I don't ride it very
often. But the schedule, I need to know now. And especially the Trip Planner versus the next
three rides. Next three, OK, where can I get to where I'm going, where I need to be in the next
15, 30 minutes. And Trip Planner is, I got to go somewhere tomorrow. How do I get there.
Yeah, so OK. That's it. I'm very pleased with what I see, what I read coming out of the
Communications Department. I've never had a lack of response for anything that I needed,
whether it's been the town hall that was set up for me or I'll need some talking points coming up
pretty soon in the event that Councilman Flynn has put together in his district in Denver.
But it's always been there for me. So I appreciate the efforts and thanks for the presentation.
SCOTT REED: Thank you.
[INAUDIBLE].
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Menten. Yes, it's been a very interesting and rewarding
experience to listen to all the creative, professional, talented work that folks are doing. So that's
been useful, very useful for me to hear. Nonetheless, I wanted to bring up something because it
feels to me like there's a disconnect, for me. And the disconnect is that I'm from a part of the
district that hasn't gotten its rail.
People are very angry up there. And RTD's brand isn't worth very much up there. And you know,
I hear-- I heard in the presentations about all the wonderful things that are done. And that's
important and useful. But where I'm coming from and where other people who feel aggrieved,
you know, it isn't so positive.
In fact, it's extremely negative for a lot of people. And that's where I personally think there's a
problem. And to me, I've thought a lot about it, the problem involves those areas where there has
been persistent problems, such as the Northwest Rail, such as not finishing North Metro, such as
the horns, the continuous horns on University of Colorado A Line, such as the G Line not getting
operated quickly.

And those are real problems. You know, that's life. Life has problems. And we put together this
incredible system. I mean, FasTracks is an astounding system. And you know what? We thought
there would kind of be no problems. Oh, we're going to do five openings in a year, no problem.
What, yes. It did not turn out that way.
Life has problems. And it seems to me it's where the problems are that I feel where the
deficiencies are in the communication. And that includes maybe, to me as a Director too, so
that's another issue. But I think where there are persistent problems, communication turns around
and goes the other way. And that's my experience of it.
And that it should be the opposite. It should be, if there's a persistent problem, that's where we
belong. We belong talking to people who are angry at us, not to accept abuse. I'm not talking
about that. But to continue communication. And for instance, Director Hoy and Director Solano
and I were at a North Metro Elected Officials meeting. And there was, you know, the room of
people were basically saying, you don't tell us what we need. You don't tell us what we need.
Because it was not-- there's been a delay, a huge delay in the North Metro Line. Well, you know,
there's only so much we can do when there are these huge delays. It's true that real life interferes.
But what I feel the problem is is not really addressing, communicating to people where they're at,
finding out where they're at, and trying to deal with them in a respectful manner about this is
what we can do. This is what we can't do.
But that's what we were told at that meeting, that people were saying, we just want to know
what's going on so we can tell our constituents. I would suggest that in situations where there's
long term problems, that we speak regularly to the TMOs and to the stakeholders and figure out
good communications to deal with this, because people otherwise simmer, they simmer.
And it's true that people would rather have a result than an answer. And I understand the
problem. But I also understand that people feel kind of abandoned, that they just haven't been
listened to about their problems that are RTD related. And I think that can be better addressed.
That's my experience, my opinion. You know, it was interesting to hear about LA and that they
have this huge budget, much more so than we do.
That was interesting for me to hear. But I'm still concerned with our much littler budget,
generally, littler in terms of the whole thing and in terms of communications. And it's my
understanding that there was going to be an outside company taking a look at all of our salary
and employee structure to see how appropriate and effective it was. And I would still like to see
that happen because I think that's important.
So anyway, thank you all for the work that you do. You guys do a lot of great work. And I think
there are areas that need improvement from my personal experience. That's it. Thank you.
SCOTT REED: And if I might address that-- and I completely agree with you that one of the
things that we really want to stress is through the Community Engagement Program and through
the direct communications processes that we have with the TMAs and TMOs as you mentioned.

And then I also do disagree with you to an extent that we are very willing to go talk with
whomever and occasionally get abused. I've been to talk to the Longmont City Council and just
about got into fisticuffs with a certain person who is now mayor there a few years ago. And I
have absolutely no problem with doing that.
I think one of the things, though, that we want to be sure we have is we have something to
communicate. And right now, we are looking at the limited service on Northwest Rail. And that
is one of the things we've talked extensively about. We had the Northwest Area Stakeholders
meeting earlier this week. And I thought that was a very good opportunity to talk about that with
the elected officials there.
I know that you were in attendance there. And so I think, you know, it is kind of a hit and miss
scenario but we're more than willing to go to talk with whomever about whatever, as long as we
have something to communicate, like I said. I think the other part of that is, we are dependent
upon Directors to let us know when there is someone or a group who wants us to go meet with
them. Many Directors send us information about, can you go talk to such and such, an optimist
club or whatever it might be. We really want to do that.
As we get Christina and Lisa's teams, the Project Outreach and especially the Community
Engagement Group, fully up to speed, I think we will have much better opportunities to do that.
And you know, just let me know who you would like to, either together or with whomever, talk
to about where we are, more than happy to do that.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Can I have just a response? And yes, thank you for that openness.
But I'm also seeing something else that I think in these areas of systematic trouble, I think it's up
to management to also think about, well, what can we offer these people? What can we do? And
to reach out, not just to wait for others to reach us.
SCOTT REED: Completely agree.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you.
SCOTT REED: You have to talk talk to the microphone here.
LISA TRUJILLO: I just wanted to state, I was at the Elected Officials Briefing. And as I
mentioned at the briefing, I'm looking at setting up a series of open houses along the N Line and
working with each of the jurisdictions to do so. So I wanted to pass that on to you as well.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
LISA TRUJILLO: Also attending Thorntonfest and attending the Ward meetings, those types of
things, we'll continue to do that.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you.
LISA TRUJILLO: Harvest fest.

NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, chair. I have one question. Denver International Airport, the terminal
is being expanded and reconfigured. And I was just curious about what kind of communications
we have with the airport about changes that are taking place there and how those changes might
impact riders on the A line when they arrive at the airport? And how do we communicate those
changes to those riders?
SCOTT REED: That is an ongoing discussion that we have with DEN as they like to be called
now, not DIA. I still catch myself calling it the DIA rather than DEN. But as they make the
different changes there, that is one of the critical things. And we do work very closely with them
and also with Visit Denver in terms of trying to maximize the ease with which people can
identify how to get to the transit center there to catch the University of Colorado A Line, the bus
service that we have there which is all really on one area, on one level now, which is fairly easy
to communicate.
But that is one of the challenges we have because we don't have the ability to post our own
messaging. We have to go through DEN to make that work. And then the other part of that is
from a multilingual an international symbol standpoint, that we need to be sure that that is
consistent. But we are definitely in communications with DEN, with the staff there, and working.
We have a working group that looks at the signage at various areas, including Denver Union
Station, DEN itself, and other areas to see what type of way finding signage makes the most
sense so you don't have an overwhelming number of signs.
You know, if there's too many signs, people just don't pay attention. They miss them all. And
also, you know, the type of communications that work best within that. So, very good question.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Archuleta.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Thank you, Chair. Hey, Scott. What's going on? How much is your
budget for radio? Just for radio for a year?
SCOTT REED: We don't break it out specific to that. We do for, you know, advertising. I can
get back to you on, you know, like traditional-- I'm sorry, over time what it is, off the top my
head, I don't know.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: And when you're selecting the radio stations you use, are you using
Arbitron as a rating for advertise on the biggest radios or the smallest ones?
SCOTT REED: We do a couple of different things. One, through the media buyer, yes, I mean,
Arbitron is king. There's no question about that in terms of the numbers and then, you know,
unfortunately you end up with so many of the Clear Channel, you know, redundancy if you will.
But we also try to look at how we can reach out to areas of the community, and especially
through ethnic stations that we don't normally communicate through. That's an extremely
important tool.

Now, I know also that it is, you know, with the limited budgets we have, we only have so many
opportunities on that. But that's one of the things we're taking a look at as to see what the
distribution through the demographics, through the number of impressions that we get, and
what's the best way to communicate. It's easy to, you know, you go to KOA and you hit
everybody. Well, not exactly.
You hit everybody in the sense if you just look at the raw numbers. It's massive, the numbers are.
But you aren't necessarily getting down into the communities that you may want to directly
communicate with. So we're trying to be more strategic as far as that goes.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Your contracts, for example, let's say you do KOA, is that for a year or
is that just for the contract-SCOTT REED: Usually it's campaigns. It's campaigns.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: It's for whenever you have a campaign, you just pay that and that's it?
You don't buy radio for a whole year?
SCOTT REED: Pretty rarely do we just-- I'm unaware of us ever buying radio for a year. We did
a little bit with T-REX because we're constantly on the radio talking about updating what various
impacts were going to be. You know, that's obviously, you know, semi-ancient history now. But
it is campaign-based.
If we are doing a safety campaign, if we're doing a grand opening campaign, with the R Line, we
did a lot of radio, TV. So it just depends on what is coming up and. If we're doing something to
promote-- you know, we used to work directly with the Denver Broncos on Broncos Ride. And
that was before we had the train service. So a lot of different things depending on what it is we-ERNEST ARCHULETA: So when you say your budget is tweaked, I mean, you ain't got no
money, just doing mostly trades, if you're not giving somebody a contract for a year, how do you
leverage that? I mean-SCOTT REED: Well, I think any time-- and you can look at this with elections-- they purchase
air space at a specific time of year. And that's what we do, is we know we will have a campaign
coming up in October. So we will purchase x amount, or usually through our trade process, that
we will advertise KOA, KBNO, you know, whatever it might be, on our buses in exchange for
getting air time.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: No, I get it. How come our budget's always tweaked? I mean, we
never have no money for radio time, TV time, or whatever.
SCOTT REED: Is Heather McKillop here?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

ERNEST ARCHULETA: That's it. Thank you. By the way, you guys are doing a good job.
Thank you.
SCOTT REED: She's almost in the back row there.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a couple of questions. First of all, I've
benefited from a few of the recent events, most recently Saturday up in Evergreen for the safety
fires. And we got an awful lot of people that came by and gathered literature. And it was a really
good event.
So my compliments on that. And then even on the train when I came in today for this meeting,
I've noticed a lot of signs on the cars, inside the cars recruiting the bus drivers. And those have
really impressed me. Today I saw something that I hadn't seen before. And that was talking
about communication with impaired, either speech impaired or something.
And that was really impressive to me as well. So my compliments on some of the variety of
things that you're making. You all are very-- I mean, you're an internal organization. You self
perform everything. But my impression is that sometimes in those cases, you're too inside
baseball. And you are rightly proud of some of the work that you've done and receive a lot of
accolades.
I'm curious, does an organization like APTA have a peer to peer review? Is there something
where you could get an external audit? I read the internal audit. But is there some way that you
could get an external audit to maybe look at ways to help the organization and help what your
issues are?
I too, Director Lubow, was curious. The LA Metro operating budget has to be pretty large. And I
was wondering as a percentage, how their budget related to their marketing budget or their
communications budget related to their overall budget, and especially in light of their growing
capital program as compared to what our percentages of the operating budget.
And then finally, and we've had this conversation, Scott, I'm really interested in metrics more
than just data. Yeah, we talked about this Friday. I'm really interested in saying, OK, we had this
many clicks. We had this many hits. We had this many contacts. Therefore, what? So as you
look at your goals for the next year to five years and what you want to accomplish-- and my
personal goal would be let's try to increase ridership and revenue-- but what are some of these
things that you're doing-- how much of an effect do they have on some of those goals?
And those are some of the metrics that I would like to see because you can do things but unless
you can somehow measure a result and how effective they are, I think that's the only way that we
can make the whole organization better. Thank you.
SCOTT REED: And we definitely do tie-in with the General Manager's goals. And then if you
look at the performance measures, we have several key indicators there as well. And I

completely agree, that outcomes are more important than outputs. And you know, so it's a
balancing act. You know, we have to have a certain amount of presence. We have to have a
certain amount of input as far as what people want to see, just as Director Walker was
mentioning, going to schedules. That type of thing.
So it's kind of hard to measure exactly how important that is, except for just the raw numbers and
how those increase over the years and how, you know, people use that to access information. But
I completely agree that, you know, the ultimate goal is to get more and more people to use your
product. And ridership is an important part of that.
The one thing I also will say is if you compare what RTD's ridership is like versus the rest of the
nation, you know, while we have a bit of a dip in the bus side of things, the commuter rail side is
up and we are in much better shape than the vast majority of transit agencies out there. So of
course, I take full credit for that part of it, even though I know that's not realistic.
But I think it is important to look at this as a systemic effort that is geared toward increasing
utilization of our product. Completely agree with that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Hoy?
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chair Menten. Well, first of all, one of the things I noticed in the
presentation is that this is beyond my understanding, I guess, we get 328,000 hits on the A Line
schedule. And maybe I'm wrong, but doesn't it leave every 15 minutes on the 15 minutes?
I don't know. Is that complicated? At least on the 15 from Union and that leaves-- oh yeah, a
little bit different. And those are probably the people looking. Yeah, I'll give you that one. But
the real question is, our contract or lack thereof of with IMG. So I have a couple of questions
around that. I would like to know when that contract expired and why-- it did expire, right?
SCOTT REED: We no longer have a contract with IMG, that is correct.
LARRY HOY: That is a subtle difference. How long has it been since we have not had a contract
with IMG?
SCOTT REED: Since December.
LARRY HOY: December. And so we're looking at finding another contractor at toward the end
of this year is what I heard you say.
SCOTT REED: We are looking at how to best utilize resources for a naming rights process.
LARRY HOY: That's good enough. So we've gone almost a year without anybody really
marketing the stations, or the trains, or our product, whatever that product is?
ADRIAN MABRY: So at the end of 2017, we reached out and initiated an extension to the
contract that was an option for a two year-- a two year option. And as WME, IMG has gone

through some internal changes, they were doing some staffing stuff, they delayed the process.
We did not get notification until almost the middle of the year that they were opting to not extend
the contract.
So we are now responding to that in terms of determining what our next steps are for moving
forward in terms of looking at the options for doing it internally or sending out an RFP.
LARRY HOY: OK, so another part of that question-- is it all right, chairwoman, if I continue a
couple more questions?
NATALIE MENTEN: I think this is a good discussion. Go ahead.
LARRY HOY: OK, thank you. So we've had very little success in selling those rights. A big
success with the University of Colorado, no doubt. But the station naming and some of the other
ancillary things have not happened. Now we have nobody marketing it.
I'm wondering if we didn't overprice the product. Because it's my understanding that if we name
a station the Scott Reed Station, I won't use-- I know of three people that have-- three companies
that have expressed some interest in this. So I won't use their names in public forum here. Is it
Scott Reed's responsibility do the improvements, put up the sign? And then they pay us?
Does the tenant, so to speak, do the improvement on the station?
SCOTT REED: It really depends.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LARRY HOY: How that happens.
SCOTT REED: Yeah, we don't-- we try not to dictate all the specifics. We want to be as open as
possible. We have been contacted by some higher education institutions about that type of thing
that we are looking at what may work best. And the other part of it is with the-- I mean, I know
one of the firms you're talking about. I met with them a while back.
And so it is something that you may be right if you look at the valuation process we went
through. And at the time we went through that with IMG, if you recall, they put together their
first charge of business was to go out and value, put valuation on all of our products, individual
bus lines, stations, rail lines, all of the different types of things, you know, fully wrapped trains.
If we named a line, a train line after the Coors Silver Bullet was one that we would love to have.
But that type of thing. And you know, some of the numbers were pretty high, there's no question
about it. And they were using their expertise on a national and international basis. Whether or not
that is applicable to the Denver market, you know, time would tell. And you know, I think
maybe time has told.
LARRY HOY: Yeah.

SCOTT REED: You raise a very good point.
LARRY HOY: My thoughts are that if we sold it at half the-- I'm just making up numbers-- but
if we sold it for half of what we were asking, that's still more than what we have.
SCOTT REED: Absolutely.
LARRY HOY: And that's a pretty simple revenue producer. And it could be significant. OK, I
think I've made my point. I think we've taken an asset we have and not probably done our
responsibility to bring in as much money as we can for that asset.
SCOTT REED: Absolutely.
LARRY HOY: OK, great. That's all I have. Thanks.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Solano
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, chairwoman. Within the last couple years, I've noticed a profound
increase in the Hispanic media coverage. And I've noticed an increase in La Voz, El Comercio,
and El Heraldo de Colorado. Now, the Hispanic community is the fastest growing ethnic
community in the state. Are we going to continue this positive push?
SCOTT REED: That is absolutely our plan and that's part of what I talked about earlier when
Director Archuleta asked that question. We want to look at what the different demographics are
and how we can best serve those. Again, the easiest thing in the world is to just look at the
Arbitron ratings and say, you know, we're going with all the big boys here and you get these
great numbers but you don't necessarily get the distribution and the reach that you want.
So we want to be much more targeted in that. I've had this conversation with Steve very recently
about this, about how we want to be sure that we are reaching different ethnic communities and
especially the Hispanic community right now because of the growth and because of a lot of what
we're looking at in terms of the demographics of our ridership.
So yes, that is an important part of what we're going to be doing near term and long term. And
again, the research process, Jeff's group, is really important for how we do that through the
ridership surveys and through other aspects like that. So, Steve-STEVE RILEY: Sure, absolutely. The one thing I wanted to add as well is that Scott is correct.
We are continuing that commitment and we're also now beginning-- have begun to run these ads
bilingually as well in these publications. So we're running English and Spanish ads to try to
capture, you know, populations in their native languages as well. So our current agreements are
we run a lot of advertising on La Voz. We run a lot of advertising with El Seminario. We're
actually celebrating two years of having a trade agreement with them, so we have an annual
agreement with them that has reciprocal benefit for both institutions.

Running advertising on radio, on KBNO, KJHM, and on KXBK, which are the largest players in
the Hispanic radio market in Colorado.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you. I have one more.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Go ahead.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. I want to congratulate our CEO and you Scott, in our Communications
Department. I do remember when we were interviewing applicants for the CEO position, Mr.
Genova was one of the only ones that said he would want to do everything in-house as possible.
And most of the other applicants said they would outsource and that was one major reason that I
voted in favor.
And I want to commendate you for that. And considering the RTD has opened five lines that
have cost $5.6 billion dollars, I think we're doing a phenomenal job, even though some areas
think we're behind schedule. But I think the magnitude of what we have accomplished is being
overlooked. I mean, it's easy to open a huge, massive, you know, whether it be an airport, when
DIA was first built it was, geez, years off schedule.
Well, we're a year or two off schedule. You know what? The magnitude of this project was great
and I think we're doing a phenomenal job. And I think you guys are doing a great job.
SCOTT REED: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Menten I have a couple of ideas, you can imagine.
SCOTT REED: I have my pen ready.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Really? I mean, I'm a little surprised with myself actually. What are the
products that we have? So you mentioned the bus, the train, the benches, the shelters, right? I
have men-SCOTT REED: From a naming rights standpoint or from-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: From an advertising standpoint. I don't care whether you sell the naming
rights or you just-- I mean, big, small, whatever. It doesn't really matter. You know, selling
something, you know. So say it's worth $100 and somebody says, no, I'm going to give you $50.
I take $50 because we got zero. Like 50% of something is better than 100% of nothing. But that
aside, I love the digital stuff you guys are doing.
Did you know of something called OverThere ?
SCOTT REED: I've heard of it. I must admit, I'm not familiar.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, I've said it so many times and I'm going to keep saying it until the
next time I say it you go, of course. OK, so it's a wayfinding-SCOTT REED: You're the one I've heard it from.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes. It's a wayfinding app and it's really important. This might help the
wayfinding at DEN, which is such a cute renaming. Is that really it? DEN instead of DIA?
SCOTT REED: Yes, because that's the call letters, if you will.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right, that's right. But it's like a den, like a bear's den or something. It's
cozy. But the wayfinding app, OK, this leads me into the other idea, it's called OverThere. One
word, free, works on an iPhone. And that actually tells blind people how to find something way
over there. Like I could be across the street, it doesn't see through walls, ok, but it has an audible
vector that allows me to pinpoint exactly how to get into the building or onto the bus to find the
door of the bus.
Because for-- I mean, I can't tell you how many times I say, where is the bathroom? And they go,
over there. And I'm like, that's really helpful. It doesn't help me at all. And then when I get there,
there are two choices, men and women. Got to know which one to get into. So-- well, I got to tell
you a funny story.
So a blind guy who's a friend of mine, he goes into the wrong bathroom and the women scream.
When I go in the wrong bathroom, they go, hi. It's true, though. I'm like, no, no, I'm blind. I'm
sorry. I didn't notice a thing, don't worry.
[INAUDIBLE]
It's true. But the digital piece of it-- OK, the digital piece of this is that you have more to sell than
just the tangible stuff. So when you are sending out information or-- and did you know that
people look at two screens at the same, yeah, or three or more. So let's say they're watching the
news and then you can send them even on their phone, they could have this here and this here.
I just learned this. So you can communicate directly. You can sell stuff. You can push it out
there. And maybe you could be thinking about using big data analytics. Did you think about that?
SCOTT REED: Yes. Where applicable, yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I think it could be broadly applied and there's a lot of opportunity.
And you have some really great talent here. And the other thing that I noticed in your
Communications Department is that you're like an ad agency. You kept saying that over and
over. You could actually have a spin off, you know. And then you could just do RTD and a lot of
other transit agencies.
You've got the talent in-house. We're a transit agency and you are an ad agency. And that is
really cool. It's great that we have you in-house. But you have a standalone business now. As far

as LA Metro goes, I think the capital improvement projects are like in the trillions of dollars
since that M measure, measure M passed. Is that right?
SCOTT REED: I don't know what the exact numbers are, but yeah-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Trillion something. Yeah. So 80 million to a trillion probably is pretty
minute. But I wanted to go back to the 2015 Audit, if I may for a moment. Do you have that
handy?
SCOTT REED: No. I mean, I can get it.
NATALIE MENTEN: Did you receive a copy of it tonight? Because I think we all have a copy.
SCOTT REED: I did not, no.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Can somebody hand Mr. Reed a copy of this? On page one, and I could be
so wrong on a lot of this because I'm listening to it and I'm not really sure sure. But if you could- there's this really small paragraph called findings. I think it's on page one. Could you read that?
SCOTT REED: Usually findings are at the end, but-- there are several pages of findings and
recommendations.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Natalie-- or excuse me, Chair Menten, on page one, I think there is-- oh, I
know what it was. It had to do with the number of employees and the categorization. Can you
read that paragraph? Is that on page one?
SCOTT REED: No, it's very long. It's very long. I can read it. Analysis of staffing and salary
increases. In reviewing staffing related to PI slash PR, internal audit ordered a separate function
reporting directly under Capital Programs-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, I'm sorry. It would be the final recommendation.
SCOTT REED: OK, you're looking for-- page three or-NATALIE MENTEN: I think he might referring to page three with the conclusion that talks
about employees and personnel added. Would that be right, Director Folska.
SCOTT REED: Well, I'll give this one a shot.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, if you don't mind. I'm sorry. I could find it on my phone, but-SCOTT REED: A significant number of personnel have been added to the marketing PI/PR
divisions as part of the light rail and University of Colorado A Line expansions. We have
suggested that an analysis of staffing be developed with an expectation for future reductions after
the new LRT lines are open. Our review of P-card transactions that identified questionable

purchases within the Customer Care division which we are told have now been eliminated in
response to our concerns.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, that's close enough. There is another more succinct like one or two
line sentence at the very end that says recommendation, I think, or conclusion. But then there's
the management response that follows immediately that agrees with it. It says that it will, you
know, scale back and recognizes that other departments are understaffed and therefore
communications should do that.
You know, I'm just thinking we are nowhere on the schedule we were hoping to be on. And it
was ambitious business to think we were going to open five lines in 2016. And if you look at
what the staffing situation was before 2013, I think we opened the W Line on April 26, 2013. So
maybe a year or two before that because you would have had to staff up for that. But I mean, it
seems like-- and what I've heard tonight, and really, everybody is quite talented and capable.
But we have all these new departments that we keep growing and growing. And we're moving
from the design build to maintain and operate, or operate and maintain. And so if management
agreed in 2015 to those recommendations of the audit, the internal audit, and in light of where
we are today, can you tell me why we haven't done that? Or have we?
SCOTT REED: Yes, we have.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: How have we done that?
SCOTT REED: Because as I said before, what this referred to, specifically, was the fact that we
had, first of all, the CIG contract and then later the Virtegic contract. That was the PI/PR portion
of this. I remember having this discussion with Ann-Marie. And the recommendation was that as
we got further along that we eliminate those headcount which were called extensions of RTD
staff.
Yeah, extensions of RTD staff. And yes, we have done that. We no longer have a contract with
Virtegic or with CIG. We have eliminated project positions. I believe we eliminated three. And I
think we have one more to go. So yes, we have reduced the number of-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry about that. I'm just going to find this thing because what specifically
was referred to in the audit, the very final recommendation, the final sentence in that paragraph
before the management response really was about your full time employee staff to categorize the
number of people in there. This is not-- I'm not concerned about the contracts that you had.
Although you know, we have absorbed people from those contracts, right? So we have-SCOTT REED: Yes, absolutely.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right, so from CIG as well as Virtegic, which you know, they're really
talented folks. But I don't see how that reduces or does the analysis of the categorization of those
positions in the Communications Department.

SCOTT REED: If I might answer that. If you look at the number of headcount that we had back
then that were specifically identified as being for, you know, the light rail projects and the
commuter rail projects, again, the fact that they were established as extensions of RTD staff, and
then you look at the amount that we were spending on a per capita basis, that was not a very
efficient way to utilize our resources.
We since cut back on those. We have cut back on the total number of positions that were
identified for those functions. And we have shifted our resources to many things, such as digital
communications and other things where there is greater demand. So yes, we have taken a look at
the overall staffing. We have taken a look at things that were specifically mentioned in that audit
that were geared toward the light rail, commuter rail, and the opening scenarios.
And we have greatly changed how we are staffed and how we allocate our resources. So we have
really fulfilled the intent and the spirit of this audit.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. And do you provide reports to that effect to somebody?
SCOTT REED: I'm sorry? Do we do what?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Do you have some paperwork that shows that?
JUDY LUBOW: Internal audit does follow up on the audits.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Do we have that?
JUDY LUBOW: We'd have to check with Ann-Marie on what specifics she has. So I'd be happy
to ask her about that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, well that would be really helpful. I appreciate that. I also know that
things have shifted, like some of our contractors, right. They went and hired Virtegic. So we pay
somebody else, then they hire-- so we're still paying Virtegic, you know. It just got shifted into
somebody else's budget. But we pay that budget, right?
HEATHER McKILLOP: So, Director Folska, can I answer about the reduction of employees?
This is Heather. Because I've actually written the termination letters for those employees. So we
actually in the Communications Department had to let go four project people since 2016, and
three two or three additional people will be pending after the opening of the G Line. So we have
made those reductions in full time staff, specifically in this department.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, thank you for letting me know. I mean, I think that's important. And
you know, what you guys do in communications is really important but communicating to us is
also really important, so we understand. I think more than even once a year, I mean, this is such
an important role that you play that, you know, maybe a quarterly update because all these things
like mind the line. That's cute.
SCOTT REED: More than happy to.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, yeah. I mean, I think communications is critical. So I'd like to
follow up with Ann-Marie. And like I said, I think there's a lot more to be said about where you
can find those ads, right not just on a tangible thing, but in the digital media world. Thank you
very much.
SCOTT REED: And I completely agree with you, pop up ads and things like in unusual places
are what capture imagination.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But you sell it to Starbucks, you see what I'm saying? That's not us selling
our ad. You sell it to Starbucks for $0.25 a pop or a look. Or every time somebody's finger hits it,
we get $1, or $0.10, or whatever that magic number is. And you add that up a million times.
Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So I'm going to go in with a couple questions because we're on round
two now. When I look at the one, the Audit Report from 2015, and then look at the 2018 Budget,
which I know we did do amended and Heather may want to come up to join the conversation.
But when I look at 2016, I see that we've got a grand total in the budget book, this is 2016 actual,
of $13.8 million dollars.
I've heard from you that we have made cuts and we've made adjustments. But when I look at
compared to that $13.8 million in 2016, I see a 2018 adopted of $17.5 million. That's not a cut.
SCOTT REED: Well, if you go back, also, and look at the items that Communications has taken
over since that point in time, that there are very different requirements for communications,
everything from looking at what we have done with the digital side, as I mentioned, and other
elements. As I also mentioned, part of what the audit talked about was utilizing our resources as
best we can, basically the bang for the buck, as I talked about earlier.
And clearly we are at a situation where, with operating, we actually have greater requirements to
inform people about how to use our products, how to utilize what we have out there, and that is a
much more difficult education process than talking about opening a line, which is a fairly limited
and fairly easy process to go through, given the fact that so many people are very interested in
that.
Going out and marketing our existing products, talking about how we transition from a
construction agency, if you will, into an operational agency, that requires a very different type of
resource and a very different focus. And I think we've been very efficient and effective at doing
that. And I think, again, if you look at the amount of information, the amount of engagements
that we have, literally in the billions, we have been a very effective organization as far as that
goes.
HEATHER: So what I can get you is a comparison of the actual operating costs, because those
numbers do include one time projects that they have, as was mentioned previously. They have
several very large projects going on right now, large for their area, not large for RTD. And so I
can get you a comparison year over year about what the base operating cost is plus inflation and
then one time projects that come in and out so you can see the comparison.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
HEATHER: Because there are some one time projects they have in the 2018 budget that are-they probably were not there in 2016 and they vary from year to year. So I can break those out
for you and I'll make sure that the entire Board receives that information.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, because as I was looking through the 2015 Audit today and
taking the Word document with tables in it, after converting it, it goes through 2015 because that
audit was requested in 2016. And I would like to see a follow up. And so I've started to plug in
these numbers myself here this afternoon while I'm trying to rush here. And got here a little bit
late for our meeting as I was lugging all the pounds of budget books and laptop with me here.
But I know that in the fourth quarter is when there is a call to the Board to ask for any audits for
2019. Communications will be one of my audits that I will request, probably on a couple
different levels. I don't agree with hiring another man who prefers to shave his head and wears
glasses. I do not see that position in the financial circumstances that we're in, I do not see the
value of paying somebody within the range of, I'm going to give you the top figure, but let's say
it's $150,000, $160,000, plus 30% benefits.
Actually no, I'm sorry, that one was higher than that, I believe, for the job postings.
HEATHER: No, you're thinking about the Deputy position versus the Senior Manager Position.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, well it would have been Nate. What was Nate making? I've got it on
my website? No, I missed on the interim.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
I've got her up over here. But I had an interim where I don't think I got Nate on there. But I don't
believe that's good money for us. People thought he was very, very friendly man and good
presence on TV. That's a hell of a lot of money. So I'm seeing ridership that's not moving
forward for all the services that we've added.
And I mean, you all know I focus on dollars. And I think this money, some of this should be
spent on other areas of our program, whether that might mean capital that repairs that keep
getting pushed off. So I will now let Director Williams speak.
DIRECTOR WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Before I make a couple of statements here,
Heather, is Heather still here? Hi there. No, you can stay there. You can just give me a yes or no.
Our annual-- or David can probably answer this-- is $626 million ballpark? Yeah, right? In the
neighborhood of that? So LA Metro's is $6.1 billion. So theirs is roughly 10 times ours.
SCOTT REED: I don't think it's just their operating, is it?
DIRECTOR WILLIAMS: Yeah, I just looked all this up online. So they're operating is roughly
10 times our, is the point I'm making. Ballpark. And our marketing costs are-- they're only four

times ours. So we're spending 2 and 1/2 times on marketing what they're spending. So your point
earlier was that you wanted their budget.
SCOTT REED: Yeah.
DIRECTOR WILLIAMS: But the point I'm making back to you is, in fact, in a relative sense,
your budget in relation to our operating is 2.5 times what theirs is.
SCOTT REED: I would be happy to put together an analysis of that because that does not
include all the things that they do. I spoke with Pauleta briefly about that.
DIRECTOR WILLIAMS: I mean, you brought it up, just generally. So I went and looked that
up. And that's what I find. The other thing I want to point out based on what Natalie was saying,
that if the numbers are right, that there's been more than a 25% increase in the cost of the
Marketing Department in two years.
SCOTT REED: Communications Department.
DIRECTOR WILLIAMS: Sorry, Communications. Sorry, I got Marketing in my head.
SCOTT REED: We're happy to provide that information based on what Heather has.
DIRECTOR WILLIAMS: It's OK, I'm just-- this is just off what happened tonight. That's what I
get. The only other thing I want to say is that I love, personally, me, the little work for us and
drive for us campaign. That's great. I carry those in my car. And every time I stop at a stoplight
and the guy says, will work for food, I hand him one of those.
And I have been giving them out night and day because if you want a job, we want you. So that's
a really good, to the moment, usable, functional thing. And whoever dreamed that up, I want to
say thank you to them. Thank you, that's all.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'm going to do a double check. Director Sisk, are you still on
the phone?
CHARLES SISK: Believe it or not, I am.
NATALIE MENTEN: Do you have anything that you would like to add as we're looking to-CHARLES SISK: No, I think the best thing I can add is thank you for hanging in there and
again, thanks to everyone for their good questions.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, Director Sisk. Have a good night. All right, I do not see any
other questions. And so, thank you very much, everybody, for the presentation and the long
evening. And we will move now to-- I'm just going to ask because it's on here but I don't know
why-- any other matters regarding anything on this tonight, yeah. Is it short?

I do not see any. All right, we're adjourning the Study Session. Everyone have a good evening,
thank you.

