2021-01-12
RTD Civil Rights Committee
SHONTEL LEWIS: Good evening, this is the Civil Rights Committee chaired by me, Shontel
Lewis. I call this civil rights meeting will now come to order. We are convened as of 6:08 PM. I
would respectfully ask everyone connected to this call to mute your phones and set your ringers
to silent. Please note that under current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interests of public health, safety, and welfare.
During this time, meetings will be primarily auto-recorded. The auto-recordings, along with the
unofficial minutes of the meeting, will be posted as soon as possible on the Board's website.
Visit RTD-Denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors
page. Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be
acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, I would ask that you please announce your name
and wait for me to call you before proceeding to speak.
Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings. Please note
that at the appropriate time during our discussion and voting processes later on this evening, I
will call on each Director in turn. So please know that your time to speak will come. And if
possible, please hold your comments until that time. It looks like we only have one
recommended action on the agenda.
So I'll just dive in here. Our first recommended action, it is recommended by RTD Director's
Lewis, Dishell and Bouquet that the Board of Directors conducts quarterly Justice Equity,
Diversity, and Inclusion, JEDI, workshops for at least two years, facilitated by an outside
consultant or facilitator at a cost not to exceed $50,000 over two years, commits to soliciting
JEDI feedback from constituents during telephone town halls, and charges the General
Manager's CEO to create a comprehensive plan for JEDI workshops throughout the agency.
Do we have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I had-- I have Chair Rivera-Malpiede and who was the second?
BOBBY DISHELL: Dishell.
I'll second.
BOBBY DISHELL: Hello-SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I heard-- I'm sorry. I heard you. OK. I have a movement from Chair
Rivera-Malpiede and Director Dishell. At this time, because it is a Board initiated action, I would
ask-- ask Directors Dishell and Bouquet to present any pertinent information regarding the

action, noting that the action was included in the package and Directors have had time to ask
questions. Directors and members of the staff, please state your name for the record each time
you speak. And I will begin with you, Mr-- or Director Dishell if you would like to begin.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you Madam Chair. Fellow Directors, thank you for your willingness
to engage in such a critical topic. I've enjoyed the discussion I've gotten to have with many of
you about justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion, and the need to start with our own education. I
will not be spending the time this evening going over how important this effort and ongoing
learning is. Many individuals who have studied the importance of justice, equity, diversity, and
inclusion work, workplace culture, and corporate boards have written on this much more
eloquently than I could ever write myself or orate.
Those materials were also provided to you in your agenda packet. Instead, I want to address one
question that many have asked, which is, what is this resolution doing? The purpose of the
resolution is to accomplish three discrete items. One, commit to at least quarterly JEDI
workshops for at least two years, facilitated by an outside consultant or facilitator. Two, commit
to soliciting feedback from constituents on justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion during
telephone town halls.
Three, ask General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson to continue building on the work she and
her team are already doing and propose a plan for system-wide justice, equity, diversity, and
inclusion work. The first ask is to commit at least-- to at least quarterly workshops on justice,
equity, diversity, and inclusion to be facilitated by an external facilitator or consultant for two
years, who will work with our Board to address our specific needs.
It is for this facilitator, consultant, or consultants where up to $50,000 is allocated in the
resolution to be spent over a period of two years. Until we go out to bid and receive bids back,
we cannot receive a reliable number for the total cost. And without a resolution like this, we
could not go out to bid in the first place. The issues we are seeking to address, social equity, are
by no means narrow. When you add how they intersect, be it through identity, power, systems, or
the resulting oppression, trauma, and hardships we may unintentionally create, the complexity
and nuance only grows.
These issues that plague our society are not just RTD's alone. But they are systemic in nature. If
we want to continue to grow and lead as an organization, then our workshops around justice,
equity, diversity, and inclusion should also be a part of our system. I use the word workshop
intentionally. These are not trainings. It is not one and done. There probably isn't a certificate at
the end that could go on a resume, be posted to LinkedIn, or hung in your office.
Equity work requires a constant effort on the part of the individual. I look forward to engaging in
these workshops and learning and growing with you all. The second ask is to commit to
soliciting feedback from constituents on justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion during telephone
town halls. We cannot know where our blind spots are if we do not ask.
Through genuinely engaging with constituents around this issue, it allows us to apply what we
have learned and continue to learn in workshops to how we approach different policy decisions

that we as a body make on an almost weekly basis. Third, the resolution asks us to direct General
Manager and CEO Johnson to create a comprehensive plan for RTD's JEDI work and to present
it to the Board.
This allows General Manager and CEO to continue to lead her team and build a comprehensive
plan aligned with her strategy around justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion and items she
discussed in her interview process, so that we can continue to move our agency forward. These
three items are merely the first steps in an ongoing journey as we work within a system that we
are seeking to make more just, equitable, diverse, and inclusive.
This work will not be easy. It will require empathy, patience, critical self-evaluation, and trust. I
look forward to joining with you all as we navigate the path ahead together. And with that, I
yield the floor.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you Director Dishell. Director Bouquet, would you like to speak?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair, fellow Board members. I want to start
tonight by thanking my colleagues, Director Dishell and Director Lewis, for taking the time to
draft up this crucial proposal. I was honored when I was asked to be the third co-sponsor on
bringing this action to the Board. And I've head-- I've heard multiple times that we here at RTD
we're people moving people.
We get people to work. We get people to school, to the store, to the doctor, to the ballgame, to
friends and family and much more. We're a people business. And it is our responsibility as a
Board to adopt a lens of justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion for our communities. When we're
making decisions as a Board, we need to always have justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion in
the back of our minds.
This is what will assure us that we're making the right decisions that are beneficial and not
harmful for our riders, stakeholders, and, of course, our workforce. We need-- we need to invest
in these workshops to not only assure ourselves but our communities that we're making the right
decision. It would make the most sense that we as a Board adopt that philosophy and to approve
this action. Thank you, Madam Chair. I yield my time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director. I will now call on directors in alphabetical order to ask
whether there is any discussion. Please have all of your questions ready when I call on you. Once
we've cycled through all of the directors on the call, I will call for a roll call vote. And we will,
again, call on each Director in alphabetical order. So now-VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair, Director Buzek.
SHONTEL LEWIS: You're acknowledged Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks Madam Chair. Before we go into discussion, I was just wondering if
there might be an amendment being proposed by Director Rosenthal.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Rosenthal, you have the floor.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. Yes, I will be proposing an amendment at the appropriate
time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And I'm happy to entertain an amendment.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, OK. Thank you, Madam Chair. I wanted to be very respectful. And this is
my first real opportunity meeting where we're really discussing something with a lot of meat and
potatoes. So I wanted to make sure to be-- propose things at the right time. So thank you for
working with me on it. So yes, so first of all, I guess this is also my opportunity to speak.
And I definitely have to say a huge thank you to Directors Lewis, Dishell and Bouquet for
proposing this agenda item. As various speakers have mentioned, it is so critical that we look
into how we actually implement every day when we are on this Board, every day that people
work at RTD, to implement justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion. Some of you may know, I'm
a teacher. I work in a youth correctional facility now for the past 11 years.
So I do my best to challenge myself and to challenge my colleagues and my students to
implement JEDI every single day. And so I look forward to this discussion tonight and to passing
this proposal, this agenda item, hopefully with this amendment that I will propose. In terms of
this conversation, I have to say it's been extraordinarily valuable already just leading up to
tonight, plus the conversation we're having tonight, plus the conversation hopefully this measure
will pass as amended and we will look at it again next week, plus the various workshops we'll be
having.
So in a sense, we're already doing exactly what the sponsors have proposed. And I think that's
awesome. So to that end, I propose and I move amendment one to this agenda item that has, by
the way, been emailed to all the Directors this morning.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Rosenthal, can you-- for the sake of the record, can you read your
amendment so that those listening are able to capture that? And then I'd also like to hear a first
and a second. So if you could read your Amendment.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure. OK. So if you look at the agenda item, it-- under the memo, what
I'll call a memo, it's basically a page and a half that the three Directors have written. So after-- so
in the section on background, after the first paragraph will be an insert. And the insert-- one
moment.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And we'll take one amendment at a time Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, OK. Yeah, I guess I've seen it as all one amendment. But if you
would like to view it as multiple, that is your prerogative. And so let's run this document, my
apologies for the delay. I thought to offer the amendment later. OK. So here is the paragraph that
I hope to insert.

MELANIE SNYDER: Excuse me.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And so it says-MELANIE SNYDER: Pardon me, Madam Chair.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
MELANIE SNYDER: Pardon me. Madam Chair, this is General Counsel Snyder, Melanie
Snyder. Madam Chair, may I-SHONTEL LEWIS: Proceed. I'm sorry.
MELANIE SNYDER: I just would like a clarification from Director Rosenthal. So I just wanted
to clarify whether your motion-- whether your motion is to only amend the information that's in
the body of the requested agenda item, or whether you are actually wanting to amend the main
motion, which is under the actual motion section, given the-- given the motion that is on the floor
right now.
So I'm talking about the language that says it's recommended by the three Directors that the
Board of Directors adopt the plan details below. Is that your-- is that part of your motion?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: One moment, Miss Snyder. So I received an email from staff and before
that was from Director Dishell. And I believe it's, as it was stated tonight, the motion as-- and I
believe it's probably as modified, is that correct? Is that that new motion, it supplants what is in
the agenda item printed version. Is that correct, Miss Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Thank you, Director Dishell. Yes, that's the motion on the floor. It's
the one that the Chair just read.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. So in that event, because I was not aware of this amended motion
until 5, like, 23 PM this evening, I believe that I have to amend the motion as well. And so it's up
to the Chair and you, Miss Snyder, as to how that might be done.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm-- Director Rosenthal, I'm happy to inquire with our General Counsel.
I'm also happy to entertain a motion. I just need-- I just wanted you to read that language for the
sake of the record, so that I might capture that.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. So if I'm-- OK. So what I'd like to do, let's start off at the beginning,
which would be the motion itself. And so I move to modify the motion to read, it is
recommended by RTD Directors, Lewis, Dishell, and Bouquet that the Board of Directors, one,
conducts quarterly justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion, JEDI, workshops for at least one year,
facilitated by an outside consultant or facilitator or consultants or facilitators at a cost not to
exceed $25,000 over one year and, two, encourages JEDI feedback from constituents during
telephone town halls and, three, charges GM CEO to create a comprehensive plan for JEDI work
throughout the agency.

VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, second.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Buzek. All right. So I have that. I have that document.
And I have Director Rosenthal with a amendment to the main motion. I am happy to hear some
discussion, any discussion. We've already heard from you, Director Rosenthal. Director Buzek, if
you would like to speak next, I'm happy to hear that. Otherwise, I'll go through alphabetical order
for all of the Directors still. Director Buzek, if you'd like to speak.
VINCE BUZEK: I'll wait for my turn. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure, absolutely. Thank you. All right, well, Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. Are we open for comment to this right now?
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's correct. On the motion that Director Rosenthal just put forward, we
have discussion for that amendment.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No. No comment or question at this point.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No questions or comments.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Buzek. [INTERPOSING VOICES]
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks Madam Chair. I agree with the amendment of the motion itself,
specifically the one year time frame to see how that goes and how everybody does with it. You
know $50,000, you know, we still need to be careful, even though we're getting this new CARES
Act money and so forth. I'd like to just see us try this out. I think it's a fantastic idea. But I'd like
to see us do it for a one year time frame and then-- and then see if we can keep it going after that.
Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I also agree with the proposed amendment. And I
am very, very interested to see how our General Manager CEO Debra Johnson is integrating this
into our ordinary business practices. And I'm anxious to hear her plan. So I believe that whatever
is undertaken by Debra and her leadership can certainly be integrated into the Board's activity.
So I agree with the amendment. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. First and foremost, I'd like to thank
Directors Lewis, Dishell, and Bouquet for bringing the initial recommended action forward. I
certainly would echo the sentiments of many that justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion are very
important for us to be putting the work in on. Speaking as somebody who myself does need more

work in this area, I very much appreciate Director Dishell's comments that this is a workshop of
continuing work.
In that vein, I do not support this amendment. I believe that it takes a commitment. We know that
this Board will be together for at least the next two years. I think we have a lot of work to do
together, particularly as we do recover from a difficult time and recover from this pandemic. The
very way in which we determined to spend the funds that we bring in for recovery, I think we
have to be well educated and thoughtful about how those funds are spent. And I believe that this
is a key part of that.
So I do support the recommended action. I do not support the amendment. Thank you, Madam
Chair. I yield the floor.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Madam Chair, if I may go last just to address any other comments that come
up, that would be appreciated.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Absolutely. I'm happy to.
BOBBY DISHELL: Is that allowed?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Guissinger. Yes, absolutely.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thank you. First of all, I would join others in thanking Directors
Lewis, Dishell, and Bouquet bringing this forward. I think it's a really important issue, an
important proposal, and has led to a lot of thinking already by Board members. I think that-- you
know, I'll just speak sort of generally. But as our Chair mentioned, we're in a time of terrible
inequity. The pandemic has laid bare the inequities.
We need to deal with the history of that in our country. And the actions of last week are
appalling. And I would say that the numbers we saw in the memo and I appreciate that, that 46%
of our employees are people of color. RTD is on the right road. We need to continue to move
forward. And we need to be leading that.
I don't think that-- well, I will say that I do support the amendment. I do support the agenda item,
both. I don't think it's a reflection of a difference in commitment to say that I-- that some of us
support the amendment and some of us are moving forward, wanting to make the bigger
commitment. I hear our GM CEO talking about the need to look at RTD holistically.
We have a lot of issues. We have layoffs of people that many of whom we'll be bringing back
and people who have taken salary cuts and just a lot of pieces. How can we bring ridership back?
Do we need to be looking at lower fares, other issues that get into equity issues. I may well
support two-- and I would expect probably to support two years and a higher number. But I'd like
to see the plan. And I'd like to get it started. So I will support the amendment. Thanks.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I will speak generally and then
specifically to the amendment. But I was struck by how nicely this fits with CEO and General
Manager Debra Johnson's topic of how RTD will invest federal stimulus funds, specifically to
frontline employees. And by extension, that demonstrates RTD's current respect for our diverse
frontline employees and by-- and our riders.
So I really appreciate the efforts of Directors Lewis, Dishell, and Bouquet to bring this forward.
Specifically toward the amendment, I know in government two years flies by in a blink of the
eye. And eight workshops is not a big commitment. So I don't support that aspect of the
amendment, although I do like the language about encouraging Directors to solicit JEDI input.
So in general, I will be voting against the amendment. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I do appreciate very much the efforts
by Directors Bouquet, Dishell, and Lewis in bringing this matter forward in the main motion and
particularly as so carefully recast in the actual motion as presented this evening by Director
Dishell's efforts earlier today. I think it is responsive to an extremely important issue that we
must pay attention to and must provide some leadership in.
I would note, regarding the amendment, that there is nothing in the main motion as presented this
evening and recast by Director Dishell shell into three specific action items that precludes the
Board's doing a look back at the end of one year should that be necessary. If it is so obvious at
the end of a year that we want to change how we're doing this, we have the ability, the freedom,
just as we do tonight, to make a change in it.
And so I would like the statement to be made as a commitment of two years and a collaboration
with our CEO General Manager as a partner in governance in this entire process to give us that
feedback as time goes by. So for that reason, I will support the main motion as submitted this
evening. And I will be opposed to the amendment. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I may be mistaken. But I think we skipped over
Director Cook, if I'm not mistaken.
SHONTEL LEWIS: We-- I did, and I-TROY WHITMORE: So we don't want to-SHONTEL LEWIS: --apologized to her via text. I did, and I apologized to her via text. And I
told her I would get to her after Director Rivera-Malpiede.

TROY WHITMORE: OK. All right. Thank you very much. So my comments are down the road
of splitting hairs a bit on the amendment. I'm certainly in favor of the main motion and
appreciate the efforts by the three Board members that worked so hard on this and also the
amount of work that's gone on individually and with conversations about fleshing details out for
JEDI.
I'm probably against the amendment, sorry Director Rosenthal. I just am a little concerned. I just
don't want an impression that we're one and done with a one year type of time frame. I'm not
hearing that from anybody. But for the sake of the record and to speak somewhat similarly to
Director Tisdale, I think we have lots of flexibility built into this situation.
So, you know, and I truly look forward to interacting and being educated on our CEO's approach
and programs with staff. I sincerely look forward to that. I look forward to the workshops. And I
appreciate the comments from both Directors Dishell and Bouquet when we started this
conversation. And also Erickson, to his point, I'm not sure I know what I don't know. And that's
not good.
So I really look forward to this. So let's proceed one way or the other. And I think it's a worthy
cause, a very important and timely cause. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you Director. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a question. It seems to me that the Board
of Directors works at the, as is always said, the 30,000 foot level to oversee what's going on with
the agency as a whole, but that the people who are actually doing the work on the day-to-day
basis are our senior leadership team. And I'm wondering if we ought to give some thought to
including them in these workshops, so that the lessons that we all are looking forward to learning
don't stop at the Board level but then trickle down throughout the agency.
So that would be one question that I have. I think in the past our senior leadership team has
included our CEO and GM and maybe eight or nine people. So I don't think that that would
impede the workshops in any way to add those people. I'm certainly in support of the original
motion and will vote accordingly. I'm not sure that the amendment is necessary. Because, as
everybody said, we have a lot of flexibility. So that's all. Thanks so much.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And if you would like, I can turn the floor over to Director
Rosenthal who might be able to answer your question. So Director Rosenthal, you have the floor.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you Madam Chair. And I really appreciate some of the thoughts
and feedback that we've been hearing as we've been discussing. And again, I'm just so delighted
that we're having this opportunity. It's really a credit to the three sponsors. So I really wasn't able
to speak to some of the issues, because I thought we were focusing more-SHONTEL LEWIS: At this-PAUL ROSENTHAL: I thought that we were focusing more on the title but-- go ahead.

SHONTEL LEWIS: At this moment-- yeah, at this moment-PAUL ROSENTHAL: But to-- the last-SHONTEL LEWIS: --you aren't speaking to any of the issues. I was just giving you the
opportunity to address Directors Williams' question directly. If you don't have a response to it,
that's totally fine. I can go to the next Director.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So her question was in reference to the ability to revisit this. Is that
correct, Director Williams?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Her question was-- Oh, go ahead Director Williams, if you'd like to repeat
your question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. My question was can we, or do we have any
interest in, including the senior leadership team in these workshops?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I think that is a great idea. But, you know, that is certainly something
where we can ask to General Manager Johnson as to also whether she believes that that is
something that she would find it helpful or useful, since also part of this proposal is to have the-everyone in RTD to also participate in these workshops.
So it's possible they may do their workshops with their departments. It's possible that they may
do the workshops with the Board. And I just want to make sure that we are consulting with our
General Manager as to how that is done. So I'm open to it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: But, again, this is a dialogue with the General Manager.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I might hold off from hearing from our General
Manager until we get back to the main motion. Because I think it might be more appropriate
there. And I'd give-- I'd like to give Chair Rivera-Malpiede a chance to speak as well as Director
Cook to your motion Director Rosenthal. So Chair, if you may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know what, I, first of all, do
want to absolutely say thank you to Director Lewis. Dishell, and Bouquet for bringing this
forward. I also want to thank Director Rosenthal for bringing forward the amendment. Because I
think it really shows the incredible commitment this Board has to equity. That's the first thing.
The second thing I'd like to do is thank Director Lewis, Dishell, and Bouquet for reaching out to
the General Manager and talking to her about their vision and what they were thinking as they
were moving forward. I want to commend you on the name JEDI. It really captures my attention
and makes me realize how old I really am. But more than that, what I'd like to say is that I am in
support of the original amendment.

I think that it falls in line with our General Manager's initial 120-day plan of diversity and
inclusion under Phase Two. And I think that this is our opportunity to work together
collaboratively to move this agency forward proactively and in an aggressive manner to show
our inclusion that we do already and build on it. And as new Board members and Board
members who've been here for a while, it is always a good idea to touch the communities that we
serve and to learn.
It just has a lot of components to it that I think are really invaluable to us as a governing body,
number one. I do want to thank Director Rosenthal for his hard work on this as well and the heed
to your question to all of us if there were any questions come forward. So I will be supporting the
original amendment. And thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. And Director Cook, I do apologize for overlooking you.
I'm so sorry. You have the floor.
SHELLEY COOK: No worries, thank you. I actually have a question for Melanie Snyder first
and, if I may, Debra Johnson second. Because it does pertain to the amendment insofar as the
topic of the question is included in the amendment verbiage. Is that OK?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So Melanie Snyder-SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. Yes, that's totally fine.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. The-- this is for our General Counsel, the financial impact, you know, at
the very end of the write-up of the initiated item, it says the financial impact of the JEDI
workshops for the Board of Directors will not exceed $50,000. I understand that would likely be
$25,000 over one year, if the proposal carries. But then it says the Board of Directors will solicit
a new two year agreement.
I assume that pertains to the facilitator consultant we're talking about hiring for these series of
workshops, that the Board of Directors will solicit a new two year agreement no later than June
1, 2022. Because that's not actually part of the motion or of the amendment, is that-- does that
still hold because it's part of the write-up?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is General Counsel Melanie Snyder. So I
would-SHONTEL LEWIS: Go ahead, Melanie. Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: So I would have to defer to the three Directors who have initiated this
action. I don't want to misstate what their intention is. And I understand that Director Dishell
took the lead in crafting the actual motion. So I want to make sure that we are clear from his
point of view. Since you're correct, it wasn't included in the main motion.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Or actually in Mr. Rosenthal's motion to amend, since that's what we're
talking about right now.
MELANIE SNYDER: Correct.
SHELLEY COOK: Mr. Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: You have the floor.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I'm sorry. Could you restate your question?
SHELLEY COOK: No, I was-- when your motion to amend was to change some of the wording
and to delete other parts throughout the write-up, you know, I understood that to mean one thing.
But when the General Counsel restricted your amendment to the actual motion, it leaves open to
me the question of whether we are then, because the write-up indicated providing for soliciting a
new two year agreement that will follow on the heels of the one year that you have identified. Or
was it your intention not to include this?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So my intention is to not just change the contract terms from two year to
one year and from $50,000 to $25,000. It was-- there are also, as you indicated, there are other
changes which I believe strengthen this proposal. And I would hope that I could also make those
suggested changes as well. And of course, those are not necessarily connected to the motion
itself.
Some of them are just changes to the text that I believe strengthen it and make it more in tune
with JEDI principles.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: Madam Chair, I'm happy to clarify the oringinal if it's appropriate now.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Please do.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. But first, I apologize for the late motion. I had
received a decent amount of feedback from many asking for greater clarity, so that's why that
came through. And I apologize that it came through so late and appreciate all of you providing
that feedback. The intention was-- Director Cook, to directly answer your question, the intention
is to remove that requirement to go out to bid again at the end of two years.
And I'm, of course, open to saying we'll evaluate. But I think folks have sort of made it clear they
fall into one of two camps. So to answer your question, that language should be omitted when we
go back to the main amendment.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Second question--

SHONTEL LEWIS: Does that clarify? Oh yeah, definitely, go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: It does, yeah. OK. So this pertains to-- the question was, it has to do with the
initial motion. But it's carried forward in the amendment that is proposed by Director Rosenthal.
And that is, I understand that there have been some conversations about your thoughts, your
plans already to introduce a JEDI or a similar program as is described.
But I haven't-- it would be nice to have some input from General Manager Johnson about that,
whether this is in keeping with what you're planning, whether you have any comment or
concerns about the way this is being carried forward, as this would be added information for me
to know that you're fine with that third item, which calls for the comprehensive plan for the
agency as a whole. That's one part of that question.
The second thing is, I understood that the original thought in the motion presented by the three
Directors was to bring back that plan along with a proposed budget. Is that also the case?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, this is Debra Johnson, General Manager CEO, if I may.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Proceed. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. Point of clarification in relationship to Director
Cook's question, my comments will be attributed to the original document presented for Board
consideration.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: All right. With that as a backdrop, I wanted to ensure that everyone was
aware. I did engage in a conversation with Director Lewis. But prior to getting into that, I do
want to clarify that there was a comment I believe made by Director Sloan earlier as relates to
the stimulus money and perhaps utilizing that to fund this initiative. I'd be remiss in stating that
the bill text is very clear as to what the purpose of those stimulus dollars are for and that is solely
for transportation purposes in retaining frontline employees and other employees that are critical
to providing transit service delivery.
So I just want to make sure that everybody was cognizant of that fact. Secondly, as I was saying,
I did have an opportunity to engage with Director Lewis. And please know that I am a fervent
believer of the importance of diversity, equity, and inclusion. I embrace the whole concept as I
believe diversity of thought, diversity in demographic basically enables us to be a better society
and community holistically.
With that as a backdrop, I support the workshops as it relates to what I intend to do. I want to
qualify there is no way, no shape, no form this could be done in 120 days. It would just be an
exercise in futility. This is something that we need to consider embracing into the organization so
it's interwoven and becomes part of the cultural fabric within the Regional Transportation
District for all of its employees, those customers in the general populace as a whole.

So with that, I would say my perspective as I shared with Director Lewis and also Director
Dishell is that I support the first step going forward as it relates to workshops. We need to ensure
that we all have an understanding of what this entails. I do not support just going with something
that doesn't have a strategic focus. Because I am deeply concerned that it will be something that
falls to the wayside.
So on the face of it, I support the workshop as it relates to any effort that I would put forward in
a comprehensive fashion. I come with the notion that we need to have a strategic focus. We need
to create alignment. And whatever those successful outcomes are that we agree collectively as a
Board of Directors with me being your employee, as well as the team that I lead, that we would
need to do that in earnest with alignment.
So when we're making decisions about implementing a pilot fare that we are taking into
consideration the whole aspect of justice, diversity, and inclusion with that decision. So on the
face of it, I support the workshops. I believe that is the first step to orienting everyone to the
concept of what it actually is and what it means for us to be a better society and, more
specifically, as it relates to our goal in being people in the people business and delivering
equitable services to those that most need it.
Thank you very much for the opportunity to present my viewpoint. Thank you. Madam Chair-SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. Yes, I'm not sure who this is.
MARJORIE SLOAN: This is Director Sloan.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, thank you, Director Sloan. Please proceed.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Madam Chair, this is Director Sloan.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Please proceed.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Oh, thank you. I would just like to clarify my comments. Because I did
not mean taking federal money with restrictions and putting it toward these workshops. I was just
noting the synergy between the goal of bringing back our diverse employees, our frontline
employees to serve better our diverse ridership.
So I was just noting the intent is the same, not that the investment should be confused. And I
appreciate the chance to clarify that. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Director Sloan. We do appreciate it. At this time if
there are no other comments, if you might chime in, I'm happy to take-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Madam Chair, this is Director Rosenthal, quick question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sorry. Sure.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: This is Director Rosenthal, quick question for you, per the motion. And
so I believe it was a Director who asked earlier about what other-- so what is really contained in
the motion. And there is an issue regarding the word commit. So committing Directors to bring
up JEDI concepts in their telephone town hall, that is actually one of the changes that I also hope
to make in the text.
So whatever happens to the motion in regards to-- I mean, sorry, the amendment to the motion,
that is also something that I hope to amend later when we do discuss the actual text of the agenda
item. I don't want to be forestalled, you know, sort of a moot issue, because that part may or may
not pass with the amendment to the motion.
So in other words, there's more concepts in the actual amendment that-- to the text of the agenda
item that are not-- that may or may not be included in the motion itself. So I want to make sure to
bring those up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So-- so the motion that I have on the floor currently was put forth by you
Director Rosenthal. And it reads-- and you can correct me. Because I want to make sure I have it
correctly. And that's what we'll be voting on shortly. And that's what the discussion has been
about thus far.
And so it is recommended by the RTD Board of Directors Lewis, Dishell, Bouquet that the RTD
Board of Directors conducts quarterly justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion, JEDI, workshops
for at least one year, facilitated by an outside consultant or a facilitator at cost not to exceed
$25,000 for one year. Two, encourages JEDI feedback for constituents during telephone town
halls. And three, charges the General Manager CEO to a comprehensive plan for JEDI
workshops throughout the agency.
That's the motion I have currently on the floor. That's the motion that's been in discussion. And
that's the motion that I'm going to call for a vote.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sounds good. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So without further discussion-- thank you. Without further discussion, the
motion that I have on the floor I just read. And so I'd like to call this for a vote. So Director
Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I am not in favor of the current motion. I'm in favor of the original. So I'm
a no.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Davidson. Director Davidson. Director Davidson. I will come back
to you. Director Dishell. Oh, Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, sorry. I had an audio problem. I am a no.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I'm familiar with those. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: I'm a no.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis. I'm a no. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: No on the amendment.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No on the amendment.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I guess I'm going to vote no on the amendment. I was going to vote yes. But
I guess I'm going to vote no after hearing the discussion.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director-- Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.

SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. We have-- oh sorry, four yesses, nine nos. The nos have it. The motion
fails. So that will take us back to the original motion. And so-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Madam Chair, I also have another amendment.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, that's only 13 votes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, I was just going to make the correction. So the correct-SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh sorry, thank you, Barbara.
BARBARA MCMANUS: The correct vote is 10 nos and five yesses. And it passes 10.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, I believe it fails.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It fails. It fails.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does-- so I'm sorry. I did miss a vote here. So we have 10-- sorry, four
yesses, 10 nos, and the motion fails.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Five.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Does that sound-- five, yes, five. I'm so sorry.
[CHUCKLING]
Five, all right, so that takes us back to the main motion. So I will read the main motion again. It
is recommended by RTD Directors Lewis, Dishell, and Bouquet that the Board of Directors
conducts quarterly justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion, JEDI, workshops for at least two
years, facilitated by an outside consultant or facilitator at a cost not to exceed $50,000 over two
years. Two, commits to soliciting JEDI feedback for constituents during the telephone town
halls. And three, charges the General Manager CEO to create a comprehensive plan for JEDI
work throughout the agency.
At this time, I will call on direct alphabetical order. I will actually begin with Director Dishell, if
you'd like to speak to this.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. First, thank you all for a healthy discussion on
the first amendment. I wanted to make sure that I addressed a couple areas of vagueness or
ambiguity that may exist within the motion that were brought up in discussion. The first has to
do with including SLT in the workshops. They were intentionally omitted, not because we don't

want them there, but because it is the drafters belief that including SLT through a Board
resolution would be inappropriate for something like this.
And that it would be at the direction of GM CEO Johnson whether her team should be in those
workshops or attend separate workshops. I'd also like to address that the call that's in the original
motion to present a comprehensive plan is intentionally undated to allow for GM CEO Johnson
to continue on her plan and on her tasks so that we have a meaningful plan coming forward,
which I'm looking forward to seeing when it is ready.
And the intent behind having that plan come to the Board is so that we can be in lockstep with
one another. That is I think all I have. I think everyone else spoke to the other issues that were
presented. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I will call Directors in alphabetical order, first a discussion on
the main motion which I read just a bit ago. And so Director-MARJORIE SLOAN: Madam-SHONTEL LEWIS: --Bouquet.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I'm sorry. Madam Chair, this is Director Sloan again. I believe there was
another amendment that Director Rosenthal wanted to propose.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Rosenthal, did I miss one? I'm sorry if I did.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes. No worries at all. So in regards to the main agenda item, I think
there are just a couple of things that I would like inserted if possible and hopefully earn the
support from the fellow Board members. And one is, if you look at the markup that I did on page
one, where it says, insert paragraph, and what I wanted to do is to, in the context of JEDI
concepts, is to see how is RTD doing now.
And so this paragraph, and I can read it for you, Madam Chair, if you wish. So am I able to read
it at this time, where it is inserted in the background? I'm sorry-SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. Go ahead, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. Thank you. So it says-- and this is my proposal. And for the Board
members that have this in front of them, they're at an advantage. So RTD has made progress in
its hiring, whereby approximately 39% of riders are people of color, see attachment number three
to your memo, and approximately 46% of its employees are people of color, see attachment
number five.
Nevertheless, efforts need to continue on JEDI to ensure that employees are heard, mentored,
promoted, and retained in order to foster an optimal work environment. And as part of that
amendment--

SHONTEL LEWIS: Is that your-- oh, go ahead.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: My bad. I can't-- OK. And then the only other change that I would
suggest and ask is under the discussion item on page two, after the second paragraph, it would
say, the Board will also work with the General Manager CEO to review the mission-- the
mission and vision of RTD in order to include JEDI where appropriate.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. So is that your-- are those your amendments?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Those are the two that I hope to-- this is-- basically I ask that the Board
consider this as one amendment.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. So Paul, if you could, could you send that maybe to the Board so that
we-- so that folks have access to that specific language? Or did you already do so?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I already-- Thank you, Madam Chair. So I already did so. That was sent
this morning at 5:00 in the morning by Miss McManus. She's an early riser, good job. So the
Board members should have this already.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, point of order.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure, Director Tisdale, please, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate and applaud the work done
by all and particularly by Director Rosenthal in these comments. I would note, however, that
they don't impact the recommended action. The Board precedes by way of motion on
recommended actions and does not proceed by way of editing or revising or tweaking Board
reports that are submitted in conjunction there with.
The Board report is not adopted by the Board. The recommended action is all that is adopted by
the Board. And while I may agree completely wholeheartedly and even enthusiastically with the
comments made by the Director Rosenthal, I do not see them as relevant to the motion which is
before us now. And I would suggest, most respectfully, that the proposed amendment is actually
out of order.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Madam Chair, can I speak to that? This is Director Rosenthal.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you,
Director Tisdale. And so chalk it up to a rookie sort of amendment, please understand that there
was-- when I was discussing this with other members, Board members, over the past couple of
days, I believe there was a lot of confusion as to what the procedure was tonight and was this
document policy, was this document background, was this document directing Board members
and RTD leadership?

And so please understand that my efforts to edit and improve, in my view, this document was in
that vein. So-- so and this may be for-- so I have a question for Miss Snyder, our General
Counsel. Is that your understanding as well? That this document is just background and what
really carries through is the motion itself?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder. So-SHONTEL LEWIS: Please Melanie, proceed.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you. So yes, Director Tisdale is right that the Board operates and
takes action via motions that are made. I think where the confusion might have arisen was the
fact that the prior original recommended action that was included in the Board packet that you
were proposing to amend Director Rosenthal referenced the below plan. And so I think that's
why perhaps your adjustments to the actual body of the document might have been appropriate.
But at this point with the main motion on the floor not referencing the plan below that's
descripted-- or pardon me, described in the actual Board report, that that just sort of went by the
wayside. So Director Tisdale is right. There's really not-- there's not a mechanism right now for
you to make adjustments to the background and the description in the Board report-- or
discussion in the Board report.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Miss Snyder. Appreciate that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. So Director Rosenthal, with that in mind-PAUL ROSENTHAL: So in that vein, Madam Chair-SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: My apologies. Oh, thank you. So with that in mind-SHONTEL LEWIS: No, you're fine. It's OK. Proceed.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: --I will-- Yes, thank you. So I will withdraw that motion for an
amendment because it is not-- it's not a valid motion at this time. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. I do appreciate that. So I will proceed-- I
totally forgot where we were. I'm not sure if we're in discussion or not. So I will just ask if there's
any discussion on the main motion that I read previously. I will just quickly go through
Directors. And then we will put this up for a vote. So Director Bouquet, do you have any-- would
you like-- the floor is yours.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No question or comment at this time, Madam Chair. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Broom.

BOB BROOM: No question or comment.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair, just a couple of quick comments if I could. I want to
thank-SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
VINCE BUZEK: --Director Dishell. He was my contact on this and reached out to me several
times because I had a lot of questions. And just for future reference, I know we're not changing
the language of the body of the report itself. But it might be helpful in the future if when these
things are brought forward, they're more clear at the inception and not just replete with the
vernacular of the moment but actually couched in language that is easy to understand and makes
sense.
For example, the original one talked about the plan. And nowhere later in the document was
there any section identified as the plan. And in fact, under financial impact, it talked about
implementation plan, an agency wide plan, and the plan. So it was a little confusing and a little
hard to get through. But, again, my thanks to Director Dishell for helping me through that. But
maybe in the future, the first draft coming out could be a little more clear. That's all I have.
Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you Director Buzek for your points. I
was a little bit confused as we walked through this as well, which is why I made the comment
about wanting to understand our General Manager CEO's perspective. I-- that being said, I think
JEDI's a very good concept and as Director Davidson said, we're constantly learning and
constantly growing. And it's an effort that is ongoing. So I appreciate all the work that's gone into
this. And that's all I have to say. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I didn't get a chance to say this but echo thanks
and gratitude for bringing this forward. I think it'll be really helpful, especially as far as the
workshops are concerned, and appreciate Director Dishell's efforts to reach out and work with us
and to clarify the motion, so that we're clear about what we're doing. So thank you for that.
I would wonder if, given Debra Johnson's comments about the third item, if there aren't-- if it
wouldn't help to get some idea of her-- get feedback from her in the next two weeks about that
third item. Because she's the one that's going to be charged with doing that. She perhaps already
has spots. So if there are suggested changes or additions or whatnot to that item, I would be
interested in hearing that from staff.

And I hope we can make that request, Madam Chair. But I'll support the motion with those
comments. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. If I may, we've had plenty of conversations with General
Manager Johnson. And our intention is absolutely not only to have her comments on this but to
co-create the plan so that it is not only comprehensive, but that it also aligns with the vision that
she lays out for the agency. And so the answer to your question is absolutely yes.
I've spoken with Chair Rivera-Malpiede as well as Director-- as well as General Manager
Johnson. And that is indeed the next step.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. Did you have any other questions?
SHELLEY COOK: Just clarifying that. I assumed that you would be working with her as we
went through. That's explicit. But in terms of the framing of the third item on that motion, I'd be
interested in any suggestions that the staff has, since that most directly concerns their work.
Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. And I'm happy to open the floor to General Manager Johnson if she
wants to speak to that.
SHELLEY COOK: No, I'm sorry-- I meant in time for the Board action, forgive me.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. OK. Thank you. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just would like to thank everybody for the
thoughtful discussion. It's clear to me that we're all aligned around the intent and where we're
going with this. I greatly look forward to working with all of you and learning with all of you.
And once again, thank you to the sponsors for bringing this forward. No further questions. Thank
you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Dishell, I'll save you for last if you don't mind.
Director Guissinger.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I think I made most of my comments earlier. I am an
enthusiastic supporter. And I know some people were talking with Director Dishell. but I really
appreciated Director-- your reaching out, Director Lewis, and answering questions and
explaining it in advance. And thanks for all your work, bye. That's it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Absolutely, thank you. Thank you. Director Rosenthal.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair, and also a great big thank you to Directors
Dishell and to you, Madam Chair, Director Lewis. Both of you have had several discussions on
this Director requested agenda item. And I really enjoyed having these discussions. And I think
that's what we also had tonight was really incredible, basically the sense of this Board supporting
this valuable move that I believe that-- particularly as our country is going through right now and
basically since the beginning of our country, we've always struggled.
And we've needed to do these kinds of discussions more. I regret Director Bouquet that I did not
yet have a chance to chat with you. I look forward to discussing these JEDI concepts with you.
As I said, this has been a very valuable discussion up to now. And it will certainly add to all the
different workshops that we have coming up. So I strongly support this proposal. And I look
forward to voting for it. And thank you again.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Again, I appreciate the work that went into this proposal. And I am
really looking forward to participating in the workshops. Other than that, I have nothing.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, all I can say at this time is may the force be with us. And I will
be an enthusiastic yes. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Darn it, Tisdale. I was going to use that line. You beat me to it. I
thoroughly appreciated and enjoyed the many conversations with Director Lewis over the last
three or four working days. I, like Director Guissinger, had many conversations. And the
preparation work that the three of you completed is admirable. And I think that's why, as Tisdale
would say, the force is with us on this one. So I'll be supporting the motion. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I echo everybody else's sentiment. I'm in favor. And I'm looking forward to
learning. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would like to take this moment to thank the three Directors
who really worked hard on this piece but were so inclusive in talking to all of us and answering
questions and listening and making sure that they dotted their I's and they crossed their T's. And
they re-evaluated. I want to commend you for the work that you've done on this.
And I want to thank you, Director Rosenthal, for doing your due diligence of looking into this as
well. I think that diversity, equity, inclusion, justice are very complex issues. And I look so

forward to working with all of you on this. I think it's an exciting time for RTD. I think we can
really set the bar nationally for other agencies to look at this.
And I look forward to partnering with AFTA in making sure that our national organization is
hooked in on this as well. Because it's an issue for us not just at RTD but for all transit agencies
across the country. So I will be enthusiastically supporting this. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And Director Dishell, if you'd like to speak.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I want to take the time to thank Director
Bouquet and specifically you, Madam Chair, for not only your work in being a partner in helping
get this done but your work over the past two years to bring equity issues forward in front of this
body. And thank you to everyone for your willingness to engage, to Director Rosenthal for
bringing an amendment, for engaging and really making this process dynamic.
I think it's a perfect example tonight of how even that incredibly important and emotional and
critical topic when we have disagreement the way that we can progress through. So thank you all
so much for your consideration, for your time, for those of you who I called. I know it was not an
insignificant amount of time you all spent considering this, so many thanks. And with that, I
yield and looking forward to working with everyone. OK, now I yield.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thanks Director Dishell. And before I call the vote, I would like to
take the opportunity to thank the Directors for working collaborative with me-- collaboratively
with me on this very important work. And more importantly, I'd like to thank the Chair for her
work and her collaboration and bringing us together with the General Manager, and the many of
you who I probably sent text messages saying, I'm pretty sure you're tired of me calling you. And
so thank you for your patience in that regard.
This is an exciting time for me as an agency, as I truly believe in the work of equity and the
importance of equity, the importance of collaboration as we are moving throughout this journey
together, as I know it's not an easy-- an easy one. But as we are moving together, I think it makes
it easier upon all of us. When I ran for office, it was so important to me that love and humanity-humanity was at the center of not only my heart but the center of my campaign.
And I still hold true to that. And so I look forward to leading with all of you from a place of love
and shared humanity and our collective humanity. Because I truly think that's what brings us
together and not polarizes us anymore than we currently are as a country. And it's quite sad to
see. And so I just wanted to share some words. And with that, I will call for a vote on the main
motion. And so Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair. I am an absolute yes on this.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: I am a yes and also a thank you to staff who I forgot to include earlier. None
of this would have been possible without you guys helping herd us and get this in front of us in a
great way and make it all work. So thank you and a yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And Director Lewis, I am a yes. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. I think you skipped Director Tisdale.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Did I? I'm sorry Director. It's been a long day. Thank you, Director
Whitmore. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am, thank you. I am a yes vote on the motion.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Blame-- blame my head and not my heart. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yes.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I would just say SPANISH], yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I actually do understand that. So the tally is 14 yes, one no, the one being
Director Broom. The motion passes.
[CHEERING]
Thank you all. Thank you all for the conversation, the dialogue, and the opportunity to work
collaboratively. I look forward to working in partnership with our Chair and our General
Manager and the cosigners on this action to move this forward, as I think it's a really important
time to prioritize justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion. We do not have any additional updates
on our agenda this afternoon or evening, as well as no information items.
And so I'll see if there are any other matters. Hearing none, the next meeting of our Civil Rights
Committee will take place-- take place on April 6, 2020. Seeing no other discussion, I would like
to entertain a motion to adjourn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams, second.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. The meeting is-- this meeting is adjourned at 7:26 P-- 7:26 PM.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good night. Bye.
Good night.

