1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Paul Rosenthal, District E
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, January 12, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 855-962-1128

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Shontel Lewis

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal
C. Other Matters
D. Next Meeting Date - April 6, 2021
E. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

DIRECTOR REQUESTED AGENDA ITEM
Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal

Committee Meeting Date:
January 12, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
January 26, 2021

Added to Committee Agenda as a Director initiated request pursuant to RTD Board Bylaws Art. VI,
Section 1(f). Requires formal motion and second at Committee meeting.
MOTION
It is recommended by RTD Directors Lewis, Dishell, and Bouquet that the Board of Directors adopt the
plan detailed below relating to ongoing Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion workshops.
BACKGROUND
We acknowledge that there is still so much work to do to address systemic racism in this country,
particularly as it pertains to the role and responsibility of our transit industry. As an agency, justice,
equity, diversity, and inclusion (“JEDI”) should be a lens through which we make each and every
decision. RTD’s Service Area contains over 3.08 million people (Attachment 1). In the 2019 Customer
Satisfaction Survey, 30% of participants made 185% (Attachment 2), or less of the national poverty
threshold for their household, 38% identify as non-white, and 46% do not have a college degree
(Attachment 3). While RTD has many discount programs available, 81% of riders pay the full fare
(Attachment 4). When looking at RTD’s work force, 46% identify as non-white (Attachment 5). The
RTD Board of Directors (the “Board”) recognizes and acknowledges that not only does the Board not
reflect the demographics it serves, but no one individual can be or should be the spokesperson for a
community’s needs. Further, the Board acknowledges it is not the sole responsibility of marginalized
communities to educate those who hold positions of power.
In order to have JEDI be a lens through which we operate, the RTD Board needs to have ongoing
workshops to better understand systemic inequities, our own identities, power, and how these intersect.
JEDI is not simply a one-time training but requires ongoing work on the part of the individual. These
workshops will serve as the first step of many as we work to truly represent the passengers and
communities the Board serves.
In the past year, when the Board discussed issues related to equity, the Board did not utilize the same
language or operate from a common meaning of equity. In addition to giving the Board a better
understanding of those we serve, the JEDI workshops will also assist the Board in (i) operating from a
common understanding of what equity means, (ii) building trust through working through identity related
work, and (iii) being able to authentically engage in using a JEDI lens when approaching RTD’s strategy
and vision.
This process is one that requires synchronization, shared goals, and a comprehensive strategy - not one
that can be piecemealed together. The first step in getting there is education through workshops.

Packet Pg. 2

1.B.1

DISCUSSION
The Board commits to participating in at least quarterly JEDI workshops. The Board will cause the first
workshop to be completed by March 31, 2021. In addition, each member of the Board commits to
specifically soliciting feedback from its constituents on JEDI as it relates to RTD during each Director’s
scheduled telephone Town Hall meeting. Each member of the Board acknowledges that these workshops
are some of the first steps we must take in order to address the systemic inequities.
The Board will work with staff designated by the General Manager/CEO to create a comprehensive JEDI
plan that aligns with the General Manager/CEO’s strategy. This strategy may include items such as:
ensuring all RTD employees receive ongoing JEDI workshops; a plan to ensure proper JEDI training for
RTD’s contractors; differentiated JEDI workshops based on an individual’s role within the agency; and a
plan to implement changes based on learnings from various workshops. By way of example, but not
limitation, those who manage others will need different workshop components compared to those who
are on our front lines directly interacting with the public.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
In considering the financial impact of JEDI workshops, it is important to consider the cost of not having
ongoing JEDI workshops and a comprehensive plan. These costs include ongoing recruitment, retention,
among other costs that come with not having a just, equitable, diverse, and inclusive workplace and
agency. There are also cost savings seen across organizations in terms of increased efficiencies and
productivity for diverse, equitable, and inclusive organizations.
The financial impact of the implementation plan for the agency-wide plan will be detailed in the plan
created by staff and presented to the Board for consideration when the plan is presented for adoption.
The financial impact of the JEDI workshops for the Board of Directors will not exceed $50,000 over two
years. The Board of Directors will solicit a new two-year agreement no later than June 1, 2022.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

Attachment 1 - RTD By The Numbers

•

Attachment 2 - Poverty Guidelines ASPE (PDF)

•

Attachment 3 (PDF)

•

Attachment 4 (PDF)

•

Attchment 5 - Data Tables

•

A Strategic Approach To Board Composition And Diversity - Corporate Board Member

•

Does Your Transit Agency Board Look Like Its Riders – Streetsblog USA (PDF)

•

(3) Just having people who look different isn't enough to create a diverse team LinkedIn

•

Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity

(PDF)

•

How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace

(PDF)

•

LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (PDF)

(PDF)

(PDF)
(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Shontel Lewis, Director, District B
Bobby Dishell, Director, District D
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

The Regional Transportation District
is a public agency, created in 1969 by
the Colorado General Assembly.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, Colorado 80202
303.299.6000 | TTY: Dial 711
rtd-denver.com

Your guide to

FACTS &
FIGURES

Mission Statement
To meet our constituents’ present
and future public transit needs by off
ering safe, clean, reliable, courteous,
accessible and cost-effective service
throughout the District.

La información contenida en este
folleto está a disposición en español.
Llame al número 303.299.6000.

Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: Attachment 1 -

RTD’s bus and rail transportation
system serves all or parts of
eightcounties: Boulder, Broomfield,
Denver, Jefferson, western Adams
and Arapahoe counties, northern
Douglas County, and small areas of
Weld County.

1.B.1.a

Service Statistics

Active Bus Fleet

Special Services

• Service area population:
3.08 million

• Total buses: 1,026 RTD-owned and
operated: 589 RTD-owned, leased to
private carriers: 437
• Average age of ﬂeet: 5.9 years
• FlexRide vehicles: 54

Access-a-Ride, BroncosRide,
BuﬀRide, FlexRide, CU/CSU football
game, RunRide, SeniorRide, and
vanpool (DRCOG’s Commuter Services
and North Front Range’s VanGo)

• Square miles in service area: 2,342
• Weekday regular scheduled miles:
141,621 (includes rail, Free MetroRide,
Free MallRide)
• Annual regular ﬁxed-route service
miles operated, includes rail: (service
levels annualized)
• Active bus stops: 9,800
• Park-n-Ride facilities: 84
• Total number of regular
ﬁxed routes: 141
Local: 86

Light rail: 8

Limited: 14

Commuter Rail: 2

Regional: 23

Misc.: 5

SkyRide: 3

Light Rail
• Total vehicles: 172 • Stations: 54
• Miles of track:
58.5

Commuter Rail

• Total vehicles: 66 • Stations: 9
• Miles of track: 29

Access-a-Ride
• Vehicles: 402
• Annual service miles operated:
12,905,139
• Annual service hours: 906,260
• Annual boardings: 749,938

Ridership 2018
• Annual boardings: 97,606,769

Financial
Total operating budget
2017: $626.1 m
2018: $675.5 m

Staﬀ
Budgeted number
of RTD employees
- Salaried: 888
- Represented:
1,975

Attachment: Attachment 1 -

• Cities and towns served: 40
municipalities in six counties plus two
city/county jurisdictions

1.B.1.a

Private contractors
- Access-a-Ride
and Call-n-Ride:
655
- Fixed-route: 953

Packet Pg. 5

Poverty Guidelines | ASPE

1/7/21,
10:50 AM
1.B.1.b

ASPE
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY
FOR PLANNING AND EVALUATION

POVERTY GUIDELINES
01/08/2020
HOME • TOPICS • POVERTY • POVERTY GUIDELINES

U.S. FEDERAL POVERTY GUIDELINES USED TO DETERMINE FINANCIAL ELIGIBILITY FOR CERTAIN FEDERAL PROGRAMS

HHS POVERTY GUIDELINES FOR 2020
The 2020 poverty guidelines are in effect as of January 15, 2020
The Federal Register notice for the 2020 Poverty Guidelines was published January 17, 2020.

2020 POVERTY GUIDELINES FOR THE 48 CONTIGUOUS STATES AND THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
PERSONS IN FAMILY/HOUSEHOLD

POVERTY GUIDELINE

For families/households with more than 8 persons, add $4,480 for each additional person.
1

$12,760

2

$17,240

3

$21,720

4

$26,200

5

$30,680

6

$35,160

https://aspe.hhs.gov/poverty-guidelines

Attachment: Attachment 2 - Poverty Guidelines ASPE (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

Page 1 of 5

Packet Pg. 6

1/7/21,
10:50 AM
1.B.1.b

7

$39,640

8

$44,120
Attachment: Attachment 2 - Poverty Guidelines ASPE (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

Poverty Guidelines | ASPE

2020 POVERTY GUIDELINES FOR ALASKA
PERSONS IN FAMILY/HOUSEHOLD

POVERTY GUIDELINE

For families/households with more than 8 persons, add $5,600 for each additional person.
1

$15,950

2

$21,550

3

$27,150

4

$32,750

5

$38,350

6

$43,950

7

$49,550

8

$55,150

2020 POVERTY GUIDELINES FOR HAWAII
PERSONS IN FAMILY/HOUSEHOLD

POVERTY GUIDELINE

For families/households with more than 8 persons, add $5,150 for each additional person.
1

$14,680

2

$19,830

3

$24,980

4

$30,130

https://aspe.hhs.gov/poverty-guidelines

Page 2 of 5

Packet Pg. 7

1/7/21,
10:50 AM
1.B.1.b

5

$35,280

6

$40,430

7

$45,580

8

$50,730

RESOURCES
Prior Poverty Guidelines and Federal Register References Since 1982
A chart with percentages (e.g., 125 percent) of the guidelines (PDF)
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) on the Poverty Guidelines and Poverty
Poverty guidelines — gross or net income
The poverty line for a state or city
The number of poor people in a state or city
How the poverty line was developed
Further Resources on Poverty Measurement, Poverty Lines, and Their History
Mollie Orshansky’s career, achievements, and publications
ASPE research on poverty
The Census Bureau's Poverty Home Page

The separate poverty guidelines for Alaska and Hawaii reflect Office of Economic Opportunity administrative practice
beginning in the 1966-1970 period. Note that the poverty thresholds — the original version of the poverty measure —
have never had separate figures for Alaska and Hawaii. The poverty guidelines are not defined for Puerto Rico, the U.S.
Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Palau. In cases in which a Federal program using the poverty
guidelines serves any of those jurisdictions, the Federal office which administers the program is responsible for deciding
whether to use the contiguous-states-and-D.C. guidelines for those jurisdictions or to follow some other procedure.
The poverty guidelines apply to both aged and non-aged units. The guidelines have never had an aged/non-aged
distinction; only the Census Bureau (statistical) poverty thresholds have separate figures for aged and non-aged oneperson and two-person units.
Programs using the guidelines (or percentage multiples of the guidelines — for instance, 125 percent or 185 percent of
the guidelines) in determining eligibility include Head Start, the Supplemental Nutition Assistance Program (SNAP), the
National School Lunch Program, the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program, and the Children’s Health
Insurance Program. Note that in general, cash public assistance programs (Temporary Assistance for Needy Families
and Supplemental Security Income) do NOT use the poverty guidelines in determining eligibility. The Earned Income Tax

Attachment: Attachment 2 - Poverty Guidelines ASPE (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

Poverty Guidelines | ASPE

Credit program also does NOT use the poverty guidelines to determine eligibility. For a more detailed list of programs
that do and don’t use the guidelines, see the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs).
https://aspe.hhs.gov/poverty-guidelines

Page 3 of 5

Packet Pg. 8

Poverty Guidelines | ASPE

1/7/21,
10:50 AM
1.B.1.b

The poverty guidelines (unlike the poverty thresholds) are designated by the year in which they are issued. For instance,
the guidelines issued in January 2020 are designated the 2020 poverty guidelines. However, the 2020 HHS poverty
guidelines only reflect price changes through calendar year 2019; accordingly, they are approximately equal to the
in September 2020; a preliminary version of the 2019 thresholds is now available from the Census Bureau.)
The poverty guidelines may be formally referenced as “the poverty guidelines updated periodically in the Federal
Register by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services under the authority of 42 U.S.C. 9902(2).”

There are two slightly different versions of the federal poverty measure: poverty thresholds and poverty guidelines.

Attachment: Attachment 2 - Poverty Guidelines ASPE (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

Census Bureau poverty thresholds for calendar year 2019. (The 2019 thresholds are expected to be issued in final form

The poverty thresholds are the original version of the federal poverty measure. They are updated each year by the Census
Bureau. The thresholds are used mainly for statistical purposes — for instance, preparing estimates of the number of
Americans in poverty each year. (In other words, all official poverty population figures are calculated using the poverty

thresholds, not the guidelines). Poverty thresholds since 1973 (and for selected earlier years) and weighted average poverty

thresholds since 1959 are available on the Census Bureau’s Web site. For an example of how the Census Bureau applies the
thresholds to a family’s income to determine its poverty status, see “How the Census Bureau Measures Poverty” on the
Census Bureau’s web site.
The poverty guidelines are the other version of the federal poverty measure. They are issued each year in the Federal
Register by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The guidelines are a simplification of the poverty
thresholds for use for administrative purposes — for instance, determining financial eligibility for certain federal programs.
The poverty guidelines are sometimes loosely referred to as the “federal poverty level” (FPL), but that phrase is ambiguous
and should be avoided, especially in situations (e.g., legislative or administrative) where precision is important.

Key differences between poverty thresholds and poverty guidelines are outlined in a table under Frequently Asked Questions
(FAQs). See also the discussion of this topic on the Institute for Research on Poverty’s web site.
The January 2020 poverty guidelines are calculated by taking the 2018 Census Bureau’s poverty thresholds and adjusting

them for price changes between 2018 and 2019 using the Consumer Price Index (CPI-U). The poverty thresholds used by the
Census Bureau for statistical purposes are complex and are not composed of standardized increments between family sizes.
Since many program officials prefer to use guidelines with uniform increments across family sizes, the poverty guidelines
include rounding and standardizing adjustments.

https://aspe.hhs.gov/poverty-guidelines

Page 4 of 5

Packet Pg. 9

Poverty Guidelines | ASPE

1/7/21,
10:50 AM
1.B.1.b

Attachment: Attachment 2 - Poverty Guidelines ASPE (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

+1 202.690.7858

https://aspe.hhs.gov/poverty-guidelines

Page 5 of 5

Packet Pg. 10

1.B.1.c

Gender (n=3,720)
Male
Female
Other
Race (n=3,649)
Caucasian/White
Hispanic/Latino
African American/Black
Asian/Pacific Islander
Native American/Indian
Other
Age (n=3,728)
Under 18
18‐24
25‐34
35‐44
45‐54
55‐64
65 or older
County of Residence (n=3,711)
Denver
Arapahoe
Jefferson
Boulder
Adams
Douglas
Broomfield
Weld
Other
Education (n=3,692)
Less than 12 years
High school graduate
Some college
College graduate
Post graduate degree
Less than 12 years
Note:

50%
49%
1%
62%
15%
14%
4%
2%
4%
1%
8%
19%
18%
19%
24%
10%
37%
18%
13%
12%
9%
5%
2%
1%
3%
5%
16%
25%
34%
20%
5%

Household Income (n=3,354)
Low Income
30%
Other Income
70%
Occupation (n=3,671)
Professional/Managerial
47%
Sales/Clerical/Service
17%
Laborer/Craftsman/Foreman
10%
Retired
6%
Student (employed)
6%
Student (only)
4%
Homemaker
1%
Disabled (unable to work)
4%
Unemployed (looking for work)
3%
Other
2%
Household Size (n=3,560)
One person
25%
Two people
37%
Three people
16%
Four people
13%
Five people
6%
Six people
2%
More than six people
2%
Number of Cars Available by Household (n=3,673)
No car
30%
One car
28%
Two cars
27%
Three cars
11%
Four or more
5%
Average Number of Cars
Available by Household

1 car

Valid Driver’s License (n=3,718)
Yes
74%
Disability or Medical Condition that Prevents
Driving (n=3,731)
Yes

8%

Percentages may not sum 100% due to rounding.

Source: 2019 RTD Customer Satisfaction Survey.

BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING

PAGE 5
Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Attachment 3 (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

Figure 2.
Demographic characteristics of passengers

1.B.1.d

Figure 6.
Fare characteristics
Fare Level (n=3,719)
67%
22%
5%
5%

Method of Payment (n=3,656)
Three‐hour pass
EcoPass
Monthly pass
Day pass
10‐ride ticket
College student pass
Other

24%
22%
21%
15%
10%
6%
6%

Employer Payment (n=3,696)
Employer does not pay
Employer pays in full
Employer pays in part
Not sure

65%
20%
10%
5%

Fare Discounts (n=3,711)
Senior (65+)
Individuals with disabilities
Youth (ages 6‐19, not CollegePass)
Access‐a‐Ride card
None

9%
7%
2%
1%
81%

Nonprofit Reduced Fare Program (n=3,744)
None
Nonprofit provided the fare

91%
6%

Customer paid the nonprofit for the fare

3%

Passengers Buying Ticket Via Mobile App

11%

Notes:

Percentages may not add to 100% due to rounding.
Participants could indicate multiple methods of payments, so percentages may not sum to 100%.

Source: 2019 RTD Customer Satisfaction Survey.

BBC further examined payment methods and how they differed among bus‐only; train‐only; and
bus and train participants. As shown in Figure 7:


Train‐only participants were less likely than bus‐only participants to indicate they bought
three‐hour passes (13% vs. 29%);



Bus and train participants were more likely than bus‐only participants to indicate they used
monthly passes to pay their fares (28% vs. 19%);

BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING

PAGE 9
Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Attachment 4 (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

Local
Regional
Airport
Not sure

Attachment: Attchment 5 - Data Tables (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.e

Packet Pg. 13

A Strategic Approach To Board Composition And Diversity - Corporate Board Member

1/7/21,
11:01 AM
1.B.1.f

Attachment: A Strategic Approach To Board Composition And Diversity - Corporate Board Member (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and

A Strategic Approach To Board Composition
Diversity
By Molly Brennan

Despite years of researc
that clearly demonstrate that diverse organizations – and boards of directors – outperform homogen
corporate and nonprofit boards have barely moved the needle on diversification.

Last February, BlackRock, Inc, the world’s largest asset manager, sent letters to companies on the Ru
Index with fewer than two women on their boards asking them to justify this lack of gender diversity
on efforts to increase diversity. “Irrespective of a company’s industry, location or size, we believe tha
diversity on the board undermines its ability to make effective strategic decisions,” BlackRock said in
signed by Michelle Edkins, global head of investment stewardship at the New York-based asset mana

Almost a year later, Edkins says she is disappointed by the response from these companies. “On boar
frankly some of the answers we got were from the 1880s,” Edkins said at an investor conference in No
Responses from companies included: “There aren’t any qualified women,” “We don’t need a woman di
“We’re not a consumer-facing company.”

Women currently occupy only 18% of board seats at the biggest companies, and only 10% of lead inde
directors and 4% of board chairs are women. The stats for racial diversity are even more grim, with s
https://boardmember.com/a-strategic-approach-to-board-composition-and-diversity/

Page 1 of 3

Packet Pg. 14

A Strategic Approach To Board Composition And Diversity - Corporate Board Member

1/7/21,
11:01 AM
1.B.1.f

Attachment: A Strategic Approach To Board Composition And Diversity - Corporate Board Member (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and

showing that 15% of board seats at the top 200 S&P 500 companies belong to racial minorities.

The nonprofit sector mirrors this lack of diversity in leadership at the organizational and board level
percentage of people of color in nonprofit board seats has remained under 20 percent for the last 15
doesn’t show any signs of changing despite growing awareness of the strategic, financial, and social b
diversity.

So why are corporate and nonprofit boards so slow to change? In both sectors there is a stark gap be
understanding and action. A 2017 PwC survey of nearly 900 directors found that a majority of them –
recognize that diversity is beneficial. Of that segment, 94% said gender and racial diversity brings un
perspectives to the boardroom, 82% agreed that it enhances board performance, and 59% tied it to b
company performance. Clearly, the majority of boards understand the value of diversity.

A survey of nonprofit boards by executive search firm Koya Leadership Partners found that 96 perce
respondents believe that diversifying their boards is a key objective, but only 24 percent have taken a
toward increasing diversity.

Clearly, directors in both the corporate and nonprofit sector understand the value of diversity. But th
show they are doing very little to walk the talk when it comes to actually diversifying their boards.

The Koya Leadership Partners study shows that many directors in the nonprofit sector simply don’t k
actions they should take. They lack the knowledge, skills, resources, and commitment to change requ
awareness into action.

The highest impact change that any board, of any size, in any sector or location, can immediately put
to change the way it recruits members. Most boards recruit through existing relationships and by wo
which almost always ensures that new members will be similar in gender, race, and socioeconomic st
current directors.

These informal recruitment processes will do very little to increase gender, racial, or any other desir
diversity, and should be replaced by strategic recruiting plans that begin with an evaluation of the cu
identify missing skills, characteristics, and other qualities, and implement proactive, measurable step
beyond the “usual suspects” to identify and assess potential board members who bring both high qua
diverse perspective and background.

Board chairs and CEOs have a particularly important role to play when it comes to driving change. Ed
directors about why diversity matters, ensuring that diversity is a key strategic priority for the board
as a whole, and holding the board accountable for diversity efforts are all critical steps these leaders
should play to ensure that boards of directors are unlocking the full potential of the organizations th
https://boardmember.com/a-strategic-approach-to-board-composition-and-diversity/

Page 2 of 3

Packet Pg. 15

1/7/21,
11:01 AM
1.B.1.f

Molly Brennan
Molly Brennan is Founding Partner at Koya Leadership Partners.

Protecting your privacy. We have strengthened our Privacy Policy to better protect you. This Policy includes our use of
cookies to give you the best online experience and provide functionality essential to our services.
By clicking ‘Close’ or by continuing to use our website, you are consenting to our Privacy Policy, which can be found here
Accept

https://boardmember.com/a-strategic-approach-to-board-composition-and-diversity/

Attachment: A Strategic Approach To Board Composition And Diversity - Corporate Board Member (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and

A Strategic Approach To Board Composition And Diversity - Corporate Board Member

Page 3 of 3

Packet Pg. 16

Does Your Transit Agency Board Look Like Its Riders? – Streetsblog USA

1/7/21,
11:01 AM
1.B.1.g

STREETFILMS

Bicycling / Walking / Transit / Car Culture / Micromobility / Mobility Justice / COVID-19

Does Your Transit Agency Board Look Like Its Riders?
By Angie Schmitt May 11, 2018 ! 11 COMMENTS

Attachment: Does Your Transit Agency Board Look Like Its Riders – Streetsblog USA (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI)

HOME USA NYC MASS LA CHI SF DEN CAL

FOLLOW U

Subscribe to our

DAILY EMAIL
DIGEST
Enter Email

Recently Posted J

Marin County Bicycle Coal
Policy & Planning Director
1 month ago

Advocacy and Communica
Director, Greater Redmond
Transportation Manageme
Association
5 months ago

Photo: Angie Schmitt
"
#
$

T

he politics of public transit vary a lot from city to city, but a major player
in every agency is the board of directors.

%

These powerful boards don’t tend to feature prominently in advocacy

&

campaigns. But they’re important, making key decisions about fares and service

Transportation Specialist,
Greater Redmond Transpo
Management Association`
5 months ago

Senior Manager, Engineeri
(TraJc), Metro, California
10 months ago

and senior staff that affect every rider.

Policy Director, OpenPlans
York, NY

Unfortunately, these boards often aren’t very representative of the people who

10 months ago

ride transit in the regions they serve. Julia Ehrman at TransitCenter scanned

POST A JOB

SEE MORE

some the boards of the biggest agencies and found they are generally much
more white and male than the riding population.
Check out Boston, for example.

MOST RECENT

Why Advocates Need to Talk About Seating

Or Portland’s TriMet:

Talking Headways Podcast: The Answer is the A

And Atlanta:

Thursday’s Headlines Amidst the Chaos

Ehrman says this is something that advocates, and those responsible for
appointing transit board members, should be conscious of, because it can

Dem Wins Put Transport Reform In Reach

Senate Shift Is Good News For US High Speed R

impact service quality:

https://usa.streetsblog.org/2018/05/11/does-your-transit-agency-board-look-like-its-riders/

Page 1 of 5

Packet Pg. 17

1/7/21,
11:01 AM
1.B.1.g

Attachment: Does Your Transit Agency Board Look Like Its Riders – Streetsblog USA (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI)

Does Your Transit Agency Board Look Like Its Riders? – Streetsblog USA

Graph: TransitCenter (FMCB = Fiscal and Management Control Board)

Graph: TransitCenter

Graph: TransitCenter

What would change if more diverse voices were at transit decision making
tables, shaping policy and investment? If more women were at the table, we
might hear more about the need for service in off-peak hours to
accommodate service and domestic work. We might learn that free
transfers are completely essential for the multi-leg trips that work, school
commuting, and errands require. We might prioritize lighting, visibility, and
https://usa.streetsblog.org/2018/05/11/does-your-transit-agency-board-look-like-its-riders/

Page 2 of 5

Packet Pg. 18

Does Your Transit Agency Board Look Like Its Riders? – Streetsblog USA

1/7/21,
11:01 AM
1.B.1.g

real-time information at bus stops to help improve safety. If more people of

Attachment: Does Your Transit Agency Board Look Like Its Riders – Streetsblog USA (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI)

color were at the table, we might hear stronger challenges to expensive new
rail projects that tilt the scales away from investment in bus service and
amenities in communities of color where riders live. We might have a more
comprehensive conversation about policing on transit, and what “safety”
means in practice. If more people from the disabled community were on
transit boards, their colleagues might grasp the gravity of inaccessibility
and prioritize requisite changes.
Personal experience is not the only path to empathy. However, transit policy
should be based on facts about rider experience and needs.
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, Ehrman writes, has been a leader in this
regard, using his appointments to triple representation by women and people
of color on the board of the state-run MTA since taking office.
"

#

$

%

&

Filed Under: Transit, Promoted

11 Comments

Streetsblog USA

& Recommend

t Tweet

! Disqus' Privacy Policy

f Share

1 Login
"

Sort by Newest

Join the discussion…
LOG IN WITH

OR SIGN UP WITH DISQUS ?

Name

oceanstater • 3 years ago

In Rhode Island, the statewide transit agency board has 8 members, 4 are female, 2 are
African-American, but to my knowledge the only one who rides frequently is a white
male.

△ ▽ • Reply • Share ›
david vartanoﬀ • 3 years ago

As a statistic, 2 of the 7 directors of AC Transit in Oakland CA (which is an elected
position) are people I run into while using the bus. Staﬀers, not so much.

△ ▽ • Reply • Share ›
Alfonso Smurfjabwae > david vartanoff • 3 years ago • edited

Exactly, and your experience is not all that unique. Even in lily white Utah, UTA
board members ride the trains and buses. This is just an ongoing narrative in
search of even more outrage because heaven knows we don't have enough
already.

△ ▽ • Reply • Share ›
LazyReader • 3 years ago

Why are we focusing on demographics and diversity quota, another irrelevant waste of
time.
3△

▽ 1 • Reply • Share ›
carma > LazyReader • 3 years ago

Angie has been consistently known to race bait articles. Carry on, nothing new
here.
1△

▽ 1 • Reply • Share ›

https://usa.streetsblog.org/2018/05/11/does-your-transit-agency-board-look-like-its-riders/

Page 3 of 5

Packet Pg. 19

Does Your Transit Agency Board Look Like Its Riders? – Streetsblog USA
1△

1/7/21,
11:01 AM
1.B.1.g

▽ 1 • Reply • Share ›

Attachment: Does Your Transit Agency Board Look Like Its Riders – Streetsblog USA (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI)

Alfonso Smurfjabwae > carma • 3 years ago

Spot on. If she's not scaring the bejezus out of people with YOU'RE
GOING TO GET HIT BY A CAR AND DIE articles, it's blame the white guy
with Mizz Schmidt.

△ ▽ • Reply • Share ›
kastigar > carma • 3 years ago

With all due respect, John just perpetuates that.

△ ▽ • Reply • Share ›
JRanman • 3 years ago

Birmingham's board is very diversified - https://maxtransit.org/abou... - and we have
one of the most shit transportation systems in the country. Just google news the
problems they have (BJCTA Board). Nice try, but what transportation needs is a
commitment from the community in the form of funding. Acting like adding diversity to a
board solves all the problems is naive.

△ ▽ • Reply • Share ›
Michael • 3 years ago

I wonder what the background is of folks that can hang around, sip coﬀee, read legal
documents, and volunteer 20 hours/week between 9 and 5 Mon-Fri??
It’s not just transit. If we’re ever going to make meaningful strides in equitability in
organizational governance, we need a way to fund people while they serve on boards.
6△

▽ • Reply • Share ›
tomwest > Michael • 3 years ago

You mean pay them, right?
1△

▽ • Reply • Share ›
Michael > tomwest • 3 years ago

Yep – this is an issue across almost all organizations. These boards are
volunteer, no benefits, meet during the day, and are a huge commitment.
As is, these various advisory board seats are predominantly occupied by
60-something year olds taking victory laps after prestigious white collar
careers. That’s a population niche that doesn’t ride the bus with me.
7△

▽ • Reply • Share ›

✉ Subscribe d Add Disqus to your siteAdd DisqusAdd

⚠ Do Not Sell My Data

ALSO ON STREETSBLOG

The “Choice” vs. “Captive” Transit Rider
Dichotomy Is All Wrong
By Angie Schmitt | Jul 12, 2016

The conventional wisdom about transit often
divides riders into two neat categories: “choice” riders —
higher-income people with cars — and “captive”
riders — lower-income people who must use transit
because they don’t own cars. But this framework can
undermine good transit, according to a new report from
TransitCenter [PDF]. In the attempt to cater only to
“choice” riders or “captive” […]

NYC Banished Cars for Buses — You
Can, Too!

6 Principles for a Transit System T
Makes Your City More Fair and Jus

By Aaron Short | Oct 17, 2019

By Angie Schmitt | Jul 17, 2018

Some great advice and lessons from TransitCenter Director

Transit should be a great social equalizer. In many c

of Research Steven Higashide, author of "Better Buses,

however, transit's potential to advance economic fai

Better Cities: How to Plan, Run, and Win the Fight for

held in check because resources are distributed ineq

https://usa.streetsblog.org/2018/05/11/does-your-transit-agency-board-look-like-its-riders/

Page 4 of 5

Packet Pg. 20

Does Your Transit Agency Board Look Like Its Riders? – Streetsblog USA

1/7/21,
11:01 AM
1.B.1.g

Attachment: Does Your Transit Agency Board Look Like Its Riders – Streetsblog USA (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI)

Effective Transit."

D.C.-Area Bus System Is So Bad It Hurts 5 Things People Want From Transit as
Local Economy
They Grow Older

More Transit Agencies Allow Open
Strollers on Buses

By Angie Schmitt | Oct 11, 2018

By Angie Schmitt | Aug 4, 2017

By Angie Schmitt | May 17, 2019

WMATA needs a bus system redesign, dedicated bus lanes,

America is aging -- by 2030, 20 percent of the population

Making transit more family friendly is not just the r

other fixes, a new report from business leaders says.

will be 65 or older, up from 14 percent today. It's a

thing to do, it helps people reduce car trips through

demographic shift with big implications for urban

their life.

transportation. Older Americans drive less but still want to
get out and experience their cities.

Subscribe to our Daily Email Digest

Enter Email

About Us / Contact Streetsblog USA / Staff & Board / Our Funders

https://usa.streetsblog.org/2018/05/11/does-your-transit-agency-board-look-like-its-riders/

SIGN UP

FOLLOW US:

Page 5 of 5

Packet Pg. 21

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.h

Attachment: (3) Just having people who look different isn't enough to create a diverse team LinkedIn (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and

(3) Just having people who look different isn't enough to create a diverse team | LinkedIn

(John Greim / Getty Images)

Just having people who look different
isn't enough to create a diverse team
Published on September 9, 2017

Scott Page
John Seely Brown Distinguished University Professor University of Michigan, 2 articles
Santa Fe Institute

https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/just-having-people-who-look-different-isnt-enough-create-scott-page/?published=t

Follow

Page 1 of 6

Packet Pg. 22

(3) Just having people who look different isn't enough to create a diverse team | LinkedIn

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.h

Search

Home

My Network

Jobs

Messaging

3
Notifications

Me

To describe how many of us spend our workdays, we could replace “fix radios” with:
writes software, engineers driverless cars, advances therapeutics, builds financial portfolios,
or designs smartphones. To be accurate though, we would have to replace the “he” with
“we” for teams, not individuals, perform most cognitive work.
Teams predominate because teams win. The best teams outperform the best individuals on
complex tasks. The problems we confront, whether in business, government, or the
academy, require both depth and breadth of knowledge and skills. Engineering the
propulsion system for an aircraft carrier requires deep technical knowledge. Carving a canoe
paddle is a lower dimensional, shallower task. That propulsion system must also fit within
the geometry of the ship and produce minimal environmental impact. The optimal design
requires breadth across what had been academic silos of engineering, architecture, and
environmental sciences. Aggregate evidence backs up the anecdotal story: 90% of new
patents fall into two or more patent classes. In the 20th century, fewer than half did.
A team can possess greater depth and breadth only if their members possess cognitive
diversity. Two heads will only be better than one if their contents differ. Differences in how
people think — differences in problem representations, categorizations, knowledge bases,
heuristics, technical and tacit skills, and experiences — are what enable teams to find more
novel solutions, develop more creative solutions, make fewer inferential errors, and
construct more accurate predictions than individuals.
The importance of cognitive diversity means that to select the best team of people, you
cannot give some test or come up with set of criteria and select the “best” individuals. That
won’t work. In fact, a study from Microsoft research shows that even when putting together
a team to take an IQ test, you should seek "contextual diversity" and not necessarily the
highest scorers. To construct a creative, brilliant teams you need to combine diverse
thinkers. Those Apple ads speak truth: think different. Not just you though, your entire
team.
What, though, of identity diversity — differences in race, gender expression, sexual
orientation, religion, ethnicity, and physical ability — does that also improve team
performance? Yes! It can. Identity diversity can correlate with cognitive diversity and
therefore improve the team. It won’t always, but on many tasks, identity diversity will be a
strong proxy for thinking different.
Identity diversity can contribute to cognitive diversity in four ways. First, identity diversity
correlates with cognitive diversity. Our identity characteristics correlate with the classes we
take, books we read, movies we watch, news we consume, and websites we visit. Who we

https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/just-having-people-who-look-different-isnt-enough-create-scott-page/?published=t

Work

Attachment: (3) Just having people who look different isn't enough to create a diverse team LinkedIn (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and

“He fixes radios by thinking” –Surely You’re Joking Mr. Feynman, pg 19-20

Page 2 of 6

Packet Pg. 23

(3) Just having people who look different isn't enough to create a diverse team | LinkedIn

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.h

are influences what we know and
Attachment: (3) Just having people who look different isn't enough to create a diverse team LinkedIn (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and

how we think. The economic,
social, and political lives we
construct are interwoven with who
we are. How else to explain how
Google, Facebook, LinkedIn, and
Amazon can predict our identities
with near perfect accuracy?
When thinking about creating
diverse teams, we must keep in
mind that these identity attributes
do not operate separately. We
cannot decompose a Native
American man’s cognitive
repertoire into a Native American
part and a male part. There is no
single “woman’s perspective” or
“African-American viewpoint.”
Each person’s bundle of identity
attributes produces her unique
cognitive repertoire .
That said, we must resist the urge to go naively syllogistic: identity diversity correlates
with cognitive diversity and cognitive diversity improves team performance; ergo,
identity diversity improves team performance. That will often be true. But the extent
of identity diversity’s contribution to relevant cognitive diversity will vary by task.
Our lived differences should lead to ideas and insights that move the needle on any task that
results in a product, service, or policy for our diverse society. A bunch of fifty-four-year-old
white guys (that’s me by the way) won’t be that innovative at designing a shoe, writing a
policy briefing, or designing a nightclub. More broadly, identity diversity should contribute
germane, meaningful cognitive diversity when designing and engineering products,
improving health care services, developing drug protocols, creating an environmental
awareness campaign, writing social policy, scripting movies, analyzing company
performance, creating software applications, or contemplating the meaning of fairness, and
more. All of these tasks benefit from a rich understanding of the diversity of human
experiences, goals, needs and wants.
On more “pure” research tasks such as isolating molecules, writing error free code, deriving
mathematical results, and designing plasma engines, we might expect that identity matters

https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/just-having-people-who-look-different-isnt-enough-create-scott-page/?published=t

Page 3 of 6

Packet Pg. 24

(3) Just having people who look different isn't enough to create a diverse team | LinkedIn

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.h

less, that scientists leave their identities at the laboratory door. On those problems, the
Attachment: (3) Just having people who look different isn't enough to create a diverse team LinkedIn (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and

relevant cognitive diversity might result from education, training, and experiences. That
position ignores the possibility that identity differences might influence the analogies we
draw, the representations we choose, or the attributes that scientists emphasize when doing
research. The role of identity in deciding which questions to ask and how to ask them may
well explain the significant citation bonus found from having an ethnically diverse team.
Second, being in a room with identity diverse people causes most people to think and act
smarter. We relax around people who look like us. The presence of identity diversity creates
discomfort. That discomfort can cause us to question assumptions, and provide richer
explanations. Studies show that identity diverse groups suffer from less group think.
Third, identity diversity also correlates with the ability to work well in diverse
groups. Achieving success in an identity diverse group requires an inclusive culture. People
must feel validated and share a sense of mission to bring their full cognitive repertoires. A
series of studies of collective intelligence in teams find a significant gender effect — adding
women to the team improves collective IQ. It cannot be the identities themselves that lead to
better performance. Breakthroughs may occur through serendipity, but they do not arise by
magic. So, for example, in the collective IQ studies, the gender effect can be explained by a
correlation between gender and the ability to read emotions. The women in the groups
were, on average, better able to read facial cues.
Last, if we create inclusive workplaces (easier said than done), we enlarge the pool of
talent. A larger pool means more cognitive diversity. This is true even if identity diversity
has no effect. An analogy from ecology explains why. Consider species diversity. It scales
with land area, a regularity codified in species area laws. Similarly, the diversity of each
species also scales with its population size. The bigger the sea, the more species of fish. The
more tiger sharks, the more diverse they are as well.
In Scale: The Universal Laws of Growth, Innovation, Sustainability, and the Pace
of Life in Organisms, Cities, Economies, and Companies, physicist Geoffrey West
shows that similar regularities of scale exist in the social world. Make the city larger, you
get more professions. It follows that if within a profession, we increase the potential pool —
if engineering schools attract more women and if psychology departments attract more men
— then that larger pool will be more diverse. That would be true even if identity diversity
did not produce cognitive diversity. It’s a matter of scale: increase the population, and
you increase the cognitive diversity.
So, for people working on teams try to fix cancer or fix inequality by thinking, you would
likely benefit by both seeking out identity diversity now and building infrastructure to ensure
pathways for the even more diverse next generation of workers.

https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/just-having-people-who-look-different-isnt-enough-create-scott-page/?published=t

Page 4 of 6

Packet Pg. 25

(3) Just having people who look different isn't enough to create a diverse team | LinkedIn

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.h

Equally important, you must let go of the idea that there exists a tradeoff between team
Attachment: (3) Just having people who look different isn't enough to create a diverse team LinkedIn (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and

performance and adding identity diversity. That way of thinking can prove selffulfilling. For identity diverse teams to perform well, their members must see their
differences as value producing and not as political necessities. For diversity to produce
benefits, team members must believe that it can. They must make space for everyone to
contribute and listen extra hard to novel ideas. And team leaders and conveners must be
willing to be use the ideas of others. Otherwise, the team adds no value.
In The Diversity Bonus, I discuss these issues in more detail. I study cases where identity
diversity adds value and cases where it does not. I show how the weight of the evidence
leans towards identity mattering. What’s most remarkable to me is that these data come
from the world as it is now, a world where identity differences, in addition to producing
what I call bonuses, also create issues of trust, validation, and belonging. We cannot know
the potential magnitude of identity diversity bonuses until we create a more tolerant,
inclusive world where we can each lean in with our unique shoulders to help push the wheel.
Scott E. Page is the author of The Diversity Bonus: How Great Teams Pay
Off in the Knowledge Economy, which this article is based on.

Report this

Published by
Scott Page
John Seely Brown Distinguished University Professor University of Michig…
Published • 3y

Like

Comment

2 articles

Share

Follow

3,016 · 102 comments

Reactions
…

102 Comments
Most relevant

Add a comment…

Glen M. Taylor • 3rd+
Information Security ★ Technology Leadership ★ Project Management Professional (PMP)

3mo (edited)

I think that there is a group of people that already fundamentally know that diversity at all levels is a
good thing because it is good, period. Then there are the other people that need to be influenced or
convinced using other methods. As such, I have a hard time leaning on a business argument (e.g.; team

https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/just-having-people-who-look-different-isnt-enough-create-scott-page/?published=t

Page 5 of 6

Packet Pg. 26

(3) Just having people who look different isn't enough to create a diverse team | LinkedIn

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.h

performance, profits, etc.) to influence the acceptance of diversity by showing there are "business
…see more
Reply

Attachment: (3) Just having people who look different isn't enough to create a diverse team LinkedIn (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and

Like

10mo

Milton Reynolds • 3rd+
Founder, Milton Reynolds Consulting

Too often, the inability to more beyond a Kodak moment understanding of diversity is what prevents a
good organization, school or institution from being a great one. Doing the groundwork to create a
welcoming and inclusive workspace so that the benefits of diversification can flourish is a commonly
missed first step. A focus on achieving short term "equity" goals can limit the long term benefits of such
efforts. I appreciate the assets focused nature of this piece, as it's not a common stance.
Like

Reply

Load more comments

Scott Page
John Seely Brown Distinguished University Professor University of Michigan, Santa Fe Institute

Follow

More from Scott Page

To solve complicated business
problems, many perspectives
beats just one
Scott Page on LinkedIn

https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/just-having-people-who-look-different-isnt-enough-create-scott-page/?published=t

Page 6 of 6

Packet Pg. 27

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.i

Attachment: Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity

Race

Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial
Equity
by Ben Hecht
June 16, 2020

Summary. As anti-racism protests sweep the United States, it’s clear that
returning to “business as usual” will not be good for business. And yet while it’s
clear current corporate diversity efforts are lacking, business leaders (particularly
https://hbr.org/2020/06/moving-beyond-diversity-toward-racial-equity

Page 1 of 11

Packet Pg. 28

Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.i

Attachment: Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

white ones) aren’t sure what... more

As protests sweep the United States, it’s clear that returning to
“business as usual” will not be good for business. In just a few days,
countless companies that don’t talk about racism publicly have
spoken out to condemn racism and police brutality. Employees of
color have openly called out racism in their own institutions. On this
critical issue, neither consumers nor employees are looking for vague
platitudes about change; they want to see companies committing to
action within their own walls. Achieving racial equity in the
workplace will be one of the most important issues that companies
will tackle in the coming decade.
This became evident to me months ago, when I spoke with almost
two dozen executives of Fortune 500 companies. My goal was to
understand if and how they were thinking about racial equity as part
of my work at Living Cities, a nonprofit focused on closing income
and wealth gaps in America. The vast majority affirmed that racial
equity was an obvious business imperative. But less obvious was what
to do about it. With traditional diversity interventions failing, these
leaders — the majority of whom were white — reported feeling illequipped, even afraid, to act.
Given U.S. history, it shouldn’t surprise us that race makes corporate
leaders uneasy. It certainly made me uneasy when, six years ago,
members of my staff told me that Living Cities was a hard place to
work for people of color. They shared that, despite a racially diverse
staff, our office culture dictated that people of color only contribute
in ways that white people, including me, were comfortable with.
Project leads relied on “objective” reports and case studies, while
https://hbr.org/2020/06/moving-beyond-diversity-toward-racial-equity

Page 2 of 11

Packet Pg. 29

Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.i

dismissing data from staff’s personal experiences as “too emotional.”
When horrific instances of racial injustice occurred, like the murders
Attachment: Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

of Trayvon Martin or Tamir Rice, our workday continued largely
unaffected, with little acknowledgement or space for the emotions
they triggered for staff. Discussions about racism were discouraged as
“divisive” or “unproductive.” In short, our workplace was unable to
acknowledge the lives they live and value them for who they are.
Racism’s legacy is complex, brutally ugly, deeply personal, and yet to
be truly reckoned with, especially in the workplace. Not even 60
years from the end of legal racial segregation, there’s no question that
the harmful effects of that history live on in our institutions and in
each of us. Further, it’s clear that the suite of diversity and inclusion
tools and practices that went mainstream in the ‘90s are grossly
insufficient for racial equity work. Instead of driving fundamental
changes in organizations, they largely focus on “velcro-ing” new
guidelines, practices, or programs onto the existing structures and
culture of the workplace in an attempt to help employees of color
better “fit in” and succeed.
Today’s racial equity and inclusion efforts must flip that premise on
its head. Instead of trying to change some people to fit the
organization, we must focus on transforming our organizations to fit
all people. What I’ve realized over the six years since that initial, very
difficult conversation with my staff is that our culture was the
problem and had to be changed. To move toward racial equity,
organizational culture must prioritize humanity. People need the
ability to work with the dignity of having their histories
acknowledged and their life experience valued. Only then will

https://hbr.org/2020/06/moving-beyond-diversity-toward-racial-equity

Page 3 of 11

Packet Pg. 30

Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.i

companies be able to recruit and retain the thriving, diverse
workforce that leaders and customers want — and need — in the next
Attachment: Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

decade, and beyond.
At Living Cities, we have been striving for years to take up this
charge. And to be clear, we are not done. Nor do I expect that we will
ever be: building and maintaining this racial equity culture is a daily
practice. It is hard. Still, I am writing this piece with other white
leaders like myself in mind, to share some of the playbook that our
organization has found valuable so they can focus on the right things
and move beyond their fear.
In particular, this process has forced me to abandon many
mainstream, deeply internalized norms around organizational
leadership. Here are three of the most important lessons:
Understand How Power Works and Use it for Change
From 1619 to 1965, this country had laws, policies and practices —
from slavery to Jim Crow to redlining — that legally separated white
and Black people in an attempt to maintain a white supremacist
society. The inhumanity required for people to function in such a
society — to dehumanize others and be dehumanized — has left its
mark on our nation and, by extension, our organizations in
innumerable ways.
And yet many white leaders like myself have gone through our lives
and careers with only the shallowest understanding of racism in
America, blind to our own white culture and its harms. In contrast, it
was quickly revealed to me throughout this process the ways that my

https://hbr.org/2020/06/moving-beyond-diversity-toward-racial-equity

Page 4 of 11

Packet Pg. 31

Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.i

Black colleagues, and colleagues of color more broadly, have long
understood racism’s costs and impact, inside an office and out, as a
Attachment: Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

matter of survival.
So, to build a new, more inclusive culture, we first needed to be able
to see the norms, values, and practices in our institutions that
advantage white people and ways of working, to the exclusion and
oppression of all others.
To do this, we had to commit time and resources to staff members’
individual learning. Understanding history, interrogating personal
biases, building empathy and respect for others, getting comfortable
with vulnerability — these skills require training and ongoing
practice. This is dedicated, individual work that must be modeled
from the top. To start, all staff, including myself, underwent multiday anti-racism trainings to build a shared vocabulary, definitions
and analysis to ground our group conversations. New staff members
are now expected to take this training within 90 days of hire. A
permanent, in-house team of staff (Colleagues Operationalizing
Racial Equity, or CORE) are responsible for the deepening of this
practice, on an ongoing basis, through trainings, Employee Resource
Groups, all-staff conversations, coaching, and internal racial equity
consultation for other teams.
Putting these skills into action at work requires deep understanding
and harnessing power. Each of us is learning to ask: What informal
and formal power do I hold to shift culture? How should I wield it to
change damaging norms and power dynamics within our institution?
For example, I long considered the departures of Black staff members
largely to be isolated cases. It took others in the organization to raise
what I wasn’t seeing: a pattern. That realization forced me to grapple
https://hbr.org/2020/06/moving-beyond-diversity-toward-racial-equity

Page 5 of 11

Packet Pg. 32

Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.i

with new questions, such as the racial competencies of those
conducting exit interviews, what questions were being asked, and
Attachment: Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

why the information gathered about those departures was not
seriously interrogated.
Similarly, time and time again, staff have pointed out how notions of
“professionalism” and “appropriateness” have been wielded by white
people to avoid or stifle challenging perspectives or conversations. I
had to reckon with the fact that I had allowed our culture to, de facto,
authorize a small group to define what issues are “legitimate” to talk
about, and when and how those issues are discussed, to the exclusion
of many. One way to address this was by naming it when I saw it
happening in meetings, as simply as stating, “I think this is what is
happening right now,” giving staff members license to continue with
challenging conversations, and making it clear that everyone else was
expected to do the same.
In particular, I’ve found that the Person-Role-System framework
promoted by the Annie E. Casey Foundation, has helped deepen each
staff member’s ability to contribute to building our inclusive culture.
The simplicity of this framework is its power. Each of us is expected
to use our racial equity competencies to see day-to-day issues that
arise in our roles differently and then use our power to challenge and
change the culture accordingly.
For me, in my role as CEO, that meant relinquishing some of my
formal authority to a group of more inclusive decision-makers so that
our most mission-critical decisions reflected a diversity of
perspectives, even if I would have made a different decision on my
own. Our chief operating officer ensured that hiring processes were
changed to focus on diversity and the assessment of candidates’ racial
https://hbr.org/2020/06/moving-beyond-diversity-toward-racial-equity

Page 6 of 11

Packet Pg. 33

Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.i

equity competencies, and that procurement policies privileged
businesses owned by people of color. Our head of lending repurposed
Attachment: Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

our loan funds to focus exclusively on closing racial income and
wealth gaps, and built a portfolio that puts people of color in
decision-making positions and begins to challenge definitions of
creditworthiness and other norms.
Conflict Must be Understood and Embraced as Part of the
Process
Conflict is not only incidental but is required for transformation to
occur and be sustained. It’s been said that conflict — from discomfort
to active disagreement — is change trying to happen. Unfortunately,
most workplaces today go to great lengths to avoid conflict of any
type. That has to change. The cultures we seek to create cannot brush
past or ignore conflict, or worse, direct blame or anger toward those
who are pushing for needed transformation.
For example, I have yet to attend a single racial equity training
session where the simple use of words like “racism,” “whiteness,”
and “privilege” have not made people visibly uncomfortable. My own
colleagues have reflected that, in the early days of our racial equity
work, the seemingly innocuous descriptor “white people” uttered in
an all-staff meeting was met with tense silence by the many white
staff in the room. Left unchallenged in the moment, that silence
would have either maintained the status quo of shutting down
discussions when the anxiety of white people is high or required staff
of color to shoulder all the political and social risk of speaking up.

https://hbr.org/2020/06/moving-beyond-diversity-toward-racial-equity

Page 7 of 11

Packet Pg. 34

Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.i

Conflict is also an inherent part of interrupting the patterns that
maintain structural disadvantages around issues such as hiring, pay
Attachment: Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

equity, and advancement. If no one had challenged me on the
turnover patterns of Black staff, we likely never would have changed
our behaviors. Similarly, it is risky and uncomfortable to point out
racist dynamics when they show up in daily interactions, such as the
treatment of people of color in meetings, or team or work
assignments. Over the course of years, it was the leadership of staff at
all levels within the organization — particularly Black women, as is
often the case — to take great risks in challenging me to reflect on my
blind spots and use my authority to commit the organization to this
change process. My job as a leader continuously is to model a culture
that is supportive of that conflict by intentionally setting aside
defensiveness in favor of public displays of vulnerability when
disparities and concerns are raised.
To help staff and leadership become more comfortable with conflict,
we use a “comfort, stretch, panic” framework. The framework helps
assess your own state of mind and physiological reactions when
facing challenging moments. Interactions that make us want to shut
down are moments where we are just being challenged to think
differently. Too often, we conflate this healthy stretch zone with our
panic zone, where we are paralyzed by fear, unable to learn. As a
result, we shut down. Discerning our own boundaries and
committing to staying engaged through the stretch is necessary to
push through to change.
Adoption of this framework was essential to my own ability to
embark on this culture change process. Running diverse but not
inclusive organizations and talking in “race neutral” ways about the
challenges facing our nation were within my comfort zone. With little
https://hbr.org/2020/06/moving-beyond-diversity-toward-racial-equity

Page 8 of 11

Packet Pg. 35

Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.i

individual understanding or experience creating a racially inclusive
culture, the idea of intentionally bringing issues of race into the
Attachment: Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

organization sent me into panic mode. Understanding that this was
going to be a learning journey that would require me and all my staff
to stretch ourselves gave me permission to focus on learning about
race and racism, managing discomfort, and building competencies to
distinguish between real danger worthy of panic and stretch-induced
fear.
Commit to Ongoing Learning and Long-Term Transformation
The work of building and maintaining an inclusive, racially equitable
culture is never done. The personal work alone to challenge our own
individual and professional socialization is like peeling a neverending onion. Organizations must commit to sustained steps over
time, to demonstrate they are making a multi-faceted and long-term
investment in the culture — if for no other reason than to honor the
vulnerability that staff members bring to the process. This work is
hard and takes a deeply personal toll. The process is only as good as
the commitment, trust, and goodwill from the staff who engage in it
— whether that’s confronting one’s own white fragility or sharing the
harms that one has experienced in the office as a person of color over
the years.
I’ve also seen that the cost to people of color, most particularly Black
people, in the process of building new culture is enormous. We
perpetuate inhumanity in the workplace when we explicitly or
implicitly rely on people of color, especially Black people, to carry the
burdens of educating others or fighting racism instead of us. My own
staff members have told me time and time again that always having to
be the advocate for equity, share personal stories, and experience
https://hbr.org/2020/06/moving-beyond-diversity-toward-racial-equity

Page 9 of 11

Packet Pg. 36

Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.i

firsthand their colleagues’ anger, fear, and guilt as they build their
competencies is like ripping open an old wound. As leaders,
Attachment: Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

especially as white people, failure to stay the course and to use our
power to disproportionately shoulder the burden to combat racism at
work is a violation of the trust that they’ve put in us and this process.
To do this effectively, as with all elements of management, you
measure progress and adapt based on data. We formally track change
in our organizational culture in multiple ways. For example, we track
staff engagement, satisfaction, and tenure disaggregated by race, role
and level so that we can identify where there are disparities. We
conduct an annual competency survey to gauge our collective
understanding of how race impacts our work, asking questions like:
How well equipped are staff to identify and address interpersonal,
institutional, and structural racism in the workplace? How often are
staff taking risks and putting aside discomfort to engage in critical
conversations? How much does organizational leadership participate
in and support conversations about racial equity internally? Our
annual staff performance reviews hold every staff member
accountable for achievement against a personal racial equity and
inclusion objective at the beginning of the year.
Organizations cannot afford not to do this work, but they also can’t
enter into it lightly, under the misconception that a training or
workshop checks the box. True racial equity and inclusion work in
the workplace must look unlike anything we’ve done in past decades,
because we’ve consistently failed to tackle racial inequity at its
deepest roots. But we can start today, by bringing our fullest selves to
the offices and desks where we spend most of our waking lives and
empowering each other to do the same.

https://hbr.org/2020/06/moving-beyond-diversity-toward-racial-equity

Page 10 of 11

Packet Pg. 37

Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity

1/7/21,
11:02 AM
1.B.1.i

Attachment: Moving Beyond Diversity Toward Racial Equity (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

BH
Ben Hecht is President & CEO of Living Cities, a
collaborative of 18 of the world’s leading
foundations and financial institutions. A lawyer
and CPA, he has led the organization’s
transformation into one of the nation’s leading
economic justice organizations.

https://hbr.org/2020/06/moving-beyond-diversity-toward-racial-equity

Page 11 of 11

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 39
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 40
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 41
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 42
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 43
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 44
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 45
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 46
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 47
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 48
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 49
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 50
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 51
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 52
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 53
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 54
0

Attachment: How to Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.j

Packet Pg. 55
0

1.B.1.k

This DEI playbook has been created to help People Ops Leaders at companies around the world take
action and create a more comprehensive DEI program. It captures insights from our research at LifeLabs
Learning and tips from our People Ops community. We don’t have all the answers, but we’ll do our best to
add value and amplify the great work of other experts. ​We’ll add more to this document on a regular
basis.
LifeLabs Learning Background: ​At L
​ ifeLabs Learning​, ​we train managers, execs, and teams at 900+
companies around the globe in essential people skills (like behaviors of inclusion, leadership, adaptivity &
resilience).​ ​For the past four years, we’ve studied what great companies do differently to create ​cultures of
inclusion​.​ This playbook shares tools we’ve seen working well.
Have questions? Need training?​ ​Email ​Hello@LifelabsLearning.com
●
●

Short link to this document, in case you want to share it:​ ​lifelabsworksheets.com/DEI
Other Resources:
○ LifeLabs Resilience & Change Playbook: ​lifelabsworksheets.com/resilience
○ Return-to-Workplace Guide: ​lifelabsworksheets.com​/prep
○ Community: If you are an HR professional, you can join 1000+ HR leaders conversing in the
LifeLabs’ ‘POPs United’ Slack Group: ​Apply here

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Playbook

1.B.1.k

CLICKABLE TABLE OF CONTENTS
THREE LEVELS OF ANALYSIS

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

SYSTEM-LEVEL/ ORG-WIDE DEI ACTIONS

✨ Audit your company using our DEI audit Tool✨
Optimize your company’s Interviewing Playbook
Measure People’s Perceptions
Meeting Quality Assessment
Growth Opportunities Assessment

HOW TO CREATE A DEI TASK FORCE
DEI task force creation
Sample DEI task force curriculum
Sample DEI task force communications (created 9/1/20)
TIPS for ERGS
TEAM DIALOGUE GUIDES
Sample discussion guides

PEOPLE OPS RESOURCES
LifeLabs Learning Working Session summary documents & recordings
Tools for gaining exec buy-in to DEI initiatives

ANTI-RACISM AND ALLYSHIP RESOURCES
Allyship terms + concepts to know and share
Allyship and anti-racism education (to share)
How to create a Manager meet-up program
4 ACTIONS TO TAKE DURING CRITICAL RACISM MOMENTS
1. Send A Message From Your Company, sharing your reaction and values
2. Provide Mental Health / Cognitive / Emotional Support
3. Offer Educational Resources
4. Take Action To Support Causes that Matter Most
SAMPLE COMMUNICATIONS
From People Ops / HR to managers
From People Ops / HR to CEO (if needed)
From CEOs to team
From CEOs to customers
MANAGER RESOURCES
Inclusion training
Sample skills to use during difficult conversations

Micro-intervention guide

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 57

1.B.1.k

THREE LEVELS OF ANALYSIS

SYSTEM-LEVEL/ ORG-WIDE DEI ACTIONS

✨ ​Audit your company using our DEI audit Tool​✨
At LifeLabs Learning, we’ve studied our clients to uncover the systems that make or break a company’s DEI
efforts. There are ​5 Key DEI systems​ to focus your energy on. Step 1 for improving DEI at your org is to
evaluate these 5 systems. You can find a screenshot of the LifeLabs audit tool below, or click ​here​ to make
a copy for your own use!

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

When it comes to making change happen, there are three levels to think on: Systems-wide, manager level,
and individual level. We have added resources for each level here, with a focus on ​action that HR leaders/
People Ops teams​ can take for each level.

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.k

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com

Packet Pg. 59

Optimize your company’s Interviewing Playbook
Having a structured, thoughtful interview process is one of the most effective ways to reduce the impact of
bias in your hiring. We created a sample Interview playbook for you to work from! Please feel free to use or
adapt it:​ h
​ ttp://lifelabsworksheets.com/interview

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 60

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.k

1.B.1.k

Below are sample assessments you can use for specific teams or company-wide to track and improve
important inclusion touchpoints. Please keep in mind that it is best ​not​ to measure something unless you
are also willing and able to act on the results. Set clear expectations around how and when employees
should expect to see progress based on their feedback.

Meeting Quality Assessment
Send the following survey to your employees or team to assess meeting quality.
Clarify whether you want feedback about a specific meeting or your meeting culture in general.
Use a scale of 1-5, with 1 meaning strongly disagree and 5 meaning strongly agree.
1. All meeting attendees typically have shared context and background information.
2. Generally, the right people are present in each meeting.
3. If I don’t feel I should be in a meeting, I decline the invitation.
4. Typically, the right ​number​ of people are in each meeting (not too many and not too few).
5. I rarely feel left out of a meeting.
6. COMPANY meetings tend to start and end on time.
7. Our meetings usually take place during times that are convenient for me.
8. Most meetings I attend have an agenda.
9. We generally stick to the meeting agenda.
10. In my recurring meetings, we rotate facilitator and note-taker responsibilities.
11. Administrative responsibilities in meetings are distributed equally (e.g., scheduling, note-taking,
sending follow up notes, tech setup).
12. Someone usually tracks time during our meetings so we don’t run over.
13. When we start to go off track, someone in the meeting usually helps us refocus.
14. There are clear action items at the end of most meetings I attend.
15. Most people share their perspectives in our meetings.
16. I am able to share my perspectives during our meetings.
17. I feel that my suggestions and comments in meetings are respected by my coworkers.
18. We tend to give people credit for their ideas in our meetings.
19. Overall, most meetings I attend at COMPANY are a good use of my time.
Open questions:
What is your role? (IC, manager, director, VP, executive)
How many hours do you spend in meetings in a typical week?
What is the biggest meeting problem at your COMPANY?

Growth Opportunities Assessment
Send the following survey to your employees or team to assess growth opportunities.
Clarify whether you want feedback about a specific meeting or your meeting culture in general.
Use a scale of 1-5, with 1 meaning strongly disagree and 5 meaning strongly agree.

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 61

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

Measure People’s Perceptions

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

I believe there are good career opportunities for me at COMPANY.
I believe COMPANY invests in my development.
When new growth opportunities come up at COMPANY, I am aware of them.
I understand how promotions and job changes work at COMPANY.
I understand how compensation works at COMPANY.
COMPANY has communicated what career growth looks like here.
I understand my team’s priorities.
I am aware of other teams’ priorities.
I know what growth and development resources exist at COMPANY (e.g., workshops, tools,
templates).
10. I have used the growth and development resources that COMPANY provides (e.g., workshops,
tools, templates).
11. I feel I can carve out time for my own learning and development.
12. I have career growth role models at COMPANY.
13. My manager regularly gives me feedback on my development.
14. My manager regularly talks to me about my growth.
15. My manager and I have regularly scheduled 1-1s.
16. I know my personal growth priorities and aspirations.
17. I am aware of my own strengths and areas for development.
18. When I want a certain growth opportunity, I know how to ask for it.
19. I understand my market worth (i.e., how my skills and experiences translate to compensation and
career opportunities).
20. I set and track my own growth and development goals.
21. I regularly carve out time to focus on my development.
Open questions:
What is your role? (IC, manager, director, VP, executive)
What is one thing that would make your experience at COMPANY and even better growth and
development opportunity?
What is one thing you recommend people do to grow their own careers at COMPANY?

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 62

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.k

1.B.1.k

HOW TO CREATE A DEI TASK FORCE

Organizations with DEI task forces see increased participation in DEI work, diversification of the voices and
perspectives involved in DEI decision-making, and improvements toward becoming a more inclusive and
equitable company.​ A
​ sk the taskforce to complete an audit above (​see the LifeLabs Inclusion Audit​) of your
current practices like meeting norms, decision-making structures, interview practices, and work-from-home
policies. Have the taskforce ask questions like:
● Who might be ​most​ impacted by this?
● What perspectives haven’t we considered?
● Is there a more equitable way to do this?

Sample DEI task force curriculum (Group of 6-10 people)
This curriculum is for a 3 month taskforce, meeting every other week for 60 minutes. Ideally, the first
meeting would be longer to accommodate more team building and alignment setting!
●

●

●

●

Meeting 1: Connect & align
○ AGENDA:
■ Intro: Taskforce leader shares why the taskforce was created
■ Ground-rules: What norms will allow the group to be most effective?
■ Round Robin: Introductions if needed, and share what brought them here
■ Brainstorm: What would make us feel like we’ve accomplished what we set out to
do?
■ Round Robin: What will keep you committed to this taskforce?
Meeting 2: Vision & goals
○ AGENDA:
■ Review: What did we say would make us feel successful? (review from last
meeting)
■ Brainstorm: How might we go about getting there?
■ Brainstorm: What areas do we want to focus on? (Use the LifeLabs ​Inclusion Audit
as a guide for what to focus on.)
■ Brainstorm: How do we want to involve the company leadership? How do we want
to involve all employees?
■ Round Robin: What is the purpose of this group? (collect thoughts, designate one
person to put thoughts together and propose a final statement)
Meeting 3: Plan creation + naming of Individual responsibilities (who will do what, by when?). See
sample message below.
○ AGENDA:
■ Review: Which areas did we say we want to focus on? (review from last meeting)
■ Action: Each person selects 1-2 areas they’d like to work on.
■ Breakout Rooms: Each subgroup gets together and establishes a plan of action
(interview employees, research internal documentation, connect with department
leaders, etc.)
■ Round Robin: What are you excited about?
Meeting 4: Reporting results so far, creating recommendation lists for each bucket of the audit.

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 63

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

DEI task force creation

1.B.1.k

AGENDA:
■ Round Robin: Each taskforce shares the work they’ve completed and any feedback
requests they have for the group. Give each group the same amount of time.
Meeting 5: Final share & support (what progress have you made, what support do you need?)
○ AGENDA:
■ Round Robin: Quick taskforce updates, 1-2 minutes each
■ Next steps: Who needs the information each taskforce has collected? How will that
be shared? Who will be owning it?
■ Brainstorm: As a group, what are our next steps?
Meeting 6: Retrospective (what went well, what did we learn, what can we celebrate?)
○ AGENDA:
■ Round Robin: What are you proud of (in context of this group)?
■ Brainstorm: Create a list of the work we’ve done (with a scribe capturing it)
■ Taskforce leader: Share appreciation and impact
■ Taskforce leader: Confirm next steps

●

●

Sample DEI task force communications (created 9/1/20)
(Template created by LifeLabs Learning. Feel free to copy, paste, and alter to match your org.)
Message 1 (Invitation to full team):
Dear team,
In light of the recent violent acts of racism but also a resurgence of hope for equity and inclusion in our
country, we want to use this energy to turn our focus inward and be the change we want to see.
We are assembling a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Task Force, and want to invite you to join.
Who: ​We’re looking for 6-10 coworkers with diverse perspectives, identities, roles and a passion for
diversity, equity, and inclusion. We will give ERG/Affinity group leaders first priority given their
history of dedication to equity in our organization. If we have more than 10 people interested, all
others can help the task force by submitting ideas and providing feedback.
What: ​The task force will conduct an audit of our systems and norms (e.g., interviewing,
performance assessment, meetings) and propose a plan to our People Ops and Executive teams.
Participating in the task force will require 2-4 hours per week for 4 weeks. We will ask managers to
help task force members adjust their workload, if needed, during this time.
Why: ​As humans, our brains are wired for bias. This means that we have to be intentional and
systematic about welcoming diversity and establishing equity and inclusion. An even more inclusive
culture means we can all bring our best selves to work and co-create a more just society.
When: ​If you are interested, please respond to this email by [DATE]. We will select task force
members by [DATE], and you will have 4 weeks to gather information and present their plan. We will
then follow up within 2 weeks with our approved 2020 plan.

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 64

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

○

1.B.1.k

How: ​Please respond to this email if you’re interested. Let us know (1) why you want to join the task
force, (2) what specialized DEI knowledge you might have - though expertise is not required.

Message 2A (Instructions for taskforce):
Hello, everyone. Thank you for applying to join our DEI task force! We would love for you to join.
Here are the next steps:
●

I’ve scheduled a 60 minute kick off meeting on xx date.

●

We will use this first session to get to know one another and review the ​Inclusion Audit Tool​.

●

In our second meeting we will decide how we will distribute workload across the task force (e.g.,
work together bucket by bucket or assign different buckets to different people).

●

To assess each bucket of the Inclusion Audit Tool, we will ask our People Team and Executive
Team questions and interview our employees (starting first with consultants in our #inclusion Slack
channel who have volunteered to help the task force).

●

We will generate ideas together, ideally pulling for feedback and suggestions from #inclusion
consultants. Ask: “who else might be impacted?” and “whose perspective haven’t we considered?”

●

Based on our findings, we will develop a proposal for actions we can take as an organization in the
short-term (within the next 2 months), medium-term (within 2020), and long-term (2021+).

●

We will present our assessment and recommendations to the People and Executive Teams on
[DATE].

Please reach out at any time for clarification, further guidance, or if you need help making workload
adjustments to take on this responsibility. Thank you for helping us keep improving and living our values!
Message 2B (Instructions for others):
Hello, everyone. Thank you for applying to join our DEI task force! We’ve had so much interest from the
team (hooray!) that all slots have already been filled.
That said, we would love to learn from your ideas and feedback. We will be starting a special temporary
Slack channel #inclusion that you can join to provide input for the task force. Please stay tuned for an
invitation. If you have questions or suggestions in the meantime, please let us know. And thank you again
for your willingness to help us keep improving and living our values!

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 65

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

We are excited to continue this journey with you all and find new ways to leverage our differences and
make our company an amazing place to work!

1.B.1.k

Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are organizationally sponsored groups formed around specific shared
identities (e.g., Black, BIPOC, women, queer folks, veterans, parents). They can increase employee
engagement, productivity, candidate interest, and retention while leading to business innovation and
growth. ​That said, if they are not set up well, they can also lead to out-group friction, burnout,
perceived unfairness, and in some cases even discrimination lawsuits.
There is no one right way to set up your ERG. The format and guidelines should be different depending on
the ​goals ​you are looking to achieve. Make sure your ERG has defined its primary goal, and is aware of
pros/ cons/ and mitigations for each goal.
Purpose
Why does the
ERG exist?

Pros

Cons

Mitigations

Opinion sharing:
Consulting on
business
challenges (e.g.,
when exec groups
ask the ERG for
opinions)

Increased meaning,
business innovation

Frustration from feeling
lack of control over
outcomes

- ​Assign an exec sponsor
- ​Require a small number of
visible deliverables

Creating action:
Proposing and
developing
solutions to
business
challenges (e.g.,
when exec groups
ask ERG to
develop solutions,
beyond opinions)

Increased meaning,
ability to create
change, business
innovation,
productivity

Burnout, career
hindrance from doing
‘second job’ unpaid

- ​Assign an exec sponsor
- ​Reduce / change primary
role responsibilities
- ​Provide needed resources
- ​Invest in member
development and recognition
- ​Request optional consulting
only vs execution

Belonging:
Creation of
psychological
safety (e.g., a
place for similar
people to bond
and share
experiences)

Increased belonging
and engagement,
reduced stress

Possibility of complaints
with no action →
creates disengagement

- ​Create group ground rules
- ​Do regular checkins on
group purpose and benefit

Participation
Who gets to join
an ERG?

Pros

Cons

Mitigations

Only group
identifying
individuals

Increased sense of
belonging and
psychological safety,
reduced stress,

-​ In-group/out-group
identity formation →
distrust, conflict
- ​Discrimination risk

- ​Make some events open
-​ Create other interest groups
and task forces
- ​Allow any ERG within set

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 66

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

TIPS for ERGS

Identifying
members
and allies

informal mentorship

(e.g., members of
majority feeling they
aren’t getting equal
access to resources)

parameters, give all groups
equal resources

Increased empathy
and cross-identity
social connection

- Less psychological
safety
- Risk of identifying
members feeling forced
to educate allies

- ​Make some events closed
- ​Create ground rules for
group interactions

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 67

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.k

1.B.1.k

TEAM DIALOGUE GUIDES

Context: After difficult societal events, what kinds of public forums can be created for employees to
share, compress, and process what is happening? Our suggestion is that companies should help
teams create skilled facilitators for these discussions, since they are needed and important.
Tips:
●

●

Open the conversation by sharing that
○ conversations like this are hard and are needed
○ the goal for today is to be there for each other
○ the goal for this conversation isn’t action. It is understanding.
○ today doesn’t have to be the only conversation - we can take it as a starting point.
Wrap the conversation:
○ By reconnecting with the purpose and common goal of belonging and understanding.
○ Share that although these conversations are hard, our commitment is to caring for one
another.

Sample guidelines to provide for all:
● Use “I” statements: ​Speak from your own experience instead of generalizing ("I" instead of "they,"
"we," and "you"). Instead of invalidating somebody else's story with your own spin on their
experience, share your own story and experience.
● The goal is not to agree - it is to gain a deeper understanding. ​Please remember that everyone
is coping with these events in a different way, and everyone's feelings are valid even if they're
different from yours.
● Listen deeply. ​Respect others when they are talking. It is vital to approach the topic of [race] with
respect for its weightiness and nuance, centuries of pain and oppression, multiple perspectives and
narratives, and the person(s) you are engaging with.
● Embrace discomfort. ​Discomfort happens because we care.​ ​Don’t let it hold you back. Use it as a
signal to push you to learn more. Be willing to change your mind.
Sample skills for facilitators to use often:

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 68

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

Sample discussion guides

1.B.1.k

PEOPLE OPS RESOURCES

Over the past months we have hosted three working sessions with over 1000 heads of People. To
see the actual sessions and what is on people’s minds across companies, here are links.
●
●
●

DEI in times of crisis
A space for DEI professionals (DEI Huddle)
Inclusive performance assessment

Tools for gaining exec buy-in to DEI initiatives
While a growing number of people are open to and eager for change, People Ops and DEI leaders might still need
to work hard to get the level of buy-in that they need from their stakeholders to make positive change. Below are
terms and concepts that can help you drive change faster!

●

Get a seat at the table: ​If decisions are being made when you’re not present, it’s hard to have
influence. Set up recurring check-ins with decision-makers, ask to join meetings where decisions
are made, and find ways to make the “table” bigger through all-staff meetings and tools like Slack
so more people can fit.

●

Inoculate concerns​: Consider what leadership might be feeling when deciding how much to focus
on DEI. For example, a CEO might be worried that this shift could mean losing control over
company decisions or that dedicated resources to DEI will put the business at risk. Ask questions
to understand decision-makers’ concerns and hopes. For example:
○ “How are you thinking about DEI at our company?”
○ “How do you think it connects to our goals, mission, vision, and values?”
○ “What are your concerns or hesitations?”
○ “What are you hoping we can achieve on the DEI front?”
Next, use this understanding to create an ​inoculation statement​. For example, ​“I recognize that
this change could make you feel like it distracts us from our priorities. I want to roll out our new DEI
strategy in a way that supports our objectives.”

●

Use the 3-Lenses Model​ we teach at LifeLabs Learning to gain influence with leadership by
speaking to the lens that is most relevant to your listener:
○ Lens 1 [Speaker]: “The impact this change will have on me is…”
○ Lens 2 [Listener]: “The impact this will have on you is…”
○ Lens 3 [Company]: “The impact this will have on our company is…”

●

Go on Listening Tours:​ Connect with different people at your organization to understand their
current experience. Show you care while also collecting ‘team pulse’ data.

●

Create a link-map​: When presenting an idea, share how that idea links up to bigger picture goals
or objectives. Ask yourself, “what does this link up to?” For DEI initiatives, it might sound something
like this: ​My plan is to roll out this initiative because it links up to:

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

LifeLabs Learning Working Session summary documents & recordings

○
○
○

Increasing retention of critical talent.​ ​Employees who experience microaggressions​ are
three times more likely to think about leaving their jobs.
Improving the quality of our decision-making. ​Teams with greater diversity and inclusion
make more accurate decisions.
Building greater resonance and trust with customers. ​Treating employees well is the
highest-impact way to communicate an organization’s values and strengthen relationships
with customers.

●

Split-track what you hear:​ If you hear compounding topics in the reply you get, separate them to
reduce misalignment, stay on track, and focus on what matters.​ For example: “I heard you mention
both revenue and culture as concerns. Which is the bigger concern?”

●

Continuity heuristic =​ We have a craving to feel consistent, so if you say, “in the past you said X
was important, do you still feel that way?” people will be more likely to buy-in.

●

Use heart & head statements​: Want your message to be more influential? Speak to the heart
(“imagine if”, metaphors, stories, specific people) and the head (facts and research). ​For example:
“Imagine if every employee felt like they could bring their full selves to work, and we could increase
retention by 40%.”

●

Identify and mitigate risks: ​To assert influence, identify and speak to risks up front (e.g., revenue,
people, culture, brand). Make sure to highlight the areas that may not already be considered. You
want people leaving the conversation saying, “we need to make sure this person joins future
conversations because they are noticing things we are not thinking about!” Next, explain your plan
for how each risk will be alleviated.

Need more support? ​We offer training in influence skills, leading change, and inclusive systems skills.
Get in touch to learn more​!
You can also up your influence skills by joining our free events (​see sidebar​) and ​POPs United Slack Group​.

ANTI-RACISM AND ALLYSHIP RESOURCES
Allyship terms + concepts to know and share
An important part of allyship is understanding the terms that matter. Here is a series of terms shared by
members of our community that help to increase conversational capacity:
●

Privilege: ​an unearned advantage given by society to some people but not all. Recognizing your
own privilege (the ways in which your identity and background have helped you) is a great place to
start since it opens the door to empathy and allows people to become more aware of opportunities
to use their privilege to be better allies.

●

Systemic oppression​: pervasive inequality that is present throughout society, benefits people with
more privilege, and harms those with fewer privileges.

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 70

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.k

●

Marginalized person:​ a member of a group that is impacted by a system of oppression.

●

Ally​: a member of a group that benefits from privilege and works to end oppression for others
and/or make it easier for people with less privilege to gain access to opportunities. Also known as
accomplice.

●

Intersectionality: ​the concept that people can be subject to multiple systems of oppression and/or
privilege that intersect and interact with each other (coined by legal scholar Kimberlé Crenshaw).
For example, someone’s experience can be shaped by being male and cis-gender (privilege) and
also Black and gay (marginalized).

●

Psychological safety​:​ a feeling that someone can share what they are really thinking and feeling
without fear of negative consequences (like loss of physical safety, status, relationships, job).

●

Microaggression​: a statement, action, or incident regarded as an instance of indirect, subtle, or
unintentional expression of a negative stereotype. (Originally coined by Dr. Chester Pierce).

●

Additional terms​.

Allyship and anti-racism education (to share)
●

Resource Master Links
○
○
○

●

Black Community Resource Guide​ by Policy Genius: Provides ways to support and
educate yourself on racism
Racism resources & how to be a better ally
Employee Diversity in Tech​ ​Workforce data from 2014 - 2018

Educational articles and videos
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○

○
○
○
○
○

Allyship in action
Guide to allyship
Black People Need Stronger White Allies
How To Be An Ally During Times of Tragedy
Anti-Racism Resources for White People
Article on ​general allyship​ ​with a ​corresponding YouTube video
Resources for White People to Learn and Talk About Race and Racism
Save the Tears: White Woman’s Guide
How to manage your team in times of political trauma
Your Black Colleagues May Look Like They’re Okay — Chances Are They’re Not
Maintaining Professionalism In The Age of Black Death Is….A Lot
From Nobl Collective:​ ​Why we need to have these discussions​ ​and​ ​how to talk about
politics at work​: ​Some guidelines for boosting psychological safety while addressing the
issues—however uncomfortable that might be. Keep in mind, though, that talk is
cheap—make sure you’re backing up your​ ​words with actions​, as co-CEO of Ariel
Investments Mellody Hobson discusses.
Talking to children about race - Embrace Race
Ally Resource Guide
Anti-Racism Solidarity Resource
Donut Pairing Channel - Allyship in Action
If You’re Trying to Diversify Your Team, First Get Your House In Order

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 71

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.k

1.B.1.k

Podcasts to subscribe to:
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

●

Funds and petitions to support:
○
○

○
○

●

About Race
Code Switch (NPR)
Intersectionality Matters!
Momentum: A Race Forward Podcast
Pod For The Cause (from The Leadership Conference on Civil & Human Rights)
Pod Save the People (Crooked Media)
Seeing White

Collective list
The Sentencing Project Outreach Directory
Campaign Zero​ - has a comprehensive guide to policies that aim to correct broken windows
policing, excessive force, racial profiling, for-profit policing, and much more
5 Calls​ ​- ​provides scripts and phone numbers to make calls for various causes

Other Resources
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○

Official Black Wall Street - Black Owned Business Directory
Black-owned DEI Companies and Consultancies accepting new corporate clients
FirstMark Resources List for Education on Racial Justic​e
Black Women’s Health Imperative - BWHI
POC Online Classroom
Therapy for Black Girls
Therapy for Black Men
BEAM - Black Emotional and Mental Health Collective
Family​Care, Community​Care and Self​Care Tool Kit: Healing in the Face of Cultural Trauma
7 Virtual Mental Health Resources Supporting Black People Right Now
Ethel’s Club
Justice in June
MOBB - Map of Black Businesses
11 Black-owned Vegan Businesses to Support that Ship Nationwide
Virtual Volunteering Sites
■ Catch A Fire
■ Volunteer Match
■ Tap Root
■ All For Good
■ Do Something
■ Avenues for Justice
■ Points of Light

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 72

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

●

1.B.1.k

Managers are being asked to support employees as they navigate working from home, exploring White
supremacy, experiencing racism, dealing with a global public health crisis, and so much more. All at once!
There is more pressure on managers now than ever to support, develop, focus, and inspire employees. So,
along with offering ​training​ to set up your managers for success, create a Manager Meetup Program so
they can have each other’s support as they navigate the hardest management challenges of this
generation.
Here are the top tips based on our clients’ most successful programs:
1) Name your program
This simple first step makes your program feel more special (signaling to managers that you are investing in
their development) and makes it easier to talk about and promote. ​Examples: Manager Dens, Leadership
Circles, Manager Meetups, Linked Leaders.
2) Pick a cadence
The most common meetup frequency is monthly, but you might want to poll program participants to learn
what works best for their needs and schedules (e.g., weekly, biweekly, monthly, or quarterly).
3) Create a system
Successful manager meetup programs tend to fall in one of two categories: ​(1) ​create a #leader Slack
channel and use a pairing tool like ​Donut​ to create new, random connections of 2-4 different managers for
each meetup, or ​(2) ​establish a consistent cohort of 8-10 participants that continues meeting for 6-24
months. ​Pro-tip: If your managers completed the LifeLabs Manager CORE program in a cohort, keep this
group together!
4) Decide on your grouping strategy
The most effective programs typically lean on the power of ​random​ groupings for maximum diversity and
simplicity. But you might also consider more deliberate arrangements (e.g., connecting managers of similar
experience levels or forming cross-functional or cross-geographic groups).
5) Provide clear instructions
Take any confusion or friction out of your program by sharing a clear invitation and meeting instructions.
Sample invitation: ​We know how much responsibility is on your shoulders and what a crucial role you play
in helping our teams succeed. Thank you! We want to help make your lives easier (and less lonely) by inviting
you to join our new Linked Leaders Program. Join the #linked Slack channel, and once every month, you’ll
be randomly assigned to connect with 2-4 others managers at COMPANY to share insights and advice. If
you have any questions, please let me know.
Sample meeting instructions:​ Congratulations! You’ve been connected. Right now, find a 60-minute
window to meet this week. Start with a quick round of insight-sharing (2 minutes each), then take turns

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 73

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

How to create a Manager meet-up program

1.B.1.k

discussing your most pressing manager challenge with questions and advice from the group (12 minutes
each).

6) Bonus – help new learning stick
If you’re offering manager meetups to people who completed a training program, encourage them to
refresh and apply their new skills.
Sample alternate instructions:​ Congratulations! You’ve been connected. Right now, find a 60-minute
window to meet this week. Start by sharing one skill or tool from the manager skills program that you’ve
used in the past month (2 minutes each). Take turns discussing your most pressing manager challenge with
coaching, feedback, and advice from the group (10 minutes each). Wrap up by committing to one skill or
tool you’ll use next week (2 minutes each). Pro-tip: have your workshop key points handy so you can keep
applying what you learned.

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 74

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

Optional: ​For cohorts that meet on an ongoing basis, offer a meetup tracker template like ​this one​.

1.B.1.k

Managers are the hotspot for creating inclusive cultures. When you train managers to have essential DEI
skills, you can quickly see a change sweep across an org. But supporting direct reports through difficult
times, while at the same time coping with one’s own thoughts and feelings is incredibly difficult. Below are
resources for managers - as a first step - to help make it easier to lead with compassion and create a
culture of greater equity and inclusion for all.

Inclusion training
Inclusive Cultures Program​, including Behaviors of Inclusion, Inclusive Interviewing, and Inclusive Systems Skills.

Sample skills to use during difficult conversations

QUESTIONS TO ASK DIRECT REPORTS IN 1-1s, during moments of difficulty or societal tension
●

What would be the most helpful use of this time?

●

Where are you getting support?

●

What’s one thing I can do to make work easier for you right now?

●

Would it feel good to brainstorm actions you’d like to see us take as a team or as a company?

WHEN LISTENING, USE THE ‘TRIPLE A’ METHOD:
●
●
●

Acknowledge: ​Thank you for sharing this.
Affirm: ​This is a really important conversation for us to have. I care very much about x.
Ask: ​Can you share more about x?

(AND A FEW THINGS TO NOT SAY)
●
●
●
●
●

I know exactly what you’re going through.
I felt left out when you didn’t come to talk to me about it.
It could be worse. (At least you have a job.)
At least racism isn’t happening at work.
I’m sure it will get better soon.

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 75

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

MANAGER RESOURCES

Micro-intervention guide
Microaggressions (small comments or actions that reveal or come across as a bias or stereotype) are
unfortunately pervasive in many workplaces. For example, a comment like “Wow! You are so articulate!”
said to a Black coworker might be well-intentioned but when heard over and over from different people can
imply that being articulate and Black is a surprising combination. A single comment is typically easy to cope
with but chronic exposure to similar remarks can lead to stress, disengagement, and underperformance.
For managers,​ intervening​ when we see instances of microaggressions is tricky and yet important since
managers play a critical role in modeling desirable behavior and supporting their teams.
When microaggressions happen, ​there's typically a tug-of-war in our brains. “Did it feel upsetting to
others?” “Do I say something right now, publicly, or do I wait and address it privately?” Many factors go
into this decision. Things like, "Would it put me at risk?", "How bad was it?", "Did anyone else notice
that/interpret it that way?", "Is this a good time to educate?", "If I don't say anything, does it signal that this
is okay?" And for managers, the extra layer is, “What does it say about me as a leader or our company
leadership overall?”
There is no right or wrong answer, but here are a few tips from our Behaviors of Inclusion workshop at
LifeLabs Learning for addressing microaggressions and discriminatory behavior, publicly and privately.
PUBLICLY

●

Isolate the sentence or comment. ​If someone says something in public that isn’t okay, you
(in a manager role) can do a micro-intervention. The goal of this micro-intervention is to let it
be known to other listeners that you recognize an inappropriate comment, but to do so in a
way that creates room for change.

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 76

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.k

●

●

How? Sample public actions include: Pause the conversation by publicly asking ​"Could you
say more about what you mean when you say xyz?", or share: "That sentence/ comment
doesn’t land well with me. Or, ‘I’m worried about that comment. Can I share more with you
later?’ Or “I think that comment would need to be said differently. Can I share more with you
later?”.
The focus is on the comment or the sentence, never the person. This is what we call
‘separating the person from the action’.

PRIVATELY, in a 1-1 conversation
Give feedback using the LifeLabs Q-BIQ method
●
●
●
●
●

●

Q​uestion: Can we talk about what just happened/ the conversation during our last team
meeting?
B​ehavior: Describe what you observed/ heard said.
I​mpact statement: Share why this matters/ How their action/ comment might impact others?
Q​uestion: End with a question to make it a two-way conversation. Help them decide how to
address what happened or what was said.
Remember to separate the intent from the impact. If the conversation turns to a reaction like
“but I didn’t mean it,” acknowledge that intention and impact are separate and yet the impact
is real regardless of intention.
It can also be helpful to frame what you're sharing. For example, "Hey, this is uncomfortable
for me to say, but I know you care about the team feeling like they belong, so ..." Framing can
help set up the conversation for success.

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 77

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.k

1.B.1.k

4 ACTIONS TO TAKE DURING CRITICAL RACISM MOMENTS
Responding to racism and strengthening inclusion

1. Send A Message From Your Company, sharing your reaction and values
Why send a message?
●

Silence sends an unintended signal, leaving employees to interpret it in their own way - often
seeing no message as a sign of disinterest, fear, or lack of care. Inaction is still action.

●

Asking employees to be real, present, and authentic at work goes hand-in-hand with
acknowledging and making space for the very real impact of events outside of work.

●

This message is an opportunity to give especially impacted employees a greater sense of safety
and belonging, and all employees a greater sense of meaning and pride in their organization,
increasing loyalty and engagement.

What should go in internal (employee) messaging?
❏ Acknowledge​ the current situation​ ​(see samples below)​,​ ideally naming victims by name and
acknowledging the disproportionate impact on Black team members.
❏ Normalize ​the strain of doing work and staying present in the midst of violence ​and​ a pandemic.
❏ Promote mental health and self-care ​by encouraging taking time off, taking breaks, sharing
what’s on your mind, opting out of conversations if needed, and redistributing workload.
❏ Unite​ your team with a connection to your company missions and/or values.
❏ Commit to action ​by clarifying how your organization will play a role in building a more equitable
and inclusive company and society (e.g., make a donation, have a “blackout day,” roll out
inclusion/allyship training, launch a ​DEI task force​). Adjust your messaging based on the actions
you decide to take in the buckets below.
Most important: ​Take any commitment you make ​seriously. ​Vague promises or promises without
concrete action can lead to greater disengagement. Once you send your message, create a concrete
plan with owners for each action.
Who should send a message?
● A message from the CEO and/or founder sends the strongest signal (​see sample​ CEO messages
and a ​template​ for encouraging CEOs/founders to speak up).
● People Ops should ideally follow up with more detailed employee resources for all employees
and a message to managers​ (​see sample below​) ​with recommended actions to take.
● Managers should ideally send a follow-up message to their teams offering support.

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 78

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

Here are four buckets of action to prioritize (created June 1, 2020):

1.B.1.k

Employees are under an unprecedented amount of chronic cognitive and emotional strain. Prioritizing
mental health now will increase your team’s resilience and capacity to make meaningful contributions in
the long-term.
Offer mental health services
● Clarify existing mental health benefits. Pro-tip: make these very simple to access.
● Offer extra Mental Health Days.
● Provide additional services (e.g., TalkSpace subscription.)
● See our ​Resilience Playbook​ for additional recommendations.
Create spaces for cognitive offloading/processing
● Create a dedicated Slack channel for conversations.
● Make time to process in the beginning of all-hands and team meetings (e.g., do a 2-minute round
robin to give people a chance to express what they’re feeling to create shared
awareness/empathy). Include an opt-out or pass option for those who do not want to participate.
● Ask managers to “check in before checking on” - ask about feelings and needs at the start of
1-1s (e.g., “What can I do to support you this week?” “What can I take off your plate?”).
● Hold an optional meeting for people to attend to discuss what they’re experiencing.

3. Offer Educational Resources
●
●
●

●
●

Org-wide​,​ ​offer education opportunities for all, especially encouraging leaders to opt in
Support your ERG/Affinity groups​ by offering additional education resources and internal
visibility (including self-awareness and allyship/inclusion training).
Workshops from LifeLabs Learning:
○ Inclusion Program
○ Adaptivity & Resilience skills
○ Manager and employee training through the lens of remote work, adaptivity, and equity
Other DEI instructors and consultants:
list of Black-owned companies​, ​Collective​, A
​ waken​, ​Peoplism
Share articles, books, podcasts, videos, documentaries, and websites. ​(See resources)
Pro-tip: invite people to share short summaries of key points with links to resources.

4. Take Action To Support Causes that Matter Most
The anger and anxiety in our bodies can be fuel for action with long-lasting positive impact on your
company. Frame the action by acknowledging the context. ​For example: “It may seem reactive, and it is.
As painful as the current situation is, it is also an important reminder to take deliberate action.”
Here are examples of actions you can take right away:
● Launch an educational program (see bucket 3 above for ideas) and ask employees to help
co-create and promote the program.
● Launch a DEI task force to develop a proposal for greater equity and inclusion within your
organization (including how you support employees ​and c
​ ustomers). ​See our task force guide​.
● Match employee donations to organizations that support equity and social justice.

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 79

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

2. Provide Mental Health / Cognitive / Emotional Support

1.B.1.k

SAMPLE COMMUNICATIONS

From People Ops / HR to managers
(Template written by LifeLabs Learning. Feel free to copy, paste, and edit to match your org.)
Dear managers,
Times are hard right now. We ask our employees to bring their full selves to work so we can all benefit from
the passion, engagement, and creativity that’s only possible when we are real with each other. And right
now, bringing your full self to work also means bringing your fears, your pain, your confusion, and your
anger. The recent killings of George Floyd, Tony McDade, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and violence has
brought pervasive racism into the forefront of our minds. It’s not that racism is new - it is the fact that it is
unending that is so painful.
So, what can we do as leaders in our organization? Here are 3 steps we ask you to take:
1. Put on your oxygen mask first. ​Holding space for others going through emotional turmoil while
also feeling the chronic strain yourself is a lot to endure. Please take care of yourself so you can
also show up for others. Take breaks, take time off, lean on your peers, ask for help, and contact
the People Team if you need extra support.
2. Acknowledge it.​ Call out what’s happening in the world, and the impact it has on your team in an
email and/or in your next team meeting. Make it clear that people can talk about their fears and
frustrations about racism as openly as we have been talking about the pandemic.
Use phrases like: ​“I want to acknowledge what’s happening...”​ ​“I want to call out how impossible it
is sometimes to focus on work in the midst of everything that’s happening…” “It’s okay to talk about
what’s happening in our world and how we’re feeling about it…”
3. Check ​in​ before checking on. ​Every person on your team right now is feeling something different.
Some people are angry. Some people are grieving. Some people are exhausted. Some people need
breaks. Some need help re-prioritizing their work. And some people want to throw themselves into
their work for a sense of progress and meaning. So, start your 1-1s by checking in about how
people are feeling and what they need before checking on their work.
Ask questions like: ​“What’s one thing I can do to make your life easier?” “Have you seen the
resources we have available to help during this time - do you need any clarification?”
Based on what you learn, please help each person make adjustments to their work (e.g., make a
stop-start-continue list, take time off, distribute tasks across the team, share self-care resources
like this ​article​ or a resource you co-create with your team).
If we can support you in any additional way during this time, please let us know. And THANK YOU for your
courage and care as leader during this difficult time.

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

The following are sample messages in response to pervasive anti-Black violence that was highlighted by
the deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, Tony McDade, and many others.

1.B.1.k

(Template written by LifeLabs Learning. Feel free to copy, paste, and alter to match your org.)
Hi,
I’m thinking it would mean a lot to our team to hear from you regarding the recent deaths, racism, and
anti-Black violence going on.
It’s also a chance to show our employees we care and stand with them - especially Black employees. It can
go a long way in creating a better space for people to cope.
I’m thinking an email and comment at all-hands would be great. Let me know if I can help by writing up a
draft or sending sample messages from other companies (dozens have already gone out this week).
I know how much is on your plate right now, and would love to make it easier on you. Would a draft help?

From CEOs to team
From Justworks:
The murder of George Floyd by Minneapolis police is a horrible crime. The officers on the scene need to be
held accountable. This type of brutality against Black Americans has r​ epeated itself over and over for years​.
Black Lives Matter and we can’t be a nation where all people are created equal unless we recognize,
confront, and eradicate racism.
We’ve been living with structural racism for over 400 years and Black Americans have battled against (and
continue to do so) institutionalized obstacles. Black Americans experience life in an entirely different way
than others. Everyone plays a role, even if they don’t know it. Part of white privilege is the privilege of “not
knowing” and it needs to end now.
Racism and bias are much too prevalent, including in corporate America. This is unacceptable. Justworks is
committing to:
1. Training our people to actively combat racism. More than just “bias training,” we need to actively
undo racism. Everyone at Justworks will complete the initial phase of this training in the next 30
days, with ongoing reinforcement thereafter.
2. Matching employee donations 2:1 to B
​ lack Lives Matter​, ​Know Your Rights Camp,​ and C
​ ampaign
Zero​, or another related cause of the employee’s choice.
3. Waiving 12 months of Justworks admin fees for newly formed Black-owned businesses so that we
can help them get started. Offering a discount to all Black-owned businesses no matter when they
were started.
4. Fostering a culture of belonging, acceptance and love. Maintaining an open dialog with our
employees and helping them feel safe in sharing their experiences. Our leadership team is making

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

From People Ops / HR to CEO (if needed)

1.B.1.k

5. Creating space for our own employees to get together, grieve, and heal. Space means the venue,
time, and priority; other things will have to wait.
6. Making our leadership ranks and company as a whole more diverse and inclusive. Reporting
internally, and on a weekly basis, the diversity of our recruiting pipeline. Partnering with other
organizations to ensure that we have a diverse pipeline for every role. Taking a close look at all of
our hiring practices and training our hiring managers to eliminate bias. Ensuring that Black
employees have a solid career path at Justworks.
7. Encouraging and expecting our employees to take time off to recharge, protest, or for any other
reason. Closing Justworks on Friday, June 5, 2020, so that our entire team can do just that.
8. Refusing to do business with people who harass, intimidate, bully or abuse our people. Encouraging
our people to speak up about misconduct and not tolerating retaliation.
9. Expanding the scope and influence of our DEI team, and growing the team. Posting the first job
online in the next week.
10. Compensating our Employee Resource Group (ERG) leads for the additional work that they are
putting into our company, effective June 1st.
11. Incorporating this action plan, and other actions that we identify, into our goal-setting and
accountability (OKR) frameworks.
12. Amplifying our black-owned business customers.
In addition to these actions, which are things that we will do within Justworks, we also call on President
Trump to stop making public statements which divide people and incite hatred, and instead to use his
presidency to bring our nation together and promote reconciliation.
We call on Congress to pass ​H.R. 40,​ legislation that would create a commission to study the effects of
slavery and discrimination from 1619 to the present and recommend appropriate remedies.
We call on state lawmakers nationwide to compel police departments to adopt reforms and enact policy
changes recommended by the ​2015 report​ of the Task Force on 21st Century Policing commissioned by the
White House.
Finally, we call on New York State lawmakers to repeal s​ ection 50-a of the New York Civil Rights Law​ which
prohibits inspection or review of police officer personnel records without their consent. Governor Cuomo
has indicated that he would sign this into law.
We all need to listen carefully to each other, and to our fellow Black Americans in particular. Our nation and
our people are angry, frustrated, sad and hurting. Until we begin to truly take steps to show that we hear, we
will not be able to begin healing.

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 82

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

themselves available to all of our employees to listen 1:1. Experimenting with other forms of shared
space so that employees feel safe and heard no matter how they prefer to communicate. Staying
connected to what everyone on our team is experiencing and acting on that feedback. Our first
survey will be in the next 15 days.

Excerpt from Acutis:
I want to share my thoughts on the most recent murder of George Floyd. Floyd’s final words – “I can’t
breathe,” “Mama,” and “please” follow many more words we will never hear from Ahmaud Arbery, Sandra
Bland and Breonna Taylor. Their deaths add to a much longer history of violence and racism Black people
and people of color have faced. Voices demanding justice must be heard.
Our team, from the most junior to more senior members, is made up of amazing colleagues from across all
races, religions, backgrounds and beliefs. This is what makes us special. I love that about you all. I want to
make sure that we continue to make progress together.
We will, as Acutis, make a donation this week to the Liberty Fund, which is an assistance program for
people who are jailed because they don’t have the personal funds to raise bail. I encourage you all to follow
our action with a donation of any size.
We will continue to work for, celebrate and protect our diversity so that our work place is a place of
acceptance and hope for all. All. We will be clear in our position about the importance of such social justice.
Most importantly, I will ask for ideas and input on what more we can do. You have my commitment that we
will be at our best. The most recent tragedies have come at a time when we’ve been trying to heal from the
COVID19 crisis. You all have been #HealthCareHeros. You stepped in, stepped up and saved lives. We will
step in and step up for social justice.
From GoFund Me:
Over the last week, people across the country have stood up in the face of injustice and systemic racism
plaguing the black community. We've seen an outpouring of global support on GoFundMe for George
Floyd’s family, peaceful protesters demanding change, and organizations fighting for equality and
accountability.
The issues people are voicing are deep-rooted and require meaningful change. We understand that t​ o drive
change we must get involved and take action​. To help drive that change, today we’ve created the ​Justice &
Equality Fund​ to support organizations and people that are dedicated to addressing both urgent needs and
systemic problems. We have committed ​$500,000​ to start the Fund, which will initially focus on bail, racial
justice, and law enforcement reform.
Solving the deep, structural issues that have caused these nationwide protests will take empathy and
dedication. We are committed to a sustained effort to create change and look forward to working with you
to help our society become more equitable.

From CEOs to customers
Collection:
Notable corporate responses to George Floyd’s murder
Blog tracking brand responses to racial injustice
Spotlight on Ben & Jerry’s!

From European Wax Center:

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 83

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.k

Over the past few weeks, the associates of European Wax Center have come together to find a way we can generate
positive change within our organization and within our communities in direct response to the senseless deaths of
George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and countless others. We are having open and frank conversations with
our Black associates, guests, partners and friends about how we can join the fight against systemic racism, inequality,
and injustice – a pandemic that has plagued the United States for centuries.
Our first step toward driving change is actively listening. All EWC associates are being asked for their passion and
participation, because having the full support of our entire company makes the likelihood of success that much greater
and we aim to present a united front. Although our EWC family is a diverse one, it’s imperative that we lift up the voices
of our Black associates and collectively bear witness to their personal stories. Injustices they have experienced in their
career and personal lives are truths we all need to hear and acknowledge, so that we, as an organization, can fuel real
change and continue to create a company culture that embraces diversity and inclusion.
To help guide us, we are creating a Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Council to spearhead the development of thoughtful
internal and external initiatives that promote racial equality such as community engagement, new recruiting efforts and
performance management metrics to help continue fostering the kind of working environment where associates feel
represented, supported and heard.
We also want to take a deeper look at the ways prejudice and fear can manifest in the workplace. That means
uncovering our own biases that, if not confronted, can cause harm to others. So both our executive leadership team and
associates will participate in Unconscious Bias training, which requires that we take a deep and honest look at our
actions and motivations. This training will certainly impact the positivity and inclusivity of our workplace, but our hope is
that it does more—and touches each of our associates in personal ways that inspires them to take this new
understanding out into their respective communities and enact it in their everyday life.
We also want to be deliberate how we contribute financially to any cause, because we believe that money alone cannot
and should not absolve us from taking meaningful action. Together, with our Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Council we
are researching grassroots causes that address a myriad of issues that disproportionally affect Black communities, such
as education and community health + wellness, to determine the best approach.
Additionally, we are recommitting to and reinforcing our Anti-Discrimination Policy. Although this policy is not new for
us, we want to make it clear to our entire company and network that our actions will follow our words. Period.
For us, this is not instituting a policy or two and being done. We recognize that confronting racism extends beyond the
Black community, and we remain resolute in focusing on all racial diversity as we go forward. Today, we want our Black
leaders and associates to know we’re going to continually stand with them as fierce allies.
Now is not the time to stand idly by. It is the time to be vocal, staunch allies, and do so in the caring spirit that has
always led us. We’re appreciative of our guests, their feedback to us, and of the honest and thoughtful suggestions of
how we can do more to promote equality from within.
In Solidarity,
The EWC Team

The Okra Project’s response to staff misconduct (public-facing):
Note that The Okra Project is a nonprofit that addresses needs in the Black Trans community. Multiple
survivors came forward. In many cases, survivors have faced not being believed, though nationally, fewer

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.k

1.B.1.k

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

than 3% of allegations like these are false. The organization moved swiftly and transparently to take action to
protect their community.

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 85

1.B.1.k

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

THIS DOCUMENT IS A WORK IN PROGRESS - we are adding to it daily. If you have
questions or suggestions, please email ​hello@lifelabslearning.com

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com
Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: LifeLabs Learning_ DEI Playbook (4456 : Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Proposal)

1.B.1.k

Have questions or suggestions? Need training? Visit ​LifeLabsLearning.com

Packet Pg. 87

