Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
March 23, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Hoy, 1st Vice Chair Francone, 2nd
Vice-Chair Deadwyler (via phone),
Secretary Walker, Treasurer Menten

Other Board members present:

Director Anderson (via phone), Director
Tisdale (via phone)

Others present:

General Manager Genova, Executive
Manager Barbara McManus, Board Office
Administrator John McKay, Chief
Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration
Heather McKillop, Assistant General
Manager of Communications Scott Reed.

II.

March Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Hoy reviewed the March Board Meeting agenda.
Barbara McManus noted that no retirees would be attending the meeting.
Chair Hoy noted the unanimous consent items and recommended action items.
Director Menten asked whether an abstention is a no vote for the purposes of the
unanimous consent agenda.

General Manager Genova and Barbara McManus both responded that a Director’s
abstention on an otherwise unanimously approved item in a committee meeting did
not warrant that item’s removal from the consent agenda.
Director Menten commented that the procedural difference between committee
meetings and Board meeting is strange.
Director Francone asked which Directors had objected to one of the recommended
actions
Barbara McManus said Folska, Francone, and Menten voted no.
General Manager Genova explained that the recommended action was for a
contract amendment regarding State Highway 119 bus rapid transit (BRT)
environmental clearance.
Director Menten asked what would happen if the environmental impact statement
(EIS) required changes.
General Manager Genova said that RTD would be able to address those findings
and amend the route accordingly because the route was not a part of voterapproved changes under FasTracks.
Ms. McManus noted that Director Williams had voted no on the router contract.
General Manager Genova said that he spoke with Director Williams, who explained
that she had voted no because the wi-fi routers were not available for public use.
Motion:

Director Francone made the motion to approve moving
the March 28, 2017 Board agenda to the full Board.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

III.

The motion passed with 5 in favor (Hoy, Francone,
Deadwyler, Menten) and 0 opposed.

Other Matters
Chair Hoy spoke about Accelerate Colorado (AC). He said that AC is a subset of the
Aurora Economic Development Corporation. He said that Directors attended the AC
annual conference in Washington, D.C., in years past. He said that at least one of
attendees was required to be a member of AC and that former Chair Tobiassen

expensed the annual $5,000 membership, which cost included the trip to
Washington.
Ms. McManus said that Director Broom is asking for RTD to purchase an annual AC
membership at a cost of $1,500. She said that Director Broom would pay for the
cost of membership if the Board does not approve the request.
Chair Hoy asked for clarification on whether the membership cost is $5,000 or
$1,500.
Ms. McManus said the annual membership cost for RTD is $1,500.
Chair Hoy asked whether the Directors electing to travel to Washington, D.C.,
would be able to book travel at a reduced rate, and Ms. McManus confirmed that
they would.
Chair Hoy clarified that the question was whether RTD should purchase an AC
membership for the purpose of reduced travel rates.
Ms. McManus said yes but noted that the terms of the membership could change.
She also stated that AC has reached out to the Directors to offer them seats on
their issue committees.
Chair Hoy asked whether RTD is a member of the Aurora Economic Development
Commission, and Ms. McManus responded that RTD does not currently have
membership.
Director Francone asked whether RTD is a member of the Jefferson County
Economic Development Corporation, and Ms. McManus confirmed that RTD is a
member and stated that she has a list of other RTD memberships.
Director Deadwyler said that Directors are asked each year which organizations
RTD should join and asked whether AC had ever been mentioned.
Ms. McManus confirmed that AC was not included in the list of organizations
because RTD gained membership by way of former Chair Tobiassen.
Director Tisdale stated that RTD is a member of the South Metro Chamber of
Commerce.

Director Anderson said that she had not known previously which organization AC
belonged to. She said she would like to see how much RTD pays toward the
various economic development organizations.
Ms. McManus said that the Communications Department is working on that list.
Chair Hoy said that the issue would be revisited at a later date once the costs were
known.
Director Menten said that she would be a no vote if the item were a recommended
action.
Chair Hoy stated that RTD sold the parcel of real estate adjacent to the 1600 Blake
Street facility to the City and County of Denver in order to refinance Union Station.
He said that the sale agreement permitted RTD the use of the area as long as
Market Street Station was in use. Following the opening of Union Station and the
subsequent closure of Market Street Station, the City and County of Denver sold
the land, which would eventually become a large development. He said that RTD
would lose its surface parking lot during the 1-2 years of construction and that the
developer agreed to provide replacement parking during that time.
Ms. McManus said that the facilities management team was looking at options for
parking in the surrounding area, including lots at the Tabor Center and behind Union
Station near the Ice House building. She said construction would commence July
2017 and run 2-2.5 years for full construction. She said she wanted to inform the
Directors early so they could begin to consider how to commute to Board meetings
and stated she would relay more information as it became available.
General Manager Genova said that RTD’s parking structure would be underground
once the construction is completed and that the sale agreement specified that RTD
would be kept whole with respect to parking.
Director Francone asked what is being constructed.
General Manager Genova said a large building was being constructed all around the
1600 Blake Street facility.
Director Anderson said that the Directors could commute via bus or a train but
noted that committees may adjourn after the end of service of certain bus routes.
She said that the Board would need to recognize people’s use of buses and the
consequent schedule limitations, and Chair Hoy agreed. She further stated that the

Board should look at how it could become more efficient in running committee
meetings.
Director Deadwyler said that she remembered hearing from the previous General
Manager that Directors could meet at a certain location and then be bused in.
General Manager Genova said he had not heard that proposal but said that he could
look into it.
Director Francone said that Directors are elected officials and are obligated to both
attend Board meetings and arrange transportation to and from those meetings.
Ms. McManus stated that Sheri Le, Cyber Security Manager, had been hired by
RTD to create agency policies to upgrade and secure RTD’s network. She noted
payment card industry (PCI) compliance for SmartCard as a component of agency
security. She said that by the end of March 2017 all employees using RTD
computer equipment would have taken cyber security training, though it was
decided that Directors would not be included in the first round of training. She said
that Directors would be assisted by Board Office staff in their security training and
that Directors would be able to train either at the office or at home. She said the
training would hopefully launch on April 1, 2017, and run through the end of the
month, though any Directors unable to complete training in that time would be
offered a workshop in late April or early May to go over the training materials. She
said the training is straightforward, taking less than an hour to complete, and would
bolster security awareness both in the office environment and on personal devices.
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of Finance
and Administration said she encourages everyone to take cyber security training.
She noted that RTD has been targeted for phishing schemes.
Director Francone asked whether the Directors’ training is different from the
training employees received, and Ms. McManus confirmed that the trainings are the
same. Director Francone said that she appreciates the training but wondered if the
staff was having to do extra work to accommodate the Directors.
Ms. McManus said the Directors’ training was planned to be separate from the start
in order to allow the staff to work out any bugs encountered. She also said that,
because the training can be done in segments, the concern was that staff would
have to monitor the progress of Directors who did not complete the training in one
session.

General Manager Genova said that, at the previous day’s Senior Leadership Team
(SLT) meeting, Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, and
Ms. McKillop reported on the reduced-fare media program. Ms. McKillop said that in
2016 the program saw a large increase in the amount of reduced-price fare media
sold. She said the good news is the program has become highly utilized, but this
increase has also become an unforeseen issue. She reported that the sales have
continued to increase rapidly in 2017 and that temporary measures must be put in
place to sustain the program, followed by an eventual decision from the Board
regarding the long-term policy direction for the program.
Chair Hoy asked for confirmation that the program had been in place for some time.
General Manager Genova said yes, though the amount of fare media available to
the program was increased in 2016 and some of the reporting and administrative
processes have been streamlined. He said RTD’s sale price of 50% off of the face
value of the media has been standardized across all participants and noted that
participants can resell the tickets at any price to qualified recipients.
Ms. McKillop said that the face value of fare media sold under the program was
increased to $6.8 million, which is a $3.4 million cost to RTD. She said that,
following the change in the program in 2016, new participants were monitored so
that they would not suddenly overwhelm the program with demand for new tickets.
She said the program was performing normally through November but experienced
a drastic increase in December, when participants unexpectedly purchased
$750,000 in fare media. She said that 20 new companies requested to participate
in the program in January. She noted that one company that had previously
purchased 3,000 reduced-fare tickets in a month suddenly purchased 25,000 in
February and March. She said demand from other existing companies surged as
well, necessitating an emergency meeting in her department. She said that the
concern was raised that the current level of demand would not only exceed last
year’s supply of media but also that the program may not be able to be funded
through the end of the year without additional appropriations authorized by the
Board. She said that 35 qualified participants have been added to the program since
mid-2016 and that new applicants to the program on or after April 1, 2017, would
be put on a waiting list. She stated that RTD has not advertised the program and
that its existence has spread only through Board meetings and word of mouth.
Director Menten asked what kind of means testing companies would have to
perform to be eligible to purchase media under the program.

Ms. McKillop said that companies must disclose their distribution criteria and
testing methods before they can be added to the program. She said the
organizations are audited to ensure they regularly apply those means-testing
criteria.
Director Deadwyler said that in the past nonprofits were found selling tickets to
ineligible individuals and asked how that issue was being addressed.
General Manager Genova said that RTD performs random audits on the participating
organizations to ensure compliance with RTD’s standards. He said that the
recipients of the reduced-price media, rather than the participating companies
themselves, may be the ones selling the media inappropriately.
Director Deadwyler asked whether the tickets are numbered.
General Manager Genova said that some media products are and some are not and
said that he would report back to the Board.
Director Deadwyler said that she likes that more nonprofits are joining the program
but was not sure why RTD needed to put forth so much money to fund the plan.
General Manager Genova said that all funding for RTD’s charitable programs comes
from within RTD. He said that one reason the program has become so popular is
that it was made known to nonprofit organizations during the analysis leading to
the 2016 fare structure change.
Ms. McKillop said that RTD did not cap the amount of media sold to new
participants in the program because those organizations had not yet established a
historical pattern of purchasing. She said that most of the new organizations are
small but purchased unexpectedly large blocks of media.
General Manager Genova said that some of the new organizations are school
districts that are making large purchases. He said he was reporting on the issue to
inform the Executive Committee that a wait list would be implemented and that the
Board would be asked to decide whether to add more funding to the program.
Ms. McKillop stated that existing participants would be held to the level of
purchasing made in the same month of the previous year. She said participants
would be upset by this action but stated that RTD staff has not determined any
other way to control the program in order to avoid depleting available funds before

the end of the year. She said that social services organizations were among the
first participants.
General Manager Genova said that the temporary measures would be put into place
barring objection from the Executive Committee and that the Board would be
briefed on the status of the program the following month, with a recommended
action following in next month.
Director Deadwyler agreed to proceed with the temporary measures and stated that
she would like to see more accountability if the program is to be expanded.
Ms. McKillop noted that most of the media being sold inappropriately on the
internet are forgeries.
Director Deadwyler noted that RTD operators honored those media.
Ms. McKillop said that operators have a hard time discerning forged media as they
glance quickly when passengers board. She noted that new security features are
added to fare media each year.
Director Menten said schools receive large numbers of discounted media.
Mr. Reed said that schools receive a 50% discount on fares and that they employ
their own means-testing procedures. She said that schools may offer a further 50%
discount upon resale, which has driven the drastic increase in media purchasing, as
schools have made larger purchases than they had originally indicated they would.
Chair Hoy noted that recipients of twice-reduced media would pay $.65 for a oneway ticket with a face value of $2.60, and Mr. Reed confirmed.
Ms. McKillop stated that recipients tend to be in the free lunch program.
Chair Hoy asked whether RTD sells day passes under the program as well, which
General Manager Genova confirmed. Chair Hoy further noted that a student could
ride transit all day for $1.25.
Director Francone asked whether additional sales to current program participants
would be halted.
Ms. McKillop responded that organizations would not be able to purchase more
media than they bought in the same month last year.

Mr. Reed stated that new participants would be held to their recent purchasing
levels until further notice.
Chair Hoy noted that the program experienced a large increase in sales in
December, which meant that new participants would still be able to purchase a
high volume of media.
Ms. McKillop said that a reasonable methodology would have to be devised.
Director Menten asked whether a strong message would be sent to program
participants, and Mr. Reed said yes.
Chair Hoy mentioned the monthly check register that appeared in the packet for the
previous Financial Administration & Audit Committee meeting. He said Director
Menten asked that the check register be included for the sake of transparency. He
stated that he had reservations about the inclusion of the check register in the
packet because it is already a publically available document and because it is a
lengthy addition to the packet.
Director Menten said the check register is available online, along with the agency’s
purchase orders, but stated that only the most recent month’s transactions are
listed. She said that the check register is not archived online and that including it in
the Board packet does archive that information. She said she would prefer to see a
searchable database online and that inserting the register in the packet is a good
compromise. She said making such documents public spurs more competition by
vendors.
Chair Hoy stated that adding more information in the packet may actually dissuade
people from reading it and that a compromise might be to archive the check register
online for a set time.
Director Deadwyler said she is concerned that small businesses that bid to supply
goods or services may be discouraged by the fact that their competitors were
selected instead.
Chair Hoy stated that a small business might also see the list of goods and services
purchased by RTD and then attempt to become a vendor.

Director Menten said that Brian Iacono, Senior Manager of Materials Management,
was at first concerned with publishing the check register but has since changed his
mind now after seeing an influx of new contractors bidding for jobs.
Director Anderson said that the Directors should only receive actionable materials in
the packets and that the Board should not be involved with which vendors are
selected. She said the General Manager and RTD’s employees are hired to take care
of procurement. She said the information in the check register is publicly available
and said she was not concerned by any of the items listed in the register. She
stated that vendors can find the check register if they are interested in bidding. She
said she finds publishing the check register to be demeaning for the Board.
Director Walker said that he was curious about the inclusion of the check register
when he read his packet and asked how much server space and staff time is
required to publish it online.
Ms. McKillop said that the check register is one of a number of documents posted
on the website at the end of each month and that publishing those documents does
not take much staff time. She said she would be open to looking at publishing a
year’s worth of archived check registers online.
Director Francone said that archiving the check register online would forgo the need
to include it in the packet. She said that people may want access to that
information and should not have to submit an open records request to receive it.
Director Menten stated that the electronic file for the month’s check register was
600kb in size.
Director Walker noted that requests for proposals (RFPs) are submitted for nearly
everything purchased for RTD. He stated he was concerned about the staff’s time
and that including the check register gave the impression that the Directors were
not acting as a Board. He said it would have been nice to discuss the matter prior
to including the check register in the packet.
Director Menten noted that state statute requires certain jurisdictions to publish an
account of their “warrants” in a newspaper. She said that RTD has made progress
toward transparency even by publishing a single month’s check register.
Chair Hoy said that his plan was to meet with Director Menten and Ms. McKillop
and work out a compromise.

Director Deadwyler said that she would have been a no vote if the item were voted
on in Executive Committee.
Director Francone mentioned that the concept of a Board-only retreat was
mentioned at the recent strategic planning session and said that she found that to
be a good idea. She said Board members seldom see each other or have opportunity
to discuss matters outside of Board meeting. She stated the Board probably has a
lot of items to discuss and questioned whether a Board-only retreat would be
possible under the current year’s budget.
Director Deadwyler said she would like to find out what the other Directors are
thinking.
Director Menten asked whether the retreat would require a facilitator.
Director Francone said that having a facilitator would be helpful to direct the
questions and move things along.
Director Menten said that she is not in favor of icebreaker exercises and that she
did not see a need for a facilitator.
Director Deadwyler said that she wanted someone other than Gary Suiter if a
facilitator is hired.
Chair Hoy asked whether her concern was that using the same facilitator for both
the Board retreat and joint retreat could lead to conflicts, and Director Deadwyler
said that was one of her concerns, along with the fact that she was disappointed
with Mr. Suiter because she felt he did not properly summarize the responses of the
Board
Ms. McManus noted that the RFP process limits the Board’s choice of vendors.
Director Walker asked whether it would be feasible to have a Board retreat not
open to the public, and Chair Hoy said no. Director Walker said he did not see the
benefit of a Board-only retreat. He said the Directors talk to one another during
committees and study sessions.
Director Francone said that a study session would be a suitable vehicle for
discussion.

Ms. McManus said that an agenda would be necessary and that the Board has
conducted its own workshops and retreats in the past, including a PEST workshop
and a training session on protocol and etiquette, meeting management, and
streamlining.
Chair Hoy noted that the PEST workshop was very expensive.
Director Walker said that the Board could have a retreat easily if the intent is for the
15 Directors to just talk.
Director Menten asked when the next available study session would be.
Ms. McManus said that the next open session is August 2017.
Director Menten said that the meeting should be two hours long and open to the
public and that the retreat’s main topic should be future progress.
Ms. McManus said that each of the 15 Directors may have their own idea for
agenda topics. She said that Director Lubow is an advocate for a Board-only
retreat. She said she would discuss with Chair Hoy how to proceed.
Chair Hoy suggested the retreat could be held on a Saturday.
General Manager Genova said that the transportation funding bill passed through
the House Transportation Committee with 15 amendments and that the bill has
been referred to the House Finance Committee. He said that one amendment to the
bill proposed funding transportation options and reduced fare programs that would
allow a basic level of service to low-income individuals. He noted that the Board
may want to take a position on the bill as other jurisdictions have and said he
would keep Board apprised of changes as it proceeds through the legislative
process.
Chair Hoy said that the Board would be monitoring the bill and that any position
statement would depend on how the bill changes as it progresses.
General Manager Genova said that Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs is also
monitoring the bill.
Chair Hoy commented that the Board had been discourteous to members of the
audience during the last committee meeting.

Director Menten asked whether the discussion had been taken too far.
Chair Hoy said he did not know how else the meeting could have been run.
IV.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 1:39 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

