Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
March 23, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Larry Hoy
I.

Call to Order

II.

March Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - March 28, 2017
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Louie Archuleta – Mechanic – 22 years
Tony McCaulay – Senior Marketing Manager – 20 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker

Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of February 28, 2017

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Budget Transfer for Increased Access-a-Ride Contract Costs

It is recommended by the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer from the Board Appropriated Reserve
to the Access-a-Ride contracts for MV Transportation (Contract 13-DH-053 in the
amount of $1,700,000) and Via Mobility Services (Contract 13-DH-055 in the
amount of $810,000) to cover the additional costs associated with increased driver
wages. The total dollar amount of the budget transfer is $2,510,000.
B.

Budget Transfer for Increased Call-n-Ride Contract Costs

It is recommended by the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer from the Board Appropriated Reserve
to the Call-n-Ride contracts to cover the additional costs associated with increased
driver wages. The total dollar amount of the budget transfer is $176,000.
C.

Proposed May 2017 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the May 2017 Service Change package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of approximately
$221,300 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.
D.

Approve Contract Amendment for the Supply of 15 - 40' Transit Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise
the contract option and amend contract 13-FH-053 with Gillig LLC. for the
purchase of 15 additional 40’ transit buses and associated spare components in an
amount not to exceed $6,598,000.

XII.

Recommended Action
E.

Modeling On-Call Contract Amendment

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to amend the contract with AECOM for travel modeling
services. The current contract value is $355,706.62. This amendment increases
the value by $535,000 to a total of $890,706.62. Funding is included in the
2017 expense budget and the budget for the SH 119 BRT Environmental
Clearance project.
F.

Approval of Router Contract

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a
sole source contract not to exceed $2,500,000 with Sierra Wireless America, Inc.
(Sierra Wireless) for upgrade of existing onboard routers and purchase of new
onboard wireless routers and associated equipment (Contract Number 17DH004).
This contract will include upgrading existing routers with new integrated cellular
data modems, purchase of new onboard routers with associated equipment,
documentation and training.
XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

March 15, 2017

Subject:

Budget Transfer for Increased Access-a-Ride
Contract Costs

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: March 15, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: March 28, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize a budget transfer from the Board Appropriated Reserve to the Access-a-Ride contracts for
MV Transportation (Contract 13-DH-053 in the amount of $1,700,000) and Via Mobility Services
(Contract 13-DH-055 in the amount of $810,000) to cover the additional costs associated with
increased driver wages. The total dollar amount of the budget transfer is $2,510,000.
BACKGROUND:
RTD currently contracts with four (4) service providers, All Aboard Transit, MV Transportation, Via
Mobility Services, and Transdev-On-Demand, to provide Access-a-Ride paratransit services under four
(4) service contracts. Three of the service providers (All Aboard Transit, MV Transportation, and Via
Mobility Services) use RTD-owned vehicles to provide the service. The fourth provider (Transdev-OnDemand) uses Transdev-owned vehicles (taxi cabs) to provide the service. As the Board of Directors
is aware, the Access-a-Ride contracts were rebid in 2016 so that service providers could make
adjustments to their driver wage scales to address the challenges they were all experiencing with
hiring and retaining drivers.
DISCUSSION:
Throughout the term of the current Access-a-Ride contracts, the three dedicated-vehicle service
providers (All Aboard Transit, MV Transportation and Via Mobility Services) have experienced hiring
and retention difficulties for vehicle operators. The robust Colorado economy, the legalization of
medical and recreational marijuana, and the historically low wages paid to paratransit vehicle
operators severely impacted the ability of the Access-a-Ride service providers to hire and retain
drivers. This, in turn, had a negative impact on the quality of the Access-a-Ride service because of
the high number of un-manned or “open” runs each day. The bids received for the new Access-aRide contracts all proposed a starting wage of $15.00 per hour for new drivers. The driver wage
scales were also proposed to be adjusted for existing drivers. In order to fund the costs associated
with the increased driver wages in 2017, it is necessary to transfer additional dollars into the
Access-a-Ride budget.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
When preparing the 2017 budget for Access-a-Ride services, an assumption was made regarding the
pending re-bid of the existing contracts and the potential increase in contract costs associated with
increased driver wages. The estimated increase was less than the actual market-survey-based
increase proposed by the bidders. Consequently, additional funding is needed for 2017. The funds
needed to address the Access-a-Ride contract increases will be taken from Board Appropriated
Reserve.
ALTERNATIVES:

Packet Pg. 4

2.11.A

1. Approve the recommended action item so that funds will be available to pay the increased
contract costs associated with improved driver wages for All Aboard Transit, MV Transportation,
and Via Mobility Service through the end of 2017.
2. Do not approve the budget transfer. This course of action is not recommended as it will not allow
All Aboard Transit, MV Transportation, and Via Mobility Services to increase driver wages and
improve their hiring and retention capabilities.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

2.11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

March 15, 2017

Subject:

Budget Transfer
Contract Costs

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: March 15, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: March 28, 2017

for

Increased

Call-n-Ride

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize a budget transfer from the Board Appropriated Reserve to the Call-n-Ride contracts to
cover the additional costs associated with increased driver wages. The total dollar amount of the
budget transfer is $176,000.
BACKGROUND:
RTD currently contracts with two (2) service providers, MV Transportation and Via Mobility Services,
to provide Call-n-Ride general public demand-response transit services under two (2) service
contracts (MV contract #13-DH-053 and Via contract #13-DH-055). The Call-n-Ride service was
included as amendments to the Access-a-Ride contracts for these two providers. As the Board of
Directors is aware, the Access-a-Ride contracts were rebid in 2016 so that service providers could
make adjustments to their driver wage scales to address the challenges they were all experiencing
with hiring and retaining drivers. Accordingly, the Call-n-Ride service contracts associated with the
Access-a-Ride contracts were also rebid.
DISCUSSION:
As discussed previously with regard to the Access-a-Ride contracts, the Call-n-Ride service providers
(MV Transportation and Via Mobility Services) have experienced hiring and retention difficulties for
vehicle operators. The robust Colorado economy, the legalization of medical and recreational
marijuana, and the historically low wages paid to paratransit vehicle operators severely impacted the
ability of the Call-n-Ride service providers to hire and retain drivers. This, in turn, had a negative
impact on the quality of the Call-n-Ride service and resulted in days when the level of Call-n-Ride
service had to be reduced due to a lack of available operators. The bids received for the new
Access-a-Ride/Call-n-Ride contracts all proposed a starting wage of $15.00 per hour for new drivers.
The driver wage scales were also proposed to be adjusted for existing drivers. In order to fund the
costs associated with the increased driver wages in 2017, it is necessary to transfer additional
dollars into the Call-n-Ride budget.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
When preparing the 2017 budget for Call-n-Ride services, an assumption was made regarding the
pending re-bid of the existing contracts and the potential increase in contract costs associated with
increased driver wages. The estimated increase was less than the actual market-survey-based
increase proposed by the bidders. Consequently, additional funding is needed for 2017. The total
dollar amount of the budget transfer is $176,000.00. The funds needed to address the Call-n-Ride
contract increases will be taken from the Board Appropriated Reserve.
ALTERNATIVES:
1)
Approve the recommended action item so that funds will be available to pay the increased

Packet Pg. 6

2.11.B

contract costs associated with improved driver wages for MV Transportation and Via Mobility
Service through the end of 2017.
2)

Do not approve the budget transfer. This course of action is not recommended as it will not allow
MV Transportation and Via Mobility Services to increase driver wages and improve their hiring and
retention capabilities.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

2.11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 9, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

March 7, 2017

Board Meeting Date: March 28, 2017

Subject:

Proposed May 2017 Service Changes

RECOMMENDED ACTION
RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the May 2017 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in
an annualized cost of approximately $221,300 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted
by these changes.
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also
our responsibility to identify services that are underperforming and recommend modifications,
curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted. The proposals herein include a mix of service
improvements, adjustments and reductions. Based upon current and past ridership performance a
number of services will have minor service reductions. The Route 40-Colorado Boulevard will see the
largest reduction during the peak period. The 41st-Fox and Pecos Junction Stations are proposed to open
to provide access to the B-Line and consequentially, Routes 8 and 19 are proposed to be realigned to
serve the new stations. We will monitor customer response to the implementation of these service
changes and propose adjustments and service alternatives as appropriate in future service change
recommendations.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
 Response to changes in the communities where services are provided
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
Five public hearings were conducted in Arvada, Denver (3) and Westminster between February 14th and
February 27th. Comments and further details from these meetings and the service change website are
summarized in Attachment B of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATION
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the

Packet Pg. 8

2.11.C

outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following proposals have been significantly modified:
A Line: schedule adjustment to improve on-time performance and transit connections
R Line: schedule adjustments to improve on-time performance and reduce service delay
Route 105 - Havana Crosstown: schedule adjustments requiring additional resources to be added to the
evening peak schedule
Route 131- Iliff: extends current detour to 9 Mile Station to become regular route
Route AT – Arapahoe County/DIA: Schedule adjustments are proposed to improve service reliability.
Deferred to August.
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service improvements:
Route 3 – Alameda Avenue: extend 30 minute service frequency in peak periods and re-route
westbound trips to serve Alameda Station northbound on Cherokee Street
Route 4 - Morrison Road: reroute to serve Alameda Station northbound on Cherokee Street Route 8 –
North Broadway/Huron: reroute the Route 8 to serve the 41st/Fox Station
Route 19 – North Pecos: reroute Route 19 to serve the Pecos Junction Station
Route 105 – Havana: extend northbound evening service 30 minutes later and discontinue 3:08am
northbound trip
Route 131- Iliff: extends current detour to 9 Mile Station to become regular route
Route 133 – Hampden/Tower: extend evening service one hour later until approximately 12:00 midnight
Route 135 – Smoky Hill Road: add 10:26pm eastbound trip from Nine Mile Station
Route AB – Boulder/DIA: add 2 AM peak and 2 PM peak trips to create a 30 minute frequency,
Route BOLT – Boulder/Longmont: initiate Board approved BOLT Ltd trips via Boulder Junction at Depot
Square Station.
B Line - Westminster/DUS: add stops at the 41st and Fox Station and the Pecos Junction Station to all
trips.

Routes proposed for service reductions:
Route 40 – Colorado Boulevard: reduce peak frequency from 10 to 15 minutes
Route 55S – Olde Town/DUS: recommend pm peak schedule adjustments to combine with 55L.
Consolidate with and rename as 55L.
Route 121 – Peoria Street: discontinue the 3:07am northbound operating from Peoria/Albrook and
12:45am southbound trip operating from 40th & Airport
Route 153 – Chambers Road: discontinue 3:35am northbound trip from Sable/Colfax
Route 157 – CCA/Buckley AFB: discontinue service after 7:00pm due to low ridership
BroncosRide: (contingent on the G-Line opening) prior to the start of Broncos season, service to the
OldeTown Arvada and Ward Road Park-n-Rides will be discontinued

Routes proposed for mixed service improvements/service reductions:
Route 21 - Evans Avenue: move the 7:15pm trip leaving Federal Center 6 minutes later
Route 37 – Smith Road Industrial: reroutes via 33rd Place between Sable and Chambers

Routes proposed for routine running time analysis/schedule adjustments:
Route 43 – Martin Luther King Blvd: Schedule adjustments are proposed between 8:00am and 9:30am.
Route 44 – 44th Avenue: Schedule adjustments are proposed due to new routing near Clayton/43rd

Packet Pg. 9

2.11.C

Route 45 – Montbello via 51st/Green Valley Ranch: schedule adjustments for on-time performance
improvement.
Route 73 – Quebec Street: schedule adjustments for on-time performance improvement.
Route 105 – Havana Crosstown: schedule adjustments for on-time performance improvement.
Route 205/205T – 28th Street/ Gunbarrel/Heatherwood: schedule adjustments for on-time performance
improvement.
Applewood Village Interlines: minor weekday schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time
performance.
Changing to summer service levels for routes BOUND, DASH, JUMP, SKIP, and STAMPEDE Other route
related interline changes as result of a change to summer service levels: (204, 225,206/206F,
208/208F and Y.
Route L – Longmont/Denver: schedule adjustments due to interline changes with route BOLT/BOLT Ltd
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The overall financial impact contained in this proposal includes a net base system cost increase of
$221,300.
EQUITY ANALYSIS
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
Executive Order 12898 regarding Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA requires RTD to
evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that exceed the established major service
change threshold, to determine whether those changes will have a disproportionately negative impact on
minority or low-income populations. Our evaluation of the proposed May 2017 service changes does not
reveal any disparities in impacts absorbed by minority or low-income populations.
A Look Ahead – August 2017
L – Line
As previously discussed with the Board, a proposed solution to D Line on-time performance issues and
consequentially, overall light rail system performance, this concept introduces a modification to current
D Line operations. The L Line adds a new 30th& Downing to 14th Street Loop (Downtown) movement,
replacing the D Line service between 30th & Downing Station and 19th Street. More extensive
information regarding this proposal will be made available in a future update to the Board of Directors.
<<Enter Remaining Information Here>>
ATTACHMENTS:


Atch A May 2017 Service Change



Atch B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings – May Service Changes

(DOCX)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 10

2.11.C

Packet Pg. 11

2.11.C.a

Atch A - May 2017 Service Change

Route 3 – Alameda Avenue
With this proposal the current eastbound trip terminating at Lincoln/Alameda at 5:38pm, would
be extended to Centrepoint & Sable, arriving at 6:48pm, which extends 30 minute eastbound
peak frequency on East Alameda through the PM peak period. Current 2:42pm westbound trip
from Lincoln/Alameda, will instead originate at Centrepoint & Sable Transfer Center at 1:49pm.,
which extends 30 minute westbound peak frequency one hour earlier in PM peak.
It is also proposed to re-route westbound trips to serve Alameda Station northbound on
Cherokee Street instead of southbound. Westbound trips will access Alameda Station via
Bannock St, Virginia Avenue and Cherokee Street before continuing on Alameda Avenue.
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance. (Current OTP: 83%
Weekday/67% Saturday/79% Sunday). Cost impact is estimated to be $121,800 annualized.
Route 4 - Morrison Road
It is proposed to re-route Route 4 to serve Alameda Station northbound on Cherokee Street
instead of southbound. Trips will access Alameda Station via Bannock St, Virginia Avenue, and
Cherokee Street before continuing on Alameda Avenue. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 8 – North Broadway/Huron
This proposal reroutes the Route 8 to serve the 41st/Fox Station, as has been previously
approved by the RTD Board of Directors in the G Line Bus and Rail Service Plan. Cost impact is
estimated to be $53,900 annualized.
Route 19 – North Pecos
This proposal reroutes Route 19 to serve the Pecos Junction Station, as has been previously
approved by the RTD Board of Directors in the G Line Bus and Rail Service Plan. Cost impacts
are estimated to be $16,800.
Route 21 - Evans Avenue
It is proposed to move the 7:15pm trip leaving Federal Center Station 6 minutes later to leave at
7:21pm to provide a better connection from the W Line. No cost impact anticipated.
Route 37 – Smith Road Industrial
This proposal reroutes the Route 37 alignment via 33rd Place between Sable and Chambers
Road, instead of Moncrieff Place. Due to ADA accessibility issues, there are currently no bus
stops located on Moncrieff, where 33rd Place offers opportunities for the addition of bus stops.
No cost impact anticipated.

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Atch A May 2017 Service Change (3073 : Proposed May 2017 Service Changes)

Bus

2.11.C.a

Route 43 – Martin Luther King Blvd.
Schedule adjustments are proposed between 8:00am and 9:30am for sufficient operator
recovery and schedule reliability. Cost impacts are estimated to be $29,200 annualized.
Route 44 – 44th Avenue
Schedule adjustments are proposed due to new reroute near Clayton/43rd area, which were
initiated in January 2017. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 45 – Montbello via 51st/Green Valley Ranch
It is proposed to add PM peak bus for adequate recovery and on-time performance. Cost
impacts are estimated to be $78,000 annualized.
Route 55S – Olde Town Arvada/DUS
This service was implemented in December 2016, as an effort to provide access between the
Olde Town Arvada Park-n-Ride and the University of Colorado A Line. Current ridership
performance on this service continues to be weak relative to RTD Service Standards for fixedroute service. It is recommended that schedule adjustments be made to combine the PM peak
portions of the 55S and 55L services to improve efficiency. It is recommended that this
combined service be renamed the 55L. Approximate savings $59,000 annualized.
Route 73 – Quebec Street
It is proposed to add a PM Peak vehicle to provide adequate operator recovery and schedule
reliability. Cost impacts are estimated to be $78,000 annualized
Route 105 – Havana
This proposal extends northbound evening service 30 minutes later, until 12:20am from
Ulster/Tufts. Current last northbound trip averages 25 passengers. A running time analysis on
this route has shown a need for additional resources to be added to the PM peak period.
Additionally, it is proposed to discontinue 3:08am northbound trip, which carries 5 passengers at
7.6 boardings per hour. Passengers may use alternative trips 30 minutes earlier or later. Net
cost impact is estimated to be $60,000 annualized.
Route 121 – Peoria Street
The 3:07am northbound operating from Peoria/Albrook to 40th & Airport Station (2 passengers),
and 12:45am southbound trip operating from 40th & Airport to Peoria Station (2 passengers) are
proposed to be discontinued. Savings are estimated to be -$21,500 annualized.
Route 131- Iliff
Currently Route 131 is on detour that extends the route beyond Iliff station where it has
operated since it’s inception in 2006. This proposal would make permanent the current detour
routing extending Route 131 to 9Mile station. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 133 – Hampden/Tower

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Atch A May 2017 Service Change (3073 : Proposed May 2017 Service Changes)

Route 40 – Colorado Blvd.
This proposal reduces weekday peak service frequency from every 10 to every 15 minutes.
Peak passenger loads and productivity no longer require the higher frequency, passengers can
be comfortably accommodated with a 15 minute frequency. Anticipated cost savings are
estimated to be -$292,000 annualized.

2.11.C.a

This proposal would extend evening service one hour later until approximately 12:00 midnight in
each direction. Current last trips average 20 boardings each, or 35 boardings per hour. Cost
impacts are estimated to be $35,000 annualized.

Route 153 – Chambers Road
It is proposed to discontinue 3:35am northbound trip from Sable/Colfax to Peoria Station, which
current averages 2 passengers. Savings are anticipated to be -$10,000 annualized
Route 157 – CCA/Buckley AFB
Due to low ridership it is proposed that evening service after 7:00pm be discontinued. Total
ridership is 16 passengers over 11 trips, or 1.4 passengers per trip and 6.4 passengers per
hour. Savings are anticipated to be - $48,000 annualized.
Route 205/205T – 28th Street/ Gunbarrel/Heatherwood
Schedule adjustments are proposed to address on-time performance. No cost impacts are
anticipated.
Applewood Village Interlines
Route 28 - 28th Avenue
Route 32 - 32nd Avenue
Route 38 - 38th Avenue
Route 44 - 44th Avenue
Minor weekday schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance.
No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route AB – Boulder/DIA
It is proposed to add 2 AM peak and 2 PM peak trips to create a 30 minute frequency, as of
US36 & Table Mesa Station, in order to address current overloads and pass ups. These trips
are proposed to serve Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station, operate along Pearl Street,
28th Street, US36 to US36 & Table Mesa Station and then along the current AB route. The
introduction of the new Boulder Junction at Depot Square terminal would result in creating a
new pattern for the route and thus within the route would result in patterns AB1 (Downtown
Boulder Station) and AB2 (Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station) within current route AB.
This naming convention would mirror the naming convention of the current Flatiron Flyer
services (FF1, FF2, FF3, FF4, FF5 and FF6) to streamline the naming conventions for regional
routes with multiple patterns, within the Boulder area. Cost impacts are estimated to be
$247,400 annualized.
Route BOLT – Boulder/Longmont
This proposal Initiates previously Board approved BOLT Ltd trips via Boulder Junction at Depot
Square Station. No cost impacts are anticipated.

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Atch A May 2017 Service Change (3073 : Proposed May 2017 Service Changes)

Route 135 – Smoky Hill Road
This proposal would add a 10:26pm eastbound trip from Nine Mile Station, which extends
evening service one hour later. Current last eastbound trip at 9:26pm averages 20 passengers
and 39 boardings per hour. Cost impacts are estimated to be $29,200 annualized.

2.11.C.a

Changing to summer service levels for routes BOUND, DASH, JUMP, SKIP, and
STAMPEDE Other route related interline changes as result of a change to summer service
levels: (204, 225,206/206F, 208/208F and Y.

BroncosRide
Recommendation is that BroncosRide service to the Olde Town Arvada and Ward Road Park-nRide be discontinued with the opening of the G Line. As with past rail openings, duplicate bus
service is proposed to be discontinued. Customers would instead use the G-Line to Denver
Union Station and transfer to the C, E or W Lines to the stadium. Current average game
boardings: Olde Town 264, Ward Road 275. Cost savings are expected to be -$97,484,
annualized.

Rail
A Line – DIA/DUS
A slight schedule adjustment to the westbound A Line service is proposed to improve on-time
performance. The westbound schedule is proposed to be shifted to leave Denver Airport 2
minutes earlier on all service days. No cost impacts are associated with this change.
B Line - Westminster/DUS
It is proposed to add stops at the 41st and Fox Station and the Pecos Junction Station to all trips. In
order to accommodate the additional stops, all trips will shift approximately 12 minutes earlier in the
northbound direction from Denver Union Station. Southbound trains would depart Westminster Station
at the same times and arrive Denver Union Station four minutes later than now. This change would
ensure that adequate layover time at both terminals is maintained and avoids conflicts at Pecos
Junction and on the single track segment.
It is proposed to add a later night northbound trip from DUS at 11:09 PM. This will provide a
better option for passengers attending evening events downtown. Cost impacts are contingent
upon a negotiated cost based on the Eagle P3 Concessionaire’s agreement.
R Line – Peoria/Lincoln
Schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance and reduce trip delays,
based on schedule observations post opening the new R Line service. No cost impacts are
anticipated with this proposal.

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Atch A May 2017 Service Change (3073 : Proposed May 2017 Service Changes)

Route L – Longmont/Denver
Running time and trip time adjustments due to interline changes with route BOLT/BOLT Ltd

2.11.C.b

Route

Support

Opposed

W Line

Inquiry

Last Name

Additional Comments

Clucas

Wants to know why the W line
doesn't connect better with other
Rail Lines.
Dropping the Broomfield P&R from
the AB route is regrettable. It
eliminates a covered long‐term
parking area for so many people.
I don’t feel safe parking long‐term
at Flatirons Station or McCaslin
Station.

1
Liggett

AB

1

FF4

1

120X

1

55S

1

Lipson

135

1

104X

1

FF4

1

105

1

135

1

A/R
Lines

1

H/B Line

1

Attachment: Atch B ? Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings ? May Service Changes (3073 : Proposed May 2017

Atch B - Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings - May
Service Changes

Against removing 29th/Pearl Stop
from WB FF4
Biesemeyer Wagon Road park n ride is not
alone sufficient to service the
1000's of us that live in the
northern suburbs. If you don’t
arrive to wagon road by 7:45 the lot
is FULL. 100's of people driving
around the lot with no parking. The
buses are packed full. This happens
consistently.
Inappropriate to discontinue
Ramming
service.
Beard
Request to expand route to
Cherokee Trail High School
Aragon
Request to add more buses ‐ only 4
a day.
Carter
Requesting additional afternoon
bus
Louis
Requesting 105 connect to R line at
Dayton Station
Buemi
Support adding EB late trip from 9
mile.
Freemire
Trip to airport too expensive. If
traveling with family ‐ cheaper to
drive
Faber
Poor connections with changes ‐ 30
minute headways

Packet Pg. 16

Atch B - Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings - May
Service Changes
Torp

AB

1

Furrow
A/R
Lines
Total

1
1

7

AB service leaving DIA needs a
queue line for getting on bus. This
route consistently is very full,
especially in the late afternoon.
People crowd around gate 8 in no
order and when buss arrives they
rush forward. The driver is busy
loading luggage and they can not
control the crowd. Many people
push ahead to get a seat on the bus
and if you wait patiently you can
end up standing...This is a security
issue and it is happening at one of
th most security conscious airports
in the nation. A simple queue line
with signs and ropes like used in
inside the airport would help the
crowd control.
Very bad connections between new
R Line and A Line. First R Line
arrives too late for many
employees ‐ need earlier train

6

Downtown Denver – 1600 Blake Street
Rooms A / T & D
Wednesday February 22, 2017
Noon and 6:00pm
12:00pm Room A
The Noon meeting was attended by 6 public participants. Staff members in attendance
were: Cooper Langdon, Cesar Ochoa, Dan Merritt, Nataly Handlos, Brian Matthews and
Jessie Carter.
One participant requested that RTD reconsider the cancellation of the Route 55S service.
She believed the service was not well publicized well.
Comments concerning connection times between the late evening E Line and A Line
schedules were also discussed. A staff person shared suggestions for alternative trips.
Another participant wanted more information on discount passes and she was introduced
to our Manger of Sales at the conclusion of the meeting.
The meeting was concluded at 12:35pm.

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Atch B ? Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings ? May Service Changes (3073 : Proposed May 2017

2.11.C.b

Atch B - Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings - May
Service Changes
6:00pm Room T & D
This meeting was attended by 4 public participants and conducted by one RTD staff
member (Jessie Carter). The meeting began at 6:05.
Comments heard included:
Carol Streamer, expressed concerns for the safety of customers on the R Line at the Metro
Center Station, who cross any of the busy streets (Alameda, Sable, Exposition) after
alighting the train. The participant suggested a shuttle be operated either by RTD or the
Mall to provide circulation from the station to points around the mall. The same participant
requested additional service on the Route 3L, citing overloads due to students using the
service to George Washington High School.
Charlotte Siska stated as a rider of the Route 40 service, one participant asked that RTD
carefully consider the trips during the peak period that are targeted for reduction. She
notices that many of the trips in the peak period are well patronized, while other trips are
not. She would prefer the service be maintained at 10 minute frequency.
A late comer to the meeting who attended last moths Board of Directors meeting again
requested that the RTD work with the City of Denver to add a traffic signal at Yale Station
to allow Route 27 to safely turn onto Yale Avenue.
The meeting was concluded at 6:50pm
Westminster
Irving Street Library
Wednesday February 22, 2017
6:00pm
Six members of the public were in attendance, including one who was not willing to sign
in. Westminster City Transportation Planning staff member, Gabriella Arismendi
and RTD staff members Kim Kinnison and Nataly Handlos.
Nataly Handlos started the meeting started at 6:02pm. Three public participants voiced
their strong concern over the discontinuation of the current Route 31 pattern to US26 &
Sheridan Station, to be implemented with the upcoming G Line opening. They stated that
this was creating a significant hardship for them and they no longer would be able to
access important services, such as the rehabilitation/pool, veteran services and library, as
well as church services. All members of the public were unaware that this had been
included in the G Line service plan and voiced strong concern that this had not been
publicized enough. The member of the public who was not willing to sign in actually got
verbally abusive and was very angry about the discontinuation of this leg of Route 31.
Staff stated that they would pass on these concerns and encouraged all present to contact
their Board member(s) in this regard, as well as handed out contact information so that
staff could be contacted specifically for other potential route connection options.

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Atch B ? Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings ? May Service Changes (3073 : Proposed May 2017

2.11.C.b

Atch B - Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings - May
Service Changes
There was a general request to consider operation of Route 72 on Sundays, especially
with the discontinuation of Route 31 between Federal and US36 & Sheridan Station.
Jerry and Kay stated that Access-a-Ride is too expensive to use as a back-up for Route 31
to get to the rehabilitation/pool center and that using Route 19 to Route 72 is not an
option, due to the hill not allowing for Jerry to push Kay’s wheelchair up the grade.
The meeting was concluded at 6:55pm
Denver
Robert E. Loup Jewish Community Center
Thursday, February 23, 2017
6:00pm
No public participation.
Arvada
Arvada City Hall Council Chambers
Monday, February 27, 2017
6:00pm
This meeting was attended by approximately 22 public participants. Director Lorraine
Anderson RTD Board member was also in attendance. RTD staff included Doug Monroe
Cooper Langdon and David Menter.
Doug Monroe briefly explained the purpose of the public hearing at the beginning of the
meeting. Among other issues, Mr. Monroe briefly outlined for the audience the current
operation of the Route 55s and that it is being proposed for elimination due to very low
ridership.
Karlyn Armstrong
Please keep the 55s route. It is not Arvada residents’ fault that productivity is low since it
is not fully being advertised. The low ridership is due to its lack of promotion by RTD.
Keeping it for 6 months, if needed, is worth it until the R-Line starts. Please also keep this
route even after the G-Line starts. I use the 55L to work in Capitol Hill. The 55s provides
good additional service for the 55L. This 55s is currently valuable as it is building ridership
in advance of the coming G-Line.
Charlotte Pustek
(These comments made by Karlyn Armstrong as she said Charlotte could not attend): 55s
serves a need from Arvada to Denver Airport. If ridership is low, this is only because the
route is not being promoted by RTD. RTD should use a smaller vehicle to save money.
RTD should keep the 55s after the G-Line opens.
Shelly Cook
I used to operate the old A-line bus shuttle from Arvada to Denver Airport. Please keep the
55s until the G-line opens. We used to have 60,000 rider boardings/year on the old A-Line
bus shuttle. RTD needs to advertise the 55s. Ridership has already increased on the 55s

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Atch B ? Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings ? May Service Changes (3073 : Proposed May 2017

2.11.C.b

Atch B - Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings - May
Service Changes
since RTD started it. This gradual rider increase should be expected by RTD as that is
what happened on the old A-Line shuttle The 55s is building a rider market for the future
G-Line and is modelling for riders how to transfer at DUS to the current RTD A-Line rail
service.
Julia Morrison
RTD’s delay in starting the G-Line is aggravating. People feel angry and lied-to and abused
by RTD here in Arvada due to its delay. The community here has lost faith in RTD in the
delay of the G-Line and now you are also taking away the little that we have in eliminating
the 55s. The 55s should remain until the G-Line opens. RTD needs to advertise the 55s
since no one knows about it.
Lorrain Anderson (RTD Board Member) - Responding to Julia Morrison’s comment:
I helped put together and promote the 2004 RTD Fastracks ballot measure. The G-Line is
governed by the FRA, since it is classified as commuter rail, and the FRA is reviewing the
requirements about the current issue/problems with the crossing gates of the RTD A-line.
The FRA is holding up the start of the G-Line until the A-Line issues are resolved. The FRA
is requiring positive train control, a new technology which has some glitches. This delay in
the G-Line is for safety. RTD wants to make sure that its services are operated as safely
as possible for its riders and all members of the community that cross its tracks. The ALine and G-Line are being operated by DTO. (Question by Morrison): Are Arvada city
taxes being used on the A-Line now? (Answer ‘No’, these are RTD Fastracks taxes).
(Question by Morrison): Are A-Line gate crossing issues going to happen on the G-Line?
(Answer ‘No’ after the resolution of glitches is resolved the G-Line will open with the
resolution already in place). (Question by Morrison): Is there a chance DTO will fold?
(Answer ‘No’ highly unlikely and RTD is working closely with DTO and FRA and other
regulators to ensure safety).
Cooper Langdon (RTD staff) – also added information about a recent PBS NOVA television
program about the new Positive Train Control technology: “Why Trains Crash”.
Katie Arntsen
Keep the 55s. There has been no RTD advertising of this new route. Put up posters.
Also, the 55L trip @ 6:39a has not shown up 3 times in the last 2 weeks.
Doug Monroe (RTD staff) – Responding to Katie Arnsten
RTD has been working hard to address operator shortages which result in dropped trips at
certain times on all routes.
Rebecca Minor
I would like an existing bus stop on route #38 (ID 11016) to be relocated to a safer
location (from 38th & Clark to nearby 38th & Miller). This new location is near an
abandoned car wash and at an empty lot which has more room to wait for the bus. I was
hit by a car while waiting at this bus stop at 6am. The waiting area is too close to the
street and is not well lighted. The site is too cramped. (She provided her direct contact
info for RTD staff to follow-up: 303-279-6829 (h); 303-672-5037 (w).

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Atch B ? Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings ? May Service Changes (3073 : Proposed May 2017

2.11.C.b

Atch B - Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings - May
Service Changes
John Kiljan, P.E.
The 55s is not being advertised by RTD and should be. This meeting also was not well
advertised. Has the 55s has seen an increase in riders since it started? Has the 55L also
perhaps seen an increase in riders? It is likely these routes are mutually helping each other
and should remain. I can help advertise this route locally here in Arvada for RTD in a
newsletter (He left his contact card/info for RTD to contact to help advertise 55s: 303423-9875; 303-647-2408; jpkiljan@yahoo.com).
Doug Monroe (RTD Staff) – Responding to John Kiljan
Q. How often does the 55s operate? A. Weekdays and Weekends.
Q. Does 55s operate to DUS? A. Yes.
Allen Best
There is no marketing by RTD of the 55s and it needs it. I agree with Carolyn Adams’
comments.
Amy Payton
The 55L 6:39a trip has not been operated 3 times in the last 2 weeks. One time it was
two days in-a-row. I also use the 55s at night when I work later than the 55L operates.
Commenter
There also was a problem with the 6:45a 55L trip being dropped this morning.
Commenter
It is not acceptable that RTD is having such a shortage of operators to fill trips. I have
also noticed that four days in the last 2 weeks that 55L trips were dropped.
Joel DeJong
We need the 55L to operate more reliably. We need this bus and we use it to go to work.
We rely on it to be there for our continued employment.
Virginia Motoyama
The 55L is an important route and it does not operate long enough span during the day.
The 55s helps the 55L but it is confusing that there are these two route names at different
times of the day.
Lorraine Anderson (RTD Board Member) – replying to Virginia Motoyama
I plan to relay your concerns, and of those others here, to the RTD board that the 55s
should remain and that it needs RTD marketing to be conducted. I will also look into the
problem of recent missed 55L trips.
Steve Young
I am looking forward to the G-Line opening. I moved here to Arvada to be near the station
in anticipation of the start of the G-Line. The 55L and 55s needs to be extended most
hours to operate every 30 minutes, but could be reduced in mid-day if stronger ridership is
not there.

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Atch B ? Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings ? May Service Changes (3073 : Proposed May 2017

2.11.C.b

Atch B - Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings - May
Service Changes
Commenter
Question: Can RTD put an article into the local Arvada Sentinel Newspaper to advertise
the 55s?
Lorraine Anderson (RTD Board Member) – replying to Commenter
We should get RTD marketing staff to market the 55s. I will try to make sure the 55s
continues until the G-Line starts.
Commenter
Marketing could be so simple such as placing signage at the Park-n-Ride also showing the
55s/55L times
Commenter
I made a big commitment on buying my condo on the G-Line starting and we have been
left in the dark by RTD on when it will start. RTD needs to communicate to us on when
the G-Line will happen.
Commenter
I have been on City commissions here and you have very little info on the RTD website
about the 55s and how it works with the 55L. RTD needs to provide more info about this.
Julia Morrison
It seems line south metro communities get more RTD service than we do here. We need
more service including the 55s.
Virginia Motoyama
Why did questions about the A-Line not get resolved by RTD in advance? This should not
be new or unexpected. Do we really need to wait for the issues of the A-Line to get
resolved?
Lorraine Anderson (RTD Board Member) – replying to Virginia Motoyama
Positive train control is new technology. RTD is the first commuter rail agency being
required by the FRA to implement it. The FRA has a very narrow window of what is and
what is not acceptable in terms of when the gates must come down in advance of a train
and how long they must stay down after the train passes. RTD’s contractor, DTO, has a
good contract so that RTD taxpayers are not bearing the cost burden of these deficiencies
and delays. The issues of the A-Line when resolved will be incorporated into the G-Line
when it starts. We are working hard to get it right. No one is more frustrated by these
technology delays than I am.
Julia Morrison
The DTO contractor is not being paid right now, are they? Are their penalties in their
contract?
Lorrain Anderson (RTD Board Member) – replying to Julia Morrison.
Correct

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Atch B ? Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings ? May Service Changes (3073 : Proposed May 2017

2.11.C.b

Atch B - Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings - May
Service Changes
Commenter
Gate A, not Gate B, at Olde Town Arvada is what the 55s is actually using. There should
be signage at Olde Town Arvada Station now for the 55s at the correct gate.
The meeting was concluded at 7:20pm.

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: Atch B ? Summary of Electronically Received Comments and Public Hearings ? May Service Changes (3073 : Proposed May 2017

2.11.C.b

2.11.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 7, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

March 3, 2017

Board Meeting Date: March 28, 2017

Subject:

Approve Contract Amendment for the Supply
of 15 - 40' Transit Buses

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise the contract option and amend contract 13FH-053 with Gillig LLC. for the purchase of 15 additional 40’ transit buses and associated spare
components in an amount not to exceed $6,598,000.
BACKGROUND
In support of the Board adopted strategic goal of Financial Sustainability to include asset management
and state of good repair, Bus Operations is continuing the process of replacing the aging and high
maintenance Model Year 2000 Orion sub-fleet of 40 foot transit buses.
This request is for the Board’s approval of the contract amendment to Gillig to exercise the purchase
option for a quantity of 15 additional 40’ transit buses. The new buses are for the replacement of the
remaining Orion buses.
The remaining Model Year 2000 Orion transit buses have exceeded their FTA service life of 12 years.
The buses are now 17 years old and have accumulated on average 702,000 miles of stop-and-go transit
service. They require intensive maintenance to keep them in service. The bus manufacturer, Orion Bus
Industries, went out of business several years ago. Many of the parts required for the repair of the buses
are now difficult to obtain. The adopted Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) calls for the replacement of the
Orion sub-fleet of buses over three years, 125 buses in 2013, 110 buses in 2014 and 64 buses in
2015. Due to the increased service demand, RTD has kept 54 Orion buses in continued service.
Together with the delivery of 40 Gillig buses in May/June this year from the purchase option approved
by the Board last year, this purchase of additional 15 buses will complete the replacement of all Orion
buses. The purchase is included in the adopted SBP.
On November 26, 2013 the RTD Board of Directors approved the procurement of 125 Gillig 40’ transit
buses to begin the replacement to the existing 40 foot Orion buses. The original procurement was the
result of RTD Request for Proposals (RFP) 13-FH-053 issued in May of 2013. Proposals were received in
September, 2013. The contract allows RTD the options to purchase up to 307 additional buses over a
five year period. Pricing for additional option buses is based on the initial base pricing plus an inflationary
price adjustment computed using the US Department of Labor’s “Producer Price Index” or PPI which is
published monthly.
On June 24, 2014 the RTD Board of Directors approved a contract amendment for an additional 110
Gillig 40’ transit buses as part of the on-going replacement program.
On February 17, 2015 the RTD Board of Directors approved a contract amendment for an additional 64
Gillig 40’ transit buses as part of the on-going replacement program.

Packet Pg. 24

2.11.D

On January 19, 2016 the RTD Board of Directors approved a contract amendment for an additional 40
Gillig 40’ transit buses as part of the on-going replacement program.
This requested purchase of additional 15 Gillig 40’ transit buses will complete the replacement of the
Model Year 2000 Orion buses.

DISCUSSION
The 40’ transit buses are low floor for ease of passenger boarding and de-boarding. They will be
equipped with a wheelchair ramp and two wheelchair access areas to allow for ADA compliance. As
parts of our commitment to the disabled community for continued improvement of access, the buses
will feature enhanced seat layout to better accommodate passengers with disabilities and passengers
with large items such as walkers, shopping carts, baby strollers, etc. Their clean diesel engines will
meet the latest EPA regulations and will reduce exhaust emissions up to 90% from the level of the
existing buses. The buses will be equipped with an automatic passenger count system and a security
digital camera system. They will have two passenger doors and 37 passenger seats.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The requested approval is for the contract amendment to Gillig to exercise the purchase option for a
quantity of 15-40’ transit buses and associated spare components in the amount not to exceed
$6,598,000. The funding for this project is included in the adopted 2017 RTD budget.
DBE PARTICIPATION
There is no DBE requirement for transit vehicle purchases. Each vehicle manufacturer is required by the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to submit a DBE plan for FTA approval. As part of the required
proposal submittal documents, Gillig has submitted a certificate attesting to FTA’s approval of its DBE
plan.
ALTERNATIVES
1. To authorize the Interim General Manager to issue a contract amendment to Gillig for the purchase of
15-40’ transit buses. This is the recommended alternative.
2. Do not authorize the contract amendment and re-solicit proposals. This is not desirable as it would
result, at the very least, in a delay of the delivery of the buses and may increase the cost of the project.

Prepared by:
Lou Ha, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 25

2.12.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 2, 2017

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

GM

Date:

March 1, 2017

Subject:

Modeling On-Call Contract Amendment

Assistant

General

Board Meeting Date: March 28, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to amend the contract
with AECOM for travel modeling services. The current contract value is $355,706.62. This
amendment increases the value by $535,000 to a total of $890,706.62. Funding is included in the
2017 expense budget and the budget for the SH 119 BRT Environmental Clearance project.
BACKGROUND
In 2013 RTD awarded a contract to AECOM to perform travel modeling on an as-needed basis, The
contractor performs work when required due to limitations of RTD resources and/or expertise for the
particular task and time. Work has been performed in the context of National Environmental Policy Act
(NEPA) studies; Federal Transit Administration (FTA) New Starts submittals; Denver Regional Council of
Governments (DRCOG) regional planning activities as required by Federal planning law; RTD internal
planning studies; RTD budget development and contract analysis; and preliminary engineering, final
design, and construction of FasTracks corridors.
The contract is for three years with two one-year renewable options at RTD’s sole discretion. RTD has
exercised these options and 2017 is the last year of the contract. The initial contract value was
$309,706.62. A previous amendment in 2013 increased the value by $46,000 to reach the current
value of $355,706.62.
DISCUSSION
One key purpose is to provide travel modeling services for the SH-119 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
Planning and Engineering Study. That study will require travel modeling for numerous BRT
alternatives to develop ridership and related data for decision-making.
A second purpose of this contract amendment is to make travel model updates. The Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) requires recipients of Full Funding Grant Agreements (FFGAs) to regularly
update travel forecasting models for the projects receiving grants. RTD makes use of three travel
models:
1. A traditional four-step model originally developed by DRCOG called Compass
2. A state-of-the-art tour-based model developed by DRCOG called Focus
3. A transit ridership forecasting model developed by FTA called Simplified Trips-on-Project
Software (STOPS)

Packet Pg. 26

2.12.E

Of the $535,000 being requested for this contract amendment, it is expected that $285,000 will be
used for travel model updates and $250,000 will be used for the SH-119 BRT Environmental
Clearance project.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for this contract amendment is included in the 2017 expense budget and the budget for the SH
119 BRT Environmental Clearance project.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs &
FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
execute all documents necessary to amend the contract with AECOM for travel modeling
services. The current contract value is $355,706.62. This amendment increases the value by
$535,000 to a total of $890,706.62. Funding is included in the 2017 base system expense
budget and the budget for the SH 119 BRT Environmental Clearance project.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. This is not recommended because it will delay the
completion of travel model calibration and the SH 119 BRT Environmental Clearance project.

Prepared by:
Lee Cryer, Project Manager, Planning
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 27

2.12.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

March 15, 2017

Subject:

Approval of Router Contract

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: March 15, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: March 28, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a sole source contract not to exceed
$2,500,000 with Sierra Wireless America, Inc. (Sierra Wireless) for upgrade of existing onboard routers
and purchase of new onboard wireless routers and associated equipment (Contract Number 17DH004).
This contract will include upgrading existing routers with new integrated cellular data modems, purchase
of new onboard routers with associated equipment, documentation and training.
BACKGROUND:
The majority of RTD vehicles require communications between onboard technology and backend
computer systems. This communication is typically through cellular data communications, Wi-Fi or both.
Additionally, Global Positioning Systems (GPS) information is needed on most vehicles. An onboard
router is a networking device that forwards data between networks and is the most efficient way to
achieve communications with cellular data, Wi-Fi and GPS in one device, while allowing onboard
networking of multiple systems.
RTD’s onboard networks incorporate the router with the Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic
Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) system, Smart Media Technology (SMT), farebox, destination signs, and on
newer buses, the digital video cameras. RTD purchased onboard routers for the fixed-route fleet as part
of the Smart Media Technology (SMT) project. This router works well and has been meeting RTD’s
needs since 2011.
RTD is upgrading the Access-a-Ride Mobile Data Terminals (MDTs) to use transit hardened equipment.
The technology architecture of this project requires a mobile router. Call-n-Ride vehicles require onboard
communications and GPS, which can use the mobile router. New Light Rail vehicles will have an
upgraded video system and automatic passenger counters, which both will make use of a mobile router.

DISCUSSION:
Cellular data communications using the onboard router are needed to report bus location to Dispatch in
real time, send messages to and from drivers, set the radio to the correct channel for radio calls and
other such actions. When the bus does not have cellular data communications, the bus goes into a state
we call data radio fallback. In fallback, we do not receive bus position information, text message
communications do not work and the voice radio switches to a hailing talk group along with other buses
in fallback. The stand-alone systems of the vehicle continue to work, such as onboard announcements,
destination signs, route navigation schedule information.

Packet Pg. 28

2.12.F

The router uses a cellular data card, plugged into the router as a way to communicate through the
cellular data provider to our back-end systems. RTD’s existing installed consumer-grade cellular data
cards on the fixed-route buses have been failing at a rate of several each week. Additionally, the
manufacturer of the consumer-grade cellular data cards that RTD was using unexpectedly stopped
producing these cards. No other cellular data cards are certified to work with the router and
manufacturers are moving away from producing USB plug-in cellular data cards. This makes the upgrade
imperative. Therefore, the consumer-grade cellular data cards need replacing with industrial-grade
integrated cellular data cards.
RTD’s Access-a-Ride, Call-n-Ride and Light Rail vehicles do not have the same routers and cellular data
cards as are used on the fixed-route fleet. RTD has invested significant time and effort to get these
onboard routers configured and secured for RTD’s specific needs. The routers from Sierra Wireless have
been shown to meet RTD’s needs for stability, flexibility and support. For ease of management and
standardization of all onboard routers, RTD will standardize and upgrade the equipment currently used on
fixed-route bus across all of RTD’s services including Call-n-Ride, Access-a-Ride and Light Rail vehicles.
This procurement will include the purchasing of the same onboard routers equipped with integrated
industrial-grade cellular data cards used on fixed-route buses, new wireless antenna sets, power cables
and communications cabling for installation on the Access-a-Ride, Call-n-Ride and Light Rail vehicle
fleets.
A sole source justification memo for this procurement has been prepared and approved by Materials
Management. This procurement meets the sole source criteria in the RTD "Procurement Standards
Manual" revised December 2016.
Soul Source Criteria: Unique or Innovative Concept
For the installation of industrial-grade cellular-data cards in the routers, this is a circuit-board level
upgrade. Other companies do not likely have the appropriate knowledge of the router to perform the
upgrade successfully. In addition to the circuit-board upgrade, firmware configuration changes are also
required and the firmware is proprietary. If any other company were to perform this upgrade, it would
likely void the warranty.
Sole Source Criteria: Substantial Duplication of Costs
RTD has chosen the Sierra Wireless as the standard for onboard routers for the RTD fleets. This
standardization saves RTD in training, troubleshooting and the stocking of spare parts. Also, the fleet of
routers is managed through the Onboard Mobility Manager Software provided by Sierra Wireless that
allows the System Administrators to manage, upgrade, configure, troubleshoot and develop Key
Performance Indicators. This is nearly $300k worth of software that would need to be duplicated. RTD
has invested several years in getting the firmware and configuration of this router optimized to work as
we need it in our system. To start with another vendor would waste thousands of hours of effort and
likely require a similar effort with another vendor.
Sole Source Criteria: Unacceptable Delay
The external cellular data cards that are used in these routers have been consumer-grade and need to be
replaced with industrial-grade cellular data cards, with this project. It is important to note that the
industrial grade card requested in this project is agnostic when it comes to cellular data service providers
and provides RTD the flexibility to change cellular data service providers without replacing a plug-in card.

Packet Pg. 29

2.12.F

With no advance warning, RTD discovered that the Netgear 341U cellular data cards that we have been
using are no longer being produced by Netgear. There are no other cellular data cards that are certified
to work with the routers. The cellular data equipment manufacturing industry is moving away from using
USB-based plug-in cellular data cards. The cellular data cards we have fail at a rate of several a week.
We have already run out of spare cellular data cards and have buses that are unable to use the CAD/AVL
system, thereby degrading operations. It is essential that we get the industrial-grade cellular data cards
procured as soon as possible to keep the majority of the fleet in communications. Using changeable
cellular data cards was originally a requirement of the project. With changes in the market, this is no
longer desirable or sustainable. The need for this change is not a reflection of the quality of the product
produced by Sierra Wireless.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The estimated cost of upgrading 1120 existing routers is $950,000. Purchase of new routers for
Access-a-Ride, Call-n-Ride and new Light Rail Vehicles is $1,200,000. There has been recent discussion
of expanding the Access-a-Ride fleet and possible expansion of the fixed-route fleet. We request extra
contract capacity to be able to purchase additional routers for fleet expansion and to obtain greater
penetration of routers on the Light Rail vehicles without starting a new procurement. Additionally, RTD
has not yet received a proposal from the vendor at the time of this memo. Therefore, we are requesting
contract capacity of $2,500,000.
As the cost of each router is less than $5000, these funds are from expense budgets. Funds for the
Light Rail vehicle routers came from the Light Rail expense budget. The remaining routers are funded
from the IT expense budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a contract with Sierra Wireless in
order to purchase and upgrade onboard routers. This is the recommended action.
2. Authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a contract with Sierra Wireless to
upgrade the existing routers and direct RTD staff to pursue an open procurement for the new
routers. This is not the recommended action.
3. Do not authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a contract with Sierra
Wireless to purchase and upgrade onboard routers and direct RTD staff to pursue an open
procurement for new routers for all projects. As cellular data cards fail, more buses would not
be able to communicate with the CAD/AVL system when on the road until new routers were
procured, delivered, configured and installed. This is not the recommended action.
4. Do not authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a contract with Sierra
Wireless to purchase and upgrade onboard routers. This action would result in RTD’s inability
to procure needed routers and upgrades. Buses would not be able to communicate with the
CAD/AVL system when on the road. The Access-a-Ride Mobile Data Terminal MDT project
would not have the necessary equipment to operate properly. Call-n-Ride and Light Rail
Vehicles would not have adequate communications. This is not the recommended action.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration

Packet Pg. 30

2.12.F

Kim Heldman, Senior Manager, IT
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 31

