Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

October 21, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
October 20, 2009 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Eleven (11) Board members were present at roll call. Directors Bagley and Brohl arrived after
roll call. Directors Chacon and O’Boyle were absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Jesse Cosby, Bus Operator with over 30 years of service, was presented his award by Mike
Gil, Acting Bus Assistant General Manager, Chair Kemp and Interim General Manager Phil
Washington. Mike Gil described Jesse as one of the happiest people he knows who will surely
be missed. He and Chair Kemp acknowledged his wife and children. Mr. Cosby stated he
appreciated everything during his tenure at RTD and looks forward to an even better future.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Russell Greear, Denver, expressed some frustration over his inability to talk to his Director and
in getting people to return his calls pertaining to student passes. Phil Washington, Interim
General Manager will follow up.
Bernie Rogoff, Aurora representing Colorado National Guard Foundation, commended the Board
on approving the free rides for members of the military and requested Tony McCaulay to
provide him with the press release which he will use to focus on getting the word out. He also
thanked RTD for plans to run a line up the spine of the Fitzsimmons hospital in Aurora. Chair
Kemp responded it is our honor to help those who serve.
Pam Beckhorn, Riders 285 Coalition, provided a copy of a speech she had prepared regarding
the proposed closing of Pine Junction park n ride. She thanked Director Daly on behalf of the
mountain community and shared some comments from the residents. One such comment
stated it is a disaster when transportation chases away customers at a time when it is needed
the most. She thanked the Board for rescinding the proposal to eliminate the Pine Junction park
n ride. They look forward to a long and fruitful relationship with RTD.
John Tighe, Park County Commissioner, spoke also about the pending closure of Pine Junction
Park n ride. He thanked RTD and Director Daly and shared some statistics on Park County
residents. He stated 75% of the residents commute to the Front Range and spend from $1627M in sales tax. They spend roughly 2.3% or approximately $3M of the RTD 1% sales tax
base. They are willing to partner with RTD and they have partnered with RTD and CDOT
working with Jefferson County for the park n ride lot. However, this is not a one glove fit all.
They should not have to pay for Pine Junction park-n-ride while they spend a whole lot of

money in the district. They would like to be represented in some way and work as a partner
with RTD to build the Pine Junction park n ride.
Bert Melcher, Denver, seconded the comments about the Colorado National Guard and stated
his concern was with DUS and the lack of transparency. He expressed the need for more
scrutiny and public disclosure. He shared that he was writing a paper about this issue, a copy
of which is contained in the Board minute notebook located in the Board office. Director
Christopher responded and requested staff to provide Mr. Melcher with a copy of the
information previously provided to the Board in a presentation by the DUSPA team.
Matt McKeown, Pine Junction, asked for a reconsideration to close the Pine Junction park n
ride. He stated it was a matter of efficiency and good service and provided several examples of
why the proposal did not make good sense.
Terri Miller, Pine Junction, shared that she has ridden a number of transits over the years and
RTD provides excellent service. She has touted the fact that mass transit allows her to live
where she wants to live. However, she took issue with the description of Pine Junction as a
temporary parking lot. She has used this parking lot for 30 years and 30 years is not
temporary. She expressed this issue started from complaints of four people and Park County
does spend money in the RTD service district and pay taxes. She requested a reconsideration of
the parking management pay for parking.
MJ Umari, Littleton, requested if the 100X which is the replacement for the 116X that was
being discontinued, could be extended to service the part of 116X that had been eliminated.
He provided a rough drawing of the affected area.
Pat Mauro, Bailey, thanked Director Daly for helping to rescind the elimination of the Pine
Junction park-n-ride. He stated the need to continue to get the park-n-ride built as mass transit
provides the only source of transportation for some Park County residents. He reminded the
Board of the resolution previously passed by the Board in February 2009 stating if and when
RTD is in a position to again restore and or increase service, that the Districts most heavily
impacted by these reductions in service will be placed at the top of the priority list for said
service.
Martin Wirth, Bailey, thanked the Board for not closing the Pine Junction park-n-ride. He stated
the parking fee is a punitive tax which causes loss of ridership of approximately $200K in
revenue. He offered the option to dedicate 100% of the fees collected to improvement of the
park n ride.
Edie Bryan, Lakewood, former RTD Board member, expressed concerns about DUS and asked
the Board to pay closer attention to DUSPA. RTD has a responsibility to look out for the
transportation needs of the citizens. The passage of Item E on the agenda would result in RTD
losing clout (a voice) and leaves no bargaining power around such issues as who will pay for
maintenance or even providing protection for the traveler waiting for a train.
Holman Carter, ATU, read a letter from Warren George, asking transit agencies to support ATU
drafted legislation to allow use of federal funds for operations. A copy of that letter is available
in the Board minute’s notebook located in the Board office.
Doug Connor, retired RTD driver, shared several issues about an overall lack of access and
sidewalks for wheelchairs at bus stops along 17th Avenue between Sheridan and Federal in
both directions, eastbound and westbound. He also complained about the lack of sidewalks
near stops on Sheridan between Colfax and 17th.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS

There were no changes to the committee reports.
VI.

GM TRANSITION AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Chair Busck deferred his comments to the presentation given later.

VII.

METRO MAYORS REPORT
Chair Kemp reported that he and Director Christopher along with the Interim General Manager
and the staff attended the Metro Mayors Task Force meeting about a week ago. There was a
lot of discussion on equity and parameters of FasTracks, financial numbers and how they will
be validated. There was strong consensus that FasTracks need to move forward (almost
unanimous). This was Director Christopher’s first opportunity to attend this meeting and this
gave him some insight into what goes on in these meetings. Chair Kemp will attend these
meetings to maintain consistency but if another Board member is interested in attending,
Director Busck will give up his seat. They are trying to limit Board member participation to
two members at a time.
Director Christopher added that most importantly what he walked away with was the strong
commitment from almost all the Mayors present that we need to move forward on FasTracks.
Mayor Tauer presented a proposal which Phil Washington committed to analyze. There was
concurrence on the group to move forward and get the job done.
Director Martinez reported that he and Bill Van Meter had done a presentation to the Metro
Mayors Caucus the week of APTA annual. This was a very enlightening experience.
Director Bagley asked for a schedule of when these meetings occur.
Phil Washington shared staff had made a commitment to analyze the proposal and to do this in
conjunction with the APE. They were working from six questions and have added two more
around this request. Director Christopher added staff had outlined the sales tax forecasting
methodology which had been well received by the Metro Mayor’s group.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF SEPTEMBER 22, 2009
MOTION:

Director Tobiassen moved for the adoption of the September 22,
2009 regular board meeting minutes.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:
VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Tayer requested a correction under item L, Resolution
No___ Series of 2009, Regional Equity Compact Resolution.
An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against. Directors Chacon and O’Boyle were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 Employee Forums
Interim General Manager Phil Washington has begun a series of employee forums with
employees selected at random to discuss issues that are important to them. So far he
has conducted 3 of these. He will be meeting with senior leadership to look at how
some of these concerns can be addressed.
 Denver Business Journal Interview
Interim General Manager participated in an interview on October 12, 2009 with the

Denver Business Journal to discuss FasTracks and the base system. We put 1100
buses on the street, 103 annual boardings and we don’t want to lose sight of this.
 Meeting with CDOT Executive Director Russ George
Interim General Manager Phil Washington and other members of Senior Leadership met
with CDOT to share information on common issues and to facilitate a partnership on
working together.
 Presentation to University of Colorado Denver Chancellor and Vice Chancellors
Interim General Manager Phil Washington provided an update on FasTracks and the
base system. They also discussed the I-225 corridor and its impact to the Fitzsimmons
campus.


Presentation to DTC Kiwanis Club, October 20
Interim General Manager Phil Washington spoke about FasTracks and RTD status to a
group of about 25-30 people in an informal setting at the DTC Kiwanis Club. Former
Director Quinlan was instrumental in setting this up.



Update on Staff-to-Staff Peer Review on RTD’s Sales Tax Forecasting Methodology
Staff sent letters out to several agencies, DRCOG, CDOT, Metro Mayor Taskforce,
other government entities and private and business sectors inviting them to participate
in a series of meetings to reach consensus on methodology for this region on
forecasting sales tax. They are hopeful to start these sessions on October 29 which is
scheduled in conjunction with APE. This will be a staff-to-staff, down in the weeds
discussion. Patty Silverstein, local economist will facilitate these sessions. What we
are targeting is Board approval of financial plan in January, 2010.



General Manager Mentorship Program
Interim General Manager Phil Washington is working with HR to initiate a mentoring
program that will include both salaried and union representatives. They will spend
about ½ day each week for understanding the type of leadership decisions including
shadowing the General Manager at meetings or presentations as appropriate.
Director Brohl inquired how were employees selected and can they be self-selected.
Interim General Manager Phil Washington responded HR knows the methodology used
and he will talk to them and get back with her. She indicated she supports mentorship
and thinks this is a great way to strengthen the bench and increase leadership.



X.

Various other comments were made by Board members. Director Tayer requested that
Steve Fisher be considered for the peer review of the RTD Sales Tax Forecasting
Methodology. Director Daly inquired about the letter on the backlog on arbitration
issues that the Interim General Manager had provided an update on. Phil Washington
explained this was a partnership between himself, Holman Carter and the ATU
leadership. Director McMullen requested that the old detailed maps with the boundaries
be brought back. He also requested that the tribute to Cal Marsella be removed from
the RTD website. Director Martinez commented that he, Directors Pulliam and Cohen
attended the COMTO luncheon where Cal Marsella was given the lifetime achievement
award.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda items A through M but

excluding item E.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.
Director Martinez noted that item D was shovel ready.
Director McMullen added he was happy to see this item
as it will release some of the congestion on Parker Road.
We are still on our FasTracks timeline, we are still on
target but we will need the help of the public in getting
more cash. Director Martinez also noted item H was using
stimulus funds.
Director McMullen thanked his
predecessors for the foresight to acquire property long
before it was needed and now it was being used for the
13th avenue station on the I-225 project.
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and 0 against. Directors Chacon and O’Boyle were
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Dedication of Right of Way (ROW) at Highlands Ranch park-n-Ride
It is recommended by Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary to participate in the replat of Lots 5A and 5B, Highlands Ranch – Filing No.
141, First Amendment which will include the dedication of approximately .42 acres of
Regional Transportation District property to Douglas County for public right of way.

B.

Approval for the Addition and funding for the 13th Avenue Station on the I-225
Corridor Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the addition of the 13th Avenue Station on the I-225 Corridor project. The
addition of the 13th Avenue Station will not result in a cost increase to the project and
the station has been shown to have long term benefits to the RTD.

C.

Approval to Adopt the I-225 Corridor Final Environmental Evaluation (EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the Adoption of the I-225 Corridor Final Environmental Evaluation (EE)
document.

D.

Contract Amendment for Final Design (Segment 1) with Michael Baker Jr., Inc. on
the I-225 Corridor, Contract No. 17-DH-006
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or designees to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract amendment not to exceed $3,500,000 with Michael
Baker Jr., Inc. (Baker) to provide final design services for Segment 1, Nine Mile to Iliff.
Funds for this contract amendment are available in the FasTracks Budget for the I-225
Corridor Project.

F.

Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that free rides on
RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be extended from the
presently approved date of December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010. Utilization has
been minimal to date and this extension will have a minimal impact on RTD.

G.

Award Contract to supply and install additional Automatic Passenger Counters
(APC) in Light Rail Vehicles, Mall Shuttles and Intercity Buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee, to award a solesource contract to Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT), a Chesapeake, Virginia
company, for the purchase of additional automatic passenger counters (APC) to be
installed in RTD vehicles. The units will be installed in 40 RTD vehicles to include 18
Light Rail vehicles, 10 Mall Shuttles and 12 intercity buses. The total cost for the
project is $743,585. The funding for this contract is provided by the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009.

H.

District Shops Roof Replacement - Contract Award
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to award a contract to the
lowest, responsive, responsible bidder, Douglass-Colony Roofing in the amount of
$1,964,000 for the District Shops Roof Replacement Project. The total cost of this
project is $2,075,746, including design and contingencies. Funding for this project
is contained in the 2009 RTD budget including $2,000,000 in ARRA funding.

I.

RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2009 - Authorizing the General Manager to Take
Action with Respect to Interest Rate Exchange Agreements if specified conditions
exist

J.

Purchase six 45 foot ultra-low-sulfur diesel Intercity buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee, to authorize the
purchase of six (6) new 45 foot intercity buses from MCI Corporation for a price not to
exceed $491,666 each and extended warranties for all six (6) vehicles at a cost of
$4,300 per vehicle. The total cost for all six (6) buses and extended warranties is
$2,975,796.

K.

RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2009 – Support for the Diversity Council of the
Regional Transportation District

L.

RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2009 – Mileage Differential for Eligible Board
Members

M.

Recommendations from Pass Program Committee
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board
accept the recommendations of the RTD Pass Committee for pricing of the Eco Pass
and Neighborhood Pass programs as outlined in Attachments A and B, to be
implemented following the availability of utilization data from smart cards. In addition,
lift the current moratorium on new and expanded contracts in the Neighborhood Pass
program as described in Attachment B.

Chair Kemp thanked Director Tayer, Busck, James and O’Boyle for their work on this
committee in bringing this recommendation forward. He also applauded the work of
Bruce Abel, the staff, as well as volunteers from the community who worked diligently
to come up with a doable solution.
Director Tayer thanked the Pass Program Committee, the staff and everyone who spent
a grueling but productive six months working on a solution for the pass program. He
offered the following statement with the review and approval of the other four Board

members that sat on the Eco Pass Committee.
“There is a long history of disagreement concerning the correct price for the various
Eco Pass products, in particular the Business Eco Pass and the Neighborhood Eco Pass.
The differences based mostly on estimated ridership and the correct pricing formula.
The result has been multiple drawn-out battles, fruitless meetings, and way too many emails to RTD Board members”.
You will remember that, at the conclusion of last September’s battle over new fare
increases and structural changes to the Eco Pass, the RTD Board established the Pass
Program Committee (a.k.a. the “Eco Pass Committee”) to develop a sustainable pricing
formula for Eco Passes that accounts for the new ridership data that RTD will collect
with the new fare boxes. Creating the committee also provided an opportunity to
discuss, in a facilitated environment, other Eco Pass issues, such as the Neighborhood
Eco Pass moratorium.
The Eco Pass Committee started its work with a few basic principles:
1.
2.

The pricing formula must be financially sustainable for RTD;
The pricing formula must help maintain the characteristic of the Eco
Pass (bulk rate group passes) that serves to increase ridership

The Committee members also understood early on that the new ridership data could
help to guarantee that RTD charged a price for Eco Passes that was directly correlated
to the service that RTD provides.
With that, the four Board members and other four committee members spent hours of
time meeting to develop the most appropriate pricing formula. I will let the staff memo
speak to the details.
Needless to say, it was an enormous amount of work and it took an amazing amount
of patience from the committee members (Bill Christopher, Bill James, and Noel Busck
from the Board and citizen representatives that included a financial analyst from Smith
Barney) who delved into the guts of pricing structures and pass program philosophy.
Jack O’Boyle also deserves a special amount of credit for sitting through every
meeting, offering some very helpful input, and taking the time to understand this
complex issue. All the time, we were ably supported by the dedicated work of RTD
staff and representatives from various Eco Pass interests
The result was an amazing accomplishment. I think this new pricing structure and the
compromise that will lead to lifting the Neighborhood Pass moratorium will put to rest
much of the tension that we have witnessed around the Eco Pass. Most important for
me, though, I believe that passing this recommend action will help us to take the Eco
Pass to new heights: No longer will we be fighting over pricing. Instead, we can work
to spread the Eco Pass products to every corner of the District knowing that we are
meeting RTD’s goals of increased ridership within a sustainable pricing framework.

Finally, I want to thank my RTD Board colleagues for the opportunity to work through
these Eco Pass issues. At times . . . I know some of us might have asked whether this
program is really worth all of the headaches. With this new pricing formula and the
agreement for lifting the Neighborhood Eco Pass moratorium, I believe we have turned
an important corner with this program. I won’t promise that you will never receive
another Eco Pass e-mail, but I can sit here today and assure you that RTD will get the
financial value it needs from Eco Passes while continuing to build a loyal base of RTD

customers.

XI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
E.

Recommendation for Execution of RTD-DUSPA Funding Agreement in
consideration of the major transit elements to be constructed at Denver Union
Station
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the Chair and Secretary to execute: i) a subordinate sales tax revenue bond
(the “Bond”); and ii) the DUSPA/RTD Funding Agreement (the “Funding Agreement”) to
provide for payments from RTD to DUSPA in consideration of DUSPA incurring
obligations to finance major transit elements that are part of the DUS project and are
included in the FasTracks Plan. The Bond will be issued in the face amount of
$167,954,114 over thirty years at a current market interest rate of 5.85%. Total
repayment (principal and interest) on the Bond will equal $360,194,666.
MOTION:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve Execution
of the RTD-DUSPA Funding agreement.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Martinez asked for an explanation of this item in
light of the comments made during public hearing. Marla
Lien reminded the Board that this action was a
culmination from a series of processes including a 5 year
EIS process that recommended a 20 year transportation
and FasTracks Plan. There is a Record of Decision from
FTA. DRCOG dedicated $18M of ARRA funds. There
have been a significant number of groups involved in the
discussions with significant players and significant
transparency. The funding is Federal grant funding.
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 12 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Tayer had stepped away
and Directors Chacon and O’Boyle were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

N.

Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo) Quitclaim on West Corridor
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary to execute a quitclaim deed in favor of Public Service Company of Colorado
(PSCo) on approximately 2,057 square feet of vacant land located west of the Platte
River on the West Howard Place alignment and to receive a quitclaim deed from Public
Service Company of Colorado (PSCo) on approximately 3,050 square feet of vacant
land located near the RTD owned alignment for the West Corridor and Simms Street.

MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve Public
Service Company of Colorado Quitclaim of West Corridor.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

VOTE ON

MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 12 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Tayer was out of the room
and Directors Chacon and O’Boyle were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

O.

Request for Approval of the Eagle Project Utility Relocation Agreement Work
Orders (Design Only)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to (1) execute Work Orders
under the RTD Eagle Project Utility Relocation Agreements (URAs) in order to proceed
with the design of relocation for certain long lead time utility relocations, as further
described below, (“Early Relocations”) necessitated by the Eagle Project implementation
in an amount not to exceed a total RTD financial responsibility of $2,500,000; 2) to
delegate signature authority to execute the URAs and any such design Work Orders.
$500,000 of the total of $2,500,000 is included in the 2009 amended Budget for the
Eagle Project corridors (East Corridor, Gold Line, Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility,
and Northwest Rail portion from DUS to South Westminster Station). The remaining
$2,000,000 is included in the 2010 requested budget for these corridors.
MOTION:
Director McMullen made the motion to approve the Eagle
Project Utility Relocation Work Order.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 11 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Brohl abstained citing a
conflict of interest. Director James was out of the room
and Directors Chacon and O’Boyle were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

P.

Contract for External Audit Services
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary to award a contract to Bondi & Co. LLC to perform the District’s annual
external audit services. The initial three-year term of the contract would ne for the
fiscal years 2009, 2010, and 2011 in the amount of $285,000 with options to extend
for two more years, 2012 at $105,000 and 2013 at $110,000, at the Districts
discretion.
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the contract
for external audit services.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 12 votes in
favor and 0 against (Director Cohen was a voice vote).
Director James was out of the room and Directors
Chacon and O’Boyle were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

Q.

Award of Contract for On-Vehicle Advertising

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Interim
General Manager or his designee be authorized to enter into a contract with Lamar
Advertising of Denver for the three year period January 1, 2010 through December 31,
2012 with a two year option for 2013 and 2014. Under the terms of the
recommended action, Lamar would remit to RTD either 1) a minimum guarantee of
$2.8 million in 2010, 2011 and 2012 or 2) seventy percent of net sales, whichever is
greater. Staff is also directed to negotiate with Lamar to also include exterior light rail
advertising as part of this contract, subject to the development of acceptable terms and
parameters.
MOTION:
Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve award of
contract for on-vehicle advertising
Director Bagley seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director McMullen commented he was in favor of this
and we should direct the staff to collect as much money
as possible in advertising. Keep it succinct and let them
do their jobs.
Director Tobiassen asked for a clarification of the
“…include exterior light rail advertising” and Bruce Abel
provided this explanation. He understood the Board
authorized staff to execute on the base contract but to
continue negotiations with Lamar related to the exterior
light rail advertising and come back to the Board with
these parameters. He expects to bring this back in
November.
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and 0 against. Directors Chacon and O’Boyle were
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

R.

Approval of January 10, 2010 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 10, 2010 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual cost of approximately $82,200,
and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to approve January
10, 2010 service changes.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Martinez had inquired about the route 116X
100X which had been discussed earlier during public
hearing. Bruce Abel responded that this was no longer
applicable as it had been removed from the proposed
changes.
Director Bagley emphasized five significant issues he had
with the changes to this item: (1) This is precedent
setting involving a change in our process and (2) it will
have compounding effects if modified later in the year.
(3) We have processes we are not adhering to. What

happens when we have compounding changes in April?
We will affect twice as many people (4) Replenishing our
reserve is critical. He questions if the current is adequate
and we need to be enhancing this reserve (5) the funds
are not a windfall and only through 2011. Come 2011
this is over. When we look at service changes in the
future we need to consider these things. The primary
issue in my mind is we have a process that we are not
adhering to.
Marla Lien, General Counsel, clarified this is not a
windfall. It is a temporary rebate to RTD under what
would be allowed as vendor collection fees under the
sales tax. Colorado legislation to address the state
budget crunch applied a moratorium to the collection of
vendor collection fees that applies to the state and other
special districts that the state administers. This expires
not later than June 2011. If the state projection on sales
tax hits a certain percent, that vendor collection fee will
resume sooner than 2011.
The state has the sole responsibility to collect sales tax.
Director Tobiassen indicated he did not support for some
of the reasons outlined by Bagley. Additionally our
budget shows we are already planning to spend into the
reserves for next year. He is also concerned about the
impact of the decision from arbitration-unknown liabilities,
and could be retroactive. We continue to ask for salary
freezes and possible furloughs. He will be voting no.
Director Martinez noted that this is not stepping outside
our boundaries or the process that has been established
for how we are doing business. He stated that this is
money that should have been included during the
budgetary process and they would have had the
opportunity to vote on it then. One of the criteria
established by the Board was to minimize service cuts.
This new piece of information just allows them to readjust
similar to any other readjustments we do when new
information is provided. This is a continuation of the
budget process with new pieces of information added in.
Director James stated he supports the principles
established by Director Bagley. These funds are one- time
windfall. These funds are better used to contribute to
reserve. One way to minimize the service cuts is to do
things more long term such as by allowing staff to pursue
the on-vehicle advertising as discussed earlier.
Director Christopher stated he would support this
proposal but with a stipulation that is a one-time only.
The funds should be placed in reserves to be used for yet
to be determined situations and we are not out of the
woods yet. There are still many rainy day issues.
Director Brohl commented that we need a clear definition
of windfall. Windfalls imply there is no cost associated
with it and is a piece of revenue that you likely have not

earned. This newly found funds do not qualify as windfall.
It is kind of risky language to use the word windfall
because that does not apply here. These funds would
have been part of the revenue stream and therefore fits
how we would have made decisions if this was available
then. There is no precedent setting and she disagrees
with this premise. Her bigger question is “what is the
affect of a no vote? Would this mean none of the
changes would occur, including cuts?
Bruce Abel, AGM, confirmed this was his understanding.
He also clarified that the language in the agenda under
approval of January 10, 2010 service change should
have read “net annual cost of $82,200”, not savings.
Director Cohen refreshed everyone’s memory on the
statement made by Bruce Abel that if cuts are not done
now, the later in the year, the larger it will need to be to
have the necessary impact in 2010. Therefore he
maintains support for the original proposal provided by
staff.
Director Tayer made a compelling argument that the
Board need to make policy decisions on behalf of the
riders. We made a policy decision during our protracted
budget session that we wanted to have very limited
impact on service because that is the heart of what we
do. We provide transit service. We made a policy
decision to have some impact on reserve, salary, etc on
behalf of the riders we serve. We have the opportunity
with the newly found revenue to forego service cuts
which impacts dramatically on ridership. We have the
opportunity to do this while putting approximately 75%
back into those reserves. It is a key policy decision to
improve ridership which benefits our overall customer
base and the RTD mission and I will be voting for this.
This is what we do! Directors Cohen and James
indicated they would reconsider their decision based on
this argument. Director Cohen expressed that staff had
followed the Board direction and we appear to be
changing course. We cannot continue to ask staff to do
something and at the eleventh hour change our minds. I
commend them for being as flexible as they are.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 12 votes in
favor (Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Cohen, Daly,
James, Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, and Tayer)
and 1 against (Tobiassen). Directors Chacon and O’Boyle
were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XII.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no unfinished business.

XIII.

NEW BUSINESS


Presentation of General Manager Search Process
GM Committee Chair Busck passed out a handout from the committee which provided a
status update on the search. A copy of that report is included in the Board meeting
minute’s notebook located in the Board office. GM Committee Chair Busck emphasized
three important components:
a.
The compensation and guiding principles proposed by the committee will be in
their packets this Friday. The benefits would be identification to what is standard
for all employees with opportunity for the candidate to negotiate. Other items this
may include would be things such as housing allowance, etc. He would like for the
full Board to review these guidelines and respond either to him or their buddy with
any changes by COB on Monday, 10/26/09.
b.
Questions to ask final candidates—Committee Chair Busck requested the Board
to begin thinking about questions to ask the final candidates. Please treat these
questions in a confidential manner-do not write them out and give only to their
buddy or Director Busck. This is needed in the next couple of weeks
c.
Krauthamer has received approximately 200-250 resumes. However, they have
reached out to over 600 prospects through networking, phone calls, etc. They
have a very talented pool to draw from. They anticipate that Krauthamer will draw
this to about 24 candidates which hopefully Krauthamer will deliver this week along
with a cover letter summarizing information about the candidates. Committee Chair
Busck asked if the full Board wants to see all these resumes or if they were OK
with the GM search committee reducing this to some number (4-7) of candidates
that would be sent to the rest of the Board. There was general consensus (head
nod) that this process would work for the full Board.
Director Brohl queried if the proposed compensation or salary range would be
confidential. Director Busck indicated that Jeff Lieb has already seen the proposed
compensation range. However, there will still be negotiation based on the
experience and qualifications that the candidates bring to the table. Some could be
inside or outside of the salary range.
Committee Chair Busck then turned it over to Directors Bagley and Christopher to
discuss the stakeholder process and Civic Leaders Panel.
Director Bagley shared that a subcommittee consisting of himself, Director
Christopher, Roger Sherman and Maria Garcia Berry, meets in a weekly work session to
work through process and strategy. This has been a complete diligent process by the
GM Executive Search committee of seven. Gregg Moser, Krauthamer, commented that
he has never seen a Board more committed or engaged.
Director Bagley discussed the Stakeholder process. There are two components of this
process:
(1)
Stakeholder Forum—This is a meet and greet with the finalists.
Stakeholders including employees and staff will have the opportunity to
attend. The finalists will be given five minutes to introduce themselves and
make opening statements. The invited public will have a chance to provide
comments to the Committee who will review these comments after they
have interviewed the finalists.
(2)
Civic Leader Panel—The Civic Leaders Panel will consist of five
individuals, 3 of which are selected by the Board, 1 by the Metro Mayors,
and 1 by the Economic Development.
The GM Executive Search
Committee will make their selection after the other two have submitted their
names to ensure geographical and diverse representation. The Panel will
interview the candidates and formulate their perspectives but will not rank.
After the GM Executive Search has interviewed the finalists, they will sit

down with the Civic Leader Panel to hear their comments. This is to
prevent bias in the process.
Director Christopher reiterated that names from the Board for this Civic
Leader Panel is due by COB on Monday, October 26. He also requested the
Board members to submit additional names for people to invite to the Forum
that was not part of the Stakeholder’s list that had been given to the Board
when they conducted their interviews earlier in the process.
Maria Garcia Berry added we need iconic names of people who can
participate fully in the process.
Director Tobiassen inquired about whether they were considering a technical
person who could weigh in on the candidates. Director Busck responded
the focus is really on executive management skills but through various
processes already in place, there will be checks and balances to ensure the
right people are involved. There is flexibility for the Committee to perform
an onsite visit to ensure we have the right people.
Director Bagley indicated the sub-committee would discuss this on Thursday
and take this under advisement how/if the technical aspect should be
included.
Director Brohl inquired about due diligence in reviewing the candidates.
Director Bagley responded they will be exercising due diligence on
candidates and also finalists. Additionally, Krauthamer will perform a due
diligence check of the candidates submitted. She will be examining
concepts in due diligence later.
Director Bagley also reviewed the finalists input process and timeline. This
is a compressed timeline. They will meet initially with the Civic Leader
Panel followed by the Stakeholder Forum. The Board will not get
information from these two sources until later after they have had a chance
to interview the panel. Every member of the Board is strongly encouraged
to come and observe the interview. Input from the Panel and comments
from the Stakeholder Forum will be reviewed. Deliberations will be open to
the Board. The process needs to be better flushed out.
Maria Garcia Berry added they would modify this information slightly to
include the timeline for the 14 day notice on finalists which is a state
requirement. Director Brohl requested if the Board could be given some
notice as well of the dates for these interviews so they can prepare their
calendars.

Committee Chair Busck stated it is important that the full Board agrees on
the process and we are moving in the right direction. We will continue to
come to you to get validation that we are not overstepping our bounds.
Director Bagley asked if the full Board was comfortable with the prescribed
process. They nodded in agreement.
Director Bagley commented on the diligence and engagement of the full
Board in what is a complex process. He is impressed with what has been
done.


Other Matters
Director Bagley provided the Board with brief updates on these items:
o NAOP Challenge—this is something that he and Director James have been
working on and the Interim General Manager is aware. This is with the National
Association of Industrial and Office Park and will be a challenge between the
University of Denver and University of Colorado. It involves working on a master
stationary planning project.

o

o

o

XIV.

Lakewood elevation station—Director Cohen and Director Bagley met with some
people looking at upgrading the Lakewood elevation station, the parking garage
and some other activities that are going on there. This will be an item for the
P&D agenda. Approximately $2.4M that Lakewood is putting into this station.
There have been some meetings with Fulenweiler regarding 64 to 62 Station
which is not a designated station on the East line at Telluride (Bagley, James,
Martinez).
Meeting with Colorado Center for the Blind. Director Bagley has requested they
put their issues in a letter which can be addressed by the Board. He will be
working with them over the next couple of months.

ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 8:15 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, October 20, 2009

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Bruce Daly, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Kent Bagley
Barbara Brohl
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bill James
William McMullen
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen

District I
District B
District K
District N
District O
District H
District D
District J
District M
District A
District E
District L
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Susan Altes
Rick Clarke
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Mike Gil
Terry Howerter
Marla Lien
Caitlin Magee

Tony McCaulay
Paula Perdue
Bill Porter
Scott Reed
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
Cal Shankster
Roger Sherman
John Shonsey

OTHERS PRESENT:
Christ Taylor – Spectrum A/V
Maria Garcia-Berry – CRL
Jeff Leib – Denver Post
Douglas M. Connor
Bert Bondi – Bondi & Co
Cheryl Wallace – Bondi & Co
Russell Greear
Bernie Rogoff
Pam Beckhorn
John Tighe – Park County, Board of County Comm.
Ed Bush – CRMCA
Pat Mauro – 285 Riders Coalition
Edie Bryan – ColoRail
Martin Wirth – 285 Riders Coalition
Rebecca Martin – Prudential
Diane Barrett – Denver Mayor’s Office
Dee Weiser
Mike Potter
Barbara Ford – High Timber Times
Patrick Picard
Peter Hankovszky – Baker
M.J. Umari
Bruce Beckhorn
Mac Callison – City of Aurora

Bill Sirois
John Tarbert
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington
John Dawson

Keith Curry – PFM
Gary Fisk – 285 Riders Coalition
Bert Melcher
Ken Carpenter – 285 Riders Coalition
Ed Colby – URS
Holman Carter – ATU
Matt McKeown
Terri Miller
Frank Bullod - Lamar

