1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Communications & Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, October 5, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 834 2528 9586#
Webinar Passcode: 1660#

Communications & Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Lynn Guissinger

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

•

2022 Legislative Program

C. Discussion Items

• Citizens Advisory Committee Report
• Communications Report
• Government Relations Report

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - December 7, 2021
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021

2022 Legislative Program

Board Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021
RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to adopt the 2022 Legislative Program.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) does not currently have a Legislative Program. As part of the
2021-2026 Strategic Plan, staff is initiating a process to develop and implement an annual Legislative
Program. It is common practice for public transportation agencies to develop a Legislative Program that
is adopted by its board of directors annually and that serves as a guiding document for staff to pursue
goals related to legislative and policy matters. Additionally, a Legislative Program serves as a living
document that can be adjusted throughout a legislative session to provide an avenue for Board adopted
policy positions to be communicated and pursued by agency staff.
DISCUSSION
In line with the agency’s mission and vision established in the Strategic Plan, the development and
inclusion of the goals and actions contained in the Legislative Program are designed to make lives better
through connections. It is important that RTD serve as a trusted partner to the region’s local, state, and
federal elected officials. To achieve these goals, RTD must be proactive in educating and informing the
District’s elected officials of the challenges and opportunities available to advance shared goals. Equally
important is building trust through partnership that fits within the framework of RTD’s financial forecast.
The 2022 Legislative Program, included as an attachment to this Board report, outlines priority actions
on a variety of issues that staff believes are achievable through advocacy and collaboration.
If approved, the 2022 Legislative Program will be implemented beginning January 1, 2022.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Board approval of the 2022 Legislative Program does not have any immediate financial impact.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

2022 Legislative Program Final

(PDF)

Prepared by:

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:
Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1.a

Attachment A

2022 Legislative Program

To establish a set of Board-approved legislative and advocacy policies that benefit the Regional
Transportation District (RTD) and assist in guiding staff’s actions and efforts during the 2022 legislative
session that support the priorities and success outcomes of the agency’s adopted 2021-2026 Strategic
Plan.
STRATEGY
Developing and maintaining relationships with a myriad of stakeholders is central to RTD’s strategic
approach to government relations. Staff will work to communicate, educate, inform and partner with
the agency’s Congressional delegation, the Governor’s Office, the state General Assembly delegation,
and local elected officials to advocate for policies approved by the Board.
Additionally, staff will continue to work with its industry associations – such as the America Public
Transportation Association (APTA), the Colorado Association of Transit Agencies (CASTA), regional
transportation management organizations/associations (TMOs/TMAs), and other stakeholder
organizations – to partner and collaborate on shared goals to advance and seek support for legislative
positions approved by the Board. Lastly, tactics included in the Legislative Program will be guided and
informed by the priorities set forth in the agency’s Board-approved 2021-2026 Strategic Plan –
Community Value, Customer Excellence, Employee Ownership, Financial Success.
TACTICAL PLAN
Contained herein are specific priorities and actions that outline areas of focus for the 2022 Legislative
Program. Beyond the actions listed in this program, specific legislative matters are likely to arise that
warrant consideration by the Board of Directors.
To allow staff flexibility for consideration of items to be changed, added, or deleted as a result of
legislation introduced during the legislative session, the recommended change must be presented to the
Board as part of a Board committee agenda. If time does not allow for an item to be agendized for a
committee meeting for discussion by the Board, RTD will remain neutral on the legislation in question.

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: 2022 Legislative Program Final (4576 : 2022 Legislative Program)

PURPOSE

1.B.1.a

Attachment A

A. Surface Transportation
Authorization

Engage in national deliberations with partners such as APTA to
advocate for increased federal investment in public
transportation. Ensure that programs created and implemented
by the U.S. Department of Transportation (US DOT) are eligible
for RTD to participate, and that rules and regulations associated
with US DOT’s programs do not negatively impact the agency.

B. Return of RTD’s Credit Risk
Premium for 2010 Railroad
Rehabilitation and
Improvement Financing
(RRIF) loan

Work closely with RTD’s Congressional Delegation to seek
legislative language and the necessary funding appropriation to
facilitate the return of RTD’s Credit Risk Premium paid to the US
DOT to secure the agency’s 2010 RRIF loan.

C. Discretionary Grants

Advocate for federal discretionary grants to support transit
projects and planning throughout the district. Grant programs
include, but are not limited to, Capital Investment Grant Program,
Federal/State Partnership for State of Good Repair, Bus and Bus
Facilities, and Rebuilding American Infrastructure with
Sustainability and Equity Grant program.

State
A. Partnering with the State of Work and communicate actively with members and staff of the
Colorado on oversight
Colorado General Assembly on issues of state oversight including
Office of the State Auditor recommendations and Accountability
Committee recommendations. Ensure members and staff are
informed of RTD’s actions related to oversight and implementation
of recommendations.
B. Protect RTD’s ability to
deliver transit services
within Board-approved
budget

Oppose legislation that would increase operating costs without
providing new sources of revenue.

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: 2022 Legislative Program Final (4576 : 2022 Legislative Program)

Federal

1.B.1.a

Attachment A
C. Advocate for
environmental stewardship
through statewide rules
and regulations

Closely monitor, partner and participate in policy rules and
regulations proposed and implemented by the state of Colorado.
Advocate for the positive impact transit can have on air quality
improvement and ensure sources of eligible funding are available
to implement transit mitigation measures that can assist in
greenhouse gas reduction through the region.

A. Denver Regional Council of
Governments Funding

Work and communicate with local jurisdictional partners to
provide information and best practices for implementing funding
eligible for transit operations or capital improvements that assist
RTD in providing optimal transit services.

B. Local official and key
stakeholder engagement

Build and maintain collaborative relationships and engagement
opportunities with local officials and key stakeholders.

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: 2022 Legislative Program Final (4576 : 2022 Legislative Program)

Local

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Citizens Advisory Committee Report

Committee Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Citizens Advisory Committee Co-Chair Matt Appelbaum
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) utilizes a Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) as one of the
agency’s community engagement initiatives. The RTD CAC is a 17-member volunteer committee
comprised of residents from around the Denver metro region representing a wide variety of backgrounds,
interests and professional experiences.
The committee advises the agency on a range of transit issues that affect citizens and impact the region.
Members are appointed by the RTD Board of Directors. A member of the CAC provides a verbal update
on the CAC’s recent work efforts to the RTD Board at the bi-monthly Communications and Government
Relations Committee meeting.
DISCUSSION
CAC Co-Chair Matt Applebaum will provide the Board with an update of the CAC’s work.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
None.

Prepared by:
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager, Communications
Approved by:
Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 8

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Communications Report

Committee Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager, Communications
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) Board of Directors holds a bi-monthly Communications and
Government Relations Committee meeting. The meeting is an opportunity for Communications
Department staff to provide the Board with an overview of communications activities and progress,
highlighting matters of particular interest to Board members. Staff also fields questions from Board
members or clarifies information as necessary.
DISCUSSION
Below are some of the notable communications highlights included in this discussion item. Moving
forward, a more comprehensive overview of communications activities will be included in the monthly
Board Briefing Document.
•

Naming Rights Program
As part of the Corporate Naming Rights program, staff is conducting an updated valuation of RTD’s
stations and major rail lines to solicit parties interested in a naming rights partnership. A main focus
at this time is the competitive process to secure a new naming rights sponsor for the A Line. The
University of Colorado A Line, the name for the commuter rail line that travels between Denver Union
Station and Denver International Airport since 2016, is under a corporate naming agreement that
expires in May 2022.

•

15/15L Bus Shelter Improvement Project
Staff is promoting the improvements on the 15/15L route along Colfax Avenue. To enhance the
customer experience on this busy corridor, RTD is upgrading 15L stops between Broadway and the R
Line Colfax Station in Aurora with new shelters, enhanced lighting and security cameras. The new
shelters were designed in-house by Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, who is an architect in the Capital Programs
Department.

•

Take a Trip Ridership Campaign
The new ridership campaign “Take a Trip” was launched on September 22, 2021. The campaign
focuses on gaining more trips by encouraging customers to use RTD services for social activities,
essential trips and popular destinations, and reminding the public of the community benefits and

Packet Pg. 9

1.C.2

value of transit. Customer feedback indicates that these are the likely reasons people are/will use
transit at this time, given the continuing high level of telework in the region. The various ads are
designed with a tone of lightness, humor, poignancy, whimsiness and edginess to give people a
break from the seriousness of the pandemic. The campaign will adjust messaging to reflect the
dynamic changes as the region continues to recover.

•

Board Member Telephone Town Hall Meetings
The annual series of Board member telephone town hall meetings will begin October 13 and go
through November 3, 2021. This is an opportunity for Board members to connect with their
constituents, answer questions and receive immediate feedback through live electronic polling. The
meetings will be part of the next round of engagement for the Reimagine RTD initiative. Staff will
work with Board members to prepare for their respective town halls.

•

Customer Contacts
Customer communications that come through the Customer Care Division have been steadily
increasing. A summary of Customer Care contact volume (telephone, social media, email, website
comment form) and the most prevalent types of comments during July and August 2021 are detailed
in the table below:

July 2021
46,713 – Total Customer Interactions
45,513 – General questions, service assistance
1,083 – Complaints for research and follow-up
117 – Staff commendations

August 2021
46,165 – Total Customer Interactions
44,771 – General questions, service assistance
1,289 – Complaints for research and follow-up
105 – Staff commendations

Most Common Complaint Types
395 – Service concern
225 – Customer passed up at stop
213 – General discourtesy

Most Common Complaint Types
288 – Service concern
244 – Customer passed up at stop
220 – General discourtesy

FINANCIAL IMPACT
None.

Prepared by:
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager, Communications
Approved by:
Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 10

1.C.2

Packet Pg. 11

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Government Relations Report

Committee Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 Minutes
BACKGROUND
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) has a Government Relations Program facilitated and overseen
by the agency’s Government Relations Officer. Part of the role of the Government Relations Officer is to
coordinate and develop strategic communications to advance the agency’s legislative priorities and serve
as a point of contact for elected officials in the Denver metro region.
DISCUSSION
Below are the notable Government Relations highlights at the federal, state and local levels since the last
Communications and Government Relations Committee meeting held on August 10, 2021. This report
was prepared on September 21, 2021 and will be updated verbally as needed during the Committee
meeting.
Federal
Since the last Government Relations report, the U.S. Senate passed the Infrastructure Investment and
Jobs Act (IIJA) by a vote of 69-30. This package was closely negotiated between the White House, and
bipartisan group of Senators. The bill, if approved by the House and signed by the President, would
increase transit funding by 63% above current levels. The programs that administer the federal transit
funding are largely the same as the current surface transportation authorization bill – the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act. A notable exception is the increase in funding for
passenger rail which saw a 561% increase above current levels. Currently the IIJA is scheduled for a
vote in the House of Representatives on September 27, 2021. The outcome of those negotiations will
be updated verbally.
Last on federal matters, RTD is tracking the federal appropriations process. The end of the Federal Fiscal
Year is September 30, 2021. Congress is likely to approve a shorter Continuing Resolution to keep the
Federal Government operating that will extend into December. RTD will continue to work with its federal
delegation in the House and Senate to ensure funding to facilitate the return of RTD’s Credit Risk
Premium is included in the final FY22 Appropriations Bill.
State

Packet Pg. 12

1.C.3

At the state level, RTD is closely tracking the work being done by the Sales and Use Tax Simplification
Task Force, the Legislative Oversight Committee on Tax Policy, and the Transportation Legislation
Review Committee. One highlight from the Legislative Oversight Committee on Tax Policy, the
Committee approved the drafting of a bill to update Colorado’s current business tax deduction for mass
transit and rider share expenses. This legislation could offer a helpful incentive to support and encourage
use of public transportation when commuting for work.
Lastly, at the state level, RTD is monitoring the discussion on Colorado Department of Transportation’s
Rules Governing Statewide Transportation Planning Process and Transportation Planning Regions (Rule).
The Rule aims to establish pollution reduction targets over time through 2050. The Rule prescribes that
if reduction targets are not met, funding would need to be shifted to support mitigation measures.
Among the mitigation measures in the draft Rule, transit resources in a manner that can displace VMT is
listed. DRCOG has held several discussions with its board of directors on this topic as well as the Metro
Mayors Caucus and other transportation stakeholder organizations. RTD is monitoring the discussions
closely and working to determine how the agency can support the effort and be a partner in achieving
regional air quality improvement.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
None.

Prepared by:
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:
Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 13

