December 19, 2019
Study Session
DOUG TISDALE: --study session. We will this evening have a study session on the posted
topic, and then we will also have some other matters that we will address following that. And
then the Board will call for and presumably pass a resolution to enter into executive session. And
the topic of that will be discussed at that time, of course, as is required by applicable law.
Let the record reflect that all of the directors, including festively garbed directors, are present and
accounted for except for Director Claudia Folska, who has a conflict this evening and who is not
present. And the study session subject is one of great importance to the RTD, to our writers, to
all of our constituents, and to the public at large.
And we know that there are many of you watching, taking note of what is being discussed
tonight. It is a study session. It is intended for the Board members to have a free and open
exchange, controlled in terms of how we do it, but a free and open exchange with the staff
relative to these points, I am certain that we will have many comments made. Understand the
Board is not taking any action this evening. This is a study session. The Board convenes to hear
information, to share thoughts, questions, and concerns, and then to set it in a manner that staff
will be able to address this at a later time with a formal proposal.
That having been said-RECORDED VOICE: RTD voice conferencing. Please-DOUG TISDALE: And we're glad that we're now live on the telephone too. So that having been
said, let me recognize our General Manager and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. David A. Genova.
General Manager, the floor is yours.
DAVID GENOVA: Mr. Chair and members of the Board. We're prepared to go through a
presentation tonight Michael Ford, our Cheif Operating Officer, and Jesse will be leading us
through the presentation tonight. So I'll turn it over to Michael.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Ford, good evening and welcome.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you very much. Before we, obviously, get into this presentation, I
wanted to start off with a little background. On October 22, staff presented to the Board
regarding the need for reducing service. We just want to remind everybody that it took place. We
got direction to go forward to seek input from the public.
So in November 4th through the 17th, we conducted two weeks of input process. We received
about 13,000 survey responses. And of those 13,000 responses, about 59% indicated a desire to
reduce service to improve our reliability. On November 21, staff presented to the Board the
outreach results. And then today is our focus on the proposed service reduction plan.

To talk a little bit about our current situation, operator shortages continue to impact our ability to
deliver current levels of service. Currently, we operate daily about 10,000 plus rides on the bus
side and a thousand on the rail side. Trips are still being dropped, mostly on the light rail.
But to put some context to this, we are operating about 99% of our service on the bus and about
96% on the rail, but that 1% on bus or that 4% on rail is still impacting people. And that's really
important to address. Weekly mandating is at 69% for bus operators and 42% for rail operators.
Operator shortage impacts, obviously, it's a concern, and it's affecting the quality of life for our
employees, affects the customer's confidence level, and affects our ability to uphold to our core
values of safety and reliability, and overall affecting our credibility, which we take very
seriously.
Talk a little bit about recruitment and retention. Extensive measures have been taken over the last
three years, marketing campaigns, within and outside of RTD district, including colleges and
tech schools, on vehicle advertising, more efficient hiring processes, job fares with the military
and veterans, referral bonuses to incentivize folks, pay increases, increased shift differential pay,
incentive pay for mandating work, and split shifts, and increased professional funding for
education.
One other thing about the work environment, we've been working really closely with our union
to help gain some more flexibility so we can utilize our workforce and take advantage of some of
the contractual language that's there. And more recently, we were able to create an MOI, which
gave us more flexibility with our part-timers, meaning that they can help with the mandating, and
they're able to be used during the weekday on the railside, versus just the weekends.
So we're eagerly trying to make that happen more vigorously, so we can start reducing some of
the demand that we're experiencing. On the bus side, we've hired, in the last 36 months, 791 bus
operators, and on the rail side, 177. Talk a little bit about our training right now, we have bus
operator training that's about seven weeks along. Half of that time is in the classroom, and the
other is behind the wheel.
On the light rail side, it's an 11 week course, five weeks in classroom, five weeks in revenue
training, and one week of certifications. Currently, we have classes going through and should be
done by May, and we have a whole bunch of other classes lined up and other applicants ready to
go. And some of the challenges that we have is just getting people vetted, getting them through
the process, and having enough training classes to accommodate quite a few people that are in
the wings right now. And then just having enough resources to kind of help support and manage
an ever-changing and growing population of operators, so we can give them the attention that
they need.
I'd like to take this opportunity to kind of frame the service reduction and kind of why we're here.
The goal is really to reduce the amount of mandating, so that working overtime is a choice rather
than a mandate. Specifically, our goal regarding the service plan reduction is to reduce
mandating, uphold to our core value of safety, and improve reliability for our customers.

By doing this, this would help align service with our available workforce, will allow opportunity
to build our workforce while providing some relief to our operators. Now, again, I will be clear
that this will not completely eliminate mandating, but I think it will put us on the right track.
Talk a little bit about our guiding principles, which follows our Board adopted standards. Service
performance evaluations based on the RTD service standards are an element that effects on the
overall integrity of our transit network and transit-dependent markets, availability of alternative
services to affect riders, cost-effective distribution throughout the district and family of services,
and the ability to enhance service when possible.
Another important factor is Title VI Civil Rights Act, benefits and services are provided without
regard to race, color, and national origin. Also, disparate effects on low income and minority
populations is yet another criteria. And lastly, the response to changes in the communities where
services are provided.
I'd like to take this opportunity to bring some clarification or clarifying points. Poorly performing
service that does not meet standards will likely not be reinstated. These would have been done
eventually through our normal service standard process. But better performing services that was
reduced through this process or being considered would have a higher likely of reinstatement
when sufficient staffing levels are available.
Service will be reinstated during normal service, changes which three times a year. And tonight's
information is about the reduction related to our operator shortage. Full May service change will
be presented next month.
So I want to give an overview of some of the focus on the bus service reductions, and we'll get
into more detail after the presentation. But we're looking at six bus routes proposed for
elimination, 19 bus routes proposed for reduced service, and then the suspension of special
services, like the Bronco Ride, Buff Ride, and Rockies Service.
The mall ride will be reduced from 90 second headways to three minutes. And then an important
point about the Paratransit service, we are committed to not impact any current Paratransit
services, which has been pointed out in previous meetings. Those services will be grandfathered- those folks that are in there will be grandfathered to provide those residents their current
service. And new customers will be-- no new customers will be added to the program if the fixed
route service are eliminated in that area. So I just want to be clear that our commitment on the
Paratransit side, because it was mentioned in previous meetings prior.
Talk a little bit about the rail service change for reductions in the E, F, and R extensions. 10
trains per hour are required by FTA grant agreement. The extension is currently overserved
during these peak hours. FTA was unable to grant our request to reduce the off-peak service
levels to six trains per hour. So what we're looking at right now is a possible solution, if you will,
is the possibility of the adjustment of the R line from four trains to two trains an hour to align
with the service levels that are currently there.

We're also looking at the elimination of service on the D line on the weekends, and the C
weekend service would be expanded due to greater transit market needs in the Central Platte
Valley. This provides also an option to take the C line if the D line service is eliminated on the
weekends.
Again, I want to mention that we'll see dropped runs still or likely, but we're going to be in a
better situation than we are now with the current degrees of dropping that we have. So we
believe that this would be an improvement.
So some of the next steps, Board guidance on proceeding with proposed plan, standard May
service change presented to the Board at the January Ops Committee, which is next month.
Public input process, it will take place in January and February. 15-plus public meetings, one in
each district, and we'll obviously do more work with the Board members individually to help
with that, and return to the Board in March with results of the public input and final service plan.
Service recommendations to approve final plan and implementation in the May service change.
So even getting a little bit more granular, we're talking next month, January 14th, coming back to
the Board with the service plan for May, and then going out, getting the head nod from the Board
for public input. And I'd also mention that it's not just the public input. We get information from
our email process and social media. So that also factors into the information that one would
receive. March 2020, the Board would take some action to move this forward.
And then this would be implemented in 2020 of May. So that's kind of the timeline right now.
Obviously, there's probably questions. We've had a chance to meet with every Board member to
just try to brief them on their particular area and try to bring some context to this proposal.
Again, this is a draft, and we're just looking for your input. And happy to take questions and get
into some of the detail. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Ford. And before going to the questions, let me
just, for the benefit of those who may need items repeated for emphasis, every single Board
member was met with by a team of five, six, or seven staff members to go over this, so that the
Board members would have complete information in advance relative to the thoughts and the
process. And this meeting is being held so that we can share this information at the earliest
possible moment, when we have it. And we have a proposal for consideration, so that the public
has a heads up, if you will, on this.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Pardon me, Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Director Folska, you're on the line?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, I am. And I believe there maybe Board members on the line. But I
just wanted to thank Mr. Ford and his team for his outstanding work. And the time that they
spent with me and Director Whitmore was really great. And I think Director Whitmore and I, at
least I can speak for myself, could have gone on a long time. But Director Whitmore did point
out how incredible it was for so many people to give so much time to us and educate us.

And so, that's all I wanted to say. I'm good with everything, and thank you very much. Have a
happy holiday.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's a nice footnote to my comments. And I appreciate that.
And we, of course, will be coming back to you through the evening for more comments. But,
again, to highlight some of these points, 99% of bus service is being provided. That's not a made
up number. That is a demonstrated, evidenced, calculated number. 99% of bus service is
currently being provided.
Unfortunately, if you're in the 1% that's missed, that's all you care about. And that's appropriate,
and we understand that. By the same token 96%, of all rail service is being provided. That's a
real number. It's documented. It's evidenced. 96% of the rail service is being provided. But it's at
the expense of our employees. And that's a big part of why we are here.
And to recall-- because I think this got glossed over it a little bit-- remember, if a staff member
refers someone who is hired as an operator, they get a $1,000 bonus. And the person who signs
on gets a $2,000 bonus. We are processing the recruits as fast as we can, but I liked the
comment-- and I choose to emphasize this too. Overtime should be a choice, not a mandate.
Overtime should be a choice, not a mandate. Unfortunately, we're mandating everyone now.
And I was at a Denver chamber event just before coming over here for the meeting, and people
said, well, how long are they being mandated? And I said every week, every month, year after
year. That's what we're talking about tonight. And the chief operating officer made a point, you
are going to hear some discussion about some runs that staff does not believe will be restored.
And I see the headline now. Temporary service reductions by RTD, a fraud. They really meant to
cancel those roads in perpetuity.
The point being that the routes that are, in fact, performing will be restored as soon as we can get
the operators to run them. The operators that are not performing in the ordinary course of
business and having nothing to do with this process would be recommended to this Board for
elimination by the staff in any event. And just to ensure that we understand that and that we are
doing everything in our power to ensure that Paratransit is not impacted, current users of
Paratransit can continue to rely upon that.
I've gone on too long, but I just wanted to make sure, because I know there are a lot of people
who are not used to our presentations who are in the room, and they don't have the benefit of
hard copy of the packet in their hand. They just saw it flashed by on the screen. So I thought it
was worthwhile to share that information with them. Director Broom, you are recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a couple observations. One is I've heard that this is a
budget balancing operation, which is not the case. Both in the case of the 2019 budget and the
2020 budget, we have budgeted funds for a full staffing for all the positions. So this is not being
done to reduce or our budgetary costs.
The second thing is I was advised that these temporary reductions, as well as there may be some
that will fall out, because nobody's using those particular lines, represent about a 5% overall

reduction. And why one comment at the end of my meeting with them was is that, I hope that
this is the last time that we're going to see this at the Board, that we're not going to be here in the
fall meeting saying we have to cut some more because we didn't cut enough at this point in time.
So we need to really look at this very, very hard and make sure that we're doing enough to right
the ship. Because if you don't get the ship righted, then we're going to continue to lose people
who, after they're hired, find out that they've been hired to a six day a week job and not a five
day a week job. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom. We appreciate your observations and
comments there. Madam First First Vice Chair, Director Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I wanted to say thank you for all the hard work. I
know this was not an easy task for any of you. And I mean, it's pretty evident by the spreadsheet
and all the work that you've done. So I very much appreciated the one on one meetings that we
had. And I thought that-- I had some concern about one route that was the only route in a
particular area. And I believe that the compromise that you came up with is fine. It still meets a
bare minimum for those customers.
I do have a question about the final bullet on the bus service reductions. It said no new customers
will be added to the Paratransit program if fixed routes are eliminated in their area. It looks like
there are six bus routes that are eliminated. So that tells me that there may be some Paratransit
customers that might be impacted. And we can have that discussion offline, but I just am a little
bit concerned about that particular component, because if there aren't very many routes in that
area to begin with, sometimes that's the only option.
Finally, with regard to the rail, I'm a rider of the D line on weekends. But I've realized that this
makes a lot of sense, and you have the option for those people that are wondering, to take the H
line from the convention center, performing arts center area, and then transfer to the C line at
Broadway. So there are options available, and so I'm very comfortable with trying to eliminate
that particular route. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Let me ask a clarifying question following up on your
comment about the Paratransit services, the Acess-A-Ride. As I understand it, the comment is
that as to any lines, first of all, that are not being eliminated, they're being reduced, there will be
no impact on current customers. And that, obviously, people have between now and whenever
this goes into effect, maybe the May run board, if it goes into effect, to sign up for Paratransit
services.
But the one point of clarification that I think does merit comment is if a line is actually
completely eliminated, even the current Paratransit users would be eliminated? Is that-- that's
what I kind of heard from Director Catlin, and I didn't think that was the case. But that's why I
wanted to frame the question.
MICHAEL FORD: No. I'm Michael Ford, the COO. This would not eliminate those folks
currently using that service. So I want to be clear about that. All right--

DOUG TISDALE: Please, please-PEGGY CATLIN: So even if a fixed route is eliminated, if somebody is currently using that
service, then that would not be eliminated?
MICHAEL FORD: They would not be affected by that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, there may be six routes where it would apply, but maybe only one or
two where that could be the case, where-JESSIE CARTER: Right. And looking at the routes that are actually-- I'm sorry. This is Jessie
Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling. And looking at the routes that are not
surrounded by other routes, I did take point to what you said about a route that's in isolation.
There's one that's, in particular, that we would have to research. And that's the route 403, off of
Wildcat Reserve. That's something we will be taking up with our Access-A-Ride personnel, and
taking a look at how many customers we actually have in that area, as we have done in the past.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Carter. That answered my question. I was just concerned,
because I didn't know what the impacts might be.
JESSIE CARTER: Yeah. I just want to mention that, by and large, when you look at the 16L
elimination, the 16 still exist. And therefore, Access-A-Ride is still there. When you look at the
Route 55, it's surrounded by other route services. So there's no impact there. The same is true on
the 157, which is surrounded by other services, so we don't believe there'll be very many impacts
there. But we will look at every single one of those to basically define the list of customers who
are still eligible.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for clarifying that, Mr. Carter. Because, again, it could
get misunderstood by people. The Paratransit customers that we currently have will continue to
be served. And when I say currently, they would have at least up until May to sign up for
Paratransit services, because we wouldn't make any changes prior to that. Is that correct?
JESSIE CARTER: That's correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for that clarification. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for your work. I take this very seriously. A 5%
cut is terribly serious, and we all know that, and really don't want to do this. But if it has to be
done to improve the reliability of the system, if it's done in the absolute minimum, then it seems
to me worth it.
But one of the things I want to raise about that is that I think we should be doing everything we
can to improve employee retention, operator retention. And I would love to see from staff the

plan that you have to increase retention by addressing operator concerns. I know that you folks
did a survey of the operators of the employees, which we haven't seen yet.
But I presume you have some results, and it would be nice to see some costs. Because it seems to
me this is an emergency. Cutting service to me creates an emergency. And so I would like to see
that we have a real plan, with costs, that we might be able to spend by not doing something else
because of this emergency.
And the other thing that I would like to see is research on hiring an outside consultant who's an
expert on dealing with retention and organizational culture. Because I think-- this was suggested
at the NATO meeting-- that it's useful to have new eyes looking at a problem. And what do we
have to lose, except a little bit of money? So, anyway, those are my requests. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for the comments.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I have a few questions. I'm wondering-- so January, we're going to
be voting forward-- is that the process-- for both this and the May run board ordinary changes?
MICHAEL FORD: In January, we'll be bringing back the service change. I'm sorry, Michael
Ford, the COO. We'll be bringing back the service change process. We'll be going through our
normal process, and then we're looking for the head not to go out and communicate or socialize
the information to the district as a whole, and getting feedback, like we normally do. So we'll just
be following what we normally do.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: And those normal all changes also include-- I'm sorry, this is Jessie Carter-turning down the level of service because of cancellation of school, which is a normal procedure
that we go through. But there are some other maintenance issues that we have, and also CPA
compliance issues. Also, we want to take a look at some items that have been brought up
regarding maintenance of way, as far as span of service, on our rail as well. So we'll be bringing
forward some suggestions slash proposals for that as well.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you for that information. And I just want to say that, as I said, I
support this process, but I would love to see what we're trying to do to improve retention, so that
we won't have to repeat this process. A couple more things, if you don't mind? OK.
Oh, yes, I noticed that we'll be cutting things like Bronco rides. And I never use them. I don't
care about sports. What do I care? But I know that there are some people, that's all that they use
of our service. And so it becomes, in a way, an equity issue, and also a practical issue. I mean,
we have taxpayers that pay the money, and they only use the Bronco rides. So I wonder, have we
thought about that when we've decided to drop these specialized services?
MICHAEL FORD: I think we're just looking at all the facets of the service, and seeing what
would make sense. We're trying to find a sweet spot, if you will, to make sure that we're looking
at everything and treating it in a fair and equitable manner. So these services have come up as

ones that we need to consider. Obviously, the Board can make other decisions around that, but
that's why this is included in that.
JESSIE CARTER: This is Jessie Carter. One of the things about the special services, we'd be
remiss if we didn't say it doesn't have an impact on our ability to provide our regular service. So
if you have a Bronco ride game that occurs on a Sunday and it requires over 100 operators, we
are actually taking those operators operating the special service that then impacts their DOT
hours. So we do need to be very cognizant and careful with how we provide special services in
looking at how it impacts our ability to provide the day-to-day services as well.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I'm just wondering, is it all or nothing? I mean, could you look at it
as maybe not a total cut? I don't know if that's possible. I don't know if it would solve any
problem. But I just think-- I know that there are some people that only use our service through
that.
Thank you. Another question that I had had to do with that some of the cuts are expected to be
permanent, because it's runs that were not very effective. And some of them are expected to
come back when we have more operators. Will people be told which that their runs fall into, so
they'll know if it's coming back or not?
MICHAEL FORD: We'll be very clear about what's getting eliminated. Again, we go through
our process, our Board adopted policy process, to determine what routes are eliminated. And
again, these would be eliminated through our normal service change process. So I just want to be
clear about that.
But we will do a Herculean job of communicating and making sure people are aware of what's
going on, what changes are happening. Paratransit services and everything else. That's something
that has resonated very strongly with me in the discussions with the Board members.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much. I'm through. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. And just to assure Director Folska on
the telephone, no one will be allowed to speak twice in the room here until we go back to you for
comments, Director Folska. You are the only one on the telephone, but be patient, and we will
get there. So now I turn to Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sure you've all seen in the Monday morning
dispatch the list of new hires every month. Frequently, if not every month, there's people listed as
rehires. And I was just curious, if this were to pass in January, did we reach out to those people
who, based on their exit interview, indicated that, hey, I like everything else, but for this
perpetual six-day cycle?
And so maybe they found something else in the meantime, but in the back of their mind, they
wanted to come back. And so, they would have a few months to plan for that. What does that
look like as far as that lapse in operating? I don't know how long they have to go between
training. And I'm guessing you only qualify for one sign-on bonus, maybe for life.

[LAUGHING]
MICHAEL FORD: Well, we will look at everything that we can if folks are willing to come
back. With the MOU that we just signed with the ATU, that gives us the opportunity, if people
were thinking about maybe this is too much, that maybe a part-time opportunity would be better,
that's something that we can pursue when we're doing exit interviews. Those are things that we
can ask on both the bus and rail side.
So I think we'll take advantage of everything that we possibly can. But maybe, Mr. Jensen, you
might want to speak to anything more with that?
DAVE JENSEN: If I may, this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. If I understand your
question, some of that would depend on the length of time that the individual has been gone. So
their certification is they have to be recertified once a year. If somebody has left us just a couple
of months ago, and they're willing to come back under the circumstances that you presented, then
we should pretty quickly be able to get them back, process them, give them a test to make sure
that their skills are still where they need to be, and we can get them going.
So that would be the plan, is really to evaluate how long they've been gone, evaluate what their
skills are, test them, and then get them in service.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Mihalik. Director Walker, Mr. Secretary, you
are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I want to thank you guys for the work you've done. I also want to
thank all the bus operators and train operators and mechanics who have put in all that time for all
these years to get me and all those other riders to work, and the museum on the weekends.
So I am wondering if we find that we're retaining more if any of these proposed cuts or
reductions can be eliminated before May? Has there been a consideration of that? Like, let's say,
50 folks. Anyway, I dont have to repeat you knowwhat I said.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. I think what we'd like to be able to do is see some
stabilization. And if we're seeing some things, but we do have a process that we have to follow in
terms of when services go through the process of being changed. But if we are wanting to see
how the effects are, we would like to see at least four to six months of retention and increasing
and availability.
So when we are looking to add more service back, we can be comfortable and confident in that
process.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Yeah, that answers my question perfectly. With the C line service,
I'm not clear, and I should have asked this when we had our one on one or two on one, if there'll
be an increase in frequency on the weekends since the D line--

JESSIE CARTER: Not on the C line. No. Of course, as you know, adding frequency is basically
adding an operator, for sure. So this way, we'll be at the same frequency as it's offered today, and
that's 30 minutes.
JEFF WALKER: OK. OK. And we talked about this a little bit. The mall shuttle. There'll be
construction some time around a year-- excuse me, on 16th Street Mall. I imagine that you've
been working with the city of Denver to help schedule that? And I'm wondering if that threeminute will hold, or if it will need to be increased, if that's been a point of discussion yet?
JESSIE CARTER: Again, this is Jessie Carter. The way that I see it at this point in time, that's
such a complex question, as far as understanding how the construction will be done. It may be in
our interests-- and this is something we would bring back to the Board. It may be in our interest
to look at moving the mall shuttle off of 16th Street during the construction period, and perhaps
adding midday service on the FMR, for example, to actually replace the 16th Street Mall.
Because as you know and as you mentioned, if there are major interruptions in the service it
would be hard to maintain any semblance of a headway frequency.
JEFF WALKER: Right. And maybe with the improvements that are being made on the 15th and
17th, with the buss only lanes, that might provide an opportunity. I don't know if there are any
capital improvements, curb improvements, that go along with those. But that might be an
opportunity, if you haven't exploded it already. That might be something to look at. That's all I
have. Thanks again.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I have a couple of questions. Director Lubow,
did you not get your one on one session with the guys? OK. I just wondered about that. And then
I think I want to point out that I personally don't feel like people who are Broncos ticket holders
have any equity issues. I think that if they can, you know-- that's what I feel like. If we need to
stop having 100 drivers run that route in order to make all of our employees better, then I don't
think myself-- that's just my opinion.
And then I think we want to talk a little bit about the fact that Access-A-Ride is an addendum
service that is required by the federal government when you are the public transit agency. And it
is required within I believe 3/4 of a mile of a fixed route, and it is not required where there is no
fixed route. And then, in fact, RTD, in keeping those riders whose routes are going away, are
going above and beyond anything that is required of us, and that we are doing that because, as an
agency, we are and have been continually committed to the Paratransit, older adult, disabled
community.
I'd also like everybody to know that there are a number of services-- 211 right now is running
some voucher programs that will help people who have a problem getting to and from. Also, the
DRCOG has the older adults program, has special services now. And these are services that have
been funded and are anticipated to go on for some amount of time. DRMAC has a guide to

letting you know what services are available, what the cost is, who can use them based on
location, age, et cetera.
So I think that we are trying hard to balance some employment issues that are indigenous to the
greater Denver area, not just to RTD, but to many, many agencies, and companies, and
businesses, who are having trouble. And our service, that generically we do a pretty good job of.
So I want to thank you, gentlemen, for the time that you spent with me looking at how my
constituents are affected, and that you spent with all the rest of us. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. Dr. Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I just have a few questions. I numbered these pages
because there weren't any numbers in them, and so I'm going to go through that. I started with
the first pages as page one. So the question on page six, for the training class sizes, I'm curious.
You said that you didn't have enough-- that the classes were small, or you couldn't keep up with
the amount of folks you were-MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. I think the issue is really just having enough resources
to be of more support to the people that are coming in, to help them navigate while they're there.
I think having a little bit more presence and opportunities would be really important. And the
training itself, we obviously are trying to run as many classes as we can. And that's been
difficult, given the number of resources we have to do that.
And so that becomes a problem. There's just an overall vetting of getting somebody in through
the process as well. It takes more time, sometimes, than you think. So those are some of the
challenges that we have. They're not insurmountable, but I just would point them out as issues
that have created some concern for us.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So how long-- well, I'll let you follow up. When you say resources, are you
talking about financial resources?
MICHAEL FORD: No, I'm talking about employee resources, being able to spend more time
with operators, help them navigate, be more of a resource. We are somewhat challenged with the
number of supervisors and assistant managers we have per garage to be able to help people when
they come into the area and the agency. And it's a big-- you know it's a big agency to navigate
and to get the support you need. We've got supervisors. We've got a mentoring program. We've
got a buddy system. But it's still a challenge. And I think some additional resources could be
helpful there.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That's helpful. On page seven, I'm curious, on the very last bullet, it
says "will not completely eliminate our need to mandate." Do you have a target percentage that
you're trying to reach in terms of the mandating?
MICHAEL FORD: I think the thought was that we want to make mandating-- mandating is
going to continue to be something that we live with, because that's kind of part of what happens
in our industry. But we're trying to give people more choices, so they don't have to be mandated.

I think the notion is that people do want to work. They want to work the overtime, but they want
to be able to work at their own choice. And being able to talk about that as a goal is something
that we've been trying to focus in as part of this process.
Mandating, though, we've been doing that since, I believe, this agency has been in existence. So
it's not like it hasn't happened. But I think reducing that opportunity and being able to give
people choices is what we're really trying to focus in on.
SHONTEL LEWIS: But do we have a goal or a target that we're trying to reach?
MICHAEL FORD: In terms of reducing mandating?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Uh-huh.
MICHAEL FORD: I think we can bring more information back to you on that. I think the
stabilization and trying to just rightsize what we're doing is really our goal. I don't have a
particular number that I can give you right now, but I can definitely get back to you on what we
think would be the best number, or the more correct number about that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you. Package page nine. I'm curious, and this is just to clarify,
what's the process for reinstating services?
JESSIE CARTER: OK. I'll speak to that. This is Jessie Carter again. We would follow our
normal board process, in that we would have to come forward to the Board with a proposal for a
regular service change. And in that, we would have the service that would be reinstated. The
example I would give, in 2012, we actually eliminated the route four on Morrison Road. In 2014,
we actually reinstated that service. So we brought it to the board, explained that when we cut the
route, the route was in an upward trend. It was actually growing. So we felt that bringing it back,
and after having meetings with the community, bringing it back would be the right thing to do.
As of-- I think was 2016 when we actually-- actually, it was 2018 when we got requests for
Saturday service on that same service that we had canceled in 2012. And in 2019, that service
was added. So we've had experience with services that have been taken away and then brought
back. And even in this most recent service changed with the G line, the route 125 is an old
number that we resurrected, and we actually resurrected that same route, the 125, and merged it
with the 17 as a part of the G line service plan, because we believe that it fit well with the overall
service plan for the G Line. So we will bring it back, either with a major service change or
through our regular service change process.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And because you're speaking, Jessie, I'm just going to ask you this
question. From the Excel document you sent us, are there routes that we might be able to talk
about tonight that may not come back, so folks aren't surprised by that?
JESSIE CARTER: I would like to table that and actually bring back more detail. Because there
are a number of routes that are, of course, on the list, because they were on the 2018 list of-- I

don't want to call it the naughty list. But, hey, 'tis the season. So those are the routes that were
underperforming and have been performing for a long period of time.
However, it doesn't mean that we don't have a vision for that route in a different form. So where
it may have been underperforming, like the Route 125 had been, there may be an opportunity in
the future for a new life. Or it may be that service was underperforming, but might be better, hm,
still this term, we imagine, with another service.
So example in your area, the route 32 is on the list, Denver City Park Services. That has been on
the naughty list for a very long time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
JESSIE CARTER: And if we were to bring back some semblance of that service, I don't think it
would be a good idea to put it on the Route 32, but instead consider it part of the Route 43.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I see. OK. That's helpful. Thank you. And on page 12, it says "board
guidance proceedings with proposed plan. So one of the things that I've asked about a few times
is the HR data. Because I think it's important to a couple of the service reductions with the
understanding of what's going on with the culture within the agency, for our operators, what
individuals aren't staying. And I've asked for that data number of times, and I have yet to receive
it. And I also asked that that was included in this packet, and it's also not included in this packet.
And so I'm asking for it again, because I notice that it shows the number of individuals we've
hired. And we know that a lot of folks are separating from the agency. And what's the reason that
that's occurring?
MICHAEL FORD: I will ensure you get that information. I will work with our team to make
sure that happens.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Because I just think it's really important for us to understand the true
problem. It's not hiring. It's retention. And if we aren't addressing the root of that problem, then
what's the point of reducing service if we're not going to address the root causes?
January-- I'm sorry. On page 13, it says, "staff presentations to the operations committee on
complete proposed service changes." That will be this-- is subject to change?
JESSIE CARTER: It's that and others. As I mentioned before-- I'm sorry. This is Jesse Carter.
We had a number of things that happen as a matter of course in May. In May, we turned down
services that serve the schools primarily. And we have some other maintenance issues that have
to be taken care of. And that's not a part of this service change. This just primarily focused on
service reductions.
There are some things that we need to, that we've actually promised the community, to look at,
and also promised our operators to take a look at. An example would be, we need to move our
Arapahoe crossing terminal to be compliant with the CVA and give our operators a restroom. So
we will have a proposal that does exactly that. It truncates the Route 66 at Arapahoe Station and

extends the Route 153 over to Arapahoe Hall station, thereby giving our operators a restroom at
a terminal that we control.
So we'll have those types of changes to bring before the Board, along with taking a hard look,
again, at span of services. Because we've heard from capital programs and from even our
maintenance of way staff that we are challenged by the level of service that we operate late night
and early morning, that we don't provide a large enough window for maintenance. So that's
something else that we will come back with.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And then the last thing that I have for you-- and two more more, I'm
sorry. I'm happy to have this conversation offline, but you did include the savings for each
individual route? And I'm curious as to what would you do with those savings? Happy to have it
offline.
DOUG TISDALE: Ms. Copp, you are recognized. Ms. McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. So what had we have talked about in past
meetings is that we would set aside those funds so that when service is to be restored, we would
have access to a pot of money to restore those services.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. In the future, can you add that into this packet as well? And we
probably should say that when we go out and have conversations within our districts as well, so
folks know that, we utilize our services. And then in terms of outreach, I know we talked about
what additional outreach could look like. I would like to see folks on buses, on trains, actually
engaging with individuals in their language, because I know we've had a number of
conversations about not having things translated and not having interpreters at meetings. That's
really important to me that we have that during the peak hours, or 5 o'clock in the morning,
going out and having conversations so people don't feel blindsided that we over communicate.
And I want to make sure we're taking care of our operators, but I also want to make sure that
we're taking care of the folks who utilize our services. And I just want to sure folks have the
information they need. I really appreciate your work on this.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. Some excellent points. And, of
course, for the benefit of all the other directors, whenever a staff member says, I'll get you that
information, it is a contraction of the southern y'all. We all will receive, of course, any such
information that is provided, so that everybody has the benefit of it. But I think, including
making sure that some of the, if you will, sales points of this are communicated, it is important
that they be in here. And I think that would serve us all well. Madam Second Vice Chair,
Director Rivera-Malpiede, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'd like to start with some comments, and
then I have some questions. First of all, I can not extend a greater thanks than I want to tonight,
because the job that you have has been so daunting. As a transit rider, it's been scary, and as a
Board member, it's been terrifying. But sitting down with your team was so sensitive in terms of,

not just eliminating this, but coming up with an alternative for it. And I think that is the strength
of this agency, and what makes us so good.
It's not because I'm an elected official. It's because of your experience. And you know what's
needed in the community. As a transit rider, I have been on buses where people are in tears,
because they're afraid the bus isn't going to come and they're going to lose their job. And we had
this conversation.
But I'm also very aware of the fact that we have over 170 different bus routes, 10 rail lines, over
10,000 bus stops that people stand in. And to think that you guys, three times a year, sit down
and figure out every logistic of that is mind-blowing to me. So I just want to say to you, on
behalf of the constituents in District C, thank you. And thank you for thinking of us. Because,
Jessie you and I've worked hand-in-hand with one route being eliminated, making sure they're
being picked up by another round.
In particular, I'm thinking of Mercy Housing. I'm thinking of the Northfield High School kids.
And then I have to give you a little jolt, since the Route 32 is my bus. And I can't go west or east.
But I do understand the rationale behind it. And I appreciate the fact that I can look at it and see
alternatives for my community to be able to utilize and get to the same points, places, that need
they need to get to. So I just wanted to start with those comments.
I do have some questions. First of all, how many drivers are there currently in the mid-January
class? Like, how many will be graduating from that class?
MICHAEL FORD: On the rail side, I believe we have 27 in the queue. And then another starting
very soon after that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Are they all rail?
MICHAEL FORD: That number's for rail.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. And then here's my other question. Will these
reductions stabilize our service for riders and our drivers? Is that-- are you seeing that that's
what's going to be the impact of this?
MICHAEL FORD: That is our goal, to help bring that about. We think that cutting more would
be a concern. But we believe this is the, I guess, the right number, if you will, to help us get
through the retention and recruitment issues, to help provide more reliability to our customers,
and just to have less mandating.
Again, we'll continue to work on the recruiting and retention. But we believe that this helps us
get there. Obviously, there's a lot of work to continue to do, but that's what our belief is at this
time.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So, yeah, so my next question was, will this ease the mandatory
overtime, and drivers will be able to go back to volunteer to work overtime? That's the whole
premise of this too, correct?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, that's one of our goals, as I was trying to articulate in the presentation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And then my last one is in HR, in terms of support for people
applying to be drivers or mechanics, how many HR people do we have allocated to work
specifically on that side of the house?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. So we have one full-time person that
does bus , and we have now one full-time person that does rail.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And then in between, they disperse the other representative. And then
we have four additional recruiters that also assist with that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. That's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Executive Vice Chair. Dr. Whitmore, you are
recognized, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a couple of follow-up questions to some items
discussed. I'll do my best to not be redundant. Back to the resource issue that was mentioned
during the training and touched upon by Director Lewis. I seem to recall that we had proposed
some new positions in the budget in mid-management, or in training, or supervision, for our
operators, and perhaps even our mechanics, that did not survive the budget cuts. Is that
recollection correct, Mr. Ford, Miss McKillop?
MICHAEL FORD: I believe there were some supervision positions in the budget that did not
make the cut.
TROY WHITMORE: Do you have any idea how many of those were proposed?
MICHAEL FORD: I believe there were about four.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. All right. Thank you. Back to the mandate issue. So are we in a
scenario-- help me, I guess, to understand a little bit more about that. We have operators that are
working 8, 10, 12 weeks in a row, six days a week or longer. And, obviously, many of those
individuals would prefer the choice to do every other week, or only when they could due to
family obligations, or the financial need?
Is that a realistic scenario, or is it much more Draconian as far as months and months?

MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. I think in my conversations with operators with the
union, what I'm hearing more is just having the freedom. I think people want to be able to work,
but it's more about when they want to work. So they don't mind the overtime. But at the same
time, it's not always conducive to their schedule. So we can alleviate that a little bit more, and
having them have more flexibility and freedom. I think that will help address it. And not
everybody's the same, but those are the comments that I hear. These are the pieces of information
that continue to permeate throughout the discussion when we're having these focus groups and
discussions about how people feel and think.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much. Often, we have constituents confuse light
rail with commuter rail. And we know that the operations are different. And we have been, I
think, informed that we do not have an operations issue or operator issue with commuter rail,
either on the G line or University Colorado A. Is that indeed still holding stable? And we are, I
think, optimistic that we will be OK with the N line for next year as well? I just wanted to verify
that for my constituents.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes terms of resources and drivers, I think we are stabilized in that area. We
have some more hiring to do, but I think , based on what I'm understanding, we're continuing to
do pretty well in that area. I could defer to Mr. Miller if he's here, or Mr. Jensen.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Jensen, you're recognized.
DAVE JENSEN: This is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. And that's correct. The
commuter rail operations are stabilized, and we don't anticipate any problems with the N line. If I
could make one quick comment on your question before in terms of the overall mandating.
Something else that needs to be kept in mind, I believe, is that we mandate in seniority order.
And so the lower seniority operators are the ones that are being mandated week after week after
week after week.
The higher your seniority, the less likely you are. And so that's something that we're definitely
working on, to see if we get some more flexibility, so that we can spread that out a little bit
better.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you for the additional input. Lastly, I would like to echo what Dr.
Folska said earlier on the phone. I did meet with her, and it was a pleasure to meet with the staff.
When you walked into that conference room, these folks had their game faces on. I'll tell you,
and very serious, very committed, extremely sincere. And I don't know that the public
understands that, or gets the sincerity and the compassion that you all have.
I was impressed. And I'm also impressed with the quick turnaround we demanded, that we had
more and better public input on this situation. So to Pauletta and your gang and the other folks
that help with that, I appreciate that. I think it was done the right way. And I look forward to
further conversations to see what I can do to remedy some of these problems. Thank you. Mr.
Chair, I'm done.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much sure, Director Whitmore, Director Guissinger, you are
recognized now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. I join everyone else in saying thanks.
It's a lot of work, I can tell. But a lot of work has been put into this, and I appreciate it. I will
join, I think, Director Lewis in saying that it would be helpful to know which of these you define
as temporary and which of these are probably not. And am I right that the ones that are being
dropped based on the performance standard, it's the usual performance standard?
JESSIE CARTER: That's correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. I just want to mention that I think-- and I said this in the room
with you and several of the other AGMs and staff. And I think this gives us an interesting
opportunity to work with some of our local partners. And I know that Denver, Boulder, and
imagine some of the other cities have been looking at taking over certain routes in conjunction
with RTD in order to provide different service.
One thing I've heard you is cuts to the Route up to Lyons. And one thing I've heard is the
possibility of-- you know, that's been in the mix for a while, of looking at other ways of
providing service up there that maybe is a partnership with the county and RTD. And since we're
doing this for the worker shortage, and we will have the money that went to those lines, I would
love to see us sit down with the interested local governments and see if we can put together
partnerships that continues to provide good transit service, and we're contributing our part in
working with them to help make that happen. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. And Madam Treasurer, Director
Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. So we're sounding like broken records, but thank you very
much. We really appreciate the work that went into it. I'm wondering, you know, piggybacking a
little bit on some of the questions Director Lewis, for example, I wonder if it wouldn't help too-and if you've already done it, maybe we can just see it. But, actually, sort of model the impact on
our level of mandating and our expected retention level, so that we can make sure that between
now and may, if we continue to add people, so we have x number of operators right now, and put
27 on, we assume how many we're going to retain.
If we change if we change our mandating policies in the meantime, what effect that has, I just
want to know if we're doing this, that we're actually, we have a feeling that we're going to
resolve the problems. And if we haven't, or if we're not, if we're modeling it, and we're not
showing that it, in fact, solves the issue of the dropped runs, the number of people who have to
work each weekend over and over and over, then we could adjust it between now and then.
So I would like to see that, if you can. If you can model what you see happening with regard to
our operator complement, the number of people we're able to bring on, how many we can retain,
and being able to show that we're building to that level, where we have the desired level of

mandating and the predicted level of retention, or something. I just would really like to see that if
you can.
MICHAEL FORD: So, Michael Ford, COO. I will make sure that everybody, or y'all will get
this.
SHELLEY COOK: OK you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer. And now
Director Buzek, before we go to check whether Director Folska would like to speak further,
because Director Buzek hasn't been heard from. And he will be now.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I guess I'll be as usual, the contrarian. And I'm not
going to thank staff. No. I'm just kidding. Thank you. Thanks. And I had my conversation with
staff today, and they're very helpful. And trigger warning. I gave them their trigger warning that I
was going to make some comments that were in opposition to the planned service cuts.
And I think my opposition has been consistent from the very first time there was even a hint of
service cuts, and I stand by that. I think my opposition is kind of philosophical in a lot of ways,
because I think a transit agency should provide transit. And when you look at dramatic service
cuts as a way to address a problem, I think you're getting away from that philosophy and your
mission.
I don't think this solution addresses the problem. It's not just me. It's our transit union and our
operators. They don't think this addresses the problem either. So I stand with them in that regard.
We hear a lot of times about other transit agencies around the country that experience similar
problems to this. But I got to say for every one of those, there's also a success story somewhere.
And we need to focus more on those.
Some of the more technical problems that I see is that we have significant bus service cuts and
not so significant rail service cuts, although the operator shortages and the dropped runs are more
predominant on the rail side, on the light rail side, as I was told by our staff.
I'm also told that, even though we have this disparity between our service levels here and our
operator levels here, we try to make this up with mandating, and mandating and requiring
overtime, and it's problematic, although the majority of our operators are all for their overtime.
They like it. Not withstanding that, there's talk of getting rid of or dramatically reducing the
mandating.
Without the operators increasing, and you're getting rid of the mandating, we're going to have a
spike in dropped runs. You know, already we're at 100 a day on some days, and now we're going
to get rid of-- significantly reduce mandating without the operators being in place. So I see that's
going to be a real problem. Maybe it's a short-term problem. Maybe we get more and more
people coming in and coming back, or whatever. But I think that's going to be a problem that's
going to further impact our writers. It's going to further impact employers, and it's going to have
a negative impact on economic development throughout the district.

Another point I want to make is that there is nothing in this document, in this draft service plan,
that guarantees reinstatement of any of the service cuts, OK? And I will read from the second
bullet point under clarifying points that says "better performing service that was reduced will be
considered for reinstatement once sufficient staffing levels are available."
So, I mean, arguably, every one of these cuts could be made permanent for all of those reasons.
Oh, and I forgot to mention, my district, District J, Westminster, North Glen, Federal Heights,
Western Thornton, no service cuts. I'm still opposed to this plan, though. I think it's the wrong
way for us to go.
One thing I will say, those are my general comments. There have been some talk about these
special services, like the Bronco ride. And I understand-- and I would never want to reinstate
those services at the risk or the cost of other routes. But sometimes, that's people's first exposure
to RTD, is going to a game or something. We're going to get on a Bronco ride. And what a great
thing it is. It takes you right there. It's easy. It's fast. I don't have to park. And all of those
experiences are generally positive, so we're eliminating a great marketing tool when we eliminate
those special services.
So to the extent those get those going away, which they look like they're going to, I hope they
can come back strong someday, because I think they're a great marketing tool for RTD. And at a
time like this, we really need good marketing. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me ask, Mr. Ford or Mr. Carter, do you have any comments, that you
might give some information to Director Buzek right now? I'm not putting you on the spot. I'm
just saying, if there is a response, let's share it with-VINCE BUZEK: I'm not requesting a response. But thank you for that, Mr. Chair.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. I just would say that we would be bringing services
back, obviously, on the ridership and other criteria that's set through by the Board. So that would
be your determination, but we would be recommending those services to be brought back based
on the stabilization and based on the increased ridership. So I think there is a process in place
that we see value in and that would occur.
So I know maybe in the document it doesn't spell out as a guarantee but we have to go through a
process. We have to solicit input and then come back to you with a recommendation
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Anything further, Director Buzek? Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Just to add-- this is Jessie Carter.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes?
LYNN GUISSINGER: One of the responsibilities of my work group is evaluating services on a
regular basis. And we do that three times a year. You will probably remember in January, we are
supposed to cancel a couple of services that were underperforming. The Route 33 was recently

also replaced by a call and ride. The stampede was taken over by CU Denver. We've had a
number of service cuts and changes throughout the history of the district.
So I have to say that part of our responsibility as a workgroup is to identify services that are not
performing to the board-adopted service performance policy. We have to do that on a regular
basis. We have a finite sum of services that we can offer with the resources we have. The
resources we have are usually determined by the number of operators and the financial resources,
and also vehicles and infrastructure.
We are given the privilege of actually being responsible for making the system work, and work
in a cost-effective way. So I have to respectfully disagree that part of our responsibility is not to
cut, curtail, and maintain service. That is part of our responsibility. So with that, I would close.
VINCE BUZEK: And I'd like to respond, if I could. I guess that wasn't my point, and that's not
the point that staff seems to be making here, that this is just part of some normal service cut
review. This is a very specific request to cut service because of operator shortage, an unusual
operator shortage. So while I understand how we do things three times a year and look at all
these things, I think we've got a unique situation, and I just disagree with the way we're going
about it. Thanks.
JESSIE CARTER: Understood. And a last thing, if I may, this ongoing issue has been going on
for 2015. Since 2015, we've had an operator shortage that has been explained to the Board over
and over again. So I do want to make sure it's understood that this is a new problem that's been
worsening and growing in its nature. So with that-- and I promise, that's the last thing I'll say.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I appreciate the expansion. But I always give the last word to the
Director. All right. Thank you. Now before we go to Director Williams, we're going to inquire
whether Director Folska would like to weigh in at this time. So Director Folska, if you'd like, this
is your opportunity.
Calling a second time Director Folska, because sometimes when you put your phone on mute, it
takes a while to get it back. Director Folska, If you are there, and you have a comment, this is an
opportune moment for you to share. And we'll check again before we're done. But let me go back
to Director Williams now.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. And one of the things we're not talking about here-excuse me-- is some of the services that we provide that we partner with. And if we are looking
at service reductions, it's possible maybe the Broncos could step up to the plate, since they're not
doing a very good job of playing football, and provide some partnered services.
We have a number, like the Inglewood Trolley, like the Lone Tree Link, that we partner with,
but we don't pay for. And I think that we get some help from those services in terms of drivers
and vehicles. Maybe it's time that we looked in some of these areas for the JeffCo Jitney, or
whatever, to have those kind of partners services.

Another great example was the 61 AV shuttle that we had a variety of partners on. It wasn't just
us. So I'd just like to suggest that as we continue to look at how we are trying to still service our
base, work with our unions, salvage our employees, that it's time for us to ask for some of our
partners. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. Director Walker, Mr. Secretary,
you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I wanted to follow up on something I said earlier. I touched on the
improvements that Denver is making downtown in just outside of downtown, with a bus only
lanes going down 25 and Broadway pretty soon, protected bike lanes, and bus only lanes on 15th
and 17th. I'm wondering if you know if any other jurisdictions are making similar improvements
to the transportation system to facilitate the movement of transit, or to make it easier to get
people out of cars?
JESSIE CARTER: Recently, the ones that you mentioned are the most notable achievements by
City of Denver. However, there have been in the past changes made in Boulder primarily. And
they actually helped us move our buses along this new campus area, and providing better
pedestrian access. So a lot of energy and time was spent in providing that project.
As far as other entities, some of the areas that are larger cities, I don't have any examples at this
time. But I'm sure someone in capital projects could point to some.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Thanks. And one of the other things that Denver has done is they lowered
the speed limit to 30 from 35 on Evans, and I think a stretch of Federal also, which tends to
reduce the traffic jams because folks aren't going as fast, and they don't have to slow down as
much. So one of the things I want to make just an observation of that might be lost is the
economic forces that really played with RTD and all transit agencies. Because 2014, we had
record ridership at 105 million, I believe. And that was a national record, also the same year.
But what happened at the end of 2014? Gas tanked. It went from almost $4 a gallon down to
around $2 a gallon. Ford GM, you know, the big automakers started blowing cars out the doors
like you wouldn't believe because of deals. And people had money to spend after being pent up
from the recession.
So there are a lot of things that worked against transit all over the country, and I think we see that
reflected in a lot of different agencies who suffered driver shortages, and who were suffering
from ridership declines. I think that this is an appropriate measure to take, because I ride the bus
or the train every day. Almost every day. I'll say nine out of 10 days, I'm on the bus or the train.
And it's a great concern of mine if that's going to be there.
Now, luckily, I don't have a per hour job, or a job that pays by the hours, but I have meetings,
and other folks have do you have those kind of jobs, where they have to be someplace at a
certain time to get their paycheck. Otherwise, they might not have a paycheck coming. So I think
providing certainty to that schedule, to our customers who rely on the schedule, is the best thing

and the only thing that we can do in a situation when we're short operators. Because evidently,
we're not keeping them for the reasons that we stated earlier.
So the only thing that we can provide our drivers, and our operators, and our customers is some
level of certainty, even if it's a reduced level of frequency. Hopefully, this will provide an
improved level of certainty to get them where they need and want to be on time.
And the last thing, if I remember correctly, one of the GM goals is a 95% headcount. Does that
sound right to anybody else? So I think that's the cushion that we're going to be looking for in
our operator count. Because I've talked to some operators, and they do like that little bit of extra
money come holiday time, come vacation time, the kids going off to school, or whatever.
So we do want that flexibility, and I know the operators that I've talked to, just a handful of
them, compared to the number that we have totally, they do like flexibility to get that extra
dollar, or those extra dollars at certain times of the year. But they'd like it to be their choice. So
that's it. I'm done for the moment. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Yes, and the extra dollars are, in fact,
just that. They are extra dollars. When you're working mandated overtime split shifts, you're
getting paid a minimum of $36 an hour. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I also have a concern, as I expressed to you, Jessie, that we
may not be doing enough to take care of the problem. But I've heard multiple times today that
you feel it's the right spot, or there's been variations of that. But what I do want to also just cover,
because it came up a little bit, is just to reinforce for those who haven't been on the Board for a
while. But when we look at the six that are discontinued, the six specific routes, which in this
case, 16, 55, that one I may have a question about. But 99L, 157, 236, 403, if you look in the
2018 service packet, it indicates the history as recommended at certain years, they be
discontinued. And the Board said you didn't get the majority vote to do it.
So, you know, it's not like this is just coming up out of the blue, that they were underperforming.
So I agree 100%. It's the right time to do it. History on the 55, though? I keep all these old books,
and was that a merge out of the something? Tell me.
JESSIE CARTER: Actually, the 55 was a route that was born out of the G Line service plan. So
it was to provide service from a nearby community to Old Town, to the Old Town station. It's
currently not performing at the level that we would expect a route like that. And I guess, I would
say, we're taking the opportunity not to say that. We don't believe that enough services-- that
there are more than enough services providing direct service to Old Town Arvada. I think if we
were to bring back some routes of service to that area, it would not be in the form of the current
routing of the 55.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would have say, even though that's not my area, that's not a vital long
distance type of a-- we would call it lifeline?
JESSIE CARTER: Right.

NATALIE MENTEN: When there's alternative. So I just-- with the history, I couldn't remember.
And I thought it was that little loop, Arvada Ridge over to Old Town.
JESSIE CARTER: It's relatively new. Yeah, that's the reason why you didn't see it in 2018.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then, what I do want to ask a little bit more about is going into
the future. And I've heard multiple directors ask you. Can you tell us right now what you might
guarantee coming back? And I've been very, very clear, I'm just speaking for myself. I do not
want any of the promises that are going to be held over our head as to when are you going to
return this. You said you were going to return this, why didn't you return this? When are you
going to do that?
I heard today in the press room, when is that stability expected? I don't know that we have any of
these answers. I don't think we do. I don't have a crystal ball. Pretty sure you don't have one up
on your desk upstairs.
JESSIE CARTER: Mine's broken, actually.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yours is broken? Mine too. I'm going to blame it on my foster dogs that
took it up. So I'm going to move now just really quickly now to the next step. And that is, we're
going to do this outreach in January and February. The plan is to have 15 Board director-- 15
meetings, one in each Board director's area. And I think you probably already could take a guess
that some Board directors are going to want to have more than the one.
I know I will be in my area. I'm already planning on which is a good location for like, the 16L
conversation, which you tried to do that, what, 2013? 2014?
JESSIE CARTER: 2013.
NATALIE MENTEN: 2013. OK. I think it stretched out for some months, when we had that
long debate. So trying to have a meeting there. And there'll be other directors that want to have
theirs. So what I would just like to make sure is that any of the Board of directors, including
myself, get just absolute full cooperation on, as an example, putting it on our Facebook page,
which looking today, we had 25,000 followers.
I want to make sure that, even if we set up our own meetings, and we don't maybe make that
print guideline for whatever we're going to have to hand out, that each Board director has
absolutely all those avenues open to them. That would be really, really helpful.
And then, I think I've got everything. When is the schedule expected? You're going to still be
coming to us with January changes. That me go on to that for just a moment. Right now, you
don't have any idea what the scope of the proposed-- and when I say January, that's when we
start the discussion. So let's call it May. Right now, you don't have any idea of the scope
compared to this current plan of what January is going to encompass.

JESSIE CARTER: Oh, actually, when I was responding to Director Lewis, I did point out some
of the things that we're looking at at this time, which would include, of course, curtailment of the
school trippers on the bus side. It also includes looking at some maintenance of way time frames
on rail, so looking at spans there. It would also include a CBA issue, which is the Route 153 and
66 at Arapahoe crossing. Also to include one Route 169, changing the terminals there to get in
CBA compliance, so that we have restrooms.
So those are some things that we know right away. There are probably a lot of other
housekeeping, like small schedule adjustments on a number of services that I'll have to add to the
list as well.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so school trippers is a normal twice a year thing?
JESSIE CARTER: Absolutely.
NATALIE MENTEN: Sounded like what you just told me, the 153's already on the list. That
sounds fairly minor.
JESSIE CARTER: It's kind of minor, but not so much. Because, actually, what we're doing is,
the Route 66, we're truncating at Arapahoe Crossing, so some three miles from the current
terminal at Arapahoe crossing, which is Arapahoe Road and Parker Road. We're moving that
closer to I-25 and Caley basically. So we do want to warn our customers that that is the case,
although it will not actually take away service. It just changes it, but it changes it substantially.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then talking about upcoming changes-- and again, I've studied
my guide as best as possible, my 2018 subsidy book. So 28's not touched in here. It's in mine too.
It's in mine too. But it talks about combining it with a 43.
JESSIE CARTER: It did. That was a proposal that we had with the University of Colorado
Airline Service Plan. So what we had proposed before was to take the Route 43 to a 10 minute
headway frequency by actually eliminating the 28 east of downtown. We went through a public
hearing process. There was quite a bit of consternation surrounding that proposal.
So, again, the Board decided to make a decision that we would not do that. The 28 and 32 are in
very close proximity to each other. So an elimination of the Route 32, we do expect to have
ridership move over to the Route 28. That's why I say, again, that in bringing back any
semblance of service on the 32, we would instead look at doing what we were proposing before.
And that is improving service on the Route 43.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And so, I will note at this time that three other discontinued routes
are in Jefferson County. I have no issue with that. I'm simply looking through this book and
saying, in my heart, I don't think we've done enough. And in my due diligence, might have two
other routes on here that I don't see addressed, but they were of concern. And that is 128.
JESSIE CARTER: Actually, the reason why there were no changes-- and I think I mentioned this
in the meetings for the Board members that are affected by the upcoming N line?

NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah.
JESSIE CARTER: We've not brought back the plan for the N line bus service plan and had it
adopted by the Board that we've gone through public comment. We plan to do that in the near
future. So the 128, the 112, and 104, you'll probably see on that list, those are routes that we're
not touching, because we are actually changing those routes in accordance to the bus site plan on
the N line. So we weren't going to bring those forward as reductions at this point.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right.
JESSIE CARTER: We hope that, actually, those routes will be positively impacted by the N line.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. One last, and then I'm done for this moment. 131, it says currently
falls below, the standards will be monitored. I don't see that on the list.
JESSIE CARTER: No. You saw the 130 in the 139, also very closely related to that. The 131 is
an hour primarily only service. It doesn't get what we were looking for in this change, and I
should have characterized that as part of this in the package. But when we're looking for
reducing the number of operators, it's different than when we're making changes for financial
concerns.
When we're trying to reduce operators, we need larger pieces of work, and that results in
reduction in frequency. So you can't take something like a very small route and actually get a lot
of resources out of that in terms of a full shift.
NATALIE MENTEN: Although what we keep commenting on, though, is we have a process,
and the process has to be really accountable to the taxpayers with efficient service. And 131
wouldn't qualify when it says, "currently falls below both standards."
JESSIE CARTER: Right. That was 2018. And we did review it again. But at the same time, if it
gets a pass over because of the fact that we are touching everything in and around its area-- so
the 130 and 139, we also reviewed the 135 as well. But those are looking up a bit.
We also are careful to look at-- and you'll see in the guidelines-- the impact to the overall area
and how it integrates with the rest of the system. So the 131 is actually pretty isolated. And it's
isolated in its terminal. If we were to cut back that terminal, we do cut back service in an area
that actually has a higher potential due to transit dependency, and also density. It's something
that we expect to grow in the near term.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Before going to Second Vice Chair, I'm going to
check again with Director Folska to see if she is there. And then I'm going to go to staff. But
Director Folska, are you there? All right. So she may have left us. I do want to point out also,
people have heard discussion about and seen references to this spreadsheet.

This spreadsheet, I understand is absolutely going to be made public tomorrow morning. I
thought it might already-- some people may already have it. But it will be published tomorrow
morning so that everyone can see the draft proposed service reductions that we are discussing
tonight. But as we mention these various lines, I know there's some logical curiosity that people
have relative to these. So they will be made public tomorrow in the morning as part of a press
release.
Let me go to-- speaking of press releases, and outreach, and related subjects, to our Director of
Assistant General Manager for Communications, Ms. Pauletta Tonilas, so that she can address
things at this time, and then we will recognize Second Vice Chair.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Yes, so we actually already have
started our communication about this plan and how we're communicating what that is. Earlier
today, before this meeting, we held a media briefing, giving our media partners a chance to
digest the information and ask questions, with the agreement that the information would be
embargoed until this meeting started.
We also, as this meeting has been in motion, we sent an email to all elected officials to just give
them a very brief overview of this potential service reduction, and that they will have access to
the documents tomorrow morning when it's posted on the website. So our whole communication
approach to this is really twofold. It's educating and creating awareness about what this plan
entails and its impacts to folks, and then it's the input process, which, of course, will happen if
the Board so chooses to release the plan for public input, which we would start then in midJanuary.
As has already been discussed, we will hold no fewer than 15 public meetings. And in areas
where there are going to be more impacts, of course, we'll be doing additional meetings. As
Director Menten and others have mentioned, we will be doing other things. We've drafted a
communication work plan that includes various things, translating our materials in Spanish as
well. And we will obviously be nimble and flexible in helping the Board members do what we
think needs to happen in each of your districts and keep the information flowing.
So we'll keep you updated. And, of course, in mid-January, when the team comes back to the
Board, we can share more of a definitive plan. But we'll be working with you offline for your
individual areas. Thank you very much, Ms. Tonilas. Madam Second Vice Chair, Director
Rivera-Malpiede, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And, actually, it was really great to have
Ms. Tonilas speak first, because my comments are about our outreach. And one of the big things
that we have been hearing consistently is that the community feels like they're not getting
information, that they don't know where it's coming from. I would like to respectfully request
that in my district, where we're doing changes in our bus service, that we do pop-up events at bus
stops, where folks are organically. I can tell you that I have attended community outreach
meetings with our staff over and over and over again. And it's usually the staff and me.

And I think that people are extraordinarily busy in their lives. I think they're really concerned
about what's going to happen. And I think if we really want to put our finger on the pulse of the
community, and ask them how they feel, and to give them information, it's where they're going
every morning and every night. And that's on the buses that they're getting on. So I would like to
respectfully request that officially. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Second Vice Chair. And I think that mirrors the
suggestion that was so well made by Director Lewis as well. That's a good thought. And let me
just, for the sake of the record, confirm with our AGM for Communications, with Ms. Tonilas, is
there some contemplation of doing that as part of the public outreach and communications plan
that you're putting together?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, absolutely. And so, again, the pop-up events, we've talked about
that, the timing, the manageability of it. But various things that you have said, we definitely will
take back and talk amongst the team about how we can embed that in the plan that we have
drafted already.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent. Thank you very much. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair, I'd be remiss if I didn't talk a little bit about the R Line. As
you can see, it's one of the lines that's taking one of the biggest hits. In recent months, the R line
has been growing, ridership has been growing by 4%, while light rail in general has been going
down at 3%.
Now, obviously, with these kinds of cuts going forward, ridership on the R Line is going to go
down in totals. So when it comes time to talk about reinstating these lines, I don't want to hear,
you know, the story that, well, the R Line ridership is down and so, therefore, we're not going to
reinstate. Well, ti's down because it's being cut so hard. So I want you all to remember that.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Let the record be written. That's a good point. Let's make sure we understand
that. Director Guissinger, you are recognized
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just really quickly, I know we got spreadsheets, but I don't think it was
quite this one. If we could get this emailed to us, so we have it digitally. Do we have this one
already? I don't think so. Is this the same as what we got yesterday? This spreadsheet?
DOUG TISDALE: I did not hear the question. I apologize.
LYNN GUISSINGER: If we could get this spreadsheet emailed to us tonight or in the morning
so we can use it to talk to some our constituents and electeds, that'd be great.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, thank you, Director, for that. Actually, what we can do is tonight
send you the PowerPoint, the spreadsheet, and then also a sheet of key messages that breaks
down all this information we've been talking about, but in a handy sheet for you to have in case
you get questions.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks. And I'll just take a little point, like Director Broom did
that. And I talked this offline. I do have some concerns-- I know the jump has some issues in the
middle of the day. But there is a robust Highway 7 coalition that's all the local governments in
that area. And RTD reps, and DRCOG, and working towards getting BRT ultimately, and raising
the money, since it's not probably eligible for some of the federal money. So I hate to see us
cutting service now. DRCOG has just put up $10 million towards design on that project, so
maybe we can talk about that somewhere. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for making the point. And just, again, this is still just a draft
proposed plan. One of the reasons to bring it out now is to give both the public and the Board
time prior to January to point out some of these specific concerns, and to make sure that they are
articulated. Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: In that same vein, I just request that we translate this document as well, and
post that online for those who don't speak or read English, so that they might have it available to
them. I recognize that it is a draft. But the sooner we can get this stuff out to folks the better.
That's all. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I will try one more time. Director Folska, do you happen to be on
the call at this point still? If so, I'll recognize you, Director Folska. All right, so I guess not. And
I will ask, are there any other directors that would like to make any other comments? Now, I am
going to ask staff if they have any final comments as well. If they don't, then we will conclude
this in just a moment, before going on to other matters. But let me ask first, any staff, further
comments, observations, or questions?
All right. We'll take it that we've concluded the discussion by Board. Mr. Ford, Mr. Carter, Mr.
Genova, Ms. McKillop, Ms. Tonilas, Mr. Jensen, any other comments you'd like to make now or
pieces of advice to us, how we can help you make this a good plan? This is your opportunity.
MICHAEL FORD: I have no comments at this time.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And we thank you for all the comments that you have given us. I
think that's excellent. So we will conclude, then, this portion of the meeting. That is, the study
session on the proposed service reductions. We hope that if there are questions from anyone in
the public, in the media, our writers, our constituents, that they will contact us. Our best point of
contact is always the Director of Communications. But, obviously, all the directors are available
as well.
So that concludes the study session on potential service reduction. We then turn to other matters.
And we have a number of other matters that we have to review with you this evening. First of all,
we mentioned briefly the state audit. You are all aware of the fact that we do have a requirement
under statute to have that state audit. We had a letter from the state auditor that reflected that the
Legislative Audit Committee had authorized one topic for the audit, and that's Fairbox Recovery
Ratio.

And an audit letter was presented for signature by General Manager and by the Board Chair. And
we executed that letter and returned that to the state auditor. We had the entrance conference, as
it is called, with the state auditor on Tuesday this week. It was at that time that the state auditor
advised us that the scope of the audit had been increased.
I will not in this public meeting share the documents that were involved in that discussion
because the auditor has advised us that all of that is to be kept confidential, pursuant to
applicable state law. But, of course, the Board members will receive the confidential audit
document regional transportation district performance audit entrance conference memo from
Tuesday, which details the additional audit areas of focus that have been raised. And therefore,
very broad topics, well beyond fare recovery ratio.
I will have a question for Ms. McKillop, but I'll give her a heads up now that I'm going to ask the
question, relative to the audit estimate and whether, in fact, based upon increased audit topics,
whether the cost will be more. Because I see nothing in the statute about a cap.
But first, I wanted, before doing that, to recognize Director Menten, so that she can describe
some of the information she has regarding this development.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, thank you. So for the information of the rest of the Board, with my
name attached only, QA letter to certain members of the Legislative Audit Committee, I
essentially gave them a little bit of background on the audits that have been performed on the
district in the past since the first one in 2006. So that is a total of four audits, and asked that they
include in addition, or along with the fare box recovery, an audit of our compensation and
benefits for the Regional Transportation District.
I also did mention that I, as a RTD Board Director, speaking just for myself-- my signature is the
only name on there-- a recommendation to change state statute to a audit of every three years
instead of every five years. I think there is, as this-- brought forward the other night during our
legislative dinner with the members of the General Assembly, they feel there should be perhaps
some more oversight over this agency, or some changes.
And I think for the citizens, five years is quite a long time in between. And so, those are the two
matters that I brought forward in a written letter given to certain members of the Legislative
Audit Committee. It turns out that they did then share that with the state auditor. And I have not
heard firsthand myself whether they will be including any compensation in this audit. I have not
seen the letter that includes these additional items, besides the fare box recovery.
But I am pleased that there will be additional items beyond fare box recovery. And as I
mentioned in the letter to the Legislative Audit Committee members, fare box recovery is about
revenues and expenses. Compensation is part of expenses. So I see them as tied together in a
natural way.
So I was just informed of this information by Chair Tisdale, not long before the meeting because
I wasn't in the entrance exam. But also did note that our own auditor in past 2015 audit, as I
brought forward, if you will recall-- I kind of went into a good description. That was kind of your

heads up, I guess, when we talked about the audit plan for 2020. Some of these things have been
brought to our attention. They have not been completed, and this is why I brought it forward to
the state auditor's attention.
I will add a couple more items. I am not clear what it costs us to conduct an audit. So in my
possession, during the time that I've been the RTD Board Director, I make pretty much annual
requests to get our actual check register. Not the thing we put on the internet, which is better than
when I got on the Board, but something that has the chart of accounts numbers, these different
things.
I looked back in the year of the last audit that we had, which was the 2015 Bus and Light Rail
Train Operator Safety audit. I think that was generated because perhaps we had some operators
using their cell phones, and there was an accident. I'm not sure what generated that one. But
when I looked back in the check register, I see two checks, one to the state of Colorado,
referencing in the memo line of the check about an audit, the audit. We call that the audit, all
right?
One other check to the state auditor in that year that said final payment for the audit. That totals
about $145,000. I don't know what additional items might be in the check register, because they
weren't mentioned in a memo line or an object code that I could identify. So I'm not clear
whether an audit cost $400,000.
I still do not have anything from human resources as to request as to the 2011 job classification
study that we think has been done. So I still have unanswered questions, and I'm pleased that the
state auditor would be taking a closer look at some of these items, and wanted to bring that now
to your attention, that it seems to, in somewhat of a way, taken a step forward, although maybe
not in the specific manner that I was hoping for. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Menten. I wanted to have Director Menten
have the opportunity to speak with all of us, because you will also be sent tomorrow the letter
from Director Menten that was sent to the state auditor, and then was referred to by the state
auditor during the insurance conference that we had on Tuesday.
So those are two items that will be sent to the directors. But recall, they are confidential, and I'm
not sure if we have ready yet the little sheet of description relative to confidentiality. Ms.
McKillop is working on that, and I'm about to ask her to answer the question that I posed earlier
and also offer any comments, but you'll be given the confidentiality rules as well. Ms. McKillop?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Chair. This is Heather McKillop. To answer the financial
question, so if my memory serves correct, it was around $200,000 the last audit that was done. It
was a very specific audit around bus and light rail operator safety. There were a few other items
that were also addressed as part of that audit, but that was the main focus of the audit.
This audit, as they have told us, is closer to what they did in 2010, which is a more general
performance audit. They have requested a list of items from us. And then based on that, they'll
evaluate where they see they may want to go in more in depth, but that decision has not been

made at this time. They told us they will inform us, meet with us again around the February time
frame, once they've had the opportunity to digest. And I'm sending them a lot of information, so
it might take them a while.
So the budget request that we were told to prepare for is $400,000, and I'm sure that will
fluctuate a little. I'm assuming that's the maximum. But it probably will fluctuate depending on
what they actually decide to audit and the time that it will take to do that. I did get there working
with the OSA, the Office of State Auditor. It's a one pager that the chair was talking about. We
will get that out to you. I've sent it to Barbara, and she's going to get it out to you.
It just gives you a really, really, really high level snapshot. They operate under different
confidentiality rules than we do sometimes. And so they have specific statutes around that. And I
want you to all be aware, because it talks about work papers, emails, anything that we do with
them, and how it's protected. And any conversation we have with the Board about the scope of
the audit or findings of the audit will all be done in executive session.
So just to get you prepared for that, it will be a process over the next year. So 2020. So it's not
going to happen overnight. So we'll keep you informed as things move forward.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. McKillop. And you will note that is why I did not
even say what the additional topics were that the auditors said. But you'll have this in your hands
tomorrow. You can borrow it from me now, if you want. And the schedule will be attached to
this as well. So all of that information is available. Please hand that to Director Williams, and let
it be recorded and videoed, that I have handed her the copy. So you have that.
Next topic. This will be the last full Board meeting, and we'll say something at the end about
that. But this is the last full Board meeting of Calendar 2019. Be advised, however-- and we give
this notice again-- that there is an executive committee that will be conducted on Friday,
December the 27th at noon for purposes of reviewing applications received for the position of
Interim General Manager. That will be a review of all of the applications that are received by the
Board office before the deadline of 5:00 PM Mountain Standard time on Monday, December 23.
That's 5:00 PM Mountain Standard Time on Monday, December 23. In case there's confusion, it
will be 5:00 PM on next Monday.
The full Board will receive all of the applications on Christmas Eve. They will be in paper, but if
you wish to have a thumb drive, a thumb drive will be provided to you, so you will have that.
The full Board will be meeting on Thursday, January the 2nd at 5:30 PM. Most of that meeting
will be in executive session, because it will be for purposes of reviewing the applicants and any
recommended applicants, if any by the executive committee, which pursuant to the resolution
may come forward with two internal and two external applicants to recommend to the full Board.
But in any event, the full Board gets all of the resumes and applications, all at the same time, all
on Christmas Eve. The full Board is also scheduled for a full Board meeting on Friday, January
the 3rd at 5:30 PM in the event that the Board cannot conclude its business on Thursday, January
the 2nd. And that meeting will be principally to determine an appropriate number of candidates
for further follow up interviews.

That will also, however, address some other subject matter. The full Board will have to select
and interview evaluation tool to utilize for purposes of the interviews. We'll have to schedule
dates for possible interviews, particularly given the calendars of some of the Board members.
Also, we are currently preparing an RFQ for legal counsel for the applicants, for both the interim
position and the permanent position, because the policy is to pay for the applicants attorney's
fees in the event that the applicant is selected and needs to negotiate a contract.
Relative to that, general counsel can address this further, but we also will have a further
discussion regarding the salary for the interim. The HR policy is already written and set. There is
no work that needs to be done on that. The HR policy manual provides-- well, I'm sorry. General
Counsel, you're on. Tell us what the HR policy manual says relative to salary for a person
serving in the interim position.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you, Chair. This is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. The HR
procedures manual specifies that for employees serving in an acting status, they are paid the
greater of a 10% increase in their current salary or the lowest amount of the position they're
going into, the greater of those two.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And chapter and verse is available if anyone wants
that, but that's the statement of what the HR policy says. For an external candidate, of course,
there is no HR policy. We would have to have a separate negotiation with an external candidate.
Then, almost done here with other matters that the chair has, and then others can, of course,
chime in. There will be a new executive committee elected on Tuesday, January the 7th. It won't
be me. Tuesday, January the 7th, this Board will elect a new executive committee, including the
Chair, First Vice Chair, Second Vice Chair, Treasurer, and Secretary. That committee will be
meeting on Wednesday, January the 8th. That's Wednesday, January the 8th at noon. And they
will have their plates full from the get-go. So I intend to enjoy the view from the sidelines.
Are there other matters before I ask for a motion on the executive session? Director Williams,
you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, soon to be Ex-chair Tisdale. From the sidelines. That'll be the
day. I'm wondering-- General Counsel, I'm wondering if we, or I, could have some further
information on the legal fees for applicants for the interim position? And I don't need it now, but
if you could get me and anybody else who is interested some information on that, I'd be grateful.
ROLF ASPHAUG: I'll certainly do that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Thank you, General Counsel. Director
Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'm not going to-- on the agenda that's posted up in the
hallway, right there, it says executive session?

DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am, it does.
NATALIE MENTEN: It doesn't say it on our website. As far as I know in the email, which links
to a web agenda? If this is all part of one meeting-- so I've brought it up on the web right now.
We don't have that listed there either.
DOUG TISDALE: Is it listed outside?
NATALIE MENTEN: It's listed in the hallway, but over when-- I remember when I sat in one of
the seats here, where I thought we made it really clear that not only is it upstairs, but it is also on
our website. So one thing to have a legislative dinner maybe not up there. You know, it's kind of- but an Executive Session, I didn't even know we were having an executive session tonight.
Now, that's where I was going to start by saying, OK, I'm the special case. Yeah, yeah, I got that.
But, but, but, it's not posted on the website. And it wasn't posted in the agenda that we got emailed we as Board directors. It wasn't on that Thursday 12-19. And how do I know it has not
been there? Because I kept waiting to see-- are we going to post these service reductions there?
So I have checked this like, four or five times over the last 24 hours.
DOUG TISDALE: I can tell you this in response to your question that the suggestion was made
48 hours ago, almost to the hour, that we conduct an executive session tonight for continued
discussion on the items that were on the posted executive session for Tuesday night. So if you
will, this is, in effect, a continuance of that meeting. We still need a new motion. But for the sake
of the record, let it be known this is a continuance of the meeting that was conducted Tuesday
night. Any further questions?
NATALIE MENTEN: Just that maybe we can make sure whoever's on the committee, make sure
that we're posting those things on the internet, whether it's a continuance or not.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sure that our more than relaxed and underworked staff will be delighted
to ensure that we get all of those notices out in every possible way that one might contemplate.
All right. That having been said, let me then turn to the question of what, again, I will say for the
sake of the record is, in effect, a continued executive session.
So I would ask for a motion that this Board will, after an extended recess, to give us time to get
settled in again, that this Board enter into an executive session for the purpose of conferences
with the attorney, and for legal advice, and to provide instructions regarding Colorado Revised
Statute Section 24-6-402(3.5) and the powers and duties of a search committee of a state public
body or local public body, which executive session again I will incorporate by this reference the
language that was used on Tuesday night.
So anyone may look at the record and see with precision and detail everything that we identified
at that time, which discussion is incorporated herein. May I have a motion.
NATALIE MENTEN: So moved.

DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from the Second Vice Chair. And who's the second?
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Second from-- all right, thank you, Director Buzek. There's a second there.
Any discussion on the motion to proceed into executive session? Hearing none, would all those
in favor of executive session please indicate by saying Aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any directors who are opposed to entering into executive session?
VINCE BUZEK: Just in principal.
DOUG TISDALE: And for the sake of the record, Director Menten will not be participating in
the executive session. And for the sake of the record, the executive session will be chaired by
Director Peggy Chair as the First Vice Chair of. This Board, then having voted to go to executive
session and following the executive session, no business will be conducted. The Board will
immediately adjourn. This Board stands in recess as of 7:41 PM. We will return at five minutes
to 8. That's 7:55 PM. Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

