Summary of the Legislative Committee held on Tuesday, January 17, 2012
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

January 18, 2012

Subject:

Summary of Legislative Committee held on January 17, 2012 at 5:35 p.m. in
RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Daly; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Hoy,
James, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tobiassen, Walker and Williams.
Director Cohen arrived after the meeting began.

Board Members
Absent:

Directors Deadwyler, McMullen and Tayer.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Libby Cox, Jane Donovan,
Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Jeff
Kay, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Brian Middleton, Tai-Shrae Parish,
Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa
Sedmak, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Julie Skeen, Bill Sirois, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Del Walker, Brian Welch, Phil Washington and Susan Wood,

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry – Brandeberry-McKenna, Michelle Brier, Steve
Cook – DRCOG, Dave Hamon, Joni Goheen – Vertegic Group,
Sherman Hamilton – Vertegic Group, Jonathan Johnson, Julie
McKenna – Brandeberry-McKenna, Bill Mosher – DUSPA, Ray Murphy
– First Southwest, Jacob Riger – DRCOG, Michael Swan – DU, Elena
Wilken – CASTA, and Bob Wilson.
****

Call to Order
I.

Committee Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

Update - State Legislative Issues
 State issues by Brandeberry~McKenna team
o SB 12-044, Concerning failure to present valid evidence of mass transit
fare payment
o SB 12-044, Failure to present valid evidence of mass transit fare
payment.
o HB 12-1045, Sales and use tax exemption for beetle-kill wood sales.

Summary of the Legislative Committee held on Tuesday, January 17, 2012
Page 2
o
o

HB 12-1067, Campaign contribution limits for candidates for Boards of
Education and RTD.
HB 12-1069, Tax holiday for “back-to-school” expenditures.

Jenifer Brandeberry and Julie McKenna presented the State Legislative Issues to the
Board.
Jenifer Brandeberry explained that there have been discussions to seek potential
legislation to change the current parking statute. Six years ago the district was
allowed to charge those who resided outside of the district a fee for parking as a
means to manage RTDs parking assets. There are a few new bills that have been
introduced; however direction is needed from the Board.
Jenifer Brandeberry added that a new bill will limit campaign finance rules and
regulations to School Board Elections, and RTD Elections that are applicable to state
legislative races.
Marla Lien added that in the past there haven’t been specific limits for RTD
Directors.
Committee Chair Daly inquired why RTD was included with School Board Races.
Jenifer Brandeberry explained that it has more to do with School Board Elections and
in the recent School Board Elections a lot of money was raised and spent on behalf
of various candidates. Current campaign and finance regulations do not apply to all
campaigns and candidates and this proposed bill would bring RTD and School Boards
elections into that realm.
Julie McKenna added that SB 12-044 is a theft of transit bill that came out of
Judicial. There is a Denver Judge that sees a lot of theft of transit cases where
someone has not paid for Light Rail and they are issued a higher infraction than a
traffic violation. The cost is much higher and more severe than Judicial feels is
warranted.
Marla Lien explained that if changed, it would become a civil penalty under the
category of traffic violation as opposed to a criminal violation.
David Genova indicated that it would change from a Class II petty offense to a
traffic violation. What this really means is that fare violations would no longer be a
criminal offense, RTD will no longer have the ability to set the fine structure, and
individuals that do not pay their fines can have difficulty if trying to renew a driver’s
license. If this proposal goes though, we would continue our fare enforcement but
we would no longer offer a warning. As an example, last year we issued 6,300
citations and 23,000 warnings.
General Manager Washington added that we are considering doing away with the
warning. The question is do we want to burden a young person with a criminal
record for the rest of their life even though we still have all of the fare check tools

Summary of the Legislative Committee held on Tuesday, January 17, 2012
Page 3
available to us to enforce our fare. A change in this policy would make people think
that we are getting tougher on fare evasion if we eliminate the first warning.
Director Cohen indicated that a $75.00 fine is much worse than a parking ticket and
inquired as to who gets that money. David Genova explained that the city and
county where the fine was issued would receive that money. To change that, it
would require time and legislation.
Sherry Ellebracht noted that for HB 12-1069, Tax holiday for “back-to-school”
expenditures could potentially impact RTD between $22 to $350 Million in a five
year timeframe.
Director Anderson indicated that RTD should be exempt from this tax free holiday if
the bill passes.
II.

Other Matters
None

III.

Next Meeting Date – To be determined

IV.

Adjourn to Planning and Development Committee Meeting
Committee Chair Daly adjourned to the Planning and Development Committee at
6:23 p.m.

