Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

March 23, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
March 23, 2010 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Ten (10) Board members were present at roll call. Directors Brohl and O’Boyle arrived after
roll call. Directors, Cohen, Daly and Tayer were absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retirees present. Chair Kemp acknowledged Dave Shelley for his twenty-one
years of service.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Ken Katt, Littleton, commended Director Christopher for showing up at the Lois Tochtrop
meeting up North. He then strongly urged the RTD Board to take solid steps to resolve the
issue of going to the ballot in 2010. He presented two scenarios, one for a tax increase, and
one to rescind the tax, and discussed what happens if both fail. He challenged the General
Manager to look at options if both fail.
Helen Bushnell, who recently moved to Lakewood, indicated she had been a volunteer during
the period to get the sales tax approved. Many of the constituents had shared concern over
parking lots and structures next to their property and were told this would not happen. The
vision was to take the bus, walk or bicycle. Now everywhere she looks there is a park-n-ride.
We have abandoned what was promised to the voters.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes to the Committee reports.
Director McMullen expressed how pleased he is about FasTracks and that in twelve years we
are on schedule in every corridor. He thanked the staff for their hard work, perseverance and
commitment to delivering FasTracks. RTD will complete FasTracks as envisioned.
Director Bagley shared that Mayor Nancy Sharpe of Greenwood Village is term limited but will
be running for a seat as the Arapahoe County Commissioner.

VI.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE
Chair Kemp reported there has not been any Metro Mayor’s meeting. He reiterated the
collaborative effort and support between RTD and the Mayors to deliver FasTracks for the
regional community.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 16, 2010 AND THE

SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF MARCH 9, 2010.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the February 16 2010
regular board meeting minutes and the special board meeting
minutes of March 9, 2010
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Directors Christopher and Brohl abstained from voting on the
February 16 minutes as they were both absent. Chair Kemp
abstained from voting on the special board meeting as he was
absent from this meeting.

An electronic vote was taken with 10 votes in favor, 0 against
and 2 abstain for the February 16 meeting and 11 in favor, 0
against and 1 abstain for the special board meeting. Directors
Cohen, Daly and Tayer were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 APTA 2010 Legislative Conference, Washington, D.C.
General Manager Phil Washington shared that the trip to Washington for the Legislative
conference was very successful and productive. There were ten Board members who
participated in this trip and they had the opportunity to meet with the Colorado
Congressional team, FTA Administrator Peter Rogoff, Office of Urban Affairs and
various other White House officials as part of RTD’s efforts to maximize federal funding
opportunities.
Chair Kemp added this was the best trip in 6 years. He shared how RTD has indeed
received national exposure even with the President’s staff who are familiar with the
RTD program and wants to emulate this as a model for other transit sites. This was a
fantastic event that helps stamp RTD at a national level.
General Manager Phil Washington indicated he had received a call from the Federal
Transportation Administration requesting RTD to convene a workshop in Denver for the
DBE/SBE Civil Rights program for other organizations in this area.
General Manager Phil Washington has been requested to testify before the Congressional
Transportation & Infrastructure Committee (Oberstar’s Committee) in Washington, DC in mid-April.
Director Busck indicated this is the best conference he has been to in 25 years. He
expressed that in a period of economic downturn, RTD has the ears of Washington
D.C. The conversations were personal, complimentary and they understood the impact
of the economic downturn and the importance of completing FasTracks in the
timeframe promised. He thanked staff, the current general manager and the former
general manager for laying the foundation.
Director Bagley reiterated the upcoming regional DBE/SBE conference and
complimented Directors Brohl and Malpiede for how well they told the RTD story. He
indicated he had an opportunity to repeat what he heard them say before a member of
Oberstar’s committee who was enthused that her questions on the DBE program had
been answered.

Director Busck added the Board wants to build FasTracks as promised and are leaving
no stone unturned in seeking funding sources. Before they go to the poll, they need to
hold the line, listen to the results of surveys, watch economic indicators, and continue
to investigate other funding options that may be before them.
Director Pulliam commented on how good it was to talk to members of the House
Finance and Senate Finance and to know they were familiar with FasTracks.
Director McMullen commented on how well organized this event was and thanked the
General Manager and Sherry Ellebracht for setting this up.
Director Christopher commented on a meeting he participated in with State Senator
Tochtrop and other local officials on Saturday, March 20 th. There appears lack of
information on how the Federal funding works and how corridors qualify. He requested
more messaging about this process.
Director Martinez shared information from a DBE/SBE event that was held March 11 &
12. The two teams for the Eagle P3 were there at this outreach event which was well
attended by the DBE/SBE community. Several of the minority chambers/organizations
that were part of the MOU agreement six years ago are still active and engaged in this
process.
 Hispanic Contractors of Colorado, Breakfast with Leaders Series, March 24, 2010
General Manager Phil Washington will provide an update on FasTracks as well as the
base system to the Hispanic Contractors and listen to their concerns.
 RTD Annual Update to Legislature, March 25, 2010
General Manager Phil Washington will present on the state of the district before
legislature on March 25, 2010. He will talk about the adopted 2010 budget and other
items of interest.
IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda items A through I.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Christopher requested item B, Authorization to
Execute Agreements for property acquisitions, relocation
and construction and joint corridor operations with the
BNSF Railway Company be removed from unanimous
consent and discussed under recommended action.

An electronic roll call vote was taken for items A through
I excluding item B, with 12 votes in favor and 0 against.
Directors Cohen, Daly and Tayer were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

North Metro Corridor – Release of Final Environmental Impact Statement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to release the North Metro Corridor Final Environmental
Impact Statement (FEIS) for public and agency review. This is a critical step in the
National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process and provides the public and

interested agencies with an opportunity to review the document and provide
comments.
C.

Smart Media Technology Contract Award-revised
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for the Smart Media Technology (SMT) project to ACS
Transport Solutions, Inc. of Columbia, Maryland in an amount not-to-exceed
$15,350,000.

D.

Modifications to Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve modifications to the District’s Investment Policy to effectuate the
utilization of the 3-month U.S. T- Bill Index as published by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch as the performance benchmark for the liquidity tier of its unrestricted portfolio.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors approve shortening the target
duration of the non-cash/cash equivalents portion of the portfolio from approximately
1.6 years to 1 year to accommodate cash flow demands imposed by current and
upcoming capital projects while retaining the currently defined benchmark (Bank of
America Merrill Lynch 1-year U.S. Treasury Note Index) for this portfolio tier.

X.

E.

Legacy UniVerse Developer Consulting
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to extend the contract with 5280 Solutions,
for the amount not to exceed of $249,600, for UniVerse Developer services. The
current three year contract with 5280 Solutions expires on April 30, 2010. The
contract is being brought to the Board because it is a Personal Services contract per
RTD Resolution No.27, Series of 1985.

F.

Revised Fiscal Policy Statements 2010
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors modify and update the Fiscal Policy Statements as attached.

G.

Local Match for Hop Buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee to approve the transfer of
$374,050 HOP vehicle replacement funds from the capital budget to the expense
budget to accommodate the local share payment to Special Transit.

H.

FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks Citizens Advisory
Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of
Directors appoint two members to the Citizens Advisory Committee to fill vacancies
created by resignation.

I.

RESOLUTION NO.____, SERIES OF 2010 – (Denver Union Station Project AuthorityAppointments)

RECOMMENDED ACTION
B.

Authorization to Execute Agreements for Property Acquisition, Relocation and
Construction and Joint Corridor Operations with the BNSF Railway Company
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors

authorize the General Manager to enter into the following agreements with the BNSF
Railway Company:






a Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA) for Acquisition of property interests from
DUS to approximately 71St Street in Westminster along BNSF’s Front Range
Subdivision (the DUS Corridor), along the BNSF Golden Subdivision from
approximately Sheridan to the end (the Gold Corridor).
a Relocation and Construction Agreement (Construction Agreement) for
relocation and construction of BNSF facilities required to make the acquired
property interests available to RTD for its use on the Eagle P-3 and other
commuter rail projects
a Joint Corridor Use Agreement (JCUA) with the BNSF Railway Company
(BNSF) governing ongoing operations between the two entities in the shared
corridors.

It is recommended that the General Manager is authorized to acquire property interests
described in the PSA in the amount of $102,674,484; that he is authorized to pay as
contracted lump sum payments to BNSF $24.13 million for relocation and construction
of BNSF improvements between Denver Union Station (DUS) and Pecos Streets, $7.68
million for relocation and construction of improvements on the Gold Line between
approximately Sheridan and Ward Road, and $5.1 million for relocation and
construction between Pecos and approximately 71st streets. It is further recommended
that (1) the amount of $200,000 for title insurance, closing costs, escrow fees and
other costs incidental to execution of the PSA and (2) $4,000,000 for direct
reimbursement costs to BNSF for additional construction and relocation expenses
incidental to both BNSF relocation and RTD construction, plus a contingency for delays,
minor changes including changes in the square footage of real estate, or other non-fixed
expenses, be budgeted authorized and appropriated, and that the General Manager is
authorized to make reasonable and necessary expenditures for all such items within the
amounts authorized. This would bring the total cost of the agreements with BNSF to
$143,784,484.
Funding for the BNSF agreement is included in the 2010 Adopted Budget for
FasTracks, and in the FasTracks financial plan approved by the Board of Directors in
February 2010.
It is further recommended that the Board authorize the following budget transfers to
fund the PSA, costs incidental to the execution of the PSA, direct reimbursement costs,
and the portion of the relocation payments due in 2010. This action will accelerate a
portion of the funding previously budgeted in 2011 into 2010 to match the terms of
the final agreement, and will allocate the budgeted funds to the following FasTracks
projects.
Northwest Rail
Gold Line
System Improvements
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
It is further recommended that the Board pass the attached resolution authorizing
execution of the Agreements, and agreeing to waive governmental immunity, acquire
insurance for and indemnify the BNSF for all claims for injuries and damages to persons
or property, including environmental liability, for which BNSF would not incur liability
but for their authorization of RTD’s use of the right of way they currently own. A total
of $125,874,484 is appropriated through the current action. An additional
$13,710,000 will be appropriated in the 2010 Amended Budget to fully fund this
transaction as required by the Agreements.

MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to approve item B,
Authorization to Execute Agreements for Property
Acquisition, Relocation and Construction and Joint
Corridor Operations with the BNSF Railway Company.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Christopher indicated he had requested Marla
Lien, General Counsel, to revise the resolution slightly to
include language in paragraph 1 stating “…to
approximately 71st and Pecos Street in Westminster and
the Gold Corridor property interests from approximately
Sheridan to Golden…” to more appropriately include the
first segment of the North Rail. This is a huge milestone
that blazes the way to move ahead for the Gold line.
Marla Lien provided the following update:
RTD is negotiating to buy two small additional parcels
totaling about .4 acre, on the DUS Corridor. Until
recently RTD believed they were owned by another party,
but title work revealed they were under BNSF ownership.
RTD will use funds from the $4 million allocated for
additional costs including adjustments in square footage
of parcels. This will likely cause the need to add funds to
this category in RTD”s 2010 amended budget.

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

The motion passed 12 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Cohen, Daly and Tayer were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

J.

Award Contract to supply two (2) 45’ mall shuttle buses to accommodate the 16th
Street Mall extension resulting from the DUS reconfiguration project
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to DesignLine USA,
LLC for the purchase of two (2) 45’ mall shuttle buses to accommodate RTD 16 th
Street Mall shuttle service with the reconfigured Denver Union Station. The total cost
for the two (2) bus purchase is $1,300,000.

MOTION:

DISCUSSION:

Director Martinez made the motion to approve item J,
Award Contract to supply two (2) 45’ mall shuttle
buses to accommodate the 16th Street Mall extension
resulting from the DUS reconfiguration project.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.
Chair Kemp indicated he would be abstaining from voting
on this item citing a conflict of interest.
Director Pulliam expressed concern over issues brought to
his attention about the selected vendor including the
financial stability of the company. He expressed that

there was a significant difference between the two
bidders suggesting the possibility of low bidding by the
selected bidder to win the award. He wanted the Board to
be comfortable with what they were getting into.
Director O’Boyle requested a staff response to these
statements.
Dean Shaklee, General Superintendent of bus
maintenance, responded to this request. He stated that
in his 30 years experience, we have made two selections
for busses for the mall shuttle. In both cases the vendor
has gone out of business but his team continues to
maintain these vehicles. He stated the cost differential
between the two bidders was approximately $600K.
They did receive a third bid which was more in line with
the winning bidder. ProTerra is known for a high line bus
so there is no surprise that their bid would be higher. The
RTD procurement team provided a thorough evaluation of
each company, perhaps exercising more due diligence
than normal due to the fact these are small manufacturers
so they wanted to make sure they turned every angle in
the evaluation process. Protegra is a local start-up
company whereas design line has built many busses that
are currently on the road today. The CFO provided a
financial check of the health of Design line and it is their
technical opinion that Design line is the best vendor.
VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

The motion passed 10 in favor (Directors Bagley, Brohl,
Busck, Christopher, James, Martinez, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, and Tobiassen) 1 against (Pulliam)
and 1 abstain (Chair Kemp). Directors Cohen, Daly and
Tayer were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

.

XII.

MOTION TO MOVE TO EXECUTIVE SESSION
1) C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (a)-Sale at Yale Station
2) C.R.S 24-6-402(4) (a) Park Avenue Purchase and Sale
3) C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (c): Matters required to be kept confidential by State law: C.R.S. 2-3103(2) and 2-3-103.7(1)
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to adjourn to
Executive Session for the purpose to discuss
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (a)-Sale at Yale Station
2) C.R.S 24-6-402(4) (a) Park Avenue Purchase
and Sale
3) C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (c): Matters required to be
kept confidential by State law: C.R.S. 2-3103(2) and 2-3-103.7(1)

Director Martinez seconded the motion.
VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

The motion passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Director
McMullen did not vote and Directors Cohen, Daly and
Tayer were absent.

The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 6:20 p.m. The meeting resumed from
Executive Session at 7:20 p.m.

XIII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
K. Item from Executive Session-Sale at Yale Station
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the item
from Executive Session, Sale at Yale Station.
Director James seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken for item K with 12
yes’s and 0 no’s. Directors Cohen, Daly and Tayer were
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

L. Item from Executive Session-Park Avenue Purchase and Sale
MOTION:

Director James made the motion to approve the item
from Executive Session, Park Avenue Purchase and Sale.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken for item L with 12
yes’s and 0 no’s. Directors Cohen, Daly and Tayer were
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

XIV.

ADJOURNMENT
The Board meeting adjourned at 7:25 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, March 23, 2010

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Secretary
Barbara Brohl
Bill Christopher
Bill James
Angie Malpiede
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Susan Altes
Rick Clark
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
Steve Gieske
Mike Gil
Lou Ha
Martha Hecox
Terry Howerter
Brian Iacono
Marla Lien

Caitlin Magee
Brian Matthews
Tony McCaulay
Kirk Nickerson
Paula Perdue
Trent Ratcliff
Scott Reed
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
Dean Shaklee
Cal Shankster

OTHERS PRESENT:
Chris Taylor – Spectrum AV
Bob Wilson
Doug Connor
Dwight Cunningham – Advanced IT Solutions
Ken Katt
Roger Johnson – Advanced IT Solutions
Helen Bushnell
Celina B. – Celina Inc.
Chris Jarrett

District I
District B
District K
District H
District D
District J
District A
District C
District E
District G
District L
District F

John Shonsey
John Stark
Henry Stopplecamp
John Tarbert
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington
Bill Weidenaar

