2021-08-24
Board Meeting
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: --started, and we are recording.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening. I will now call to order THE Tuesday, July-- I'm so sorry. I have
the wrong agenda in front of me. I will call to order the August 24 agenda for the RTD Board of Directors.
Ms. McManus, can you do the roll call, please?
KATE WILLIAMS: Apparently not. Ms. McManus?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Probably not, OK. You know what, I will do roll call to start with.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sorry. I'm sorry. I was stuck on mute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, that's OK. I can do it. I got it in front of me, Barbara. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VICTOR BUZEK: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell.

BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger. Director Lewis. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale. Now I just saw you. Director Tisdale. All right, I'll come back
to him. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Tisdale, are you there? OK, we'll go back. I just received a text.
Director Guissinger is on the line. Welcome, Director Guissinger. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am present. Director Tisdale, are you on?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see him, but I-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I've seen him and been talking to him, so Ms. McManus, I'm going to put him
down as present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That means all 15 Board members are present this evening. I would like to
now call the Tuesday, August 24 RTD Board meeting to order. We're convened as of 5:33 PM Mountain
Daylight Time. And I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you for joining us this evening. And please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings
of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. You can find that by visiting RTD-Denver.com. And a live stream of this
meeting will also be available via RTD's YouTube site.

Colleagues, being elected as members of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to enhance
and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it's our collective duty to our
constituents, stakeholders, and the staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual respect,
cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are the values we can all agree upon.
As such, I encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by this Board and to act in
accordance with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors' page on the RTD website.
Thank you.
This evening, I would like to ask Director Broom if he would lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. I'd be happy to. I pledge Allegiance-ALL: To the flag of the United States of America. And TO the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under
God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I would like to now ask Director Williams to lead us in the land
acknowledgment
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our
buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary
tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who have traveled,
inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations. May this
acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of
the Native and all historically-oppressed peoples and recognize their current and future contributions in the
district as we move forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. Under our safety briefing, while the recent
public health orders have relaxed requirements for those use of face coverings-- and actually, they have
increased them, the TSA has now mandated that RTD keep the face mask coverings until January 13 of
2022. We are asking everyone who is in and around public transportation to honor that and to wear masks
to support our bus drivers, and our patrons, and our staff so that we can all stay healthy from the virus. This
evening, there are no retiree awards.
And now it is time for our public participation, which is open to anyone who would like to address the Board.
It is our custom that we allow any of our elected officials present to speak first. And if you wish to speak
and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Our staff
will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. And if you're dialed in, please press star 6 to toggled your
mute settings.

Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. So if you do not wish to
be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing, and you will not have the opportunity
to speak this evening. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, please email
those materials to the Board Office at the following email address-- board.office@RTD-Denver.com. I'll say
that again, board.office@RTD-Denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names. Each speaker will have three minutes to speak. And speakers, please
refrain from profane, obscene speech, direct your comments to the Board as a whole, and refrain from
personal attacks.
Jillian, I will turn to you. Do we have any one in the queue?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: We do. Molly McKinley, you are first up to speak.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McKinley, you're on.
MOLLY MCKINLEY: Hey. Thank you. Good evening, Board members. And thank you for holding space for
public comment this evening. My name is Molly McKinley, and I'm the Policy Director for the Denver Streets
Partnership, which is a coalition of community organizations advocating for people-friendly streets in
Denver, each with a vested stake in ensuring our city is healthy, safe, and accessible to everyone.
On behalf of the Denver Streets Partnership, I tracked the RTD Accountability Committee process and
participated in the equity work group convened by Mile High Connects. The Denver Streets Partnership
largely supported the Accountability Committee's recommendations, with some nuanced feedback. After
listening in to last week's committee discussion about the recommendations, I just wanted to touch on one
of the recommendations this evening, the recommendation regarding establishing subregional service
councils.
We believe that the establishment of these groups should be seriously explored, as they would be an
avenue for building trust with the community and are an opportunity to elevate the voices of transit users.
At such a critical moment for RTD, we need to be extending the table, incorporating more stakeholders in
the decision-making process, and increasing transparency. And these regional service councils are one
way to make progress towards those.
I thank you for your consideration, and all of the time you put in to this work, and appreciate the time to
speak this evening. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Molly. Jillian, is there-JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Yeah. Next up we have Loren Hansen

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. Hanson, please.
LOREN HANSEN: Yeah. This is Mr. Loren Hansen.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, sorry, I keep forgetting.
LOREN HANSEN: No worries. It's not the first, nor will it be the last time. But I just wanted to speak in
regards to, again, in a similar vein to Molly McKinley, the RTD Accountability Committee recommendations.
I am very supportive of a lot of the stuff in there, but again, I just want to touch on just one of the
recommendations in general, which is the fourth one in regards to examining fare structures and simplifying
fare, and just get a little bit of my thoughts out in regards to the models that might be worth following,
including Puebla, which temporarily went fare-free last year in late 2020, Kansas City, which is operating
on a fare-free model until about 2022 or 2023, and then where I went to college, actually, in Athens, Georgia,
which has appropriated money through the end of 2022 for fare-free ridership.
I believe that a lot of these programs will help incentivize a lot of folks that have dropped off of RTD due to
multiple reasons to get them back on for going to events, commuting to and from downtown, and other
aspects in relation to that. And I think that, along with, obviously, reducing fares and looking into things
such as possible reduction of fares on Ozone Action days, which we've had a lot of-- we've had a lot of
those this past summer. Those are all things that I think could feasibly be things you could work into. Thank
you, and have a great day, and great to celebrate my birthday with you all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, thank you! Happy birthday, sir. All right. Jillian.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Next up we have 7759, last four digits.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If you wouldn't mind stating your name.
ROSE: Yes. Hello?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hello.
ROSE: Hello?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
ROSE: Hi. My name is Rose. I am speaking on behalf tonight of Lisa Marie and Terry Roberts. They are
clients of mine who live with me full-time with developmental disabilities. We are asking to have our home
address added to the Servia service area due to multiple difficulties in them not coming directly to our home.

The address I can provide if somebody can call me back to follow up. And I've been asking for a couple of
years-- I've done several things that have been recommended to me to try to make this process smoother,
and we continue to have difficulties. At the present time, I am filling out a reasonable modification request
form to send in, which I'll be faxing in tonight or tomorrow, as soon as I get access to a fax. So I would
definitely appreciate the consideration of adding this address to the service area for Access-a-Ride. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Ms. McManus, if you wouldn't mind following up with
Rose, I would be appreciative. Jillian, is there anyone else on the queue?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: There is not at this time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public
participation at this time. Thank you, everybody-DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I just wanted to acknowledge that I have returned to the meeting. I was there
at the outset, but missed roll call because of technical difficulties. Thank you, Madam.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We figured that, Director Tisdale. Thank you so much for checking back in.
This evening regarding the committee reports, the committee minutes were included in the report packet.
Are there any corrections from directors regarding the committee minutes? Hearing none, those committee
reports will stand as submitted and will become part of the permanent record.
Now we'll have the General Manager's Oversight and Performance Management updates. Secretary
Buzek, would you give us an update on the work of the GM Oversight committee?
VICTOR BUZEK: Certainly, Madam Chair. It goes without saying I think Vice Chair Sloan and all the
members of the committee, because we've all been diligent and done a lot of hard work this year, and have
changed the guidelines and structure of our GM evaluation significantly, and I think for the better, we've got
a meeting tomorrow, the 25th, at 3:00 PM. It'll be an interesting meeting.
So members of the Board who are not on the GMOC, I please invite you to attend. We're going to be talking
about the Net Promoter Score survey questions, get a sampling of those, and the process of the survey
itself. We'll also talk about the survey validation plan and get an overview of the GM Compensation Analysis.
That concludes my report, and I'm willing to take questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just want to acknowledge that I see Director Guissinger has joined the meeting. And I'd
like that to go into the record. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Hi. Hello. First Vice Chair Guissinger. Welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, next is the approval of the Board meeting and Special Board meeting
minutes of July 20, 2021 and the special Board meeting minutes of August 10, 2021. Unless there is
objection to considering these minutes, all the same time, may I please have a motion to approve the
minutes for the following meetings, July 20 Board meeting, July 20 Special Board meeting, and August 10
Special Board meeting. Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Director Lewis, did I hear you as the second?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, you heard me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Director Catlin. Thank you so much. Is there any discussion? OK. Seeing
none, I'll now call for the vote. Is there any no votes? Seeing none, it passes unanimously with 15 votes.
Next, I'd like to call on our General Manager for her report. General Manager Johnson, please share with
us your report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Madam Chair. And good evening to all of you and to all who
are virtually assembled, I'm Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO of the Regional Transportation
District. As part of my General Manager's Report, I will brief you on several topics, noting how each of these
topics aligns with the agency's strategic priorities, which the Board adopted on August 10.
For those in attendance who may be unfamiliar with the strategic priorities, they are community value, which
is, RTD strives to be a strong community partner, providing value to customers, as well as to the broader
Denver metro region, while sustaining planet Earth; customer excellence, RTD strives to consistently deliver
high-quality customer Service; employee ownership, RTD seeks to attract and retain a highly-skilled and
engaged workforce; and financial success, RTD takes very seriously the management of all financial
resources. I would note that most often discussions regarding financial success will occur during the
meetings of the Finance Administration Audit Committee.
This evening, I will share with you the following information related to the Employee Ownership Strategic
Priority, I will introduce our new chief administration officer, as well as discuss pandemic impacts and
vaccination efforts. Regarding customer excellence, I will discuss alternative services to the Broncos Ride
and public transit access to the Adams County Justice Center. And speaking to community value, I will
discuss redistricting efforts.

So first I would like to officially introduce Leah Riley, RTD's new Chief Administration officer. Leah comes
to RTD firm Nelson/Nygaard, a transportation planning firm with offices across the country. Prior to her time
with Nelson/Nygaard, Leah served in senior executive roles for transportation agencies in Portland, Oregon,
Chicago, and Washington, DC. Additionally, she performed a myriad of administrative, financial, legislative,
and Advisory roles in the nation's capital and in the state of New Mexico.
Leah will direct efforts of the human resources, material management, information technology-- information
technology, excuse me, in Civil Rights Division, along with overarching performance management effort.
So she will be extremely busy in the months ahead. And I welcome Leah, and glad she's part of the RTD
team.
Next, regarding the continued COVID-19 transmission in Colorado, the Delta variant is by far the most
prevalent strain in the state, accounting for more than 95% of cases. The seven-day moving average for
100,000 people in the RTD service area is now 18.3 cases, significantly higher than the 6.7 cases for
100,000 I reported last month. The August 2021 hospitalization rate is as high as the August 2020 rate,
despite widespread vaccination administration.
The vaccination rate has, once again, begun to climb. The Denver Post reports four straight weeks of
increased vaccinations. According to data from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment,
between 71% and 83.4% of residents in counties RTD serves has received at least one dose, with Adams
County having the lowest vaccination rate, and the City and County of Broomville the highest. Overall, in
Colorado, nearly 73% of eligible people have been immunized with at least one vaccine dose, and 66.2%
of people are now fully immunized.
The agency is currently partnering with local health officials to offer mobile vaccine clinics and various sites
around the district suggested by several members of the Board. While vaccination rates should spur
optimism, the prevalence of the Delta variant means that RTD employees must remain vigilant.
The Transportation Security Administration has acknowledged in Madam Chair's Safety Moment has now
extended its mandate regarding facial coverings for all modes of transportation, including public transit,
through January 18, 2022. With that as the backdrop, RTD is continuing to work toward safely reopening
the capacity of its facilities. As of August 1, facilities are now at 50% capacity, meaning that no more than
50% of employees in a given location may be present at the same time. And employees are working under
a hybrid model that allows individuals with the ability and equipment necessary to telework.
Now switching gears to customer excellence, and more specifically, about the Broncos Ride. As we all
know, the 2021-2022 National Football League regular season is almost upon us, as evidenced by the
return of preseason games and fans heading to Empower Field at Mile High. To help those football fans
navigate to the stadium, several local bus routes are available to provide service in the vicinity of Empower
Field, including, but not limited to, route 0, 9, 10, 15, 20, 30, 31, 32, and rail lines, including the E and W
lines, which provide access directly to the stadium. Broncos' fans can rest assured that service will be
enhanced as possible to provide extra capacity on the system on game days.

As you may recall, on July 14, I provided a memo to the Board regarding special event services, which
included background information on the discontinued Bronco Ride bus shuttle service. The Broncos Ride
was initially suspended for the 2020-2021 NFL regular season by Board action in March of 2020. It is
incumbent upon the agency to adhere to civil rights laws, including but not limited to, ADA, Title VI, as well
as the Federal Railroad Administration and the Federal Transit Administration regulations. Moreover, the
safety and well-being of the workforce is paramount.
Regarding services to Adams County Justice Center, as you all are aware, there have been reports in the
media regarding a recent service change that affected the bus stop near the Adams County Justice Center.
I, along with RTD staff and directors Whitmore, Buzek, and Cook, have been engaged with elected officials
and jurisdictional staff concerned with the discontinuation of the stop.
Just yesterday, I, along with staff, again, travel to the location of the bus stop to meet with the Adams
County Manager and our respective staff to determine short-term, as well as long-term solutions. As for
next steps, Adams County officials will be conferring with representatives from the City of Brighton as we
collectively work toward next steps. Respective entities will be reconvening early next week as we finalize
the path forward.
Regarding our community value, more specifically, I'd like to talk about the redistricting efforts as a followup to the discussion that took place at the Planning/Capital and Programs & FasTracks Committee meeting.
Internal redistricting efforts will be ramping up shortly. The Redistricting committee is working to schedule
its first meeting for early September. The committee will meet monthly through early 2022.
The Redistricting Committee meetings will be open to the public. And accordingly, meeting times and
agendas will be posted. I will continue to provide monthly updates on the committee's progress to the Board
in my monthly General Manager's Report. Moreover, staff is preparing a memo to the Board, which will
provide a high-level overview of steps for the committee, and will be transmitted within a week's time. And
with that, Madam Chair, my report is concluded. Thank you very kindly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager. Are there any questions or comments to the
General Manager?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis has her hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh. Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I just wanted to thank the General Manager for her responsiveness
concerning the redistricting conversation and for opening those meetings up to the public because that was
something that was really important to me and I think important to our communities as well. And so, thank
you for being responsive in that regard. That's the first one.

And then I had a question regarding the Broncos Ride. One thing that came up-- well, one, thank you for
your work with the Broncos services as well. One thing that came up for me was a constituent who was
concerned about the times the rail lines that might stop running at, say, 10 o'clock, and the game might go
a bit later than that. Was there any consideration to maybe extend services during the times that there are
Bronco games so that if folks take public transit to those games, that they'll have the opportunity to take
public transportation back?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Lewis, thank you very much for that question. It's a very good one and a timely
one. What we're trying to do, based upon our staffing levels and capacity, having worked in tandem with
our Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations, we are trying to make accommodations because we
believe if we take you there, we should get you home, in that vein.
And with that as a backdrop, emulating what we did for the Major Baseball League, with the All-Star game,
we made adjustments accordingly. So I hope that addresses your question. And if we needed to be more
specific, then I can follow up and provide more detail as it relates to your inquiry.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. We can follow up. Thank you so much. It addresses my question. And then I
have a specific question as well. So thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director Rosenthal. You're muted, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: My apologies. So I pressed the button, and it didn't deactivate. My apologies. So
thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Madam General Manager for that report.
Delving a little bit deeper into the issue of the Bronco Ride, you mentioned the staffing issue, perhaps in a
prior response. So perhaps you might expand on that a little bit. So what would-- so if we were to offer that
service, what would it do to other services that we do provide, since it would be a number of buses that
would be taken out of the system?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Rosenthal, in reference to your question regarding workforce requirements, I
want to qualify my response by stating, when I came into the organization, I learned that we had a very
interesting attrition rate due to the fact that we are providing a myriad of services. And this was something

that also was noted by the Office of the State Auditor here in the State of Colorado recognizing that we
were mandating employees to work in excess of five days a week and six days a week.
And the way it works when we look at the most junior-level employees, they are a represented workforce.
And in doing so, the individuals that were newest to the organization, that had the least amount of seniority,
oftentimes were required to work excessively without, I would qualify for my edification, having adequate
rest periods going forward. And it jeopardized the other service in which we had. Because what we were
doing in order to provide this specialized service, we were putting ourselves in a precarious position where
we didn't have adequate resources to provide our standard essential services that people come to rely on
in reference to our approved service delivery schedule.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that answer your questions, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: It does. And thank you very much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a brief note of appreciation and gratitude for the effort
put forth by our General Manager and several staff members to work through some solutions to the issue
at the Adams County Judicial Center. It certainly was a hot button and continues to be.
But I am very encouraged by the attitude and the forthrightness that we've displayed by our staff to look for
a win-win situation. And we're moving closer to that. And I just want to make note of that and thank our
senior management team, and most notably Debra Johnson for that effort
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I'd like to thank Ms. Johnson for her comments on the
Broncos Ride. I want to point out that the Board made a public decision some time ago not to alter our
paratransit service, and we continue to provide existing users of our Access-a-Ride service transportation
to and from Broncos' games above and beyond what the ADA requires. So I'd like to thank you and your
staff for that work.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. OK. General Manager, as usual, thank you for
that update. I would just like to add one more caveat, that due to the work commitment and conflicts of
Director Whitmore, he has relinquished his spot on the Ad Hoc Committee for Redistricting. And I have
appointed Director Sloan as his replacement to join Director Broom to the Redistricting Ad Hoc Committee.
Next is unanimous consent. There are four items on the unanimous consent agenda listed under item 12,
actions A through D. They are the Citizen's Advisory Committee appointments, the approval of the bridge

inspections on-call service contract, the Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail, RTD and CDOT
Commission Cooperation’s Agreement, and refinance lease purchase agreements for the interest savings.
If anyone has a change to or questions on one of these items, please feel free to advise the Chair at this
time. And we will, of course, be happy to pull it from the unanimous consent agenda for consideration under
recommended actions. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Madam Chair, I'll be abstaining from these votes due to the fact that I was out for the
substantial discussion that occurred in committee on the items that have now ended up on the consent
agenda. I'll go ahead and abstain from a unanimous consent on those items that are listed.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. OK. Seeing no changes, may I have a motion to approve the
consent agenda?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Whitmore.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do I have a second?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second, Rosenthal.
KATE WILLIAMS: Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I heard Rosenthal first. Sorry, Director Williams.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Why don't you list Williams? Ladies first
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What a gentleman.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. I heard Director Whitmore is the movant, and Director Williams is the
second. Are there any no votes on this action? Seeing none, it moves unanimously. Thank you, ladies and
gentlemen.
This evening, we have two recommended actions for the agenda. They are listed as item 13, actions E and
F. The first recommended action is the 29th and Welton property disposition. Do I have a motion? Oh? Let
me do the motions, and then I'll come back to the raised hands, if I may.
SHELLEY COOK: So moved, Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second, anyone?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Second, Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Guissinger. I have a movant of Director-- or Second Chair
Cook and a second from First Vice Chair Guissinger. OK, Discussion. Director Dishell, your hand is still up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Yeah, that was just from the last motion about being unanimously approved,
14 with one abstention.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you, sir. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was going to say the same thing, that an abstention is different than a positive vote. So
that's all I was going to say. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Rosenthal. You're muted, sir.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sorry. I keep pressing the button, it doesn't deactivate. My apologies. So we're talking
about the 29th and Welton property, is that right?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's correct.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah. So I was at the Welton Street Cafe today. Great lunch, by the way. Hopefully
people go and be a customer there. So one of the owners was interested in that property.
And so I think the upshot of that is-- my hope is that, as this possible sale goes forward, and I know it's a
long ways in that direction, that we include the community in that area, including the small business owners,
the people who rent, people who own property, and just to make sure that we're including everyone in that
process. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I do not see any other Board members in the queue, so I will call
for the vote. Are there any no votes? Seeing none, I have one abstention and 14 Yes votes. So the motion
then passes.
The second recommended action has to do with the adoption of-- for the Board of Directors to adopt the
responses to the recommendations outlined in the RTD Accountability Committee Final Report. Do I have
a motion?
MAJORIE SLOAN: Sloan moved. Sloan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second, Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. I have a movant of Director Sloan and a second of First Vice Chair
Guissinger. Is there any discussion? Second Vice Chair Cook.

SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Just a clerical change I wanted to bring up. If we approve the Northwest Rail Study
at the reduced scope of 8 million, as I understand it, we won't be undertaking a PEL, which is indicated in
the response on page 198 of the packet for recommendation 16.
And so I spoke briefly with Debra Johnson. Ms. Johnson said that that edit could be made afterwards. So I
just wanted to verify that with her and just note it for the record. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you very much. And thank you very much, Director Cook.
As indicated pursuant to a conversation, what I think would be most feasible is just to strike on page 198,
Planning and Environmental Linkages. So it would read "To help complete the study, RTD plans to contract
with a consulting group to conduct a study," recognizing there will be a scope of work. Whatever it is will be
a study, which will be responsive in reference to what we intend to do.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I will be abstaining from this vote because I wasn't a part of the discussion. And I
checked yesterday to see if I could find the video for this discussion, and it hadn't been uploaded. And I
actually noticed that there were a number of our meetings that are not quite yet uploaded to our website.
And so we might just want to look into that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Will do. Thank you. Duly noted. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, no comment. Thanks. Sorry-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. I just wanted to thank staff and CEO and General Manager Johnson for the
changes. I know we had a discussion, and there was a lot all over the place. But in reviewing the document,
I think a lot of our discussion was captured on the Accountability Committee responses. I think a lot of things
were clarified.
I think there's a spirit of collaboration in there, which is something that was a common thread throughout all
of the discussion. So just recognizing that there were a lot of differing, and yet, overlapping comments that
are hard to find the intersection of. And for what it's worth, I think the report that we ended up with is solid
and reflective of the discussion. So, thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Davidson. Second Vice Chair Cook, your hand still up. I
just wanted to make sure if you have any other comments.
SHELLEY COOK: I didn't. I forgot to take it down. But I would echo Director Davidson in saying I appreciate
the changes made and the close listening that was apparent in those changes. Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Seeing no other Board members in the queue, I will call for
the question. Is there any no votes?
VICTOR BUZEK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Buzek.
VICTOR BUZEK: I believe CEO and GM Debra Johnson had her hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh! Sorry.
DEBRA JOHNSON: All I wanted to say, Madam Chair, was recognizing the comments that were put
forward. I'd like to acknowledge it on behalf of staff. There was an enormous amount of work that was done
thereafter on Wednesday.
I want to specifically call out John McKay, who cleared his calendar, along with my calendar, as we went
through our notes, when a Board member popped by and saw us in here, I'm talking about Director Catlin,
but then again, as well as communication staff who came together with our reviews at 10 o'clock at night,
putting in the format.
And there was a myriad of other people, ranging from every single department that had a hand in this prior
to and getting to the place where we are today. I would be remiss not to acknowledge them. And I will be
acknowledging them specifically going forward. So I wanted to share that in this public forum because it
took a village, and I appreciate all the efforts put forward by all of you as well. So thank you very kindly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager for those comments. Before I call for the vote,
I, too, would like to extend my sincere thanks to you and your team for such a stellar job in pulling this very
difficult process together and making it user-friendly, transparent, and inclusive. So my sincere thanks to
you and your team, and to Mr McKay for all that he's done.
With that in mind, do I have any no votes? Seeing none, I have Director Cook as the movant, and-- or, I'm
sorry, Director Sloan as the movant and First Vice Chair Guissinger as the second. I have-- yeah, I want to
make sure, General Counsel, I have 13 yes and two abstentions. That's my record. Is that yours, ma'am?

MELANIE SNYDER: I will leave it to Director Dishell to clarify. I did hear Director Lewis say that she'd be
abstaining. I wasn't clear on whether Director Dishell is abstaining for both the unanimous consent agenda
as well as the recommended actions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell, are you abstaining?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, I'll abstain.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So we do have Director Lewis and Director Dishell abstaining from the
vote. So my count is 13 yeses and two abstentions. Do you concur with that?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. The motion passes. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. There is no
executive session this evening on the agenda. Is there any old business to bring forward to the Board? I
see Director Dishell. Please
BOBBY DISHELL: I got too excited. I think it's new business because I haven't brought it home-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. Thank you. Is there any new business to bring before the Board?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Debra, I had my hand up for old business. Yeah, it was for old business. Yeah. I just
wanted to make folks aware, and you might be aware of this already, we had some discussion last week
about the redistricting and the process around-- the process to determine the process. And I had the
opportunity to revisit notes from February 14, 2012, and then another meeting in July in which there was
some discussion on behalf of the Board about the redistricting process.
And what I could find-- and I'm curious of other directors who might-- who have a bit more experience on
this Board. What I could find is that the process to assemble the committee was one that was suggested
by the Chair back in 2012. And it was just-- and it was adopted-- or it wasn't adopted, it was just like made
a statement, at least, that's what I was able to read. It was a statement made by the Chair, and it was a
process that the Board decided to follow. And so I think there might be some opportunity for us to maybe
revisit that and think about that.
I will also say that, also noted in that same meeting that the recommendation actually did come to-- the
recommendation to move forward with the redistricting-- not the recommendation-- I'm sorry, my kid's in
college, and he's texting me. The recommendation came by way of the Planning and Development
Committee to the Board that the Board approve the recommendation of the Redistricting Committee
regarding that process. And so I think it's just something that we might want to tighten up as a Board as we
move forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Dishell, I still see your hand up.

BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. This is just a friendly reminder, an email came about I think right before this meeting
regarding the next steps for our Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion initiative. Everyone also should
have seen probably their telephone town halls that are coming up. Please remember the commitment that
we all made in passing that resolution that we'll be soliciting on our telephone town halls' feedback on how
our agency is doing when it comes to Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion.
I also want to thank everyone for taking the time to speak with us and go through that feedback process.
We hope that sessions will be more impactful and useful for folks as we move forward. And I also want to
highlight the ability for folks to reach out to Ms. Holmes directly in order to engage with her directly if that's
a better forum for you for our group. That's all I got.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you, sir. Seeing no other hands, I will now entertain a motion
to adjourn the meeting.
TROY WHITMORE AND BOB BROOM: So moved!
BOB BROOM: Director Broom.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have Tisdale and Whitmore second. Any no votes for adjournment? Hearing
none, we're adjourned at 6:16 PM.
Ladies and gentlemen, please stand by for our Special Board meeting if you'd like to take a five-minute
break. We will come back. It is 6:16-- or 6:17, so in five minutes come on back, and we'll start our Special
Board meeting. Thank you.

