Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

June 23, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
June 23, 2009 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Eleven (11) Board members were present at roll call. Directors Brohl and O’Boyle arrived after
roll call and Directors Martinez and Tobiassen were absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retiree awards.
Special Recognition-Distinguished Budget Presentation Award for 2009
Chair Kemp recognized RTD as the recipient of the 2009 Distinguished Budget Presentation
Award for the 2009 fiscal year from the Government Finance Officers Association of the
United States and Canada. This award is the highest form of recognition in government
budgeting and represents a significant achievement for RTD. RTD has been the recipient of
this award for numerous years and demonstrates the excellence in service that RTD is
committed to. Robert Merriman, Manager of Budget & Financial Analysis, and Todd Nichols,
Senior Budget Analyst, were presented with certificates and identified as the individuals
primarily responsible for the achievement of this award.
Special Recognition-Commemorative Metro Transit Police Department 2009 Presidential
Inaugural Badge
Chair Kemp acknowledged this was a special award that was presented to John Tarbert and
John Perry, Security, who were invited by the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority
(WMATA) to assist with security during the Presidential Inauguration Ceremony on Tuesday,
January 20, 2009. A total of 14 transit agencies provided an additional 215 police officers for
the WMATA.
Chair Kemp stated it is an honor that RTD employees are recognized nationally for their
experience and expertise. WMATA paid for their travel, and both employees used their own
vacation days to assist with the historical event.
John Tarbert shared they worked under some very cold and humid conditions and
approximately 1.1 million people traveled on transit during this seventeen hour period. This
would compare to a normal of approximately 500,000. John Perry stated this was a good
experience and he was happy to have been able to participate.
Cal Marsella shared that we have a good security force and frequently our security have gotten

involved in teaching and training. Dave Genova, Assistant General Manager Safety, Security
and Facilities, has been asked to travel and teach at many properties. We run a safe and solid
security system that is professional, proficient and one to be proud of. He also acknowledged
the family of John Perry who were present.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Russell Greear, Denver, was recognized for his recent marriage and showed the marriage
certificate to the Board. He stated he had been stopped by the police on West Colfax and
asked a number of questions. He wanted to know what that was about.
Cal Marsella responded that there had been three random stabbings along West Colfax at bus
stop and the police department is interviewing as many people as possible.
J. Thomas-Hazell, Denver, expressed some concerns on changes he is hearing with
handicap and access-a-Ride and stated this was the only transportation that he has.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes to the committee reports.

VI.

GM TRANSITION AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REPORT
GM Committee Chair Noel Busck provided these updates. First, he thanked Director Martinez
who in his absence, coordinated the interim general manager interview process and for the
selection of Phil Washington to this position. He congratulated Phil Washington.
Director Busck provided a summary from the GM Transition and Executive Search Team.
Along with Brian Iacono and Linda Wells, Procurement, the committee reviewed the revisions
made to the draft RFP and provided their edits/changes. Procurement will provide a final draft
to them that will be sent out electronically and in the Board packet with a final review on June
30, 2009. The RFP will be released on July 1, 2009.
The committee also discussed the process to be used for the RFP evaluation and decided this
will be an evaluation team of the whole committee (seven people).
The committee reviewed a preliminary list of key stakeholders and will be modifying this list for
the whole Board to do outreach to stakeholders as our partners in transit. The committee will
come up with questions which will provide for consistency and openness in the process. RTD
will communicate that we are very interested in hearing what our key stakeholders and
communities want in a General Manager but will reserve the final decision on who that will be
for the Board of Directors.

VII.

METRO MAYORS REPORT
Chair Kemp reported there has not been a Metro Mayors’ Task Force meeting.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF MAY 19, 2009 AND SPECIAL
BOARD MEETING ON JUNE 9, 2009.

MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the May 19, 2009
regular board meeting minutes and the June 9, 2009 special
Board meeting minutes.
Director James seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Busck and Tayer indicated they would abstain from
voting on the June 9 minutes since they were absent from the
meeting.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against for the May 19, 2009 minutes and 11 votes in favor, 0
against and 2 abstain for the June 9 special Board meeting.
Directors Busck and Tayer abstained.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 Trip to Washington D.C. with Phil Washington, June 18-19
Cal Marsella provided testimony before the Senate Banking Committee on the FTA New
Starts program and full funding grant agreement. Some of the presenters had
frustrations with the complexity of the program but Cal cautioned his peers not to
throw the baby out with the bath water since the CFI index used for this program
provides a level of clarity that protects the integrity of the program and the selection
process.
Cal Marsella and Phil Washington also meet with the new FTA Administrator, Peter
Rogoff and key FTA staff. Mr. Rogoff has a history as a longtime Senate Banking
staffer and is keenly aware of the issues and the program. He is quite familiar with
RTD, DUS and has lots of insight on TIFIA. He had insightful questions on PPP and
was fully engaged in a discussion of ROW challenges. He understands that at the end
of the day, it is what it is.
 Status of Labor Arbitration
RTD will be meeting with the arbitrator on Thursday, June 25,2009 and hopefully the
arbitrator will make a decision by the end of July or the first of August timeframe.
 Closing of UP ROW
Cal Marsella reported that on June 24, 2009, RTD will be closing on the UP ROW and
that thanks go primarily to Marla Lien and Henry Stopplecamp for their yeoman efforts.
Marla Lien clarified the scope of this closing and indicated that this was for the US36
corridor. She explained that each segment would have its own closing as RTD delivers
the replacement properties and this will occur perhaps over the next six months.


Meeting with Owens Corning Representatives June 24
There is a planned executive session following this meeting to discuss acquisition of
property of the CRMF. RTD will meet with representatives of Owens Corning on June
24, 2009 following the executive session with the Board.



Meeting with City Officials on Owens Corning
The City and State have expressed several concerns related to jobs if Owens Corning
closes. RTD will meet with City officials following the discussion with Owens Corning.



Other Issues
Phil Washington was asked if he wanted to share any information with the Board. Phil
reported that he has been meeting with the Board members in a series of one on one
meetings and has completed about eight of these meetings. The purpose is to
understand the Board members priorities for this agency. He has also met with some
key stakeholders (i.e. North Metro Mayors) and will continue to meet with others and
the senior staff. We are continuing to march ahead.
Director Bagley wanted an update on locking in of fuel. Cal Marsella responded we had
locked in at 2.26 per gallon and are continuing to watch the cycle for other lock-in
opportunities.

Director Christopher asked about if we had any contact with Adams County. Cal
Marsella stated we will have a briefing with Adams County and all the other interested
parties and community leaders who have sent letters and expressed a concern about
Owens Corning following the Board meeting and the Owens Corning meeting.
X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion to approve the unanimous
consent agenda items A through K.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and 0 against. Directors Martinez and Tobiassen
were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Extension of Contract – Alameda Station, LLC at 350 S. Santa Fe –
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the General
Manager or his designee be authorized to negotiate and execute all documents that may
be necessary to extend the sale and development by and between the Regional
Transportation District and Alameda Station, LLC at 350 South Santa Fe through
December 31, 2010 and further authorize that no further extensions be evaluated.

B.

Approval to Release the Gold Line Final Environmental Impact Statement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
direct the General Manager to release the Gold Line Final Environmental Impact
Statement (FEIS) for public and agency review. This is the second of a series of steps
in the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process prior to the Record of
Decision, which will be issued by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA).

C.

Approval to Release the East Corridor Final Environmental Impact Statement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
direct the General Manager to release the East Corridor Final Environmental Impact
Statement (FEIS) for public and agency review. This is the second of a series of steps
in the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process prior to the Record of
Decision, which will be issued by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA).

D.

Approval to Release the I-225 Corridor Draft Environmental Evaluation (EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
direct the General Manager to release the I-225 Corridor Draft Environmental Evaluation
(EE) document for agency and public review.

E.

Request for Approval of RTD 2008 Annual Report to DRCOG on FasTracks
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve submittal of the RTD 2008 Annual Report on FasTracks to
DRCOG. This report summarizes the changes to the FasTracks Plan , including
financing and alignment, that have been approved by the Board in 2008 and early
2009. These changes are included and referenced in the Annual Report.

F.

Resolution Regarding Property Acquisition and Indemnification of Claims for Union
Pacific Railroad’s Boulder Industrial Lead
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors

adopt the attached resolution. The resolution authorizes the General Manager or his
designee to enter into a Purchase and Sale and related Agreements for the Union
Pacific Railroad’s (UPRR) Boulder Industrial Lead (BIL) and to waive sovereign immunity
to the extent it may be applicable and indemnify the UPRR for claims arising out of
RTD’s ownership in an amount up to $200 million and to purchase general liability
insurance in that amount. The resolution also acknowledges that indemnity and
insurance requirements will increase at the time that RTD commences construction of
its railroad improvements on the property and that prior to commencement of
construction RTD will be required to obtain rights of entry and insurance for preconstruction activities.

XI.

G.

Approval of August 23, 2009 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 23, 2009 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of approximately
$53,300, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.

H.

Resolution No. ___, Series of 2009 authorizing the execution and delivery of a
Reimbursement Agreement, a Bank Note, a Second Supplemental Indenture and a
Reoffering Memorandum Relating to the District’s outstanding Commercial Paper Notes,
and other matters related thereto

I.

Resolution No. ___, Series of 2009 authorizing the execution and delivery of a
Supplemental Indenture of Trust relating to the District’s Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
(FasTracks Project), Series 2006A

J.

Resolution No. ___, Series of 2009 authorizing the execution and delivery of a
Supplemental Indenture of Trust relating to the District’s Sales Tax Revenue Refunding
Bonds (FasTracks Project) Series 2007A

K.

Exercise of Contract Options – Wells Fargo
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise the option to extend the term of
the commercial banking contract with Wells Fargo Bank for two additional one year
periods beginning July 1, 2009.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
L. Rapid Transit Station Addition Policy
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt this policy, which updates the District’s current established procedures
and guidelines for evaluating proposed new stations on RTD’s existing and planned light
rail and commuter rail lines. Since each potential station and station area is unique, no
one set of guidelines should determine whether a station is appropriate for a specific
site. The criteria described below are meant to serve as a policy framework for issues
that should be considered when planning for and approving new stations. RTD staff will
evaluate each of the criteria, and provide the results for the RTD Board’s information
when considering the approval of a new station. Final determination regarding whether
new stations will be added to light rail and commuter rail lines, and who will provide
associated funding of new stations, will be a Board decision on a case by case basis.
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
Rapid Transit Station Addition Policy.

DISCUSSION:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.
Director Christopher asked clarification of what
happens to the stations that were identified after
’04 and how will they be treated under the policy
(i.e. are they grandfathered?)
Cal Marsella stated there are basically three
criteria that are used when new stations are
added: impact to the schedule, cost and the
additional stations. He then asked Bill Van Meter
to explain how these stations might be affected.
Bill Van Meter explained that these stations would
be subject to this new rapid transit station
addition policy. However, we are aware of the
stations referenced by Director Christopher and
these stations have been analyzed which will merit
some consideration. However, this is a Board
decision and the policy merely sets forth a set of
guidelines that the Board will need to approve as
the situation dictates.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and 0 against. Directors Martinez and
Tobiassen were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED
Unanimously.

M. Authorization to Execute Memorandum of Understanding for Property Acquisition with
the BNSF Railway
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) with the BNSF Railway Company (BNSF) regarding the
acquisition of property interests from Denver Union Station to approximately 72 nd
Street for the Northwest and Gold Rail Lines along BNSF’s Front Range Subdivision,
and for the Gold Line on BNSF’s Golden Subdivision. The Memorandum of
Understanding will set forth price for the segments but actual contracts for the
purchase and sale of interests and for construction and use of the property interests
will be entered into according to the parameters described in the MOU.

MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to provide
authorization to execute the memorandum of
understanding for property acquisition with the
BNSF Railway.
Director Chacon seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and 0 against. Directors Martinez and
Tobiassen were absent.
Chair Kemp declared
Unanimously.

the

motion

PASSED

XII.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS/OTHER MATTERS
Chair Kemp asked if there were any other matters before going into executive session.
Director James provided this update.
An RFP for a public information contract was
issued to assist the Board with public relations and strategic planning. Three firms were
contacted but only one chose to respond. The evaluators were Director James and Director
McMullen. They have reviewed the proposal and have awarded this contract to CRL
Associates.
Chair Kemp asked if there were any questions and there were none.

XIII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION: Director Pulliam made the motion to move into
Executive session for the purpose to discuss C.R.S.
24-6-402(4)(a) Discussion of Acquisition of Property
for CRMF.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

XIV.

The motion passed.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned to executive session at 6:20 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, June 23, 2009

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Bruce Daly, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Kent Bagley
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bill James
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam

District I
District K
District N
District O
District H
District D
District C
District J
District M
District A
District E
District G
District L

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rick Clarke
Carol Duecker
David Genova
Terry Howerter
Marla Lien
Caitlin Magee
Cal Marsella
Robert Merriman
Brian Middleton
Todd Nikkel

Paula Perdue
John Perry
Bill Porter
Scott Reed
Teresa Sedmak
Cal Shankster
John Shonsey
Bill Sirois
Roger Sherman
Greg Straight
Stan Szabelak

OTHERS PRESENT:
Chris Taylor – Spectrum
Russell Greear
Roger Sherman - CRL
Steve Roberts – Systra
Enzo Perri
Dominique Perri
Susan Perry
Ken Schmidt
Bill Shockley – Owens Corning
Paul Courtois – Owens Corning
Thomas Hazell
Ed Colby - URS

John Tarbert
Liz Telford
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Larry Warner
Phil Washington
Susan Wood
Greg Yates

