Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to Board of Directors

Date:

December 21, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
December 21, 2010 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

III.

Fourteen (14) Board members were present at roll call. Director Cohen arrived after roll call.
RETIREE AWARDS
There were five retirees but only one present to receive his award. Chair Kemp read the names
of the retirees and their service to RTD:
Gerald Denny, Recertified Unit Shop Technician-26 years of service
Paul Becker, Facilities Maintenance-32 years of service
Kevin Smalligan, Recertified General repair Mechanic-26 years of service
Robert Zimmerman, Train Operator-31 years of service
Clifford Hawkins, train operators with 32 years of experience, was introduced by Bill Bell and
Austin Jenkins, AGM for rail operations. Mr. Hawkins thanked the beautiful people he has
worked with for 32 years. This is a great company to work for. He knew he wanted to be a
bus driver in high school. This is the first time he has been at a Board meeting since he is
always working.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION FOR OUTGOING BOARD MEMBERS
This was a heartfelt moment as Chair Kemp presented each of the retiring Board members with
gifts and a plaque from the Board office. He thanked them for their service, hard work and
what they have done for their constituency over these many years. General Manager Phil
Washington also presented special gifts from staff to Director Pulliam for his work on the
Salaried Employee Pension Plan and to Director Martinez from the DBE/SBE team. Each of the
retiring members provided comments below:
Director Noel Busck, District K—Director Busck has served his constituency and the RTD Board
gallantly and with honor for 4 years. He was formerly the Mayor of Thornton. He served in
leadership roles including the Committee Chair of the General Manager Transition Team and as
Committee Chair of the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee.
Director Busck noted making the selection of the new General Manager as one of his top
accomplishments and thanked the General Manager and staff for their leadership and intestinal
fortitude in doing the right thing to keep this agency moving forward. He is also proud of
getting the Board to agree on one meeting night per week where each of his fellow Board
members could come to the table for full discussion and decision making. He plans to retire,

hug the family a little tighter, serve God more and just enjoy his life.
Director Christopher, District J—Director Christopher completed 8 years of service on the
Board serving in every capacity as chair/vice-chair on various committees and as a member of
the Executive Committee 2005-2007. Director Christopher offered a keen head and logical
approach to planning especially as it related to understanding the financial challenges of the
District. With his experience as City Manager in Westminster, he asked all the right questions
to get to the heart of the matter. Director Christopher is credited with being a strong advocate
for affordable housing and for driving for the successful approval of the revised TOD policy
that supports affordable housing. RTD is currently identifying pilot sites under this revised
TOD policy. Director Christopher will continue to serve as a citizen representative on the
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force.
Director Christopher commented he wanted to thank the Board, Phil and all the staff. It has
been a great 8 years and hope he has contributed. He has gained a greater appreciation for
elected officials and what they go through. We have made great strides in the 8 years. He is
convinced that FasTracks will get built and operated as planned. Thanks for the support and
God’s speed.
Director Martinez, District B-strived for fairness and inclusiveness of all. His accomplishments
included being the Chair of the Board from 2005-2007. Chair Kemp shared a story about
Director Martinez as being the first person for reaching out and being there for everybody
especially him. Director Martinez helped mold DBE and is the steward of DBE/SBE.
Director Martinez delivered his swan song while acknowledging that he had a lot to say and
thanking his colleagues for being brief. He thanked his family and all the families of the Board
members who sacrificed their time with the Board members to allow them to serve on the
Board. He also thanked individually some of the special people he has worked with over the
years: Director Christopher, Director Pulliam, and Director Busck. He thanked the General
Manager and expressed this was the greatest decision they have made since he will lead this
agency forward in completing FasTracks. He thanked legal counsel, Marla Lien, and also the
full staff who are the unsung heroes. He thanked the Board staff as well as the Executive
Manager who has helped him to find information quickly. Thank you to the constituents B as
well as the contractors, vendors and others who have become lifetime friends. He has been
around during a lot of accomplishments but his greatest moment was the groundbreaking of
DIA. Being on the RTD Board has been impactful and a hidden gem to be able to serve. He
hopes in some small way he has contributed to RTD as well.
Director Pulliam is the longest serving member on the Board (1999-2010). He was appointed
and also elected to the Board for almost 12 years. He served on the Hill and has the keys to
the closets. He has been a true steward of the state and RTD. He served on several
committees, including the Salaried Pension Fund. He is a resident parliamentarian who made
sure things were done the way they should be done.
Director Pulliam commented it has been an interesting ride. The positives outweighed the
negative. He served with both a dysfunctional and functional Board. The other fifteen
members as well as staff should be standing here. Marla has already been named. The team
has a major challenge ahead of them. He will stay on the sidelines and cheer them on.
General Manager Washington commented on behalf of the senior leadership team and his staff.
The legacy that is being left behind is one of excellence. The institutional knowledge on this
Board: the Director Busck who is a true leader who brought a sense of realism, and reality to
the table; Director Christopher very practical and very detailed and asked those tough financial
questions: Director Martinez, wise counsel with attention to detail, seasoned and ready to

manage and the champion of SBE/DBE and diversity; Director Pulliam with a collection of
knowledge and experience, very seasoned. He would sum their time up on this Board as well
done, and they have helped to transform this region. Their contributions may not be realized
for the next 20 years but in time will be memorized for their contributions in transforming this
region. He offered plaques to each of the retiring members.
Additionally family and friends of the retiring Board members were acknowledged.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Veronica Barela, representing the NEWSED Community Development Corporation, spoke on the
Alameda Station and some of her concerns. The 8.4 acres of land that is up for sale and her
hopes that RTD would have a better process on what would be on the site-need better
innovative, creative plans which will include the residents of that community. She shared a
story from the past when the community had not been included in the planning-this was very
controversial and ended up stopping the project. She hopes that lessons learn from this
experience and to look at the crucial need to include the community in the public process for
development of this site.
Bob Wilson, Arvada, offered a public apology from a Transit Alliance Meeting in October when
he was a candidate for the RTD Board where he misspoke on two levels: First, when people
were talking about their background he did not think about his words and so they were
misunderstood; secondly, he did not connect his thought with his gestures. This was
interpreted as gesturing and pointing when it was not meant to be. He apologizes and his
actions were not intentional.
Doug Connor, Denver, spoke about access-r-ride. This needs to be straightened out. They are
deadheading unnecessarily. He has provided a number of suggestions that he thinks will save
the District at least ½ M per year. Director Tayer asked Doug if he would share some of his
ideas with staff. He talked about cutting the city up into four squares. He will have further
dialog with staff about his suggestions.
Richard Taylor, Denver, is the outgoing president of the Asbury Park Neighborhood Association.
He is speaking to the proposed sale of land to the Greyhound. His organization has taken no
position on this as tonight will be the first step in the process. They ask that the neighborhood
is allowed to provide input/ partner with RTD and Denver City Government to make sure the
decisions are beneficial to the community.
Tom Wooten, Manager of Alameda Station LLC. He expressed appreciation to RTD for helping
them during this difficult economical time for the old bus barn site. The developers of Alameda
Station have a sincere desire that whatever is done there will be done well. To the
neighborhood, they will engage then in the dialogue/process as they assess the best use of this
property and the opportunity.
Edin Hardwood, resident of Asbury Park Neighborhood. He looks forward to development and
hopes RTD, government, developers etc. can come together to benefit the community.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Director Brohl requested that the minutes from the FasTracks Monitoring Committee be

modified to reflect the names of the Board members who voted for and against the Union
Avenue Bridge/Belleview Station Transit Enhancement Project. Lisa Trujillo requested
assistance as she was unable to determine that information from the Committee meeting.
Director Daly requested a correction to the Operations/Customer Services committee meeting
to reflect “Cold Springs”.
VI.

GM OVERSIGHT AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE—
Committee Chair Director Busck indicated they would have a discussion of the General
Manager’s Performance later in the evening at an Executive Session.

VII.

FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY TASK FORCE UPDATE—
Minutes from the kickoff meeting were forwarded to the full Board. This will be the process
the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force will use to keep everyone informed. Director Bagley added
that he has read the material and this should be required reading.

VIII.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE
Chair Kemp reported that he and Director O’Boyle along with staff attended the Metro Mayor’s
Task Force meeting on December 9, 2010. The RTD staff reviewed the options on the use of
the $305M. The Task Force currently has shared no position as there is no consensus.

IX.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF November 23, 2010
MOTION:

Director Tobiassen moved for the adoption of the November 23,
2010 regular Board Minutes.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Pulliam had left for the evening.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

X

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT




Update on FasTracks Stakeholder Input Process
The Stakeholder Input Process is advancing as planned. By January 11 th they will have
completed 16 key stakeholders and have received 66 comments on the website. A
public hearing will be held in advance of the February 1 committee meeting where the
public will be provided 3 minutes to provide their comments.
Reminder of Free Fare Service (New Year’s Eve)
RTD annually provides free fare service on New Year’s Eve and will do so again in
2010. The service is available from 7 p.m. to 6.a.m. December 31 will be regular
schedule and Saturday, January 1 will be holiday schedule.
Other Comments
Director Martinez noted how successful the Operations Give-a-Gift event was which
provided a lunch and gifts to 4 non-profit organizations including seniors. General
Manager Washington explained this is a program that RTD has been doing for about 8
years. 650-700 gifts are given to these agencies. Because of the size, a
representative sample from each of the agencies attends the luncheon. Gifts are sent

back to the agencies for the full group. These gifts are donated by RTD employees,
salaried and union.
Director Kemp asked the General Manager to share with the employees the Board
expression of appreciation.
Director Cohen offered up thanks to the retiring Board members. Collectively they
represent over 31 years of service and experience. He also congratulated Lisa Trujillo
for her promotion and thanked her for helping him in the Board office.
Director Christopher offered up some old business. He commented about Adams
County Commissioner’s decision to withdraw their support for the West side station.
He noted that the people supporting the West side are very upset. They were having a
meeting tonight. He believes they are making a serious mistake.
Director Busck added that he is very familiar with the political body in Adams County
and encouraged the RTD staff to hold the line and do the right thing.
Director Bagley commented that he and Director Daly had visited Lockheed Martin
regarding the 63X. He feels the transit coordinator/Lockheed is doing a great job
looking at the options to support transit in that area.
Director McMullen commented about the new wind springs at the LRT and an
observation around color choices.

XI.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to approve items A-L on the unanimous consent
agenda.

MOTION:

Director Martinez made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda, items A-L.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor and
0 against. Director Pulliam had left.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

A. Approval of the Special Events - Colfax Crossover
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
award change orders to the construction contracts for Denver Transit Construction Group
(DTCG) and Balfour Beatty Rail, Inc. (BBRI) to construct the Colfax Crossover in the amount
of $1,700,000. Funding for this change order is included in the 2011 Adopted Capital
Budget for FasTracks in the Systems Improvements project, and will come from the
program-wide railroad contingency.

B. Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General Manager to Execute a
Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA) for the South Market Street Station Property and
Facility
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors pass
the attached resolution authorizing the General Manager to execute a Purchase and Sale
Agreement (PSA) for the Market Street Station Property and Facility with the City and
County of Denver in the amount of $11,436,000 and transfer the sale proceeds to the
Denver Union Station Project Authority, subject to RTD’s retention of possession of the
Market Street Station property and Facility until its bus operations are transferred the
Denver Union Station intermodal facility.
C. Contract Amendment 2010-2011 Street Improvements & Shelter Installations Contract
#39DM008
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary
to award a contract amendment to initiate the second year of a three-year option contract
for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract with Manion
Construction, Inc. for $325,792.75. Funding for this contract amendment is provided in
the 2011 Adopted Capital Budget.
D. Approval of 2011 Contract Amendment for 16 th Street Mall Transitway Lanes – Granite
Paver Maintenance
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to accomplish the following Mall Paver Contract:
Execute the second year contract amendment 2011 (option year one), first contract
amendment for maintenance of the Mall Transitway Lanes for January 1, 2011 through
December 31, 2011. The budget amount for this second year contract is $1,050,000.00.
The contract (IFB 30DT001) allows for the District to add one more future option year for
2012 beyond this current action.
E. Cost Sharing Agreement – City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD
financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial areas
of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business and
residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2011 and is for an amount not to
exceed $1,352,745.
F. Cost Sharing Agreements - FTA Section 5311 Funding
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Special Transit of Boulder and the Senior’
Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA Section 5311
(non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These
Agreements are for calendar year 011 and for amounts not to exceed $325,532 for Boulder
County, $133,955 for Adams County and $99,270 for Jefferson County.
G. Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of

Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool
program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2011 and
shall be in an amount not to exceed $602,550.
H. Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning
Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the NFR VANGO
vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2011
and shall be in an amount not to exceed $477,405.
I.

Cost Sharing Agreement- City of Englewood/Art Shuttle
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the art circulator bus service in the City of
Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2011 and is for an amount not to exceed
$303,440.

J. Graphical Information Systems (GIS) Contractor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a
second year (option year 1) for the amount not to exceed of $115,000 for 1250 hours of
Graphical Information Systems (GIS) Consulting services. The contract was awarded to
Idea Integration following a competitive review of four submitted proposals and candidate
interviews. Idea Integration is a certified Environmental Systems Research Institute’s (ESRI)
Corporate Consultant. The contract is being brought to the Board because it is a Personal
Services contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1985.
K. Oracle Maintenance Renewal
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract to Insight Public Sector in the amount of $1,027,769.16 for Oracle License Update
and Software Maintenance for approximately 18 months. Insight was selected through the
competitive bid process for this renewal.
L. Senior IT Oracle Database Contractor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a
second and final option year, for the amount not to exceed of $200,000, for Senior IT
Oracle Database services. The contract (28DH024) was originally awarded January, 2009
to Sol-IT, an SBE/DBE firm, through the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for
an initial-year plus two (2) one-year options to renew based on positive performance by the
vendor. The contract is being brought to the Board because it is a Personal Services
contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1985.

XII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
M.

Extension of Contract – Alameda Station, LLC at 350 S. Santa Fe
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the General Manager
or his designee be authorized to negotiate and execute all documents that may be necessary
to extend the contract for sale and development by and between the Regional
Transportation District and Alameda Station, LLC at 350 South Santa Fe through June 30,
2011 with the provision that Alameda Station, LLC pursue negotiations with Greyhound
and/or its representatives in an attempt to reach agreement for the development of the
approximately 8.4 acre site.
MOTION:

Director James made the motion to approve the
extension of the contract for the Alameda Station LLC at
350 S. Santa Fe.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Brohl read a segment from an email sent by Chris
Nevitt, City Councilman for that area that basically stated
this has been a premature discussion around Greyhound
for that location. There is no concrete proposal to add
Greyhound. All this action item is about is that the
developer given the economic conditions has been unable
to close on the property. RTD is simply extending time
for them to perform these negotiations. Hopefully the
neighborhood understands that all RTD is voting on
tonight is to extend the contract for 6 months. As stated
by the Alameda Station LLC representative during the
public comments, the developer will work with the
respective neighborhood groups to identify best use for
that property.
Director McMullen thanked the Directors for supporting
him when he had raised the issue in the previous meeting.
He has had several pieces of communications with Chris
Nevitt as well and feels the matter is being properly
handled. He will support this motion. He feels this was a
good process set in motion to start to get the
conversations flowing with the neighborhoods.
Director Bagley commented he has studied this property
very carefully. There was a chronology provided by staff
which provides in-depth information about this site. This
is a local land use question which will be managed by the
City of Denver. This is not RTD’s issue about the use.
The public process must prevail.
Director James stated this is in his District. The process
will go forward to determine the best use of the land. He
shared that he had been involved in the appraisal of this
land in 1995 and he finds it interesting that the pricing is

consistent with what he thought. He noted there is a
bridge being considered in this area under the FASTER
which could aid in the concerns for proper access/egress.
The developer has potential for this to be a TOD pilot
project. The Board is not making a decision on bus
facilities but to extend the contract for the property.
He encouraged the developers to help answer questions
of any downside as the project moves forward.
Director Malpiede stated that she will support this action
but she thinks this has been good dialogue that should
lead to collaboration as the project moves forward.
Director Christopher commented this developer has been
in queue for a long time. He thinks the bridge will be a
value-add.
Director Cohen commented about ridership and that one
component of a good TOC is the importance of a multimodal system. This is a real estate transaction and the
Board needs to keep an open mind.
Director Martinez reminded the Board that bus and
maintenance facilities are historically perceived negatively
in the community. RTD has also had to overcome some
of these objections for our facilities. It is possible to have
maintenance/facilities to integrate successfully in
neighborhoods-he has seen the models.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken for item M with 14 in favor
and 0 against. Director Pulliam had left.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to move into Executive
Session for the purpose to discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (f)
personnel matters, General Manager’s Performance
Evaluation.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor and
0 against. Director Pulliam had left.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

The Board adjourned to Executive Session at 7:20 p.m.
The Board adjourned from Executive Session back to the regular Board meeting at 8:15 p.m.

XIV.

RECOMMENDED ACTION.
(Item from Executive Session-Board Resolution)
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee Chair Busck requested a
read of the resolution. Director Martinez read the resolution aloud.
MOTION:

Director Martinez made the motion to approve the
resolution pertaining to the approval of the General
Manager’s Performance Evaluation for 2010.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor and
0 against. Director Pulliam had left.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XV.

NEW BUSINESS
Director Daly shared that the Capital had announced the new chair of the committees.
Director James inquired about re-districting process.

XVI.

ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 8:20 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, December 21, 2010

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bruce Daly
Bill James
Angie Malpiede
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Shirley Bennett
Rick Clarke
Carolyn Conover
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Mike Gil
Cory Granruid

District I
District B
District K
District H
District O
District D
District J
District M
District N
District A
District C
District E
District G
District L
District F

Terry Howerter
Austin Jenkins
Marla Lien
Doug MacLeod
Anthony Menendez
Carla Perez
Paula Perdue
John Perry
Terry Ratcliff

OTHERS PRESENT:
Lorraine Anderson – RTD Incumbent Board Member
Larry Hoy - RTD Incumbent Board Member
Jeff Cluph

Scott Reed
Jannette Scarpino
John Shonsey
John Tarbert
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington

