Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
December 2, 2008
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

December 3, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, December 2, 2008 at 7:03 p.m.
****
Board Members
Present:
Bill Christopher, Chair; Barbara Brohl, Bruce Daly, Noel Busck, Bill
Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Wally
Pulliam, O’Neill Quinlan, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer, and Barbara
Yamrick
Board Members
Absent:

Juanita Chacon

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Bill Van Meter, Dave Genova, John Tarbert, Scott
Reed, Bill Sirois, Phil Eberl, Paula Perdue and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Kent Bagley, Jack O’Boyle, Bill James, Matt Cohen, Tom Tobiassen,
Jeff Leib (Denver Post), Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News)
****

Call to Order
I.

Director Christopher called to the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Approval of Contract Amendment to Booz-Allen Hamilton for FasTracks LRV
Inspections
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the contract amendment to
Booz Allen Hamilton Contract 13-FR-019 by the amount of Eight Hundred Twelve
Thousand, Five Hundred and Forty Eight Dollars $812,548.00 for inspection and
oversight of the production for the fifty-five Light Rail Vehicles (LRVs) being built by
Siemens Transportation Systems starting in December of 2008.
This item was moved without staff introducing it. Director Brohl expressed her
concern about how important it is to get information and alternatives timely enough
so an adequate decision can be made. Director Ruchman agreed with Director Brohl
and asked why this item was sent out at the last minute. With the confusion and
absence of AGM Lloyd Mack, Phil Eberl took the blame for the lateness of the action
– Phil found out last week that he was the one responsible for putting this through.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
December 2, 2008
Page 2 of 2

Director McMullen asked what the recruitment status was for the AGM of Planning
& Development and AGM of Light Rail. Cal responded that the Planning &
Development position is being advertised nationally and several applications have
already been received. He anticipates both positions to be filled mid to late January.

Motion:

Director Yamrick made the motion to
approve the recommendation and forward
to the December 16, 2008 Board Meeting
agenda.

Second:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

II.

The Motion passed with one vote against
(Ruchman)

Move to Executive Session
At 7:31 pm, Chair Christopher asked for a motion to move to Executive Session.
Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to move
to Executive Session to discuss: C.R.S.
24-6-402(4)(e) Revision to 1997-B U.S.
Leveraged Lease.

Second:

Director Busck seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed unanimously.

III.

Executive Session
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) Revision to 1997-B U.S. Leveraged Lease

IV.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

V.

Next Meeting Date
The next Planning and Development Committee will be held on Tuesday, January 6,
2008.

VI.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Chair Christopher declared the meeting adjourned
at 8:25 p.m.

