Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 18, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 1 of 7
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

March 18, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 18,
2010 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp, Vice-Chair Martinez, 2nd Vice-Chair Busck,
Treasurer Tayer and Secretary Bagley.

Board Member Absent:
Other Board Members
Present:

Directors Cohen, James, Malpiede

Others Present:

Paula Perdue, Dave Genova for Phil Washington, Scott
Reed

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:02 p.m.

Assistant General Manager Dave Genova filled in for General Manager Phil Washington
who was out of the office.
I.

Recommended Action
 Appointments to Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) Resolution
Motion:

Director Tayer made a motion to move the
resolution forward to the full Board for the
DUSPA appointments.
Director Martinez seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Martinez asked what would be the
impact of this change on the financial side.
Chair Kemp responded he had discussed this
with the General Manager who indicated the

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 18, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 2 of 7
CFO will continue to come to these meetings
and offer support to Director Bagley as deemed
appropriate.
He will serve as a backup to
Director Bagley.
Director Bagley added he has already started
conversations with Jerry Glick and has some
ideas for improving this process. In the next
couple of weeks, he plans to meet with
Directors James and Tobiassen along with Marla
Lien, Jerry Nery, and Terry Howerter to come up
with a new approach.
Vote on
the Motion:

The Motion PASSED unanimously.

 Resolution for Lifetime Passes for Spouses
This item raised a couple of questions pertaining to if lifetime partners
should receive the same benefit as a retired Board member and his/her
spouse. The question was also asked if this applied to the dependent of an
unmarried Board member.
After more discussion, the Board decided to remove this item from the
agenda until these questions could be further researched. Dave Genova will
check with the RTD policies.
II.

March Board Meeting Agenda Review
Acting General Manager Dave Genova reviewed the agenda noting that all
items had been previously discussed and passed by committee. Chair Kemp
requested the action item to award contract for two 45’mall shuttle buses is
moved to recommended action so he can abstain citing a conflict of interest.
Director Busck challenged if this needs to be removed from unanimous consent
citing examples when he was in Thornton where he abstained on items that
were on unanimous consent. He requested that Marla Lien, General Counsel,
provide a recommendation on this.
Motion:

Director Busck made the motion to move the
March Board meeting agenda as amended to the
full Board for vote on March 23 rd.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The Motion PASSED.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 18, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 3 of 7
 Unanimous Consent


North Metro Corridor – Release of Final Environmental Impact Statement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to release the North
Metro Corridor Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for public
and agency review. This is a critical step in the National Environmental
Policy Act (NEPA) process and provides the public and interested
agencies with an opportunity to review the document and provide
comments.



Authorization to Execute Agreements for Property Acquisition, Relocation
and Construction and Joint Corridor Operations with the BNSF Railway
Company
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into the
following agreements with the BNSF Railway Company:






a Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA) for Acquisition of
property interests from DUS to approximately 71 St Street in
Westminster along BNSF’s Front Range Subdivision (the DUS
Corridor), along the BNSF Golden Subdivision from
approximately Sheridan to the end (the Gold Corridor).
a Relocation and Construction Agreement (Construction
Agreement) for relocation and construction of BNSF facilities
required to make the acquired property interests available to
RTD for its use on the Eagle P-3 and other commuter rail
projects
a Joint Corridor Use Agreement (JCUA) with the BNSF
Railway Company (BNSF) governing ongoing operations
between the two entities in the shared corridors.

It is recommended that the General Manager is authorized to acquire
property interests described in the PSA in the amount of $102,674,484;
that he is authorized to pay as contracted lump sum payments to BNSF
$23 million for relocation and construction of BNSF improvements
between Denver Union Station (DUS) and Pecos Streets, $9.8 million for
relocation and construction of improvements on the Gold Line between
approximately Sheridan and Ward Road, and $8.3 million for relocation
and construction between Pecos and approximately 71 st streets. It is
further recommended that (1) the amount of $200,000 for title
insurance, closing costs, escrow fees and other costs incidental to
execution of the PSA and (2) $4,000,000 for direct reimbursement costs
to BNSF for additional construction and relocation expenses incidental to
both BNSF relocation and RTD construction, plus a contingency for
delays, minor changes or other non-fixed expenses, be budgeted
authorized and appropriated, and that the General Manager is authorized

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 18, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 4 of 7
to make reasonable and necessary expenditures for all such items within
the amounts authorized.
This would bring the total cost of the
agreements with BNSF to $147,974,484.
Funding for the BNSF agreement is included in the 2010 Adopted Budget
for FasTracks, and in the FasTracks financial plan approved by the Board
of Directors in February 2010.
It is further recommended that the Board authorize the following budget
transfers to fund the PSA, costs incidental to the execution of the PSA,
direct reimbursement costs, and the portion of the relocation payments
due in 2010. This action will accelerate funding previously budgeted in
2011 into 2010 to match the terms of the final agreement, and will
allocate the budgeted funds to the correct FasTracks projects.
Northwest Rail: Increase by $5,320,613
Gold Line: Increase by $6,327,115
System Improvements: Reduce by $11,447,728
FasTracks Contingency Reserve: Reduce by $200,000
It is further recommended that the Board pass the attached resolution
authorizing execution of the Agreements, and agreeing to waive
governmental immunity, acquire insurance for and indemnify the BNSF
for all claims for injuries and damages to persons or property, including
environmental liability, for which BNSF would not incur liability but for
their authorization of RTD’s use of the right of way they currently own.
A total of $125,874,484 is appropriated through the current action. An
additional $17,900,000 will be appropriated in the 2010 Amended
Budget to fully fund this transaction as required by the Agreements.


Smart Media Technology Contract Award-revised
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to award a contract for the Smart
Media Technology (SMT) project to ACS Transport Solutions, Inc. of
Columbia, Maryland in an amount not-to-exceed $15,350,000.



Modifications to Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the
Board of Directors approve modifications to the District’s Investment
Policy to effectuate the utilization of the 3-month U.S. T- Bill Index as
published by Bank of America Merrill Lynch as the performance
benchmark for the liquidity tier of its unrestricted portfolio.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors approve shortening
the target duration of the non-cash/cash equivalents portion of the

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 18, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 5 of 7
portfolio from approximately 1.6 years to 1 year to accommodate cash
flow demands imposed by current and upcoming capital projects while
retaining the currently defined benchmark (Bank of America Merrill Lynch
1-year U.S. Treasury Note Index) for this portfolio tier.





Legacy UniVerse Developer Consulting
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to extend the contract
with 5280 Solutions, for the amount not to exceed of $249,600, for
UniVerse Developer services. The current three year contract with 5280
Solutions expires on April 30, 2010. The contract is being brought to
the Board because it is a Personal Services contract per RTD Resolution
No.27, Series of 1985.



Revised Fiscal Policy Statements 2010
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the
Board of Directors modify and update the Fiscal Policy Statements as
attached.



Local Match for Hop Buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee to
approve the transfer of $374,050 HOP vehicle replacement funds from
the capital budget to the expense budget to accommodate the local
share payment to Special Transit.



FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks
Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District
(RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors appoint two members to the
Citizens Advisory Committee to fill vacancies created by resignation.



RESOLUTION NO.____, SERIES OF 2010 - Denver Union Station Project
Authority-Appointments)

Recommended Action


Award Contract to supply two (2) 45’ mall shuttle buses to
accommodate the 16th Street Mall extension resulting from the DUS
reconfiguration project
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a
contract to DesignLine USA, LLC for the purchase of two (2) 45’ mall
shuttle buses to accommodate RTD 16th Street Mall shuttle service with
the reconfigured Denver Union Station. The total cost for the two (2)
bus purchase is $1,300,000.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 18, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 6 of 7
III.

Board Advance Planning Session (Retreat)
Paula Perdue shared that Keystone Group, Michael Hughes, will be facilitating
this advance planning session on April 17. The Osprey Group was not
available. Mike will meet with Chair Kemp and General Manager Phil
Washington on March 23 rd to identify process and items for the agenda.
Director Busck indicated he thinks this meeting should be focused on goal
setting direction for the budget process. He also emphasized ground rules
should be set on the process. Other directors indicated they would like a
chance to have input into the agenda before the final agenda is set. Chair
Kemp indicated this is the intent to give all the directors a chance to review
and comment on the agenda prior to the advance.

IV.

Appearance before State Legislative Committee (March 30)
Chair Kemp, Director Busck, Phil Washington and Marla Lien will appear before
the State Legislative Committee to provide responses to the state audit. It was
suggested that an email get sent out to all the other Directors encouraging
them to be present in a show of support and solidarity. Director Tayer asked
about talking points. This meeting is at 7:00 a.m. on March 30, 2010.

V.

Other Matters
Director Bagley inquired about the Colorado Rail Injunction action. He was
informed the judge had dismissed this action but still awaiting the ruling from
the suit.
Director Bagley suggested providing feedback to the committee members who
did not attend the Legislative conference. Chair Kemp indicated the delegation
visits went well and had an overall positive experience. Senator Polis did share
some feedback of concern but this appeared to have worked its way through
with overwhelming support to allow RTD to run its process for securing
funding for FasTracks. The Congressional team/staffers seem to be working
together to provide the best outcome. There is some concern over the ridership
numbers used in the North corridor which will be addressed in a meeting with
DRCOG. RTD does not expect these numbers will have a significant impact on
the outcome.
One of the key takeaways from this conference was the buzzing at all levels,
including the high end administration, about FasTracks as one of the biggest
projects in this country. RTD FasTracks is the model that the rest of the
agencies want to emulate and lots of questions were asked about our DBE/SBE
program success and the RFP for PPP.
Director Busck added a takeaway for him was the general feeling that the basic
role of transit is to get the people back and forth to work and that is good.
The excitement comes around TOD that is helping us to build livable and
sustainable communities and the DBE/SBE and civil rights models that RTD has
implemented and that is consistent with the focus from the Obama

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 18, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 7 of 7
Administration.
RTD has the opportunity to provide feedback into the
Administration on how such a program should be designed. We have the
documentation to show how to build these programs successfully and that is
the information that is needed and sets RTD apart from other transit agencies.
(i.e. QoL, TOD policies, etc)
Director Martinez provided an update on his DBE meeting with West Corridor.
He indicated that while they are moving toward their 18% goal, he had a
concern that the DBE/SBE portions are at the back end of the contract and if
anything happens, the vendor may not meet their goals. The committee
discussed some of the possible reasons for putting this at the back end and
suggested RTD needs to keep a close eye on what is happening. The success
of the West Corridor sets the tone for the rest of the corridors. If Denver
Transit succeeds, RTD succeeds but if Denver Transit fails, so does RTD. The
Denver Transit Group has developed lessons learned which may help them to
change their process in the future.
VI.

Motion to Move to Executive Session
Motion:

Director Bagley made a motion to move to
Executive Session to discuss CRS 24-6-402(4)
(c): matters required to be kept confidential by
State law: CRS 2-3-103(2) and 2-3-103.7(1)
Director Martinez seconded the motion.
The motion PASSED.

VII.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 1:10 p.m.
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 1:55 p.m.

