Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 16, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

July 16, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 16, 2009
at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Vice-Chair Martinez, Secretary Daly; Treasurer Tayer
(via phone); Director Chacon

Board Member Absent:

Chair Kemp; 2nd Vice-Chair Busck

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Paula Perdue

Call to Order:

2nd Vice Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at
12:00 p.m.

I.

July Board Meeting Review
Interim General Manager Phil Washington reviewed items on the
unanimous consent agenda and the recommended action. There was
some discussion on the award of “Group 21” Contracted Fixed route
services noting that the projected $2M savings over a period of 5
years or roughly $440K annually is a mere smidgen of what used to
be the savings in contracting with the private versus RTD. The
request was for Phil to discuss with Bruce Abel what may be
accounting for these decreases in differences compared with past
savings of upward to $17M.
Motion:

Director Daly made the motion to move the full
Board agenda ahead for the Board approval on
July 21, 2009.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The Motion PASSED.



Unanimous Consent
Approval to Release the US36 Final Environmental Impact Statement
(FEIS)

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 16, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 2 of 4
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the US 36 Final Environmental Impact
Statement and direct the General Manager to approve the document
for public and agency review. This is the second of a series of steps
in the National Environmental Policy Act process and means that the
agencies are requesting official feedback on the Preferred Alternative,
along with the No Action Alternative


Award of “Group 21” Contracted Fixed-route Services
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
or his designee, to enter into a contract for the provision of “Group
21” contracted fixed-route transit services with Veolia Transportation
Services, Inc. This contract is for three years for an amount not to
exceed $67,689,488 with two (2) one-year options in the amount of
$23,985,940 (option year 1) and $24,780,818 (option year 2), for a
total five year amount not to exceed $116,456,246. In addition, RTD
will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount
estimated to be approximately $12,264,770 for the initial three year
contract term, $4,323,822 for option year 1, $4,459,836 for option
year 2, for a total of $21,048,428 for the five year period. This
results in a total contract amount not to exceed $79,954,258 for the
initial three year contract period and $137,504,674 for the five year
period. This proposal represents the most responsive and responsible
proposal received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 19-DH010 to provide “Group 21” Public Transportation Services. The
contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective with
implementation of Group 21 service effective January 10, 2010.



North American Video (NAV), #38FH009 Contract Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to amend contract #38FH009 with North American Video (NAV) for
CCTV installation and upgrade services at light rail stations in the
amount of $789,410.00 for a new contract amount of
$1,905,373.00. Funding for this contract is being provided through
a combination of security grant funding and RTD capital funding in
the 2009 budget.



Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature
Authorization Agreement (the Agreement”).

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 16, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 3 of 4


Contract Amendment - Sherman & Howard
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manger to amend the
District’s contract with Sherman & Howard LLC for Bond Counsel
Services through the addition of $140,000.



IT Work Order Contract Third Year Option – Exercise of Third Year
Option
It is recommended by the Finance/Administration Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to award a third year contract option in the
amount of $250,000 to extend the current work order contract IT
Technical and Management Support for General Software
Development Life-Cycle Services and Migration of Legacy Software
(17DK001). This contract was originally awarded May 1 st, 2007 to
Dataman USA, LLC (a DBE/SBE company) through the competitive
bid process. The contract allowed for an initial year plus four one
year options to renew based on positive performances by the vendor.
In order to continue the 3 rd year option additional funding must be
added to the contract.



Recommended Action



II.

RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2009, MCCASLIN BRIDGE
DEDICATION IN MEMORY OF DENNIS COLE

Action Item
RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2009, MCCASLIN BRIDGE DEDICATION
IN MEMORY OF DENNIS COLE

Motion: Director Daly made the motion to
move this resolution to the full
Board for the July 21, 2009
meeting.

Director
motion.

Tayer

seconded

the

Discussion: Director Martinez expressed that he fully understands why
staff feels this is appropriate but questions if we are sitting a precedent
when there are lots of good people who have devoted time to RTD and
may not get this same opportunity. He provided a couple of examples relevant
to this issue. He hoped this was not just an emotional decision but one that
was well thought out. Other Board members felt he raised a valid point and

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 16, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 4 of 4
feels that the Board needs to consider a policy which would have defensible
criteria. They brainstormed several ideas for this including getting nominations
for this honor and having a wall of fame where such honors are noted.
Phil Washington shared the uniqueness of this dedication for Dennis to be he
had designed this bridge and his untimely death. Board members were OK with
this but suggested a policy is needed to manage this type of request.

III.

GM Transition Team Status Update
Director Martinez stated he had missed this meeting but it appears that Board
members are making their contacts and they are getting good feedback. He
questioned if anyone has looked at the added cost of having the search firm to
sit down with the respective groups (i.e. metro mayors). There were other
concerns expressed around the active use of outsiders in the decision making
process. This will be further discussed at the GM Transition and Executive
Search Committee meeting.

IV.

Other Matters
Phil Washington and Director Martinez attended the COMTO National
Conference in Dallas Texas. Both of them felt it was a good conference.
Director Martinez shared that in the Opening session, Phil Washington was
recognized as the Interim General Manager for RTD and that he was held in
high esteem by the national office because of his involvement and contribution
to the organization. This was a first time that they had recognized someone
like this in the opening session and attests to how Phil is perceived.
Director Martinez will plan to discuss feedback from his COMTO trip with the
full Board at the Board meeting on Tuesday. Two key takeaways have to do
with the PPP and COMTO. The FTA representatives participated fully in this
conference and it was acknowledged by the regional FTA administration from
California that RTD is now the only agency still in the program.
Director Martinez noted that one of the differences from the international PPP
and the US model is that in Europe they are pre-funded and that in the US,
they are post-funded. This equates to their comfort level with the level of risk
involved in the models and since the concessionaires we are dealing with are
used to the international model, this creates additional concerns for them.
Director Martinez also expressed the desire to move the PPP up on the list of
concerns on a national legislative level.

V.

Meeting Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 12:40 p.m.

