1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit
Tuesday, August 13, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 7:34 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Absent

Arrived

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Absent

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Remote

7:35 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:34 PM
7:34 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Vice Chair
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

7:34 PM
7:39 PM
7:39 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:39 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

7:37 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:40 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Chair

Present
Present

7:40 PM
7:37 PM

Director Deadwyler participated via telephone conference call but had to leave the call
early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Brian
Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus,
Doug MacLeod, Judy McMurphy, Brenden Morgan, Kevin Parker,
Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Beverly Scott, Dean Shaklee, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington,
Armando Martinez, Steve Gieski, Lou Ha, William Weidenaar, Robbie
Hunter, Lacy Bell, John Dawson, Zamy Silva, Amanda Murray, Ann
Marie Isaac-Heslop

Others Present:

Azim Adams, Greg Amparano, Marcellinus Andrew, Celina Benavdez,
Cee David, Martell Dyles, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Jos
Heemelaar, Eric Hines, Gregory Jenifer, Asaf Kaldesha, Will Lafame,
Mica Manila, Mike Meader, Brian Middleton, Sheila Mungai, Kim
Patten, Daniel Pearsall, Kate Ridings, Laura Rinker, David Rushton,
Joe Triplett, Steve Ubanks, Gary Van Dorn, Raja Viswanathan

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Second Quarter 2013 Internal Audit Report
Kevin Parker, Senior Internal Auditor, introduced Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop,
RTD’s new Internal Audit Manager.
Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop stated that she joined RTD at the beginning of the
third quarter. She was with the City of Aurora as the City Auditor for many
years. Prior to her work with the City, she worked in the UK as an internal
auditor, external auditor and finance director. She comes to RTD with a lot
of experience.
Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop stated that since joining RTD she and Kevin Parker
have been working on the annual audit plan/schedule. There are 20 items
on the audit plan and they have completed 8 so far and are working on an
additional 5. She said that the summary audit report was included in the
August 13, 2013 Financial Administration and Audit Committee Packet.

Director Lubow noted that the conclusion of the Lamar Advertising audit
was to arrange an internal meeting to ensure all earned advertising revenue
is received and accounted for. She could not tell if there really was a
problem from the conclusion. Kevin Parker explained that we are trying to
address some of the controls that were not operating or functioning well;
RTD does not always know how much money should be coming in from
Lamar. He stated that this does not appear to be a serious concern because
the contract guarantees a minimum amount of revenue. Kevin Parker said
that part of the issue is companies often work with Lamar for other types of
advertising so they submit their payments in one lump sum. He believes in
the internal meeting staff has come up with some creative ideas as to how
to better control the advertising.
Director Folska noted that we receive $3 million from Lamar whether or not
they sell that much in advertising. She asked what happens if they sell
more. Director Folska has concerns that we may have a lost opportunity for
additional revenue. Kevin Parker stated that historically, Lamar has not quite
met their minimum advertising goal. He explained that we do get a
guaranteed minimum and then a percentage of everything above that
amount.

• Second Quarter 2013 Investment Report
Brenden Morgan stated that the investment report is available in the August
13, 2013 Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet. He
said this report is similar to what has been presented in past quarters.
Brenden Morgan explained that interest rates remain low but RTD has
continued to meet or exceed our benchmark rate of returns.
Director Tobiassen asked if we do swaps anymore. Brenden Morgan stated
that we do not have any swaps.

• Fiscal Sustainability Recommendations Update
Terry Howerter shared with the Board that a Fiscal Sustainability Task Force
was commissioned in November of 2010. This Task Force delivered several
recommendations that staff and the Board have been implementing over
time. He stated that we continue to review and implement additional
suggestions.
Doug MacLeod shared that RTD’s sales and use tax dropped significantly
between 2007 and 2009. He said that RTD took steps to try to mitigate the
effects but the Board and staff recognized that we needed a Task Force.
Doug MacLeod explained that the Task Force recommendations were made
in June of 2011 and all were accepted by the Board. The list of completed

recommendations includes removing the volatility from the sales and use tax
projections, service optimization, funds balance policy, sales and use tax
exemptions, and technology and energy innovation. The list of ongoing
recommendations includes sales and use tax compliance reviews, naming
rights, and partnerships and privatization. Doug MacLeod stated that staff is
working with the Colorado Department of Revenue (DOR) to finalize an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) which establishes the terms between
RTD, DOR and RTD’s contractor. He explained that once the IGA is
complete RTD will go out with a Request for Proposal (RFP) with the goal of
having the contractor on board by the end of year. Doug MacLeod shared
that staff has been meeting with the Board approved corporate sponsorship
and naming rights consultant, IMG. He anticipates Scott Reed coming to the
Board in the third or fourth quarter with further updates. Doug MacLeod
stated that staff also continues to work on the items identified at the Board
Retreat.
Marla Lien reminded the Board that there was legislature passed this year on
parking. This is not a direct revenue enhancement but will allow potential
offset of an expenditure. She said that RTD also signed the US 36 Phase II
IGA with CDOT and with the North I-25 IGA we were able to relieve about
$250K of expenses that we paid on the I-25 managed lanes. She also said
with US36 IGA we have bus on shoulder operations that will save cost and
improve travel time efficiency. Marla Lien stated that while we do not
receive any direct revenue, at such time as the project pays the debt by the
toll roads concession, any excess revenue must be put into transit
enhancements in the corridor.
Director Menten noted that currently the Department of Revenue keeps
some of the sales tax collected on RTD’s behalf as a fee for their collection
services. She asked if the IGA will take into account some of the work we
are doing on their behalf. She is concerned that we are not getting any
consideration from the state for the leg work we will now be doing. She
also asked when the IGA will be complete and if the Board will have the
opportunity to see it word for word before it is executed. Doug MacLeod
said we should have the IGA finalized by the end of the 3rd quarter. He
explained that it has to go through several levels of review at the
Department of Revenue. Terry Howerter explained that the monthly fee we
pay the Department of Revenue is for the overall collection process. He
stated that our arrangement with the DOR is that we will look for specific
audits we would like to do; if we found something we would give the DOR
its share as they do with us when they find something. Terry Howerter
stated that an IGA on this level would not come to the Board word for word.
Marla Lien explained that the amount of the IGA would be within the blanket
amount of the General Manager’s authority but staff would present it as an
informational item.

Director Lubow asked if we have been looking at how accurate the CU
Leeds School of Business has been in their forecasts. She wonders if it is
more accurate than the model we were using before. Terry Howerter
explained that the forecast changes as thing change throughout the year but
as there are many factors, it is difficult to track them to an amount. He
stated that this is a much better model than the in-house model RTD was
using previously. Terry Howerter said that that he would not say the model
is more accurate but more professional and better managed.
General Manager Washington stated that we have come a long way from
when we were making projections in house. He said the recommendations
from the experts are that you cannot make the projections in house; you
need to get a third party. General Manager Washington stated that this third
party forecast is the best thing out there. Terry Howerter explained that this
also gives RTD credibility when we go out to issue bonds and new debt in
what we are projecting for our sales and use tax.
Director James reiterated the reason for hiring a 3rd party is that it is
important to establish credibility. He believes the choices we have for the
3rd party are the same economists that use the same technology with the
same data. He stated that we can choose another consultant but it would
not be much different than the one we have. Terry Howerter said Director
James was correct.

• June 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod reviewed the Monthly Financial Status report with the Board
that is available in the August 13, 2013 Board Packet. He stated that
ridership was up 2.4% or 188K. He said that if you removed the West Line
from the numbers we would be down 0.4% from last year. Doug MacLeod
stated that fare revenue is up 6.5% or $588K for the month and 4.3% yearto-date. He noted that as part of the West Line opening credit and debit
card sales were installed on all ticket vending machines. He explained that
those are making up about 55% of sales to they are being well used. Doug
MacLeod stated that sales and use tax is up 4.3% for the month and 2.7%
year-to-date so we are getting closer to Leeds forecast of 3.7%. Doug
MacLeod informed the Board the fund balances are on track with where we
expect to be at year end and that operating expenses continue to be under
budget. He also highlighted that our cost recovery ratio has to be at 30%;
RTD’s ratio through June was 59.7% so we are well above where we need
to be.
Committee Chair Walker expressed that he is curious to see how ridership
will look in the August report.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - September 10, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 8:09 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

