Aug 6 2019
Planning Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
JUDY LUBOW: August 6, 2019. Committee to order. We have three updates at this meeting. And
the first one will be Reimagine RTD, which should be very interesting. So gentlemen, would you
start your discussion.
BILL VAN METER: Good evening, Chair Lubow and Board. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant
General Manager of Planning. And I am going to turn this immediately over to my compatriots
here, the project management team for Reimagine RTD, Bill Sirois and Brian Welch.
BRIAN WELCH: Good evening, Chair Lubow and members of the Board. We're here tonight to
give you a brief update. Most of this will be handled by Bill Sirois, but I'm just going to introduce
a couple of quick things to bring you up to date.
As we've described before, we have a consultant team in place right now. Here are the key
consultants that are on the project. OK, there we go. And I wanted to take a moment to introduce
in the audience this evening the project manager for Felsberg Holt and Ullevig, Holly Buck, along
with her deputy, Julie Skeen. We're really excited to have them on board, leading the consultant
effort on this project.
OK, the other thing that I'll highlight is just a really brief overview of the schedule. We now have
a notice to proceed. They're officially underway as of August 2nd. So we're in month one of the
Reimagine RTD project and plan. The first big milestone that will be-- now, I'm obviously
shrinking a lot of things here very quickly, but the first big milestone on the project, this two-year
effort will be before the Board about a year from now, the fall of 2020, with the results of
something called the system optimization plan. This is something you heard about last week from
our guest Jarrett Walker, where we begin with the current assessment of RTD services on both the
bus and rail side, and then bring back to the Board, as the result of a big, open, and transparent
engagement process, a system optimization plan. And with that introduction to engagement, I'd
like to turn it over to Bill Sirois.
BILL SIROIS: There we go, this is all delayed a little bit. So thanks again. This is Bill Sirois,
Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities. I was just going to highlight a few things on
the engagement side. Pauletta outlined some of this earlier, but I want to give it a little bit more
detail on some things, especially the upcoming Board Study Session at the end of the month. But
we'll have some things like the advisory committee we'll be working on. We will start-- this could
be our official, start of our official Board updates. When we come to you in October, we may
actually have some real things, and data, and stuff to start talking about. So that'll be really
interesting. And we'll be really engaging the stakeholders later this fall.
Another thing to note here is the Mobility Summit, which again, we are planning to do and tie that
into Reimagine. That will be later this fall. One of the other-- one of the big pieces early on that
we're going to be doing is establishing the advisory committee, which I had it opened a second

ago. This is very touchy here. This is a list of potential members that we've defined, through some
input from the Board, and through some discussion, in terms of all the people that we hope to have
on it represented. Obviously, there's a long list of people there. We want a very diverse group and
a group that really does-All right, let's see here. Now I can-- there we go. Just got to wait for the actual thing to happen.
We want a very diverse group, one with broad geographic representation, one that has kind of
public, private, and nonprofit perspectives included, and one that really does feel, we feel have the
ability to kind of focus on regional issues and regional solutions. So we hope that, in the end, that's
where we come to with the advisory committee. Which I said, we're starting that process this
month. And hopefully by the end of next month, we'll have that forum.
OK, there we go. Wanted to highlight the Study Session on the 27th. That is going to be, I think,
important to the start of our process. The primary goal of that meeting will be to kind of start the
discussion with the Board about a series of guiding principles, the foundation for our Reimagine
RTD process. Now, you may be wondering what do you think about in a guiding principle. We've
done and looked at a lot of these. This term is used throughout, I would say, the planning world,
and especially in a lot of other major planning, comprehensive planning efforts being done around
the country.
It really is, really trying to define the values that we should consider as we move and make
decisions into the future. And you might think of it as something that's not like a tactical action.
And a good example of this is, if you think about technology and innovation as being kind of a
principle or a category that want to look at, the way you might define that guiding principle is RTD
strives to be innovative and use new technology effectively as a principle. But it wouldn't be
something like RTD should develop an electrified bus fleet in the future. Because that's more again
an outcome based, it's more of a value based. So again, I wanted to make sure that nuance was
understood by the Board.
So in preparation for the meeting, one of things that be doing shortly, hopefully within the next
few days to a week, is we'll be sending out a survey to the Board about some of those ideas, to try
to get some sense of priority from the Board, in terms of so it can inform our discussion that we
have on the 27th. So the goal is again is to get some input from you all, so that we can have a very
robust discussion when we get together on the 27th. And with that, I think that is the final update.
There we go, I got to the question slide that time. So I think with that, we'll open that for any
questions that you may have.
JUDY LUBOW: Just me, OK. Well I'll start then. Who chooses the advisory committee? And how
many people are going to be on it? Because it sure seems to me like this is a very important
organization. We're going to be redoing RTD, and these are people that are going to be part of that
decision making process.
BILL SIROIS: Sure So in terms of how big, we're looking, we're thinking 25 to 30 people,
essentially as the size of the committee, so pretty big, large committee. In terms of what we've
talked about thus far, one idea that we have is that we would go through a process, one to work

with the subregional TIP forums to decide, or ask for them to select representatives on the elected
official side. So to remind everybody, DRCOG has established a regional process for the
subregional-- they call it the Subregional TIP Forum, which is where all the counties get together
and talk about transportation and transportation funding. We thought that was a good mechanism
for us to request that they provide a representative or representatives that would serve on the
committee.
So that would be one vehicle that we would use to help select. The other ones, we thought we'd go
through those categories. And obviously, we're looking for senior people, people that are the heads
of the agencies of the heads of the organizations that we do. We'd work with the chambers to get
representatives from that. So the idea is that we would do that. Then we were going to work with
the general manager and the chair to kind of give some kind of a feedback and buy-off on that full
committee list. And then that would be how it would ultimately be decided. That's the concept as
we have it right now.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Did you also include Transit Advocates?
BILL SIROIS: Yes, yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Like 9 to 5, or whatever, whoever's out there.
BILL SIROIS: Yeah.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Oh well, a lot more people. OK, Director Lewis please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Hey, Bill, just pull out your pen, and I'll tell you all the
groups that you should add. So this may have been a bit premature. When I talked to Pauletta, so
I said the youth. And that was one that was missing. And specifically, I see that the university or
higher education. And those may be students or they may not be. And so it's more clarity around
that. Our senior citizens, if that's appropriate. One of the things we heard from the Pass program
working group participants, and those that did not participate in that committee, was that we were
missing the un-housed population or those that serve those populations. So that's one thing to
consider.
And in that same vein, are there-- how will we leverage the groups that are already in existence,
like the Pass program working group, like the CAC, to pull from, or to learn from those groups?
It's simply a suggestion. I see here for the RTD union leadership, are there opportunities to pull
directly from operators, mechanics, those not in the leadership position? And then, your average
everyday rider. So I'm just thinking about the human experience, how do we make sure that that's
a part of this conversation and dialogue? That's it, thank you.
BILL SIROIS: Just one come in I think we have a multilayered approach in terms of how we're
approaching the outreach. I think a lot of those organizations or groups you're talking about, even
if they're not on the advisory committee, we're going to be reaching them through other forms,
because we'll have multiple levels that we can reach them at, either through employee forums, or
if we're doing speaker bureau and going out to meeting with specific groups. We'll be doing that

as well. So even if we don't get everybody on the advisory committee that everybody wants, I think
that we will have the opportunity to meet with groups separately during the process.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I really appreciate you saying that.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Caitlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Lubow. Two-- or maybe a point of clarification, and then a
question. It's my understanding that we, as a Board, are going to be developing guiding principles
first, and then the advisory committee will be selected subsequent to that.
BILL SIROIS: Kind of in parallel. That's kind of the way that we're thinking about it.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, and then, I personally have had a number of people who have expressed
interest in participating at some level. And I was just curious if you all have had folks come to you
and express interest in participating as well?
BILL SIROIS: Yes, we have had a few folks come to us. And I think if you have names of people,
you can go ahead and submit them to us, so that we have those. Like I said, even if they don't end
up on one of the committees, we probably want to start developing a mailing list or an email list
that we will do for any kind of event, or public meeting, or other kind of engagement activity that
we could send out to people.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. If I might, I personally would, as we get through this August 27th
meeting and start really examining the guiding principles, I think, for me, I wouldn't want to pass
along names unless I thought they really fit into that process. So that's just my personal preference.
Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Chair Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. One thing I would like to point out is
that I've spoken with the General Manager about this at some length. And the concern, I know,
arises in a lot of Board members and the public in general when talking about an advisory
committee and asking whether this is going to be like the Pass program working group, where we
appoint a number of people, and they come up with a specific plan and present it to the Board. No,
that is not what this is like. The advisory committee will consist and there will be many of the
same constituencies, not the same individuals, but the same constituencies that will form this
advisory committee.
But the Board will be operating hand in hand throughout, being aware of what's going on, what is
being said, what is being shared. The Board will be entitled, just as any member of the public is,
to attend those meetings. And because you'll simply be attending as a member of the public, we
don't have to go through the whole noticing process and everything else. I'm appointing two people
to the advisory committee only. So that we don't have to go through all of that notice process.

And more importantly, because certainly the meetings will be noticed, they will be well noticed to
all. But they won't have to be recorded as we do here, with the audio and video recording, and that
same process. We will have some-- minutes will be made, there will be some recordings, but we
won't have the same complex system that has to be transcribed, and included in part of our minutes
and so forth.
But everyone will be able to attend. Everyone will be able to see what's going on. Everyone will
be engaged. And the advisory committee is not going to come back with a proposal and say, here's
our solution, now all you have to do is adopt it. That's something I want to disabuse right now.
Because it's not that process. It's an advisory committee. Thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So it seems like a lot of agencies, maybe not a lot, but at least a few
agencies are going through similar exercises. And I imagine that you're looking at them to see how
they keep things on track, where they start, where they are, where they ended up. Can you give an
example of a couple that you've looked at already? I'm thinking of Houston as a low hanging fruit.
And so is Salt Lake City.
BRIAN WELCH: Well, what I did is, I listed a number of agencies that have either completed
these bus system restructurings-- they use a lot of different terms-- that our team has actually
worked on, members of our team. And this includes DART, their comprehensive operations
analysis. MARTA, the comprehensive operations analysis. LA Metro, their bus system
restructuring. LINKS in Orlando, Florida, COTA, which is in Columbus, Ohio, Jacksonville,
Florida, and Nashville.
These have all been worked on by a combination of Connetix Transportation Group, which is part
of our team, as well as Cambridge Systematics. Now, that isn't the entire list. But I wanted to list
a number of agencies that we would look at. Some of them as peer agencies, others maybe a little
smaller. But they'd have direct experience in doing this very recently.
JEFF WALKER: OK, that's-- some of those are others that I've heard. Columbus is an example of
one that's experienced some growth, some ridership increase after its reformation. I'd like to
suggest-- I'm sure you guys have thought of it already, but I'll say it anyway-- but to include some
strange bedfellows in with the group. It's kind of Machiavellian, bring your enemies close. Not
that-- we're all on the same team. We all want to move people. But some maybe transit adverse
groups or pro road groups, to also have that voice. And I'm sure they'll be touched during the
outreach. And I also want to say that I have no affiliation with Walker partners, other than the
name.
[LAUGHTER]
Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Williams, please.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I wanted to-- you guys probably all know this, but
I just want to put it in the record. So PPG, which is the Pass program working group, had a page
on the RTD website, where the minutes of their meetings were published for the public to follow
along. And it did get a lot of following along, I believe. So that might be something you might
want to think about with this. The other thing is there are a number of citizens groups around the
greater Denver area. I'm thinking of the city and county of Denver's disability groups.
They have a application. It's one page. And it's posted in that same kind of location. And you can
pull it down, fill in what we would want to know, and send it in, so that people who want to apply,
and that Director Catlin or our Director Lewis didn't recommend for the group, maybe some of
those strange bedfellows, could just go there and get that one pager and send it in. And then we
might get some people that were not necessarily chosen. So those are just a couple of thoughts.
Thank you very much for the work that you're doing. I'm sure that all of us will appreciate it in the
long run.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. So this isn't strictly speaking an ad hoc committee, this is a
committee-- in other words, it's not a committee that is just composed of, comprised of people
from the Board. So I wanted to suggest that the Board as a whole have the ability to weigh in and
maybe even make the selection of the people who will represent it on that advisory committee, as
opposed to it just being the unilateral, Chair. Nothing against your judgment on that, but just to
allow for a little bit more participation. I don't know how other folks think about that.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I'd like to weigh in on that, and ask our counsel-- is there anything
prohibiting that? Sorry to throw that at you.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you. Yes, this is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. If this is an advisory
committee for staff, then you don't have to have the notice, the minutes, the executive sessions, all
the things that would apply under the Colorado Open Meetings Law. If it is an advisory committee
reporting directly to the Board, then you run into those issues, where you have to have things done
in the same way as the Board would itself. So that's why having it as an advisory committee to
staff is much less cumbersome.
As far as the specifics on how people are chosen and what sort of input is received or what not,
that's really something that can be discussed and looked at. I just wanted to make that-JUDY LUBOW: All right. So I personally think that's an interesting idea I'm wondering if we can
have some kind of report back on whether that would be possible.
BILL VAN METER: We will look into that. You bet.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much. OK. OK, I'm just wondering if Director Folska is on the
line. Director Folska, are you on the line? OK. Director Rivera-Malpiede please.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair. Just two things. And being part of the Pass
Program Working Group, the one thing that was really apparent to me was the lack of diversity
geographically. And I just want to make sure that we have partners from the entire region involved,
and ethnicity different languages is really also very important. So those are the two pieces. I think
this is a great list, but that geographic component was really huge and just people of color. Thank
you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Director Lubow, I am here.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, OK, good.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I didn't get to my un-mute button quick enough. But when it's appropriate,
I do have a question.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, why don't you speak now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, Thank you. So I was wondering if on your list you have constituents
from our communities with people with disabilities?
BILL SIROIS: Yes, we do.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And who are they from?
BILL SIROIS: We just titled it the disability community. We haven't exactly said who that is. And
we'd love input from the Board in terms of how they-- your input on how that may be selected.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I would just suggest that there are many kinds of groups, different
groups, whether they're focused on cognitive disabilities or what not. In fact, the Coleman Institute
for Cognitive Disabilities in Boulder would be really a great place to tap into as well.
BILL SIROIS: Great, thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: As well, thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. On this thousand member advisory committee that
we're putting together, I would just-- we need to have everyone represented, but no one entity
overrepresented. So it should represent the ridership of the district and make sure we give-- I think
it's a pretty simple concept, and I know you guys will-- however we do it, it'll turn out OK. Thanks.
BILL VAN METER: And chair, if I may, it will require a real commitment from those who
volunteer, slash, are selected to serve on the committee. We are looking for them to make it to the
meetings on a monthly basis for two years, to actively participate, to be prepared going in. It will
be something where the expectations are not dissimilar from those placed on this elected body.
And so we'll be looking for that commitment. I just wanted to make that point.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Are we done with this particular update, gentlemen? More. Director
Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Bill, and Bill, and Brian. I have one more-- faith based, we don't
have that represented on potential candidate members. And I'm curious if you all have already
outlined the selection process for choosing who would be on the committee?
BILL SIROIS: The piece that we have outlined is going through the DRCOG's subregional forums
for getting elected officials selected. That is essentially that. And then I think we've-- certainly
there's going to be a process on the RTD side to select those. But beyond that, we have not done
that, other than saying that we want you decision makers and leaders in those organizations to be
those representatives on the advisory committee.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can you keep us updated as you flesh that out more?
BILL SIROIS: Yes, we will.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And are we done with this update? Thank you very much. It's been
very interesting. We have another one coming up.
BILL VAN METER: Yes, we do. So this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of
Planning. Bill Sirois is remaining. Susan Altes and Chessy Brady will be joining us up here for the
real estate and joint development update, and I'll turn it over to that team.
BILL SIROIS: So, this is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented communities. I'll attempt
to run the slide show, but I'm not-- I'm not-JUDY LUBOW: Just say click.
BILL SIROIS: Hopefully, no, I'm told I'm not supposed to do that.
SUSAN ALTES: Just a brief update. This is Susan Altes, Senior Manager of Real Property. Just a
brief update on the Montebello Park and Ride disposition, located at 4690 Peoria Street. This is a
former park and ride that became not used when the A line opened and not served by RTD with
the opening of the A line. That estimate of fair market value of this property was determined to be
$576,000, arter review by RTDs review appraiser of the appraisal prepared for one of his
stakeholders.
On April 1st, 2019-- Sorry, Bill-- we issued an invitation for sealed bids. This was a blast email
sent to over 65 entities, real estate companies, real estate brokers, investors, individuals, anyone
who had ever contacted RTD, saying in the event this is ever sold, please let me know. That called
for sealed bids to be submitted. On May 15th, we got one sealed bid in the amount of $600,000.
The Mello organizing committee was notified in May of the acceptance of their bid and the closing
is pending.

BILL SIROIS: The next update that we wanted to do is on the 29th and Welton property. A little
bit of background on this site. This site was originally purchased for the central corridor line which
opened in 1994. It is a half-acre lot. It was also identified as a TOD pilot project in 2010, with the
intent of promoting and trying out new ideas for TOD on this site. Some recent activity, in terms
of with the Board-- and that's not working for me tonight. We did go to the Board in December of
2016 to get an authorization to pursue an option agreement with the city and county of Denver.
That was approved by the Board.
There were three stipulations of that agreement. One, that it had to be for-sale housing. Second,
that a minimum of 25% of the units had to be affordable, and that the financial capacity of the
developer would be taken into account in terms of the final authorization of the option. Since that
time, we've worked with the city, who has been leading the process. It really has been their process.
They have been the one that-- we participated-- we were a participant in the developer selection,
but it was really their process.
We've worked with them. They have been working with this selected developer, but they are
indicating that they are not-- they believe that they're not going to be able to fulfill their
commitment and will be canceling the RFQ probably later this month. So that's one of those things,
in terms of this looks like it's not going to come to fruition. So one of the things we are talking
about is next steps, which is what do we do in terms of talking with the city about options for that
site.
Certainly anything that we talk about, we will be coming back to the Board with, in terms of any
kind of goals that we talk about with the city, in terms of any future procurement or anything else
that we decide that we want to potentially pursue. So this is kind of a wait and see, and hopefully,
in the near future, we'll be coming back to you with some of our fruits of our conversation with
the city.
CHESSY BRADY: Hi, Chessy Brady, TOD Manager. This is an unusual one. The National Medal
of Honor Museum is a museum that doesn't exist at the moment, but is seeking a location
somewhere in the country. And they've narrowed down their sights to Denver and Arlington,
Texas. And the Denver site is shown in your packet. It's actually on state property at the corner of
Lincoln and Colfax.
And so they're working through the state's process with that. It will require a legislative action. But
they're also interested in the gravel parcel adjacent to our Civic Center Station, which would be-you can go the next slide, please, if you're able-- a grand entrance to their museum, a landscaped
area to draw people into the museum.
And the terms that they've requested from RTD would be a 55-year sublease, which would be
through 2075 for a nominal fee, with options to renew. Let me start again, let me just start-- so
we're all focused. All right, so RTD does not own this property. We have a long term ground lease
through 2075. The museum would like to sublease the gravel parcel adjacent to the station for the
remainder of the ground lease. Again for a nominal fee, they would take over the security and
maintenance. They would landscape it and probably put in some programming, something related

to the National Medal of Honor winners-- recipients. And they are requesting full control of the
design and construction of this other facility.
So as we've been going back and forth with them, we're really interested in what the Board thinks
about how we should negotiate with this group. Some of the considerations we've been thinking
about are that, right now it is a gravel lot. There's an opportunity for it to be nicer, be activated,
have somebody else invested in it. Perhaps outsource-- or we would expect to outsource
maintenance and security. And there's obviously a city and state interest in locating a National
Museum at Civic Center. And the city and the state have been working with the museum to that
end.
That said, opening up this space to the museum precludes development by or with RTD on that
site through the remainder of the ground lease. And our current lease costs for that portion of the
parcel is about $123,000. So when we think about actual costs that we're incurring for that land,
we're putting it around $123,000 mark.
And just for your information, we've looked at this in the past, what could be built on that site.
And it's a building of approximately 250,000 square feet. But for this to happen, it's important to
note that a lot of different stakeholders would have to agree. There'd have to be changes in the
leasing arrangements, sales, all the parties involved. So this isn't-- this is not a question of either
we offer it to the museum or we get this building. This is just a potential building that could maybe
be built in the future if everything came together at the right time.
So if we decide to move forward with the museum, the next steps for doing so would be we would
come back to the Board in September with our proposed terms for you to approve. The museum
would then certainly choose Denver, of course, over Arlington, Texas. And then in March 2020
we would sign subleases with them. So interested in your feedback on that. And then the last slideBILL SIROIS: There we go.
CHESSY BRADY: One more, can I get one more? There we go. Is a reminder of our procedure
for unsolicited proposals for joint development. So this was approved by the Board a few years
ago. And we are anticipating an unsolicited proposal from a developer at the 38th and Blake Station
park and ride in the near future. We've been in discussions with them, working through steps one
and two. We expect the proposal to come in. At which point, the Board will be notified and then
we'll move through the remainder of the procedure. And happy to get into more detail about that
if you have questions.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you for bearing with us during that slide show.
JUDY LUBOW: It's always interesting. OK, Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'd like to speak first about the Welton-- or ask a question about
the Welton project. That's one that I've been interested in quite a while, especially because it's not
that the land was donated to us. We had acquired it. And I know Susan, you and I've had some

conversations, but that was some years ago. Very limited, not as much as some other properties.
Bill, you and I have had some more conversations.
What I would like to know is with the status of this right now, if there is an option and we as a
Board look at this, that-- from my background on this, I went and walked that area for a couple
hours one day, trying to find the original owner, trying to find out how to get a hold of the owners
who owned it before we acquired it through some sort of legal process.
SUSAN ALTES: It was a negotiated acquisition.
NATALIE MENTEN: It was a negotiated acquisition. So were they-- they had a for-sale sign on
it and we said, yeah, sure, we'll buy it? Or-SUSAN ALTES: There was a notice of intent to acquire the property. We prepared an appraisal.
DOUG TISDALE: Can we get a mic, please?
SUSAN ALTES: Sorry. The properties were acquired through the process of notification that their
property was needed for a public project. We appraised the property. They had an opportunity to
appraise the property, also at our cost. And they accepted the offer.
NATALIE MENTEN: And what did we pay for their property?
SUSAN ALTES: I don't have that dollar amount with me tonight.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, could you let me know that? We may have had this discussion in
the past.
SUSAN ALTES: I think I sent it to you in the past, but I'll do it again.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
BILL SIROIS: And if I remember right, I think the-- and don't quote me on the exact number, but
I believe it was around $70,000. It wasn't a significant amount.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, I know I remember going to City and County of Denver, doing a
physical request, and this is going back three, four years ago now, so it's a little bit foggy. But I
would like to find out when we acquire a property through the notice of intent to acquire, and then
we figure out we don't need the property any longer for the replacement parking on Welton, if that
we create a policy that puts the previous owner as the top priority and gives the original owner that
we took through a government process, in my opinion, give them first rights to buy that property
for an amount similar to-- we'll have to figure out the dollar amounts.
But to me, that's respect to the property owners of the district where we acquire property for a
public purpose and then find out we don't really need it anymore. To me, that would be great. The
City of Edgewater has a process, I think, similar, in respecting property owners, that they get first

rights if property like this becomes available again. So for one, Susan, if you could confirm the
dollar amount for me.
SUSAN ALTES: I will.
NATALIE MENTEN: Then I would like to know based through whatever means you have, getting
the name of the owner. And what options there would be to hunt up contact information for them.
SUSAN ALTES: I think I have sent you some information, actually copies of the deeds before.
Those would have the owners names on them. I'll send them again.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
SUSAN ALTES: I do believe, in this case, this property was acquired in 1993 or 1994. And I
believe the original property owners are deceased.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So if you could give me the copies of those, and I'll try to figure it out,
figure out a genealogy line or something and see what I can come up with. And then moving on to
this National Medal of Honor, I don't know what they mean by nominal fee. If we've got 125,000
out per year, what does that mean?
CHESSY BRADY: I think it means $1 a year.
NATALIE MENTEN: Then the answer from this seat right here, no. National Medal of Honor is
not our elected job. Our job is transportation. So one of 15 people saying no go on that deal. I can
see that while the shade the building's going to provide in the summer, it's going to be real sweet,
it's also going to be a lot of ice, and concrete deterioration, and safety issues. With the height that
I'm seeing in this created shadow-CHESSY BRADY: Are you looking at the mass and bulk image.
DAVE GENOVA: She is.
CHESSY BRADY: So that's an image, that's something that we at RTD have actually drawn up to
show what a potential building could look like there. That is not-- that is not what the museum is
proposing. I'm sorry if that was-- if I wasn't clear about that.
NATALIE MENTEN: It was, what are they-BILL SIROIS: They are proposing a park, essentially, a landscaped area that's more park like.
DAVE GENOVA: On our, I'm sorry, just to clarify, on the gravel parcel that we have now, under
our lease, it would be more of like a park entrance. The actual facility and building that they would
build would be across the street.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.

DAVE GENOVA: And that's shown in another-- in an earlier diagram in your presentation.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Has any other real estate companies or anybody else expressed
interest? I don't remember if you said that or not.
CHESSY BRADY: They have in the past. It's a difficult site with only 55 years remaining on our
ground lease, for any developer to take that risk with a short amount of time. So we haven't had
any recent interest. But for the right project, something could happen there.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so that's-- I'll just leave it at that. It seems like it's moving really fast
too, because they're trying to make a-- I feel a little bit of pressure. But I would just say if they're
talking $1, and we have potential to even do short-term leases that provide more money for the
district, as an elected official for the transportation agency, I have to put the priorities into what
we-- our agency's mission is. So that's my feedback. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Chair Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Relative to the Welton property, if you
would look at page 21, please, of the packet, there is the description in December 2016, Board
authorized staff to pursue option agreement. We entered into an option agreement as I understand
it, ultimately with city and county of Denver in September 2017. Can you tell me, please, what is
the term of that option agreement? When does that option expire?
BILL SIROIS: It's a two-year agreement. So it expires next month.
DOUG TISDALE: It expires this year this next month.
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, fine, thank you very much. I appreciate that. Has the city requested
that we renew or extend the option?
BILL SIROIS: No, they have not. They have just basically, in the conversations that we've had
with them, they've said they'd like to talk with us about a new approach for that property, but have
not requested an extension of the option.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. Which sounds like an excellent thought to look at a new
approach. And so I thank you for confirming that. And relative to the National Medal of Honor
Museum, I think it's fair to say that no one on the Board is comfortable with the notion of leasing
for $1 a year. And I believe that all those parties who are involved in this process understand that
if the project should go forward, it would require some other individual agency, company, or others
to come forward and provide a financial incentive to RTD to enter into an agreement with them.
So that they could, for their purposes, lease it for $1 a year, but that there could be funding from
someone else that would equal a fair market value rental. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Williams, please.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Lubow. I have a couple of questions. I'm looking at packet
page 24, where I see Civic Center Station and the proposed park. And I see a proposed museum.
So unless I'm misunderstanding, our only involvement is in the proposed park. We are not involved
in any way in the proposed museum, correct?
CHESSY BRADY: Yes, the park is an entrance to the museum.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I get that. I put my finger on there. So, somebody else is going to do
with the museum, and whatever that cost, and wherever they're leasing that. And so I think that
you've already heard pretty clearly from us that we're not inclined to give them $123,000 a year.
No, if they want to pick up the lease for $123,000 a year, that would be great. And we would love
to have them here. And we don't really care about the picture of the tall building, because that's
not-- that's an option if we don't do the park there, is what you're trying to tell us.
Oh, light bulb. OK, so, it's great that RTD could be involved with the National Medal of Honor
Museum, and maybe they would put on there, you know, this park is a participant of RTD and
their community. And all of that stuff would be great. But I think you're not going to-- we're not
going to get any place unless we tell them that they'd have to pick up the lease. And if they're going
to have a museum, based on most of the other museums that I see here in Denver, like the place
where they make the money and all, there's charges to get into those museums. And so maybe they
could afford to pick up the lease. OK, that's all I had. Thanks, thanks for the clarification.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I may have missed it, but what did you say it cost us to maintain
that parcel on an annual basis? I mean, we'd have costs that we wouldn't have to incur if you were
leasing it somebody else.
CHESSY BRADY: I don't have a number for the cost of maintenance of the parcel. But based on
my conversations with our facilities group, it is a gravel parcel. So it doesn't take much
maintenance at the moment. So the reduction in cost would be minimal.
BOB BROOM: OK, thanks. And then the other question I had was, were there multiple cities
involved in bids for this? Or how did Denver become one of the two selected sites? Do you have
any knowledge of that?
CHESSY BRADY: It was a nationwide search. And they looked across the country and courted
different cities, and different cities courted them, and they've ended up with Arlington, Texas and
Denver. And I think the Downtown Denver Partnership has been a strong proponent of bringing it
to Denver.
BOB BROOM: OK, so, I mean, I guess we could lease it to food trucks to park on there or
something? I mean, what else-- what other uses do you see, other than it just sitting there as gravel,
as we turn down this museum?

CHESSY BRADY: That's a good question. That's something we've been looking at for the past
couple of years. We've thought about food trucks. We've thought about art. Different-- the city, in
its planning, has expected that eventually there would be a building there. But that's not something
that we've been able to make happen in the past few years.
BILL SIROIS: So one thing I will say, in terms of our evaluation we did look at that site, is if that
building could be a consolidated RTD office building. So that was a potential that we looked at in
terms of that. So that would be, could be, an RTD facility, but there would be a lot of things that
would have to come into play for that to happen. So it's not-- it's kind of-- it's a vision kind of
thing, is what could be there. And we said, yeah, potentially, it could be RTD. But again, we don't- we have not had a discussion with the Board about it. But that was just a potential that we talked
about at one point.
BOB BROOM: Well, sometimes you're better off doing nothing. Because 5-10 years down the
road, that's valuable territory there, in terms of state office buildings, courthouses, any number of
things. And they're not going to make any more land in that area. So, I don't know, I'd have to see
more about this before I'd want to say yes or no.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I would also like to see alternatives, if you all could provide
that to the Board, for that parcel of land. More specifically, about the Montebello timeline, and the
expected closing. It says 2019. And so I'm curious if 2019 is tomorrow or December 31st. I know
that when they came in spoke to all of us as a Board, they'd been waiting quite some time to close
this out and get this finished. And so, I'm just curious if you can provide some updates.
DAVE GENOVA: I'll take this a bit and then see if there's more details. So when we advertised
the property, we said as is, where is. So when we received their bid, then we were ready to close.
But they have to go through some due diligence to get their financing in place. And so some of
that due diligence was an environmental assessment. So they've done their Phase I Environmental
Assessment. Their Phase I is indicating or recommending to do a Phase II Assessment. So they're
getting ready to do a Phase II Assessment. We're going to have to probably issue them a right to
go in, and enter, and do that Phase II Assessment. So essentially, it's at their timing of bringing
this project to fruition for them.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So you said we'd have to-- not we-- you and staff-- would have to issue a
Phase II assessment.
DAVE GENOVA: Well they would do-- they have requested to do a Phase II Environmental
Assessment. But we would enter-- we would have them request some kind of license or entry
permit. Because they're going to go in and do invasive work. And they're going to need insurance
requirements and things like that. It's very standard to do that kind of work.
So we're in that process now, I understand. And then they'll do their Phase II work. And then
depending on what they see in their Phase II, then hopefully work forward and get their financing
issues. This is all just part of typical kinds of financing things. And especially with the financing

that they're going after. So we're not driving the timing of this at all. We're ready to go any day.
We're just eager for them to get through their due diligence process.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So what's the actual action that needs to happen on their part to move forward
in the Phase II?
DAVE GENOVA: Do you know where they are exactly, Susan?
SUSAN ALTES: We're preparing a right of entry license for their contractor. I just got their
information yesterday, the scope of work that is required and the contractor that will be doing the
work, a company out of Longmont. And we'll prepare the right of entry license and obtain the
insurance from the contractor. And they'll be ready to go to do their work.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, how long does that process typically take? The steps that you've
outlined?
SUSAN ALTES: Probably take a day or two on the property itself.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
SUSAN ALTES: And I believe that this company has been very responsive for them. They
prepared the Phase I in less than a week. So the Phase II, I would think, as soon as they get results,
whatever they're evaluating, it would be fairly quick.
DAVE GENOVA: If I could, the Phase II work, the biggest time frame is to do the analysis on the
sampling. So they're probably looking at a period of about four to six weeks to have a report, from
when they start the work.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you. This is more of a thank you to Bill Sirois. I know we've had
a few conversations about community land trust. And I saw that line here, to continue to explore
what that looks like. And community benefit, as we're looking potentially to sell properties. So
just thank you for being receptive to that.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Do we make any revenue-- do we have any revenue coming off of that
parcel now?
SUSAN ALTES: No.
JEFF WALKER: OK, yeah, that's why I thought. So I'm fine with it being turned over to the Medal
of Honor Museum. I remember years ago-- I haven't looked at the Civic Center plan in forever.
But I know that area, that fits in with that forum, that concept of having civic uses down in that
area, museums, and the courthouse, and state buildings, government buildings, et cetera. So it fits
in with that theme. And I think that would be something that the city of Denver would look

favorably upon, because it fits in with that Civic Center plan that was developed, I think, in 2004
or 2005, something like that.
Regarding 29th and Welton, I wouldn't be in favor of forcing a former property owners to have to
spend any time dealing with the first right of refusal, unless they negotiate that into the contract,
into the purchase and sale agreement, they get first dibs on it. I see that in easements all the time,
where it's just a limited property right, but not the full bundle of rights. So I wouldn't be in favor
of that. I wouldn't want to spend staff's time trying to track down that chain of title, or somebody
who doesn't own that property and might not even know that anybody in their family ever owned
that property, having to deal with that, even for a minute.
So have there been other interested parties in that parcel on 29th and Welton, while it was being
worked on by CCD?
BILL SIROIS: We haven't had any specific interests, inquiries, while the city has been in
discussions with the current developer. Certainly, there's been a lot of activity in that area. So if
there was a known, that that property was available I'm sure that we receive interest.
JEFF WALKER: OK, and that's what I'm thinking. So those are my comments. So, that's it, thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Walker talked about a Civic Center plan. Is there a plan
that has been put in place by the City and County of Denver that we are sort of participants? Or
does that govern-- or was this parcel ever considered a potential expansion site for the Civic Center
hub? I'd just hate to trim our 20 or 30 year ability to expand if we needed to at some point, without
really thinking it through, is the question.
CHESSY BRADY: Yeah, so the Civic Center District Master Plan was completed probably four
years ago. And it calls for activation on that site, temporary activation, whatever that means-- a
park, an active park. They have proposed all kinds of examples in the plan. And then, eventually,
the plan calls for a building of some sort there, that would frame the Civic Center park. But the
remainder of our ground lease is 55 years. And that area was carved out of the station plan, when
we were redoing the station. Because it was not needed for the station and could have potential for
another use.
SHELLEY COOK: So are we convinced that we wouldn't at some point-- I mean, pretty
reasonably convinced that it wouldn't be something that would be of benefit for our own use as an
expanded site there? I just want to not foreclose it without really going through some thinking
about that piece.
CHESSY BRADY: Yeah, I think that's something that was looked at a few-- a number of years
ago during the station planning. And we will definitely-- we should take another look at it and
make sure that there isn't some immediate need for the Civic Center Station.

SHELLEY COOK: Not even immediate, but foreclosing forever our ability to expand on that site.
Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Folska, are you on the line and do you have any comments?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Hello, yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Go ahead.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It takes a little time to turn off the mute. Yeah, I really think I agree with
pretty much what everyone has said regarding the Civic Center piece. And it occurs to me that
there are a lot of food trucks out there. It's very dense, I know coming from [AUDIO OUT] that
could really activate that [AUDIO OUT] I wouldn't be inclined to giving it away for $1. I think it
would be interesting to see what the maintenance fees are, but as long as it was at least a zero
economic impact to us, I think that would be good. But I'm interested to see how it moves forward.
And again, they're choosing between Arlington, Texas and Denver. So I guess there's more to be
seen. That's all. Thank you very much for the report.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Williams, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Lubow. The picture on packet page-- I'm going to let
everybody play along-- 27, that shows a potential building there, I'm just wondering if it has
dawned on us that we are in a marvelous historical building here at the moment. And maybe the
National Museum of Honor people would love to have a historic building. And then maybe we
could build a building there and get out of our Civic Center lease. And put all of our people in.
Then we wouldn't be spending so much time running our own 16th Street shuttle for people to go
back and forth. And they could have a historic building here. So I wonder when you meet with
their CEO on the 8th of August, if you could offer that is an option. Thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, all right. OK-- quick.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll make it quick.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Will you all come back to us in the future this year with maybe
some alternatives or some updates for these specific things that you've outlined?
BILL SIROIS: Yes, that's the plan. And even on the National Medal of Honor Museum, it would
be next month.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
BILL SIROIS: That the idea is to come back and have a more robust discussion about what could
be, what we would be willing to offer, or willing to accept for that parcel of property with the
National Medal of Honor Museum.

SHONTEL LEWIS: To move towards a recommendation.
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, well we've beaten that horse to death. So let's go forward. The next update
is the BRT Feasibility Study.
BILL SIROIS: Good luck with the clicker.
BRIAN WELCH: I'm giving it to Bill.
BILL VAN METER: We'll see if I have the magic touch. Director, or Chair Lubow-JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
BILL VAN METER: As you can see, this is still Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of
Planning, and Brian Welch has rejoined me for the final update of the evening from staff-- the
Regional Bus Rapid Transit, or BRT Feasibility Study. And I guess I'm going to give the clicker a
shot. Brian-BRIAN WELCH: Thank you, good evening, Chair Lubow, and members of the Board, I will limit
my presentation to about 30 minutes, given the no-- no. No, I'm going to go for about maybe five
minutes. But I don't want to minimize. There's a tremendous amount of information in your packet.
It's exhaustive. And, in fact, what we did is we just put six or seven slides up at the beginning to
get you kind of up to date on where we are in our effort.
We've been working hard now for about 18 months with our stakeholders. And we've updated you
previously. The stakeholder engagement has been ongoing. It's been very robust, and actually very
effective, including a bus tour that we did in June that involved people from throughout the
corridors that we're looking at. I've included in your material four distinct examples of where we
have made changes in the study and changed sort of some of the fundamental ways we're looking
at it, in response to some very insightful comments that we have received from people.
And I'm not going to go through those. They're well articulated. If you have any questions, I'll
leave that for later. I'd like to highlight this map. Now you've seen a few versions of this map
before. And probably the most significant thing to point out to you, and I apologize, it's a little bit
hard for the audience to read the legend, but I'll just tell you. What we've done is we've defined
what we believe to be a vision for bus rapid transit for our district. This will be further fleshed out,
of course, during Reimagine RTD. So you'll have another opportunity to explore this with us.
We're only differentiating at this point now between two different types. And they're related solely
to financing. So we've identified those that have the highest potential for federal funding, or state
or local funding, and then we have the other category, which we're looking at which would be
those that have the highest potential for state or local funding.

Now we are in what we call now-- we're going to be back to the Board, I'll tell you now, in October
with the results of what we're calling Tier 4. Now these are the eight routes that have received the
most analysis, primarily because, as you recall, we started with the intent of identifying those
routes where FTA Small Starts would be a likely funding source. Now that requires a tremendous
amount of analysis compared to other corridors. That doesn't mean the other corridors aren't
important. It just means that we started literally with dozens and dozens of corridors. And if we
would have attempted to do this kind of work for all the corridors, we would have been back in
four years and spent five times as much money. And no one wanted to do that.
So that's why we're doing this level of analysis for these particular routes. And we are not going
to attempt for the eight routes that we believe to be strong candidates for small starts, to
differentiate them. We believe they're all-- have different pluses and minuses. And again, most of
the work that has gone into get us to here was very closely tied to the input we received from our
stakeholders. Because in some cases, they made choices between two different routes. And they
said, well, we prefer Quebec instead of Monaco. We prefer this instead of that. So we listened to
that. And that's how we're moving forward.
And the last thing we have in here for you to look at is the-- I just wanted you to be familiar with
the level of sophistication that we have taken some of these corridors. We believe that for the eight
that are candidates for Small Starts, we're one step really before what would be a formal process
to get them into project development. Now, what would have to happen next, of course, is
extensive work with our stakeholders, that would be preliminary. But we have done enough work
that we're at the point now where we're confident that they could move to that level. And depending
upon the interest and timing of our stakeholder partners, we would know and come back to the
Board with a notion of how these might move forward. And I believe, Bill, that's-JUDY LUBOW: I wish I could have-BRIAN WELCH: There's a couple more that I just wanted to highlight, as soon as they show up.
OK, this is important. Travel time savings-- if you recall from Jarret Walker's presentations, it's
critical that we demonstrate significant travel time savings, so that we can attract riders. The
corridors that we're looking at all are anticipated to be congested in the future. And if we can
provide a service-- now, these are travel time savings on the same routes that we currently provide
service. In other words, on Alameda, we could save 22% in travel time. That's what the comparison
is being done. And that's the key, obviously, to ridership.
One of the things that we also wanted to highlight for you is, you're all very aware of the district's
commitment to provide transit services, particularly to those that we would regard as vulnerable
populations. I've just shown one particular exhibit here to give you a sense of where-- this is a
poverty measure. And if you'll notice, there's a good congruence between the eight routes that are
these candidates for Small Starts and poverty. And we were very pleased to see that, because we
certainly wouldn't want them to be disassociated from one another. One of our objectives of the
many criteria that we're looking at bus rapid transit is its ability to meet these needs.
Just to recap, the next slide that's coming up is the schedule. We will be back on October 8th to
present to you the complete report, which will be exhaustive and in-depth. We have some interim

presentations, as you can see with DRCOG, that provided the majority of the funding for this. And
with that, I will conclude and ask if the Board has any questions. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Here we go. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. How does this compare travel time savings wise with the Colfax
project being worked on by Denver?
BRIAN WELCH: The travel time savings associated with Denver's project are in that double digit
range as well. If the Center Running BRT was deployed, compared to the 15 and the 15L service
that's currently there. You'd be seeing similar ranges of travel time savings before and after.
BOB BROOM: And would they be in competition with the ones that we're working on?
BRIAN WELCH: No, one of the things that we've carried forward from the very beginning is that
we regard State Highway 119 and Colfax Center Running BRT as being-- actually they're way out
in front of this effort. So they have kind of a status of all their own. The Board has made a financial
commitment to State Highway 119. Denver has made a financial commitment to Central Running
BRT on Colfax. They're both already in the fiscally constrained regional transportation plans. So
we didn't attempt to try and reassess them, since they're ahead of this process.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, on the diagram that has little buses with time savings.
BRIAN WELCH: Right.
NATALIE MENTEN: I-25, either the bus has a problem or that there are no-- it hasn't left the gate.
TROY WHITMORE: We'll take that on highway 119-BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, now that's a case where we already have conditions that allow us to not
be-- there wouldn't be any travel time savings essentially, because the lanes are already there that
give us exclusivity.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So we don't have a real advantage on that whole length there, because
we've already got the HOV that we're using.
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, and the horizon year, those managed lanes are going to be for that whole
corridor that we've identified in the future. So we'd have the same advantage that we do now for
the Flat Iron Flyer.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, and then on the-- where did I go? I'm trying to find the pages
where we have the individual eight routes. OK, I had to go up, not down. And I see, as an example,
Federal Boulevard, it's showing me that up north, we're going to repurpose one of the side pulloffs, and further down into the CBD area, Central Business District, we're going to repurpose

through lanes. My question is, where would I find a document that would tell me the land
acquisitions required for any one of these, let's say seven. Because I-25 is not going to be one of
them. So where would I find something like that?
BRIAN WELCH: One of our criteria was no right of way acquisition. We believe the right of way
acquisition would render these projects too expensive, frankly. And so the winnowing process
involved looking at those cases where we could achieve some sort of exclusivity, either in the AM
or the PM peak hour, for all or a portion of the route without any right of way acquisition.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, and then in that case, then when you have Federal Boulevard and
you're taking some lanes for BRT, you are also taking-- there's single vehicles, and trucks, and
commercial vehicles then that are also being affected, correct?
BRIAN WELCH: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: So where would somebody see that two weigh.
BRIAN WELCH: The notion of each of these corridors is we evaluated the extent to which, and
the difficulty there would be, associated with the very issues that you brought up. And so in some
cases, the entire route could not have exclusivity. And we had to have-- on these routes there is a
combination of mixed traffic as well as exclusivity, which is not uncharacteristic of bus rapid
transit in the United States. So some routes, frankly, did not make it from the 28 down to the eight,
for that very reason, Director Menten. It was just too complicated. And we just didn't see that there
would be a smooth path forward, where the traffic would go, what you would do with parking.
Many of those kinds of issues are the complications on projects of this nature.
NATALIE MENTEN: This will get down into the weeds, but we've had issues with-- since Flat
Iron Flier started that you're calling it BRT, but it's not really. Is this going to be the same? This is
down in the weeds, but we don't have-- it's not at level.
BRIAN WELCH: Where we believe we are with the eight routes is that they are going to meet the
FTA definition either of corridor based bus rapid transit or fixed guideway, one of the two.
Corridor based FTA is going to look for the most portions of the route possible to have exclusivity
for buses in the peak hours, in the peak periods. And we believe these eight routes would be able
to meet that criteria for the FTA definition. So these are, in fact, going to meet the federal
government's definition of what they call bus rapid transit.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Whitmore, please.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, with all due respect, you talk about complications, but when I look at
the map on page 11, it doesn't look too darn complicated north of wherever-- pick a point. It's
blank. So for those of us that have to go back to NATA, and Thornton, and Brighton, and
Commerce City, and Westminster, and Broomfield, and the list goes on and on, what do we got?

Are these projects of ours 10th, 12th, 15th? Is there any hope? Is there anything on the future that
we can speak about that's-- I'm sorry-- not negative, again.
BRIAN WELCH: Oh, yeah. And the tenor of the report, as you'll see, where we've added is, again,
we're only differentiating on this BRT vision, really between those that have federal likelihood and
those that don't. We are not implying, as you can tell from how we've moved forward, there's no
phasing in this report. There is no prioritization, even between the federal corridors and the nonfederal corridors. I fully anticipate that it could be likely that a corridor that's not one of the federal
corridors could move forward.
Because one of the things I've mentioned to the Board before, this is a different paradigm, bus
rapid transit, where the local agencies are in the driver's seat-- well, we're in the driver's seat, but
you know what I mean. They're going to dictate the pace at which these projects move forward.
And if a project that is not a candidate for federal funding has local support, there's the willingness
to meet the Board's vision for bus rapid transit, and it meets a lot of the other criteria that you deem
important, why couldn't it go forward first? And I think if you look at the network, it's very
generous in terms of a vision from that nature. It's extensive throughout our district. And while a
lot of people would say, well, some of those-- are those really bus rapid transit, we're being more
flexible, frankly, to address this very issue.
BILL VAN METER: And I would like to reinforce that on that regional BRT network, the slide
entitled proposed district wide BRT network development-JUDY LUBOW: What page are you?
BILL VAN METER: Yeah, I wish I knew.
BRIAN WELCH: It's packet page 37.
JUDY LUBOW: Packet page 37, thank you.
BILL VAN METER: 37, thank you. 74 on mine. That's why I paused. You'll note a reference to
the concepts and applications that Brian just identified, in terms of corridors and communities that
demonstrate support will have the opportunity. Importantly, in the legend, you'll see that both the
lighter blue network and the white network combined comprise the most promising corridors for
bus rapid transit or that full network. So look at that legend and look and look at that network that
comprises the white and the blue, what we've identified as the most promising quarters the
distinction being, as Brian noted, eligibility for federal funding in current status or not. But that
full network of the lighter blue and white represent the most promising corridors from our analysis.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you for the clarifications. I appreciate it.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. So I've heard eligibility for federal funding, likelihood of
receiving federal funding. And I am trying to reconcile that with what Jeff Walker talked to us

about, with the ridership versus coverage. And I was hoping that you could maybe walk me through
that.
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, that issue is going to be right before you during Reimagine RTD. We
believe that bus rapid transit is a key part of the district's future, absolutely. But where we think
it's going to be most effective in the larger picture is at the core of what we're going to look at as
part of Reimagine RTD. We want to flow from this effort directly in so you can make some choices
about the mobility plan for the future, which parts of it should be bus rapid transit? Which parts of
it should be technologies, maybe that are going to come up during the effort itself? What are we
going to hear from our stakeholders? What about the types of vehicles?
To provide what you're addressing, this notion of coverage and ridership traditionally, bus rapid
transit is regarded as fast, frequent service, so much so that you don't need a schedule. That's kind
of the elevator definition of bus rapid transit. However, we can, during Reimagine RTD, come up
with our own terminology and our own way of looking at it to see what makes the most sense for
us here in our district. What we'll be examining during the effort is, do we want to have a series of
individual bus rapid transit corridors, all with their own name, all with their own branding-- Flat
Iron Flyer, Center Running Colfax, State Highway 119?
Or would the Board like to go in the direction of say, Minneapolis, St. Paul, where metro has a
branded system that people throughout the district know that the service is going to be of a certain
type wherever they are, as far north, south, east, and west as you go. That'll come up during
Reimagine RTD, and we want to hear back from the Board how that fits in with your vision too.
So that anytime you got on one of these systems, you'd know it would be fast, frequent, reliable,
don't even need a schedule, off-vehicle fare payment, and all. Did I answer the question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, very much so. And you made me think of another question. It sounds
like you were looking for direction from the Board to help you investigate and answer that
question, which I didn't realize that.
BRIAN WELCH: Yes, when we come back on October 8th, what we're going to focus on with the
Board is, based upon the totality of information that you've received, where you would like to take
this, in terms of your position on the future of bus rapid transit. We don't know how exactly you
want to do this. But this could form the basis for how it's handled during Reimagine RTD, whether
or not you want to look at these in different categories or ways, that's completely up to you. We
could think about Reimagine RTD in a new set of service standards, that we think might be
applicable in a case like this. And that's where we're going to take you to the next threshold for
your input.
And then that would be the basis. Even, we're going to share with you more what we've heard from
some of our stakeholders about where they want to go next. And let you know. Because we've
already heard from some of them about-- hey, we're starting to study these things. We're going to
do-- there's a multi-jurisdictional study many of you have probably heard about on Federal
Boulevard, that involves Adams County, and Westminster, and the city and county of Denver. And
it's going to be very comprehensive. So they're going to take what we've done and take it to the
next level, which is what we were hoping would happen from a comprehensive effort.

And as you know, there's, up in the northern part of the district, there's quite a bit of activity going
on with regard to bus rapid transit as well, dating all the way back to the Northwest Area Mobility
Study.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great, thank you so much. And I think I may have misspoke. I said, Jeff
Walker, unless you've written a book, I'm more than happy to read it. I meant Jarret. I will take it.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks, Chair. First of all, I would say thank you. I think this is a very
good example. The changes that you highlight in the first few pages are a great example of listening
to the stakeholders. And you guys, and I know Dave Genova was up with the Northwest area
elected officials, and I'm sure all of your team, but just to be a little clear, the NAMS corridors
aren't as good a fit, apparently, for the Small Starts and New Starts, and they were originally listed
as Phase three, which does sound like they'll never get built, right? Or at least not for a long time.
And I think that this is a much better way of presenting it, which is the corridors in white that are
more likely to get some of that federal money and the corridors in blue that are still moving
forward, but with state and local funding. So good job. I think that's great. That same map, the
Black Corridor-- I just have a couple of quick questions. That Candidate Corridors, I think they're
called. Those not quite as high on either list, but still kind of out there, is that potential?
BRIAN WELCH: That's correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, and then a question on page 80 in the packet, I think it is. I love this
little-- I like these little graphs, where I can just look at it real quickly and say, well, Alameda looks
good. So the bigger blobs there, the bigger circles, mean that each of those make it more likely.
For instance, the big circle on Alameda, for capital cost per mile, it's a lower capital cost per mile.
BRIAN WELCH: That's correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So you can look at this and say, wow, Alameda looks good, Broadway
looks good, Colorado. And will you be prioritizing that at the end?
BRIAN WELCH: No, we're not going to. If the Board wishes to understand more from the
stakeholder perspective and go down that path that is totally within your purview. But we
concluded as a team, technically that we didn't have enough rationale to differentiate between these
eight. So we're just going to leave it kind of at this level.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BRIAN WELCH: It would be difficult to come up with a quantifiable method to do that. That was
just one of the big conclusions of the study. We originally thought we were going to get to three
to five, but we have eight.

LYNN GUISSINGER: And with the NAMS corridors and the other corridors that are more likely
to get state and local funding, it doesn't sound like it's part of this, but will we be doing some of-this is great analysis-- daily boardings, daily vehicle miles traveled, capital cost per mile-- is there
a plan for doing some of that.
BILL SIROIS: Well, a lot of that is already underway, some of it's been done. And yes, for some
of those other corridors, member jurisdictions have already started to pursue that. And we'd be
delighted to cooperate with them to advance that level. In the city and county of Denver, I know
that they're going to launch multiple corridor studies to follow up on some of these routes to take
them to the next level. And I fully anticipate that other jurisdictions-- I've heard from Arapahoe
County on Arapahoe Road, for example, that they're very interested in moving forward. So it's
really wide open. And we'll participate and encourage that level. Again, for this, we could only
take so many to this exhaustive level of analysis. But we're going to support anybody in the district
with all of our resources available to pursue bus rapid transit. For example, we're going to do all
the modeling for the federal effort, that multiagency effort. We think that's a good way to help out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great, I agree. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just had a question for clarification on the average
travel time savings graph. I believe it was Director Menten that talked about the I-25 bus not getting
off the mark. But I think I understood your answer to mean that corridor doesn't have any savings,
because you've got managed lanes that the buses use and that's good. What about that segment of
I-25, from 120th, north the Highway 7, where there is no BRT service, no express bus service, and
there are no managed lanes yet? Is that included in this analysis?
BRIAN WELCH: It is, because it's the horizon year.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.
BRIAN WELCH: In this case, we're assuming they would be in place for the route that we've
described.
VINCE BUZEK: Got it, OK, thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Folska, are you in the line and would you like to comment?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. No, I have no comment.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much. All right, I would like to ask some questions. Thank
you for this work. It's very exhaustive, as well as exhausting. What's interesting to me is it looks
like there's really no prioritization. It's more informational. And so, I like to think of it as the two
buckets that Dave talked about at our stakeholder meeting. And so this is one of the buckets that
talks about FT-- that would go towards FTA, that have the possibility of getting FTA funding. For
the bucket that would not have that, do we have a draft matrix of different results for them too?

BRIAN WELCH: We don't. And we believe that really there you're getting into more of the more
subtle ways that one of those projects could become a priority. And it's going to be really at the
behest of the member jurisdictions, what they bring before the Board as the next project that they
wish to move forward with. And then we would evaluate it from there. We didn't think there was
a rationale to prioritize or, as I said, for the eight, or for the rest of the network either. We think
we're into a pure policy question at that point. There just isn't enough technical rationale at this
stage to differentiate those that are local and state funded. It's more of a question of the key things
to move these things forward, are the jurisdictions willing to support bus rapid transit.
JUDY LUBOW: So I'm wondering, because I haven't seen the study, what you have said about
this second bucket. You're not prioritizing, so what are you saying?
BRIAN WELCH: Well, what we have in the documentation is we do have-- there is quite a bit of
data for the 28 routes that we did travel modeling for. And we presented that to the Board in a
previous. And there were quite a number of metrics. But even at that level, we didn't attempt to
say purely on the basis of this criteria we think this is first, and this is second, or third. But there
is more, Director Lubow, analytical work for the larger number of routes in the report that's
available to the Board, to kind of review to get a feel. But we don't really have, and did not want
to try and box in the Board on-- well, this is how we think you should rank them. Because it's just
not in the nature of this type of effort to do that.
JUDY LUBOW: So basically, it's not-- the final result is not saying these look like they're great
candidates. It's more these are routes that are potential BRT and here's why. And that's it, you kind
of leave it at that.
BRIAN WELCH: Yes, because great routes on paper are not always great routes when it comes to
implementation, particularly for a multi-jurisdictional, complicated project that's relying on local
jurisdictions.
JUDY LUBOW: I see, OK. OK, and I just had a question about State Highway 7, because you had
mentioned that a route would be kicked out if you needed to purchase rights of way. And I know
that State Highway 7 is complicated. And I would imagine there needs to be some purchasing of
rights of way. And so I was wondering, where does that leave that, in terms of this study?
BRIAN WELCH: Well, for this study, it's not pertinent. There's separate studies that are underway
or have been completed for State Route 7 than are more exhaustive than the level of effort we did
here. And so I couldn't answer your question directly about right of way issues on that particular
facility. What we did is, is we narrowed it down to the eight that we looked really, really closely
at right of way.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, and that was in bucket one, though.
BRIAN WELCH: That's in the federal bucket.
JUDY LUBOW: Right, OK.

BRIAN WELCH: Because we believe that for it to be cost effective from the federal government's
point of view, as soon as you get into right of way, relative to the other 28 or the other 50, it's just
too problematic.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much. And thank you for your work. Is there-- I think we're
done with our questions. So let's-- and it looks like we're done with our updates. OK, so next up is
other matters. Are there other matters? Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks, so two weeks ago I was in Jacksonville in Minneapolis, first for the
Transit Board Members Conference and then I went to Minneapolis for the Leadership APTA. I'm
on the Leadership APTA Committee, and we got to tour some of their facilities also. One thing I
learned, everybody has a driver shortage. There's no getting around that. That's just a national
phenomenon. And we're doing all we can and they're doing all they can to pull in drivers. But that's
the downside of a good economy. It's an employee's market.
Some, most, a lot, are also experiencing rider shortfalls. And as Mr. Walker, no relation, said last
week, that the price of cars has come down. The price of gas is somewhere around $2.20 now. So
it's easy to drive, and even though it's not really convenient, in a lot of instances, the feeling of that
I know where that car is, even if I know I'm going to be stuck in traffic for 10 minutes, at least I
know I'll be in my car. So that's a lot of what's driving that.
JTA, Jacksonville, is doing some pretty good things with their BRT and their monorail. It's going
to be a BRT, slash, monorail-- slash monorail system. It'll be a rubber tired monorail that will come
down off of the rails and mix with traffic. They're also building a new headquarters right above
their monorail system, which is really interesting. You went on that tour, right? Yeah, so that's
pretty exciting. They're going to have all kinds of services in that. Also, they have some
development opportunities on the land across the street from them. Let's see, one interesting thing
that they did was, they tried to serve an area right near Jacksonville Beach. Didn't work. So they
took their buses away, their 40-footers away, and they're supporting bike transit, those bike
rickshaws. I can't remember what they're called, but there was bike chariots.
PEGGY CATLIN: Pedicabs
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, pedicabs, thank you-- pedicabs. So they're supporting that, kind of like
what we do with Inglewood's-- it's not the trolley anymore-- the Inglewood trolley now. We also
took a ride on-- when I was in Minneapolis, I took a ride on their BRT line. I think that's called
their C line. And they experienced-- once they spaced out the stops and they made some
improvements to the specific stops, they got a lot of ridership. I think the ridership just about
doubled in that corridor along Plymouth Avenue, Plymouth Avenue North in Minneapolis.
So they've had a lot of success in that. It's more frequent service, folks don't need to schedule
anymore. It comes about every 10, 15 minutes. And it replaced a line that used to come every 45
minutes or 35. Sometimes it would come 35, 40 minutes. So anyway, those are just some of the
things that I observed. If you have any other questions, let me know and I'll do my best to answer
them. That's it, thanks.

JUDY LUBOW: All right, thank you very much. I don't see anyone else for other matters. Our
next meeting date is October 8th. And this meeting is adjourned.

