Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on October 16, 2008
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

October 16, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on October 16, 2008 at
8:00 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

O’Neill Quinlan, Chair; Barbara Brohl, Bill Christopher, Bruce Daly, Daryl
Kinton, Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer, and
Barbara Yamrick
Lee Kemp, Bill Elfenbein, Noel Busck, Wally Pulliam, and Juanita Chacon.

Staff Present:

Bill Van Meter, Rick Clarke, Paula Perdue, Henry Stopplecamp, Marla Lien,
Mike Turner, Genevieve Hutchison, Jerry Nery, Scott Reed, John Shonsey,
Carol Duecker, and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn (The Rocky Mountain News)
****

Call to Order

Director Quinlan called to the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.

Chair Quinlan asked for a motion to move into Executive Session to discuss CRS 24-6-402(4)(e)
Railroad Negotiations Update. Wally Pulliam moved and Dave Ruchman seconded.
Executive Session adjourned at 8:15 p.m.
1.

Recommended Actions:
 Approval of Contract Amendment to Parsons Brinkerhoff for Advanced Preliminary
Engineering for Denver Union Station
Rick Clark, Senior Program Manager, FasTracks Implementation, explained that this is
similar to what was done earlier this evening on the East Corridor. This is design
only and not construction. Specific work to be done is listed in the Board Report.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute a Contract Amendment
with Parsons Brinkerhoff (PB) for the Advanced Preliminary Engineering
Design and continued preliminary design of Amtrak/Ski train and Commuter
Rail access into Denver Union Station in the amount not to exceed
$5,000,000.
The total current contract amount, including previous

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on October 16, 2008
Page 2
amendments, is $23,096,279. This amendment will increase the contract
value to $28,096,279. This amendment is required to maintain the
anticipated Design Build (D/B) schedule.
It is also recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $3,300,000
from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide the full funding for the
contract amendment. This action will accelerate funding programmed in the
DUS Budget for 2009 to allow for the Advanced Preliminary Engineering
Design and continued preliminary design for the Amtrak/Ski train and
Commuter Rail access into Denver Union Station. The Contingency Reserve
will be replenished from DUS project funds in the 2009 budget.

2.

Motion:

Director Ruchman made a motion to
forward this action to the full Board at the
October 21, 2008 Board Meeting

Second:

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Updates
 Bikes on Transit Demand and DUS Bike Station Update
Bill Van Meter, Senior Manager of Systems Planning presented to the board the Bike-nRide Update. The demand for bikes on buses, bikes on light rail and bicycle parking has
increased tremendously, not only at RTD but also around the nation.
RTD has internal committee which meets monthly to:
 Evaluate and implement feasible solutions
 Produce customer communication outlining the evaluation process and steps
forward.
 Consists of Bus and LRT operations, Customer Service, Planning and
Development and Facilities Staff.
There will also be a Bicycle Advisory Group: to provide an avenue for customer input into
the RTD bike-transit planning process. It will be made up of local bicycle advocates,
city/county planners, and TMO/TMA representatives.
RTD staff is looking into a newer three bike holder. The older version had safety and
clearance concerns.
Funding for bike station at DUS is yet to be determined.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on October 16, 2008
Page 3



DUS Update
Marla Lien, General Council gave a Denver Union Station Update. Items discussed were:
Denver Union Project Authority
Financing
Property Sales
HOV Lanes
Amtrak
Please refer to handout for specifics.

3.

Other Matters –
No other matters were discussed.

4.

Next Meeting - The next FasTracks Monitoring Committee will be held on Thursday,
November 6, 2008.

5.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Director Quinlan declared the meeting adjourned at 8:42
p.m.

