2021-04-27 RTD Study Session
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Mr. Davidson, you've got the floor.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. And I know not all of us are here.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: It looks like we are recording. Someone hit the Recording button. So I don't-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Oh, did somebody hit-- did somebody hit-- are we good?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yes, go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: All right. Good evening, everyone. I will now call to order the study session
for Tuesday, April 27, 2021, to order. We are convened as of 5:32 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would
respectfully ask everyone in the meeting to ensure that your phones are muted and that your readers are
set to silent.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during tonight's proceedings, I would ask that you please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call
you before proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the
proceedings.
For any directors or staff participating by phone, please remember that you can indicate that you would
like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, then press star 6.
As is our custom, I'm going to begin the meeting with the brief safety moment. Here are five reasons to
still wear a face mask and social distance after you've been vaccinated. One, it takes time for the vaccine
to kick in. You will not reach the 90%-plus effectiveness rate until two weeks after your second dose of
the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine. For the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, you're considered fully vaccinated
after two weeks only after your single shot.
Two, the vaccines do not provide 100% protection. Although the vaccinations are incredibly effective, they
only offer 94% to 95% protection. So there is no way to tell who the 5% will be who don't respond to the
vaccine and will still be at risk for COVID-19.
Three, those of you who have been vaccinated might be asymptomatic spreaders. Experts are concerned
that vaccinated people can still become infected without symptoms and then spread it to others who have
not been vaccinated yet.
Four, we still need to protect those with compromised immune systems and those who cannot be
vaccinated. So even if you're fully vaccinated, it's recommended to steer clear of those considered high
risk and those who are not vaccinated.
And then there's five. There are still limited doses of the vaccine, and there are more than 330 million
people in the United States. Experts say that 50% to 80% of the population will need to be vaccinated to
return to the community, which could take us through the end of 2021 or beyond. OK. So this evening,
before I start I'd like to do a roll call, and then I will go to this evening's agenda. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Second Vice Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I am here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yep.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: First Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: And I am here, so we have all 15 Board members present this evening.
Tonight, we're going to be hearing a presentation from our General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson.
This presentation is in regards to the road to recovery from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the
agency's service and our finances. She will also be discussing a process called design thinking, which will
lay the groundwork for our strategic planning efforts with the Board.
Now following the presentation, the General Manager will take questions and comments from the Board.
So without further ado, I'm going to turn it over to our General Manager. Good evening, General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Good evening, Madam Chair, and good evening to all of you that are virtually
assembled. Before I delve in, I just want to share that this will be an engaging process, and the elements
of my presentation is just to orient you all on how our engagement will occur.
I'd be remiss not to acknowledge I have invited our strategic planning partners to listen in. So we do have
Mark Aesch on the call with TransPro as well as Ehren Bingaman who is on the call as well, because
quite naturally, there's intersectionality with all of this. So I want to manage expectations as we go through
this design thinking process.
And we're learning to be empathetic and defining what a problem is, recognizing we're not going to walk
away tonight as a fait accompli. This is going to be iterative. So with that, I have my colleague, Pauletta
Tonilas, who is going to actually help run the presentation tonight as we go through this. So if you're
ready, Ms. Tonilas, you can pull up the presentation, and we can get going.
All righty. So thank you very kindly. And once again, good evening, Madam Chair, members of the Board,
and to all who are virtually assembled. I am Debra Johnson, the General Manager and CEO of the
Regional Transportation District.

And this evening's study session is centered upon RTD's road to recovery. Basically, the post COVID-19
pandemic. And I'm looking forward to engaging with all of you and approaching our path forward by
utilizing design thinking. Next slide, please.
So the slide before you illustrates what I will cover to orient us to the design thinking process. Briefly, I will
revisit our current status, then ask you to think about what recovery means from your respective vantage
points. I will then introduce the design thinking process in a high-level fashion, and then put the first three
phases of design thinking and process with all of you that will be the basis of our engagement this
evening. And lastly, round out with next steps.
So as we all know, we remain in the midst of a global pandemic. Our service remains at 60% of what it
was in early March of last year. Social distancing remains in effect. Hence, capacity limits on our vehicles
remain, which is 15 customers per a 30-foot bus, 20 customers per a 40-foot bus, and 30 customers per
rail car.
While mask mandates have been lifted for people while they're outdoors, masks must still be worn when
waiting for or using public transit. My team and I are currently evaluating if we should move to 50% of
seating capacity on board our vehicles for our impending service change in June.
Recognizing some COVID protocols have been listed as I just described, when I reported out last
Tuesday at the Board meeting as well during my General Manager report, I am proceeding with caution
as the current seven-day case rate per 100,000 people within Denver as of 5:00 PM today is 186 cases
per Denver Public Health and Environment's website. That is significantly above the stated level blue rate
of 36 to 100 cases per 100,000 people.
While there has been numerous conversations about the decrease in COVID cases and increase in
vaccination in recent weeks nationwide, two issues continue to vex Colorado public health officials. Rising
hospitalization, particularly among younger adults, and disproportionate percentages of Latinx and Black
Coloradans who are not vaccinated.
RTD does remain flexible as CRRSAA and American Rescue Recovery Plan Act has-- the funding has
greatly supported our ability to deliver service by ensuring we can maintain our essential workforce. Next
slide, please.
Considering what I just shared, there is a great amount of ambiguity as relates to our immediate future.
Recognizing a vast population of our Black and brown communities are not getting vaccinated, the timing
of herd immunity is unknown, telework and on-campus construction have impacted major activity centers
such as major employment sites in Denver's central business district, the Denver Tech Center, the
Anschutz Center in Aurora, as well as educational institutions in Denver and Boulder.
We must ensure we maintain staffing levels to abide by social distancing protocols on board our buses
and trains while attrition is still continuing with retirement separations, be they medical, voluntary, or nonvoluntary. All are important factors to have top of mind.
So I ask each of you to think about, what does it mean to recover? Is it going back to what we had prepandemic, recognizing that life has changed, thus habits have changed, and doing business as unusual
has become usual? I.e., we're all assembled right now virtually. Uber Eats probably has delivered a
couple of your meals.
So what is it? Is it volume? Should we deploy a level of service with the attitude, they will come? Or
should we think about the quality of service we are providing over the quantity of service?

Is it equity, recognizing that we have cumbersome fares that are hard to comprehend? We cannot
continue to proceed with false expectations of leveraging pilot programs that sunset at six months when
there has been no fair equity analysis conducted. The same applies to service and the terms of ensuring
that minority populations and low-income populations are not disproportionately burdened and/or
disparately impacted.
Is it viable and seamless accessibility to activity centers 24 hours a day with 10 to 15-minute headways?
Or is it greenhouse gas reductions whereby all people in the region benefit as the air is a little cleaner
with less emissions? Now with all that as the backdrop, let's move on to design thinking, which is a
human-centered approach to innovation.
Thinking like designers can transform the way organizations develop products, services, process, and
strategy. This approach brings together what is desirable from a human point of view with what is
technologically feasible and economically viable.
The phrase design thinking describes the element of the practice found to be most learnable and
teachable. Empathy, optimism, iteration, creative confidence, experimentation, and an embrace of
ambiguity and failure.
It also allows people who are not trained as designers to use creative tools to address a vast range of
challenges. Hence, my reason for using this process to address our road to recovery.
So with that as a backdrop, I'd like to delve into the design thinking process, which is extremely useful in
tackling complex problems that are ill-defined or unknown by understanding the human needs involved,
by reframing the problem in human-centric ways, by creating many ideas in brainstorming sessions like
what we endeavor to do this evening, and by adopting a hands-on approach and prototyping and testing.
Now on the slide before you are the five stages of design thinking, but let's quickly explore each phase, if
we can go to the next slide, please.
So empathizing involves finding more about the area of concern through observing, engaging, and
empathizing with people to understand their experiences and motivations, as well as immersing ourselves
in the physical environment to gain a deeper personal understanding of the issues involved. Empathy is
crucial to a human-centered design process such as design thinking.
And empathy allows design thinkers to set aside their own assumptions about the world they know in
order to gain insight into the users and their needs. So for us, we're talking about our customers. What
are their pain points that we need to be empathetic to? Next slide, please.
So to illustrate as we look at defining the problem, instead of doing it in the sense of the problem as your
need, let's use an example of a company that, say, wants to increase its food product market share
among young teenage girls by 5%. So keeping in mind, we have a company. They want to increase food
product market share among young teenage girls by 5%. Reframing and defining the problem in humancentric ways would lead to defining the problem as teenage girls need to eat nutritious food in order to
thrive, be healthy, and grow. Next slide, please.
And this stage is where we have grown to understand our customers and their needs, because we've
empathized and we have analyzed and synthesized our observations in the define stage and ended up
with a human-centric problem statement. With this solid background, we can start to think outside the bus
to identify new solutions to the problem statement we have created, and you can start to look for
alternative ways of viewing the problem. Next slide, please.

So prototyping. This is the experimental phase. And the aim is to identify the best possible solution for
each of the problems identified during the first three stages. The solutions are implemented within the
prototypes, and one by one they are investigated, either accepted, improved and reexamined, or rejected
based on the customer's experiences. So by the end of this stage, the design team will have a better idea
of the constraints inherent to our services and the problems that are present, and have a clearer view of
how real customers will behave and think and feel when interacting with our services.
So the final stage, of course, in the five-stage model is testing. But let's keep in mind, this is an iterative
process. The results generated during the testing phase are often used to redefine one or more problems
and inform the understanding of the users. The conditions of use, how people think, behave, and feel,
and to empathize. Even during this phase, alterations and refinements are made in order to rule out
problems, solutions, and derive as a deep understanding of the services and customers' usage as
possible.
Now, I want to share that recognizing I went through this quickly-- there's five stages-- it doesn't have to
be sequential. These can be happening in tandem as we go forward in recognizing that I'm introducing
this concept. And I do know design thinking can be challenging, because basically we as human beings
always want to rush to solve the problem when we may not actually know what we're solving for.
So while I intend to utilize this process with all of you, I recognize that we're going to have to be flexible
and agile and pivot. This isn't a fait accompli as I said before in recognizing as we delve into this, you all
have constituents in which you represent. You all are users of our system.
So I think tonight, if anything, we are trying to gather information, because the end result ultimately is
what it is that our customers need. And you've heard me say countless times, we have to go to where the
people are. So whatever it is that we do discuss, it's going to be paramount that we go out and talk with
our customers to ascertain, is this a pain point for you? And what can we do in being the providers of the
service be better at to serve your needs? Because we don't know what we don't know at this juncture,
because there are so many different important factors.
So with that, if you have any questions at this time, I'm more than happy to address those. But I want to
be clear, I want to ensure that we have an opportunity to share ideas, understand the pain points that you
want to bring forward. And as we go through this process, this isn't a one and done. We will be engaging.
And as I shared before, with TransPro being on the call, as we work in earnest to discern what our
success outcomes are, all of these different elements come into play. And what I find to be interesting, we
were going to have this discussion back in March, recognizing that TransPro had yet to join us being
partners, that sometimes things happen for a reason, and this is all coming full circle. So with that, I will
yield the floor, Madam Chair, and see if any of our esteemed Board members have any questions before
we delve in and start with the empathizing stage. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: All right. Thank you very much. If you would like to speak, please raise your
virtual hand. I'm going to start with Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I apologize. I always have questions. But GM CEO
Johnson, thank you so much. I am remiss that we will be engaging in the infamous D school gift-giving
exercise.
But my experience with design thinking has been that it's important that we sort of understand when we're
seeking to empathize, we are such a large organization and would love some-- and I imagine us going
through this process in many different aspects of all of our operations. Would you mind just for the

purposes of tonight, what is-- where are we seeking to empathize? What are we applying this sort of
design thinking to? Or are we really intentionally keeping it broad?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Dishell, so I had that question posed to me by another Board member, and
recognizing that I know we want to have a better understanding about the possibilities. I'm not being
prescriptive. I do have something in mind, recognizing we had a myriad of different services. We have
different customer segments.
But for all intents and purposes, as we get to what we're trying to define and what that may be, it's
basically starting here relative to, what are our customer pain points? Because once we can start with
empathizing, that will in turn help us identify the problem for which we're trying to solve. Does that help
you?
BOBBY DISHELL: It does. Yes. Thank you. So actually, may I clarify? Because what I heard is this is
really a, let's put it all out there. And then iterate on each of those sort of subsequently.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, sir. I would say that's fair.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: All right. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you, Chair. I will keep it quite simple. I just wanted to say thank you to CEO
and General Manager Johnson. I have used design thinking for many years in the engineering realm and
product realm. I think it is a fantastic framework for us to bring here. And Ms. Johnson, I just wanted to
say thank you very much for bringing this to RTD. For what it's worth for fellow Board members, I think
this will be a fantastic experience. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Director Davidson. I appreciate your comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I actually have one comment and one question. The
comment-- well, actually, I have two questions and a comment. The first comment is around the design
thinking. I'm really, really excited about it. I'm especially excited about the five steps and more specifically
the empathy, because I think there's really value in hearing stories-- the stories of those who utilize our
services. And so really appreciate you, General Manager, bringing this conversation forward.
The question I have for you with the design thinking is around regional equity or regional empathy, or
regionally this process. I think one of the things that I'm trying to figure out how we operationalize or how
they-- how it takes place in this conversation is, how do we ensure that we are looking at the region of
transit, and not just a specific area, and doing so in a way that's empathetic and equitable and all of those
things? And so I just wonder, at what point in this process or how is that embedded in this process that
we are really staying global in our thinking throughout this process and maybe not so micro?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Madam Chair, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Director Lewis, recognizing that we do have a very broad-ranging system and a
service area in and of itself, right? So recognizing that there's going to be different pain points for different
customer segments. But I would surmise that we have similar customer segments throughout the district.
We may have customers with disabilities. We have students in different aspects of our district.

And so basically, in reference to talking about equity holistically when we talk about those things,
recognizing that we are about to embark on a fair study and equity analysis, that is done system-wide,
because we have to look at the plethora of our service area when we are making decisions holistically,
because it's that complement from which we use census data to inform ourselves.
So I am looking through the lens from a holistic vantage point. There could be some aspect when we talk
about service whereby micro transit may work better in some aspect of the district where a 60-foot
articulated bus may work better in another aspect. So I believe that all of those will come out as we have
conversations relative to going to where the people are and discerning what the needs are that the
customers have. And then how we can be quick to pivot and address those by going through the
prototyping phases and doing all those things.
In addition to creating baselines with surveys, I think that will enable us to capture what it is that we're
seeking to provide service on a regional basis. I hope that addresses your question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It absolutely does, and it does so beautifully, so I really, really appreciate you taking
the time to do that. And then this is going back to maybe one of the things you gave us an update on
regarding the-- potentially moving to the 50% maximum passenger capacity. Is that something that we will
have further discussions on?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Most definitely. So as I was sharing-- and perhaps it didn't come across-- recognizing
that when we spoke last week, we are monitoring where we are and recognizing that there are public
health orders that are spanning our district. But all of those public health departments are working in
tandem.
So what we're going to do is we're looking at these. And having just met with our Assistant General
Manager and Chief Safety Officer earlier this afternoon, we have to ensure that this is not just some kind
of blip in reference to a trend line. We want to ensure that there is continuity. So recognizing there is a
timeline set for May 16 when health officials are looking at different protocols to be modified, and then
there's another line in the sand for June 16. We in turn are doing that and are monitoring that closely.
And I've made a commitment to you all, I will keep you apprised as I did at the last Board meeting. And
we will ensure that information is communicated out so you have an understanding for your constituents'
understanding of what we're doing going forward.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And I know-- I know that input of a myriad of stakeholders is
important for you. And I guess I wonder how we might include operators in this conversation, because I
wonder if there might be some routes-- and maybe this is more of-- this is happening more often on some
routes than others, that that 50% might already be reached based on that 20% capacity from the CDC.
And so I hope that we might-- while the data might be anecdotal, bring some of that into the conversation
as we are consistently monitoring.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you very much, Director Lewis. And I know Michael Ford and Fred
Worthen and Dave Jensen are working in tandem, and they keep me apprised. And we do have
communication forms. We work in tandem with our union. And basically, we do need to hear from our
operators. We can look at all the data that we want, but they're actually on the front lines and know what's
happening on board their vehicles. So all of this comes into play as we make informed decisions to move
forward.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, and I was just going to say-- no, no. I was just going to say, because quite
naturally, we want to ensure that they're in a place where they're safe. And that's why I'm saying that
there's great trepidation as we look forward to making any decisions, because we have to ensure that we
have employees readily available to provide service.
Because keeping in mind, if somebody's exposed, if they don't contract COVID, we still have to
quarantine them. Therefore, that means we are down an operator or two or three or four, and that impacts
our ability to provide service as well. So that's top of mind.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And that's all I had. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you,
General Manager.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Second Vice Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. So just a quick question, but I'll preface it by saying, you
know, when you run for office, it necessarily entails lots and lots of conversations. For me, there's nothing
like it. You know, knocking on doors or meeting people at forums or standing in front of the King Soopers,
or whatever it might be. You engage people in ways that you-- it's a singular experience. You otherwise
wouldn't get that opportunity. And in some ways, you get to empathize.
But here's my question. When you talk customers, I want to clarify that. For me, the universe of
customers are people who are currently riding or people who want to ride, or maybe people who even
could ride. Is that a fair characterization of finding our customers' pain points?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you so much, Director Cook. That's a great question. When I use
customers, I'm talking about active customers, because basically, there could be three-- I use the three
R's for me. I have-- the three R's are Retaining customers, Reclaiming customers, and Recruiting
customers. So I'm talking about the ones that we currently have.
But on the flip side of that, we do have to ascertain why people aren't utilizing our system. And when I talk
about going to where the people are, that's like going to an activity center, right? And what I qualify as
activity centers, as I said before, they're major points of destination whereby there's a lot of activity. Could
be an employment site, medical centers, shopping areas, and things of the like.
And what I've done in past positions, do intercepts with those people and ask them, hey, here's a viable
means of transport right here. Why is it that you didn't take public transportation?
So getting back to your question specifically in the context that I'm talking about here, I'm talking about
current customers. But as I said before, this is why we're having this dialogue. It's not prescriptive. So if
we're talking about why people aren't utilizing our service and what we can do to attract them, then that's
a pain point as well. So everything's out on the table, and I appreciate you posing that question.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: OK. I don't see anyone else in the queue. Does anyone else on the Board
have a question or a comment for the General Manager? Please raise your virtual hand. General
Manager, I am not seeing anyone.
You did a great job. But let me just-- let me just say this. I was-- when you talked about holistic districtwide plans of action, I think for me that's huge in terms of the diversity in every single district that we
represent. And particularly now that we're going into a census recount kind of stuff, it looks to me like we
will have some changes. I don't know what they will be. I'm just kind of thinking outside of the box. But
could you talk a little bit more about your vision in terms of the district-wide vision?

DEBRA JOHNSON: So as it relates to a district-wide vision for me, I think it's imperative that there's
several things that need to take place as I bring that to fruition, right? I think for anything, it is ensuring
that people have access to our system. And part of that in and of itself is ensuring that they can afford to
utilize the system.
So recognizing that we're embarking upon this fair study and equity analysis of which you guys will be
getting information, as I promised before the end of the month, that lays out our groundwork for that. It
enables us to have a level playing field, because we need to be working from a common set of facts.
So as we go forward trying to leverage different fare structures that are of benefit to our diverse
population within the region, that is something that I see being first and foremost. Because when we talk
about accessibility, if you can't afford to utilize the system, it doesn't really matter how accessible it is,
right? So that's something in and of itself.
Quite naturally, with TransPro being on the call and with you all's support in engaging them, we have to
align around our north star, recognizing what our success outcomes are, because I think that will enable
us to work toward commonalities as relates to putting us on better footing. When I accepted this job and
came into this organization, I knew that there was a lot of opportunity in leveraging engagement.
And so that is first and foremost, as you all know. I say I'm a person in the people business, and we are
people that make up this organization. And without people being within our district, there be no need for
any of us, because we wouldn't have people to transport.
So for me, it is basically bridging those gaps. And by doing that, we have to understand how we're going
to go about doing that holistically. With my team in conjunction with you as the policy body, creating that
alignment around what it is we're working for-- toward, and then being able to communicate in that-- in
such a way that people have an understanding of what the Regional Transportation District represent.
So that's what I would qualify as my vision at this point in time, recognizing that by June, once we go
through our collective exercises, that may morph some way. But I am flexible and agile as relates to what
it is that we need to do, because first and foremost, it's providing viable public transportation. Because
transportation, public transportation, is the great society equalizer. And so that is something that is very
imperative to me as we go forward and recognizing what we can do. And it's also a great economic
generator as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: OK. Thank you. I'll call again. Does anybody else have a comment or a
question for our General Manager?
BOBBY DISHELL: Are we empathizing?
DEBRA JOHNSON: We're going to transition so we can do that. Just wanted to make sure that
everybody-- if they had questions before we got started.
BOBBY DISHELL: Sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So I'm going to-- if you can just bear with us for a moment, Pauletta's going to switch
out the presentation so we can actually capture what's going on right now. So with that, Madam Chair, I
will yield the floor back to you as we talk about empathizing and recognizing it is the human-centric
approach in reference to understanding people's pain points. And we're talking about the RTD system. So
with that, I yield the floor to all of you, and let's see where your ideas rest as it relates to the empathy
phase.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Well, I would like to start, if I could, because it's something I've been
thinking a lot about. And one of the big issues is for me going to where the customers are-- bus stops,
park and rides-- and talking to them there, doing intercepts where they are gathering organically, waiting
for our services to find out what the issues are. I think that that is a respectful way of engaging our
patrons so that they don't need to go out of their way because they are so busy working and making ends
meet. Thank you. Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I'm-- [LAUGHS] you'll have to forgive me, because I'm not
used to this process yet. So I might be on, like, the next step or something, so-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: That's OK. [LAUGHS]
DEBRA JOHNSON: We're flexible and agile. I recognize change is hard.
VINCE BUZEK: Good. So another thing I think can really be beneficial in terms of your third R, your
recruiting new riders, the state legislature is giving us a prime opportunity for us to work with our TMOs
who are working diligently on the ETRP legislation that's coming to fruition at some point in time.
And I think RTD needs to be the ETRP solution for employers, and work with TMOs and TMAs throughout
the metro area who are working with the employers to see what they need. What are they needing? If
they're going to have to reduce trip miles by their employees, they can do it a number of ways, right?
They can do remote working.
But there are a lot of jobs that require people to be there, and what do you do about those people? How
do you reduce their trip miles? Put them on a bus, put them on a train. So I think it's a great opportunity
for us, and the legislature's handing it to us.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. So if I can, Director Buzek, so rec-- and like I said, this will be organic. I know
design thinking is new for people, and I think these are great suggestions as we go forward. So really
working with the TMOs as we look to be a solution, because they're representing so many different
employers and so forth, correct?
VINCE BUZEK: Correct.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. And so we can understand what our customer needs are through the TMOs,
because people going to work are actually utilizing our services.
VINCE BUZEK: Absolutely. You bet. Thanks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, you're on mute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Oh. Sorry. Thank you. And then I would just add that the TMOs have direct
relationships with those businesses. And so they have a grassroots connection there. Director Rosenthal,
I see you next.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. Actually, Madame Chair, to build on kind of what you said, you had
mentioned sort of like making sure that we're picking people up at bus stops, park and rides, and things
like that, garages. And just to build on that, I think what people are wanting is door to door. So if I'm
leaving my condo, going out to East Jefferson, saying, OK. I'm going to get in a, like, say, a metro taxi or
on Uber, a FlexRide ride.
And then go door to door, or at least as seamless as possible and as fast as possible, as cheap as
possible. So I think people are looking for that convenience. They're looking for, how do we make sure it's
fast, cheap, and with the least amount of exchanges and transfers?
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. If I may-- so Director Rosenthal, so when you're talking about bus stops, park
and rides, door to door-- and I'm going to ask these questions, if you guys don't mind, since we're

engaging-- recognizing you've talked to your customers, is this what they're saying? I'm just trying to get a
feel as we go forward.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I think it's more folks that I work with particularly who are saying, look, they would
take RTD more, but it just doesn't go as quickly or to where they want to go.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. OK. Thank you so much. That's what I was trying to figure out, because
oftentimes that's what it is, right? And as we leverage different applications, you know, the team has done
a great job with that. But hey, if I can get Uber quicker than I can wait for a bus and it doesn't get me
where I need to go, then how can we look at that and modify somewhat and understand that pain point?
So thank you, sir.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Right. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Next I see Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think that we need to listen to the viewpoints of our
constituents even if we don't agree with them. And I'm going to give you a quick example.
The other day, I spent some time in Union Station and in the bus concourse with one of my constituents. I
did not view it as an uncomfortable place to be or see anything wrong, but my constituent had a different
viewpoint. And so I needed to go there and hear how she felt about it, even though it wasn't the same that
I felt about it. So I think that we need to be open to stuff. Even if it is-- doesn't appear to be justifiable to
us, that's still how people who are riding those feel.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Director Williams. You nailed it. That's the whole design thinking process,
right? Understanding what our customers' viewpoints are and being able to adapt to that. So thank you,
ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: OK. Thank you, Director Williams. I have Director Dishell next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. I want to empathize with our customers' frustration. And this
is something that I see and have seen for the past few years as I use both the 0 primarily and the FF1
and FF2, which is that individuals are frustrated when they get onto the bus and this is observed, and do
not know where it's going or how much it costs.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mm-hmm.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: All right. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to-- I guess first-- we'll first start with a
question for Ms. Johnson. You mentioned customer segments. Have we gone through an exercise listing
out all of our customer segments So we can categorize problems, voice of customer, those types of
things? Have we gone through that exercise?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, we have not, Director Davidson. While we do have information pertaining to that,
our team, we were just having a discussion-- gosh. Was it yesterday? Is today Tuesday? Yesterday as it
relates to creating that baseline so we have an understanding of what that is.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, great. Yeah. I think that would-- it would be really interesting to start from-- and
look at a list of our customer segments and kind of seek to get the voice of the customer from each of
those segments.

One thing that certainly occurs to me, especially being in the region that I happen to be up here, is
certainly one segment. And as you mentioned, Ms. Johnson, those who are traveling to activity centers.
And you know, hospitals and health care facilities are certainly one that are top of mind I think for all of us
this past year, be them patients or employees.
One question that I have-- and I believe, Ms. Johnson, you alluded to it earlier-- is why are people not
riding at those centers? In many of those activity centers, we retained riders throughout this awful year.
And I don't know what the percentage is. Do we have 10%, 20% of folks at those activity centers? How
might we be able to increase percentages in kind of those specific customer segments?
And that's one question that I would have that comes to mind is going to those types of places, call it a
hospital, and interviewing folks who ride and interviewing folks who do not, and seeking to understand
how we might be able to solve problems for additional customers. So anyway, I thought I would just kind
of hone in on that since Ms. Johnson, I heard you allude to that. It's an intriguing question given some of
the centers certainly in the area that I'm in. And then again, I think the customer segment question would
be an interesting one to start from.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Davidson. And I think that basically has clear cut
nexus to what Secretary Buzek said when we're talking about working with the TMOs and what's
happening at the state level, because recognizing that a lot of the large activity centers are leveraging the
support of the transportation management organizations and agencies. So yes, thank you very much for
that. I think that that's a prime example of what this is all about here as we discern, well, how we could
best provide services to those individuals, and understanding why they may not be riding because it's not
convenient or we're not going to where they need to go relative to their places of residence, and so forth.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Next, I have Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. So Debra, you asked a really important question, it seems
like to me, at the very beginning of the presentation. And that was, what is recovery?
And I think the implication is, is it even realistic or desirable to go back to what was sort of the norm prepandemic? And to me, it seems like with all that's happening, the likely changes, what's happening
nationally and statewide, it's more-- the charge we have now is in looking at what we do, leaping into the
future beyond the pandemic.
And just this week, the Biden administration set the new standards for greenhouse gas emissions. So I'm
going to offer this as kind of a prequel to what Vince Buzek had suggested, and that is-- here, I'm quoting
from Vox. "It's an ambitious target that would require sweeping changes across US society." It goes on to
talk about necessary changes in behavior.
And so in thinking about that future and the people in the region who-- you know, all of our customers,
potential customers who are now being-- they have a sweeping mandate to change their behaviors, their
habits, if they're riding with us, they may be compelled to ride more if they're not riders.
So I'd like to, in empathy fashion, focus on what that's going to mean for people, that dramatic change.
How do we get a handle on that? And yes, work with our TMAs and other partners to do that, the people
who are in touch. Engage them, take advantage of their touchpoints, and find out what that's going to be
like and how we can be part of that solution. So thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I-- I agree with what Director Cook was saying. I think that's all good
thoughts. In terms of sort of empathizing with our customer segments, you know, two that come to mind
to me are certainly our-- the ones we've been serving, our low-income, transit-dependent essential
workers that-- people for whom paying the bus fare is a big-- a big commitment. And so I think we need to
be thinking about the pain points for people in that situation-- in those situations.
And sort of maybe a different customer segment is that I'm hearing increasingly, just in the last maybe
three, four weeks, two or three weeks, for people for whom they're starting to go back to work, or they
can't get to work where our buses are starting later than they used to, or they're not going to the same
areas, because that's becoming a big source of frustration and something that I think we need to address.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate Director Buzek's comments regarding the TMAs
and TMOs. But there are segments of our overall district that are [INAUDIBLE] or maybe it's one that's
starting up.
And I guess I would really like to acknowledge the frustration, similar to what Director Guissinger said,
about those abandoned customers. There are a number of them who were abandoned service cuts and
are waiting with frustration to see if and when there may be [INAUDIBLE] or service that they had counted
on as they were going on to work. That's what I'm kind of hearing. So it's just-- it's just an
acknowledgment, but [INAUDIBLE]. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair. How am I coming through, internet-wise?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: [INAUDIBLE]
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, good. There's a storm down here in Lone Tree. I might have needed to call on
Director Lewis's help, so I appreciate that it's coming clearly.
I just wanted to make just two points. My curiosity, just as myself starting out as a choice rider with RTD
was kind of having empathy for potential future riders, and then choice riders, and then of course our
current readership regarding ease of access of using our RTD, as well as how much information do we
need to know in actually finding, what is the right ride for an individual? How much can an individual
advocate for themselves based on the information resources we have?
And then Director Lewis brought it up earlier, but I did want to make sure that we have it down on paper,
that empathizing for our employees and our operators I think is also very key since those are both our
lifelines. So thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Director Bouquet, when you used the term choice, you were talking about the
discretionary customer, those that have other options that choose to utilize the system when they have
other options readily available, correct?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. Yes, correct. So I mean, I'm just coming at it from a lens of a very suburban
district in which many people will choose to drive their cars. But if they have the option, how can we make
it as an ease for potential riders to actually use RTD? That would just be my comment. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just-- I have a few comments as with regards to
empathizing. And what comes to mind for engaging and empathizing for me is understanding their
experiences and their motivations while also immersing ourselves in their physical environment.

And I said that I think Director Rivera-Malpiede mentioned going to where the folks are, and I
wholeheartedly support that, and I love it. And this aspect of storytelling, right? Like, the opportunity to
hear the stories of the individuals who are utilizing our services or who would like to utilize our services so
that we can truly understand what the problems are and the frustrations are that might exist.
And to take that one step further, to really share in their cultures and their cultural aspects in ways that I
don't know we've done-- in ways that I think would be beneficial. And so I don't think about us just going
to-- I think in addition to us going to bus stops and going to park and rides, but also, like, are there
community hubs or events where people might gather where we might be able to go to them?
And it's not just an RTD event, but we're co-creating and collaborating with other agencies as well. So you
might be able to grab a vaccine or buy a piece of art from someone in the community or learn about a
daycare center in the community, or different resources. And so those are the things that I'm thinking
about in terms of empathizing, is really immersing ourselves in their environments as well, and immersing
ourselves in their culture so that we can begin to encourage that ridership.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: All right. Thank you so much, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Madam General Manager, that is all that's in the queue under empathy. I
think we can go now into "id-eate." Is it "id-eate?" Am I saying that correctly?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Ideate. Ideate. And now it's really defining the problem. So recognizing that we have
all of this. So looking at what the problem is in humanistic terms. Now, while we do have these aspects up
that some relate to empathy and some talk about how we can garner a better understanding of our
customer pain point.
Recognizing, I said, we can be flexible and agile, I do want to reflect on some of the comments that were
raised, because I think they were very spot-on in relationship about the opportunities for us as we go
forward to discern how we would travel forward. No pun intended with the traveling forward.
But recognizing that we-- [LAUGHS] recognizing that we need to figure out how we can understand our
customer segments. I am basically flexible. While we could try here to define what we believe the problem
is, we have yet to garner a true understanding of what the pain points are. But I think we have some steps
that we can take to ensure that we are engaging with our customers to better ascertain what those might
be.
So I leave it to all of you. We can try to jump ahead, recognizing that we are doing this in an organic
fashion to define what we believe the problem is based upon, some of the elements that really come from
the empathetic vantage point.
Like I heard, for instance, people are frustrated by the abandoned service that they have, right? We heard
from-- that came from Director Catlin. And then we heard also that basically there is this whole need to
leverage a different means of mobility due to the fact that our buses or trains may not address the needs
of where people need to go, so they're utilizing ride hailing companies and things along those lines.
So I throw that out to see what the pleasure is, because we can go to this phase recognizing that we
may-- we're going to have to double back. And this could be an ongoing process as we tie it in with our
strategic planning. And as we and my-- we being the team, the senior leadership team-- can leverage
some of these aspects of creating a baseline so we're working from a common set of facts. Does that
make sense, what I said?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: It does. Yes.

DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, cool. All right.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Feels like I'm rambling. [LAUGHS]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: No, I don't think so. I mean, I think this is great, organic discussion. Before I
start calling on the Board members who are raising their hands, I would like to start with the whole idea of
people feeling frustrated because there may not be a bus that goes to where they need to go to.
And so I think it is very crucial for us to think about first-last mile connections and partnerships with other
organizations that have shuttles or something to connect people. Bike libraries, electric bike libraries, as
well as Uber and Lyft rides. I think we need to have a suite of services available so that people can
access them. And with that, I'll turn it to Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I want to go someplace completely different. I want to point
out for some of our-- some of my peers here who teach that if you go to school, you get sex education
and you get math education and you get a basketball class and gym. How come we don't do a travel
training program for kids in a school? How come we don't grow up future riders? I'd like to see us partner
with every school district around to encourage kids who are very, very climate-aware that transit is part of
that awareness. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so I guess as I'm also trying to rethink this and look
at each of our current customers, the real core of who we are right now and as we try to attract people
back to RTD, they're sort of like our business travelers, you know? On an airplane. They are the people
who really make the airplane's core business. They make up our core business. And we need to treat
them like gold and understand what makes them all tick, which is exactly why we're doing this.
But I think if we drill down, I think it was Director Dishell that talked about, well, you know, is there like a
map of the network? You know, something like what we have on our trains?
So building on that concept-- like, so you know-- so like, people who are maybe disabled or who have-who are in a wheelchair or what have you, like, if there's snow piled up next to a bus stop, they may not
be able to get onto the bus. Or somebody who's visually impaired, or if it's really cold outside, you know?
The fact-- or raining like it is now. You know, making sure that we are paying real close attention to each
individual.
You know, so like with airplanes, we have frequent traveler miles, you know? We have a path-- I mean,
like a number, you know? And maybe certain people would like to sign on like a frequent traveler with
RTD. And so that way, we know exactly what their preferences are.
So like, when I go in to get my haircut, which isn't a lot, because I don't have a lot to cut, but when I do,
they always know that it's a one and a half and a two and a half. Like, wherever I go.
And so what about wherever some of our riders go? Maybe they want to participate in the program where
we know their preferences. I don't know. I'm just kind of throwing it out there to where, how do we
customize even better for some of our most frequent riders?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Director Rosenthal, actually, that is a common practice with some systems. It's
the loyalty programs, gamification as you go forward. Because basically, you want to entice people to
ride. It gets back to what Director Bouquet was talking about when he referenced the discretionary
customer, right?

For those people that have other options, I may choose to do something else, because I know there's
something in it in the long run. And then basically, I can be a promoter of the system, and I can
encourage my other friends to come along as well.
And to Director Williams's point about travel training. I mean, having worked in different organizations,
yeah, you start them when they're young. They stay in the area. They matriculate, go on to the university
level. Then they get a job, and it's something that they know. And I a couple of you that I spoke with like
Director Bouquet and Director Dishell told me about when they were going to school how they utilized the
system, and now they're on the Board.
So I think there's great merit in reference to what we're all saying here as we go forward, because these
things we can basically look at in detail and come back and leverage this going forward. And this gets
back-- and I know, as I said before with design thinking, that you can move around with the different
phases of this. But some of these elements could be prototyped, right? And we test and we see what
works as we go forward. So thank you very much for that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Are those all your questions, Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: OK, thank you. Before I call on the next Board member, I just want to
remind the Board that we currently have a 70% discount for students up through the age of 19 and free
up to the age of five with a fare-paying adult. Director Dishell, you're next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. And this is actually a request. And I apologize. I know General Manager
and CEO Johnson, you do not want this process to be prescriptive. But in the interest of trying to give as
much fidelity as we can to the design thinking process, would you mind-- or maybe it's Pauletta, whoever
is controlling-- sort of walking us through the example that you gave from empathize to define, just so we
can see those steps and sort of see the thinking that we're trying to do?
Because what I have been hearing is a lot of pointing out of problems and solutions, which I think is great.
But I want to make sure that we're really giving fid-- really approaching the design process with fidelity.
That would certainly be helpful to me, and hopefully helpful to other directors as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So basically, Ms. Tonilas, if we can go back to slide-- there you have it. So
empathize. As we talk about, it's understanding the human needs. And as I said before-- and thank you
very much, Director Dishell-- recognizing that this is a new concept. And some Board members have said
that I've been flexible with this because I'm not trying to be prescriptive in that regard.
But one thing that I want to share is that a lot of things that come out of this, because I wanted to ensure
that you all as Board members had an opportunity to share your ideas and viewpoints. And what I think-or what I know, let me qualify it as such-- with all this information that we have that my team and I can
double back in a finite type of way and basically take the temperature in the sense of getting some
validation with facts as relates to what it is by going out and engaging with customers and doing it in such
a way that we have an understanding of where we need to go.
And I want to ask, since we have Mark Aesch and Ehren Bingaman on the call, recognizing that we're
working on strategic planning, this is something that we could utilize their help with in reference to their
experience in the industry. So Mr. Aesch or Mr. Bingaman, would you like to weigh in on what I just sort of
put you on the hook for in reference to working with us?

MARK AESCH: Sure. Happy to, General Manager. Appreciate your pulling in, and really insightful. If you
watched us scribbling notes here, you'd see an entire book full of notes from what the directors have
shared.
I think that we'll be able to really introduce national conversations that are taking place. We have the
privilege to be able to work with a number of your peer agencies on a national basis. And I think the
structure, General Manager, that you've put in place for this conversation tailored with the unique insights
that each of the Board members have brought from their perspective-- from their unique perspectives is
really setting up beautifully for a statistically valid introduction of both your customers' perspective as well
as the community's perspective, which will very much inform the strategic planning process.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Mr. Aesch. Appreciate that. So Director Dishell, with that as the
backdrop, recognizing where we are, I just wanted to share that we can pivot easily. And you know, as we
go forward, we can be a little agile with this. And I know that some understand design thinking. It's new for
others. But we can morph this as we go forward, so thank you very much.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. And if I may, to sort of put a finer point on defining the problem-- and I think this
has sort of been said in a roundabout way-- but it's that we don't hear the communities. We don't properly
hear the community's needs. And we're not meeting the community where they are.
That would be, in my mind, what I've certainly heard and what I've experienced is that-- or maybe we
don't listen to the community's needs. But really, the other part is that we do not meet the community
where they are. And that is how I would help define the problem.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Director Dishell. And I thank you for that, because that's one
thing that I clearly heard when I was coming into the organization. So thank you, sir.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Dishell, did you get everything that you needed?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. Thank you, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Great. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. A comment Director Rosenthal brought up alluded to the airline
industry. And just as an aside, it kind of makes me wonder why people are comfortable getting into a
metal tube, 200 at a time, sitting shoulder to shoulder for three or four hours, but they don't want to get on
a bus. I don't think it's-- I don't think it's the COVID stuff anymore. I think there are other issues.
But anyway, I really like what Director Williams said about kids and helping them to become climateaware. And I think a lot of our riders and potential riders are people that are climate-aware. And I know a
number of us on this Board have stressed constantly, congestion relief, greenhouse gas reduction, and
things like that.
I mean, RTD needs to be the sustainability option. We need to push that and drive that faster than we
drive our buses and trains, because just like the ETRP, we're getting a lot of things coming down the pike
with regard to greenhouse gas emission reduction. And we can be the solution for that too. So I might be
in the wrong place, and I apologize if I am, but-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: You're fine. You're fine. Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. To repeat Director Bouquet's question, can you
hear me OK?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, thank you. One question that I have as we look at defining the problem is, how can
we appropriately or adequately define the problem before we actually go through the empathy process?

The description and the empathy process was to understand the customer's needs. And that, I believe, is
an important part of defining the problem. If we begin defining the problem before we've gone through that
empathy stage, we might be solving a problem that we see, but we might not be solving a problem that
the customer sees.
And so I liked the idea very much that Director Williams suggested relative to targeting students for
transportation training. But it seems to me that that could include in that transportation training in effect a
survey of what students think about transportation and why they use it or why they don't. Because as you
have pointed out, Madam Chair, there's a 70% discount, so that's a big deal to incentivize them to ride.
I also liked very much Director Lewis's suggestion that for the empathy stage, we actually go out to places
where people are gathering. The problem I have found with trying to talk to people at bus stops and at
train stops, as I've done that several times, is that they're in a hurry. When they get off the train, they just
want to get out, so you're not going to be able to talk to them.
When they are waiting for a train, it depends upon how much time there is. Now, you might be able to
gather several people. And I applaud Director Williams for going down to the Union Station Bus
Concourse and talking to people there, because again, you might have more of an opportunity to get a
little more time out of them.
But it's a real restriction in terms of getting opinions, and that's why Director Lewis's suggestion about
going to other gatherings and co-creating with others those gatherings might give us a better opportunity
for truly creating an empathetic environment and being able to empathize with the problems that they
state. There's more to say, but I'll stop there. I've gone on too long. I've already got, like, six lines of text
there, so I'll stop. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Thank you, Director Tisdale. Before I go to Director Whitmore I
would just like to clarify that my statement about going to bus stops works. When you take an urn of hot
coffee and an urn of hot chocolate early in the morning with donuts, people will stop and talk to you. And
not only that, you have people standing with a survey, asking them questions so they don't have to write
anything. It's very, very customer-oriented.
So I understand what you're saying, but I think there are ways to accommodate their needs rather than us
just assuming that they'll stop by and talk to us. I think there's a lot of stuff we can do. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Good evening, Madam Chair and all. So I risk bringing this up, because it might fit
right into what Director Tisdale said, and assume the problem. Perhaps we need to know more about
that.
But when I think a little bit about my district and the choice riders, I think there is an intimidation factor by
complicated fare structure, and it is easy to just get in your car if you're somebody that has that choice as
opposed to taking the time to learn, figure it out, whatever the case may be.
You know, and that was kind of brought up off and on during accountability committees. I think it was part
of the testimony today by one of the folks on the Accountability Committee that testified in regard to
complex or confusing fares. Is this really a problem? Maybe it's just a select group of folks that are just
too lazy to learn it and don't care about the greenhouse gas issue or have a nice car to drive. But I guess
I'm curious if that really is a problem or not. I think many of us have assumed that, and maybe that's risky.
That's all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Catlin?

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I'm not sure if this is the right spot or not, but it occurred
to me in that info slide, the very last bullet, that one of the-- some of the communities that we are
[INAUDIBLE] and [INAUDIBLE]. And we're kind of talking [INAUDIBLE] focusing, as we should, on our
customers that our [INAUDIBLE].
But the taxpayers want to make sure that they're getting [INAUDIBLE] tax dollars [INAUDIBLE]. And I
think they want to make sure that [INAUDIBLE]. So I, again, I don't know what that is, but that's a pain
point among a lot of general [INAUDIBLE]. those riders, but [INAUDIBLE].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Catlin, I'm having a hard time hearing you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry. Is this better?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Much better. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was too far away. But generally, I just want to make sure that we put the taxpayers in
the equation and that-- that they can be reassured that they're getting a good return on their investment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Pauletta, did you get that? OK. I'm going to assume she did.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Sorry about that. Yeah. I tried to unmute. I got some of it. I can always-- we can
always follow up with you, Director Catlin too, if I'm not capturing all. It was going in and out a little bit.
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: That's OK. Thank you. Any other comments, Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: OK, thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I thought you were going to Director Rosenthal. Thank you.
So I really appreciate this conversation and this dialogue, and agree with many of the comments that
folks have already shared. And I will say that the things that I have to contribute probably fit under safe,
reliable, frequent, and cost-effective service. And so you can categorize them as you may.
But some of the things that I've heard from my constituents is that we criminalize poverty. And when I say
that, this relates directly to fares and how fares are collected. And if folks don't have the $3 at this point to
be able to utilize our services, then they typically get a warning, which can escalate all the way into a
warrant, and then being kicked off of our services. And so I'd like for us to define that as a problem.
I would also like to take the opportunity to talk about access in terms of language. We tend to provide our
collateral and even our communication in English and sometimes Spanish, but really thinking outside of
those languages to see if we might be able to expand to even providing a myriad of language access.
I think Director Whitmore mentioned the complexity of our fare programs and our passes. And I will say
that's true for our customers, but also true for our operators with keeping up with the monthly passes and
the different color changes and the LIVE program or the youth discounts or the senior discounts. I've also
heard that our wayfinding can be confusing, and it's not really intuitive as it may be in other cities. And so
I think there's an opportunity there.
And then armed security for-- it in terms of safety, right? Armed security for some is safety, and the lack of
secur-- the lack of armed security for others is the lack of safety. And so really figuring out how we define
safety within our region and for different communities.
And then finally, Director Tisdale, I wanted to let you know, when I worked at the Regional Transportation
District when the University of Colorado A Line was coming on set, there were a lot of changes to routes
that were happening because of the opening of the University of Colorado A Line.

And we actually went out and we did these events in different communities called Know Your Routes.
And when we were on buses and trains and-- well, mostly buses. Forgive me. When we were on buses
and at bus stops and at park and rides, we would actually give them the information, like, in collateral
form and tell them that they can learn more if they attended these four events. And so they had a number
of events in which they could choose from, and we'd work in partnership with the community hubs to get
folks there, but also to offer things that they needed.
So there are ways in which you can offer and there are ways in which you can execute on it. But I do
agree that it can be kind of difficult to get-- to give folks a lot of information in a short time. But you can
give them some information quickly and tell them where they can go to find additional information if that's
online or in person. That concludes my remarks. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. And so it seems like a problem statement in the form
that design thinking-- that your example gave earlier. You know, in order to thrive in our region, people
will need to have a lot of options for getting around that aren't just using an SOV or that do not emit is
much in the way of greenhouse gas.
So I would say that's a problem statement that maybe we don't-- maybe we are a facilitator of options, or
maybe we provide that service, or maybe we partner with others to help address it. But I think focusing on
that need for people to have readily accessible and sort of customized options for getting around beyond
just an SOV would be a problem statement.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. All right. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. This is my third bite at the apple here, so my apologies to my fellow
directors for talking so much. But I'm really kind of building on what everybody's saying. And I know we
can probably talk to all the different riders and the different types of people who do take RTD.
But I'd like to mention our bicyclists, and I do follow them quite closely, what they're talking about on
Twitter and what they're doing in the community. I'm not a bicyclist, because I'm not very good on two
wheels. But I can say that they are looking for better routes, particularly on bicycle lanes, things like that.
But then I also see, how-- you know, how do we interface with our bicycle friends? Sometimes I see how
we put-- how they put their bicycles in front of our buses and things like that or come on our trains. Are we
as good as we can be to our bicycle friends? And so are we allowing them to board our buses, put on
their bicycles to get where they need to go with the least amount of hassle?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: All right. Thank you. And before I go to First Vice Chair Guissinger, I will say
as a TMA Director that, I have partnered with our TD on shelters at some park and rides. And I know the
commuting solutions as well. So RTD has been doing a great job of implementing RTD and biking, which
I think is an exciting component for us to build on since this is such a great bicycle community as well.
First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. I agree with a lot of what's been said. I think there are a lot of
good ideas. And I think for me, some of the ones that rise to the top are the need to really be listening.
And that's to our customers. That's to our operators. It's to our stakeholder partners and the local
governments and TMAs and other groups. And I know General Manager Johnson has heard this many
times, that that's an area we can grow in, and I think we are growing in. So I would support that.
And then the idea that Director Rosenthal put out earlier. And I think the bicycling is just one example of
it, is the focus on customizing. How do we look at the problems people are facing? And it gets back to the

price of the fares and the service and bicycling and all-- a lot of different things and try to answer some of
these questions specifically. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair. Am I coming in OK?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Yes, you are.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Appreciate it. So I just kind of wanted to bring up-- and this could be a
little meta, for lack of a better term. But I would just want to bring up, maybe the issue is when we are
defining the issue. You know, we say at RTD, we are here to listen. I think it also would be important to
say, here at RTD we're also here to act.
We want to make sure that we as a Board are taking feedback in, and it just doesn't go into some box that
is never going to be used again, you know? We need to be genuine in the process of what questions we
ask.
And I think that's a huge part of it, is if I'm the average day rider, I'm the average operator, I'm around
RTD all day, it's one thing to ask my perspective, to get my feedback. It's the whole nother step to actually
go forward with the action and then actually utilize that feedback. So I think that would be something
important to just bring up, is, are we genuine through this process? Are we actually going to take action
from [INAUDIBLE]?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Bouquet, may I ask a follow-up to what you're saying?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So basically, when you said we want to be genuine, so recognizing that we
could get some feedback that's good feedback, but there could be some reason why that we did leverage
it. So if we have a feedback loop and explain, I just wanted to be able to clearly understand what you're
saying in the sense of being highly communicative so we can circle back so people understand it didn't
fall into a black hole. Is that what you're saying ultimately?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. Yeah. Sorry if I didn't articulate that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: But yeah, that's what I ultimately would see. If I'm the average day rider, if I'm the
average day operator, is what I'm saying actually being evaluated?
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Is it actually [INAUDIBLE]? Yes. Appreciate it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, sir. I appreciate it too. I wasn't sure, because we can-- there could be
reasons why we don't act on it, so I just wanted to be clear that we're evaluating and we're circling back
and explaining why it is that we may not act on it, but we value the feedback. OK. Thank you, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: All right. Director Bouquet, does that answer all your questions and
comments? Good. Great. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think also in defining the problem that we need to look at
how current and how relevant we are. For example, while I was sitting here, I just went to the RTD mobile
ticketing app, and it's very difficult to find information that we have.
For example, on our website, we have a GIS map that if you click on the map, you can Zoom right down
to your house. See your house there. And you can see all the routes that are around you, but you can't

get that on the mobile app. And the mobile app is the most current thing that people have in their hands
when they are looking to use public transit.
So why that really, really customer-friendly tool is not available on our mobile app is because we are a big
agency and it takes us time to do things. But we need to be current and we need to look at that kind of
stuff. That's part of our problem, I think. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Director Williams. I
wholeheartedly agree. I wanted to go back to the comment from Director Bouquet. And I just wanted to
say in addition to that that we're mindful about managing our expectations when we're going out to
communities, even if we-- especially so that we aren't just putting things into a box and doing nothing with
it.
And what also comes to me-- [BABY TALK] particularly in thinking about marginalized-- sorry, this is my
niece here, and she wants to be a part of the RTD Board. So she's in training, so you might see her back
here, training. [LAUGHS]
Particularly doing with communities and not doing to communities. And I think about marginalized
communities and in particular, where are the opportunities for us to put communities in the driver's seat in
terms of decision making, right? Where's the autonomy that we might-- where are the opportunities to
create some autonomy for communities to be able to make decisions? Because they understand the pain
points. They understand the frustrations and might be able to come up with some viable solutions. That
concludes my thoughts for real this time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: For the reals?
SHONTEL LEWIS: For the reals.
[LAUGHTER]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. I don't see anyone else In the queue. The only
other thing I would like to kind of build on is what Director Lewis had talked about. The diversity of
languages that are now in the Denver metropolitan area are vast. It is no longer just English and Spanish.
I know that the third largest population speaking in Denver Public Schools is Mandarin. But my little TMA
has been translating in eight languages along the East Colfax corridor.
So I know that there are a lot of languages we need to start honing in on if we're going to do direct
customer relationships, particularly with our diverse communities. First Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Just really quickly, I think there are a lot of great ideas that go to this,
but sort of stating the problem-- it's a big problem-- is bringing back ridership, and the need that we need
to address a lot of these things to bring our riders back. That's what we do. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. I promise, this is my last comment. So as Denver does recover, as the
country recovers, I think with making sure that with business travelers, with people who are here for
conventions, people who are visitors, tourists, day travelers from out of town, that we are also making
sure that our system is pretty simple, self-explanatory, and that people are like, oh, wow, that was so
easy to get around.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: OK. Thank you. Director Whitmore?

TROY WHITMORE: Sorry. I couldn't help myself. So in looking at what Lynn just said, one of the things
that we've heard Debra say-- and I've found it fascinating-- and that is the process of right-sizing postpandemic. And if I'm taking the quote out of context, General Manager, please correct me. But I guess my
question is, what is right-sizing?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So basically, that's where we are. We're dealing with the ambiguity. And First Chair
Guissinger said bringing back ridership. And this isn't-- I'm just talking in generalities and using these
topics, though it's not just anybody's right or wrong.
What I'm saying is we talk about all of this. This is an iterative process, right? So what does it mean to
bring back ridership? Is that what we want to do? Just in a general sense, when we talk about the quality
of the service versus the quantity of the service, we're dealing in ambiguity right now, right? As we go
forward, recognizing that there is employment sites. Some people may be telecommuting. We still have
hospitalizations on the rise.
So I think as we go through this, I have to say, sitting here, listening to the dialogue-- and thank you once
again to Pauletta Tonilas for capturing this-- and I'm reading the comments, I see there's ample
opportunity as we go forward. Because let's say hypothetically that we talk about bringing back ridership.
There's a myriad of ways of which we can do that, but is that really the-- are we identifying certain
customer segments? Will that solve whatever our problems are, right?
But I think first and foremost, there has to be some groundwork that's done, getting back to the fair equity- the fair study for equity analysis. I heard conversations Director Lewis just mentioned about the different
languages. I mean, do you guys know how many languages we actually have that are proficient within our
service area? I'll tell you. There's 21. There's 21-- what we will qualify as safe harbor languages, which is
5% or 1,000 of the RTD district population.
So there are opportunities there that we could leverage going forward. So recognizing that we want to
work towards success outcomes and a lot of these are activity-based, we have to figure out, what do we
need to eventually define what the problem is that we're solving for? And we're not there yet. This has
been a great dialogue, but I believe this is the jump-off point for us to start to examining all of this,
because what do we want our endgame to be?
And I'm going to steal this from TransPro, but this is spot on when we talk about sports analogies. You
know, I can do all the push-ups I want to do. I can run several miles a day. But the end of the day, if I'm
not winning the pennant in the World Series, that was my success outcome, right? So what type of
activities do we need to do to get us to the endgame, which we're going to qualify as being our success
outcome?
So Director Whitmore, that was my tap dance around answering the question about right-sizing, because
I am not in a position right now to offer that up to you. But with some due diligence, with us engaging, with
us going to where the customers-- are and like Director Lewis said, that is basically leveraging a myriad of
different opportunities in which to do. I.e., community-based activities, different events that are had. And
we can basically engage on those levels. You know, we can basically discern what that might be.
And I would garner to say within the next month or so-- well, let me not say it like that. We can work in
earnest to develop some kind of baselines that help us address some of these questions by going to
where the people are so we're better engaged and have a better conversation and work towards a
solution to the actual problem that will come in time as we define it. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Are you good, Director Whitmore? OK, great. There is no one
else in the queue, Madam General Manager. So I think the next slide is next steps, and I'm going to turn it
back over to you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. And I would say next steps, because we did some ideating, but getting back to
what Director Dishell said, we were being organic in our process, which I think was very helpful. I hope it
was helpful for you all as we look at different elements in which we can explore. So we can hone in on
what it is that we need to do.
So what I plan to do with my team and pull in-- and when I say the team, I think it's paramount as well that
we leverage our partners with TransPro in recognizing you all are going to have an engagement with
them in short order next week. As we talk about assessing ideas and concepts, we have to do it from a
fact-based vantage point. And I think if we have a common set of facts as we go forward-- and those facts
will come from our customer segments with whom we endeavor to engage-- it will enable us to go
forward.
So what I would say to you, recognizing where we ended up this evening, it's taking in that information,
charting out a path forward. And what I'll do is make a commitment to you all to keep apprised, because I
am going to work with my team over the next week or two-- more realistically like within the next two
weeks-- to sort out all these different elements that we have and keep you all engaged, and put forth an
earnest effort to discern what our steps will be.
Because I think if anything, we have to have an understanding of what the customer pain points are. And
we're have to going to go-- we have to go out and do that. And some of these elements that you all have
brought full circle gives us the right ideas in which we need to explore relative to having a better
understanding. Does that make sense to everyone? And I'm happy to clarify, because like I said, it seems
as if I'm talking in circles, because I can't speak in absolute. [LAUGHS]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: No. No, I think you captured it. I'm seeing no comments from other
Directors. So thank you so much. This was an amazing presentation. And I look forward to learning more.
And I want to thank the Board for their insight and their thoughts regarding this. I think that this is
launching off how exciting our strategic plan is going to be, and I'm really looking forward to that. So with
that in mind, that is now concluded. Are there any other matters to come before the Board this evening?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have a-- I have a question. I guess I thought we were going to ideate solutions.
Are we doing that some other time? Was that-DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, Director Guissinger, I thought there were-- I'm open to it if you guys want to
ideate. But what I'm saying is in reference to us looking at where we are, there are some things that we
need to do. But if you want to offer that up, I'm more than amenable to that if that's the pleasure of the
Board. But I was saying in reference to some of the things that put forth, there were ideas that came out,
how to solve a problem, but we haven't clearly defined what the problem is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: What's your pleasure, First Vice Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I have some ideas, but I guess I'd like to see what other people have to say. I
sort of was trying to just, you know, address the problem and the ideas. What do others think?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: OK. Anybody else want to pitch in? Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate that. At the risk of repetition, the concern
that I have is I think it's great, and I think we can brainstorm. I don't know if it will be a satisfactory or a
fulfilling process by doing so without having some better definition of the problem.

I would, for example, in terms of ideation, I would offer that I think it was your comment, Madam Chair,
that first and last mile solutions are the most critical thing that we can address. And we've been talking
about that since transportation began. When people rode stagecoaches-KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS]
DOUG TISDALE: --they wondered once they got to the city, how were they going to get to where they
were going? And probably the man who invented the wheel or the person who invented the wheel had the
same problem in trying to figure out, OK. It's going to get me from here to there, but what if somebody
wants to go someplace else?
So in terms of ideation relative to potential solutions, I think they must all be framed on first the last mile.
And as you have said, partnering as we have done with people like Uber and Lyft and the other TNCs is
one part of that. Bicycles, as Director Rosenthal points out, is another part of that. The list goes on. But I
think clearly, that's going to shape and form a lot of what we're going to do.
So I have no opposition to talking about solutions, but I think it might not be as productive until we have a
better sense of, what do we think the problem is? Which I think we will be able to speak to better once
we've had some further empathizing with our customers, our operators, and our stakeholders. Thank you,
Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you, sir. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I saw a bunch of hands. I don't want to jump in line here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: No, you were the first one that came up-SHELLEY COOK: Oh, sorry. So General Manager Johnson, will you then bring back the problem
statement and allow for some of the brainstorming in the ideate phase that we're talking about here? Is
that the idea?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Director Cook, that would be the idea, recognizing that we do need to hear from
our customers. But as I said before, I'm totally amenable as we are in this together and recognizing you
guys to have an understanding of your constituents. And I have engaged with our customers. I think we
could both benefit from the engagement.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm listening for now, and then come back to me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to bring up-- just wanted to kind
of check real quick-- you don't have to put this note down-- if what is being said represents-- is
representative of what the Board members who have not spoken so far, is this what is kind of capturing?
That's just-- I would want to kind of bring it up if-- for the Board members who have not spoken yet. You
know, is this really capturing what you were thinking? I just want to make sure they all have an
opportunity to speak. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm also fine with waiting until General Manager Johnson
and her staff massage the work that we've done so far and then bring that back to us so we can work
from that. And then I have two other things that are under other matters, so after we close this out, would
you call on me again?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: OK. Will do. Secretary Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, I would agree with refining the problem statements,
seeking some more input from wherever and coming back. But I'd love for us to get study session 2 on
the calendar as soon as possible so it doesn't get away from us. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Duly noted. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, I would just like to state in a future meeting, I would appreciate a time frame
or a definition given to recovery, because the word recovery itself, this means back to where we were and
not a future improvement. So I would be appreciative of how we should look at that and how long we think
it will take.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: OK. Thank you so much. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sorry. I was on mute. I am OK with handing this over to General Manager Johnson
and following her process and her protocol, and coming back once more information is collected and
letting us know what that time-- timeline might look like. And I agree with Director Buzek and Director
Sloan, actually, that it'd be helpful to get these things on our calendar, and definitely being able to divine-define some of these terms like recovery.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: All right. Thank you. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much. And thank you, General Manager Johnson and Madam Chair for
guiding us through this. I just want to be really mindful of the sort of delineation between policy and
management as a Board. And while I appreciate and love design thinking and love this process, I want to
make sure that we are not getting too into where I believe staff should be doing this process with
constituents versus which items Board should be doing and ideating and prototyping.
And so hopefully, I assume that's what we're going to be doing with our strategic consultants. I apologize
if I did misproperly name those on the phone. But I just want to really keep that in mind as we move
forward, because a lot of these to me sounds like management, staff ideation, iteration, and not as much
Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I've been listening all evening to the various ideas, and some
things stick. Like somebody said, people are willing to get on an airplane and sit shoulder to shoulder for
three or four hours to get from point A to point B, but they're reluctant to get on a bus or a train. I guess
what comes to my mind as an organization and RTD, what are we doing with ourselves and our
employees to improve ridership?
The way we're operating right now on Zoom just doesn't lend itself to this type of long-term planning. I
mean, we don't know each other. We can't talk to each other informally and build on some ideas. We just
have to throw things out and hope that they stick somewhere along the line. So somewhere, we've got to
decide when we're going to start as an organization really meeting in person and getting back to normal.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. And General Manager, if I might ask you what the thought is
currently in terms of in-person meeting? I mean, I know you're really mandated by the CDC and stuff, but
can you add any clarity right now where you're at?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I can, Madam Chair. And once again, I will share where we are currently
recognizing that we have increase in COVID cases, recognizing that we do have confined space as it
relates to the meeting space for this Board of Directors.

We are treading lightly as relate to that, recognizing that we have to ensure that the meetings are publicly
accessible. We do not anticipate being back in person as it stands here at the point in time on April 26
and 7:16 PM, any time prior to July at the earliest. But more specifically, we were looking towards
September, recognizing that the cases are extremely high and that meeting that we currently utilize would
not enable us even to distance at three feet apart. And so that causes grave concern as we look at the
health and well-being for all people assembled.
So as I shared at the outset of my comments this evening that we will keep you apprised, and I will
ensure that you all are made aware of any decisions prior to them happening relative to us coming back
in person. There are several different things as we talk about ventilation, how-- you know, people coming
into the building and what those protocols will be.
We do have a COVID-19 matrix with various phases, and we're just embarking upon phase 2. And phase
3 would clearly enable us to bring people back, but we have to look at the capacity limitations. And so
that's really where we are.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: All right. Thank you. Thank you, General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: I see your hand up, Secretary Buzek. Did you have an additional comment?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: OK. Anyone else have any comments? So First Vice Chair Guissinger, if I
read right what everybody was saying, the majority was like, let's wait and get something back once the
General Manager takes this information and starts developing her plan of action and then bringing it back
to the Board. Do you concur with that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm totally fine with that. Yeah. Looking through the packet, I thought we were going
to spend some time doing that, and-- but I think that taking it back to staff to go through this and sort of
pull it apart and move us to the next step and bring it back to us to kick around ideas sounds like a great-great way to proceed. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you, First Vice Chair Guissinger. Again, I want to just say thank you
to the Board. This has been really great dialogue. And I was taking copious notes as well, so I want to
thank you for that. So with that aside, we're now at other matters. And Director Williams, you said you had
a couple of other matters to bring before the Board this evening.
KATE WILLIAMS: I do. Thank you, Madam Chair. The first thing I want to do is I want to thank all of the
previous RTD Board directors who sent a letter in support of the agency and the future of the agency.
Both of my predecessors signed off on that, and so I just wanted to thank everybody who took the time to
take a look at where we are, where we've been, and where we're going.
And then in relationship to working with kids, I just want us to remember that Denver Public Schools is in
the middle of going through what we went through. They are about to hire a new superintendent. And
hopefully, they'll get somebody as great in this as we did. Debra, you don't happen to have a sister that
wants to work at the school district, do you?
And once that has happened, they would be a good partner to work with in some of the things we talked
about earlier. And thank you, Madam Chair. That's all I have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: All right. Thank you. Any other Board members-- ooh. Okey dokey. Second
Vice Chair Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, Madam Chair, and forgive me for not raising this in the prior session. I'm just
kind of a plodder when it comes to thinking. I respect what Director Dishell said, but I think we didn't quite
get a handle on what, say, we're trying to solve as a problem to just turn it over to the staff.
So I just wanted to underscore the point that I'm hoping they come back to us with a good problem
statement, maybe some ideas about the way they plan to move forward, but not having the plan itself at
that point. I'm just hoping for a closer-- kind of in keeping with what Director Buzek said, a study session
that we set up sooner. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Yes, General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, so if I may, I think if anything, just for clarity's sake, basically when we talk
about the problems, David, we need to ensure that we go out and statistically validate what the issue is
we're solving for. So relative to talking with customers in the community, we will garner a better
understanding. Then I can bring that back, because it'll be fact-based. And then we'll have an
understanding of what we're trying to problem solve for. So I just wanted to clarify that.
And then additionally to Director Sloan's question, at the beginning of the presentation, that's why I asked
the question as it related to recovery. How would you qualify recovery, right? Because we all need to
have that common definition as we move forward. So we can work towards that as well, but keeping in
mind that we need to statistically validate what the issue we're trying to solve for as opposed to just
speaking in ambiguity. So that's what I will endeavor to do and outline a timeline for all of you so you can
garner a better understanding about the path forward. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Just a quick update on a couple of bills today. The Accountability
Committee bill for-- on the RTD statute with the four changes was up in the Senate Energy and-- no-Transportation and Energy Committee today. I testified as to the Board's support for House Bill 1186,
which is that bill. And it passed out of committee on a six-to-one vote. It will go to the whole Senate next.
So it had good support.
And then after that-- and I didn't get-- wasn't able to stay and listen to all of it, but the Front Range
Passenger Rail bill also passed out of committee, and as I understand it will go to the Senate. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much, Madam Chair. Just a couple notes. First is the Reimagine
Committee is meeting in May, I believe is our next meeting. I will be happy to send out materials as I get
them, to the extent anyone has input that they think should be shared with the Reimagine Committee.
The next is that May is Mental Health Awareness Month. As someone who struggles with anxiety and
depression, I'm proud to say that I do see a therapist. I know that RTD offers EAP services that covers
some of our employees' cost for seeing services. And as we emerge or don't emerge or however we get
through over a year of the pandemic, I hope that people are seeking the support that they need and know
that you are not alone out there if you are having a tough time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry. Is my hand still up? I didn't have anything.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Sorry. [LAUGHS]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Director Lewis, your hand is up.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I-- so Director Dishell beat me to it, and I appreciate that he
did, because I'm just going to continue to encourage us all to see our therapists often, as often as we
might need to, understanding that globally there is just a lot happening in this world. And so I just want to
make sure that we're all taking care of ourselves, taking care of our spirits, and taking care of ourselves
emotionally, and then celebrating Director Dishell for his recent appointment with his mental health
provider. So good job, Director Dishell. [LAUGHS]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Thank you. I would like to thank our staff, our team for putting on a great
five-year anniversary event of the A Line [INAUDIBLE]. And I'd like to thank Director Broom, Dishell,
Sloan, Tisdale, First Vice Chair Guissinger, and Second Vice Chair Cook for joining me at the A Line. It
was a great event. And Denver transit partners did a great job and operators. They were fabulous to go
down to the station, their building to see, you know, the operations room. It was quite fascinating.
But it really was a great celebration. Mayor Coffman from Aurora, Mayor Hancock from Denver, Kim Day
from Denver International Airport, and our Denver transit partners all came together with our General
Manager and the Board to celebrate this momentous occasion.
And one of the tidbits that came across is that the A Line was the most used service in the country, even
during the pandemic. So that was pretty exciting news to hear. But any of you-- so all of you. Director
Tisdale was there as well as Guissinger. We really had a good time, so thank you for being there.
Any other matters to come before the Board? OK. Seeing none, it is 7:26 PM, and I'd like to call for an
adjournment. All-- all-- is there any one opposed to adjourning? Hearing none, we are adjourned. Have a
good evening, everybody.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Bye, everybody. Good job.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: [LAUGHS]
Thank you.
Bye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPEIDE: Bye.

