Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Erik Davidson, District I
Secretary – Marjorie Sloan, District M
Treasurer – Bobby Dishell, District D
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L

Paul Rosenthal, District E
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B
Troy Whitmore, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, March 23, 2023
REMOTE MEETING
3:00 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 895 3107 8678#
Webinar Passcode: 1660#
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Lynn Guissinger
I.

Call to Order

II.

Public Comment

III.

Recommended Action
A.

Statement of Employee Appreciation

It is recommended by RTD Directors Catlin, Ruscha, and Sloan that the Board of
Directors incorporate a Statement of Employee Appreciation at appropriate monthly
Board meetings, as identified by the Board Chair.

IV.

March Board Meeting Agenda Review

V.

Discussion Items
•

Government Relations Report

•

Board Retreat Planning

VI.

Other Matters

VII.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - March 28, 2023
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Land Acknowledgement

IV.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

V.

Retiree Awards
•
•
•
•

Phillip Martinez – Parts Clerk – 31 years
David Ober – General Superintendent, Maintenance – 29 years
Brian T. Sapp – Lead Light Rail Field Supervisor – 26 years
Robbi Shockley – Body Shop Supervisor – 30 years

VI.

Public Participation

VII.

External Entities Reports

VIII.

Zero Emission Vehicles (ZEV) Ad Hoc Committee Report

IX.

Audit Committee Report

X.

Finance and Planning Committee Report

XI.

Operations and Safety Committee Report

XII.

Performance Committee Report

XIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports

XIV.

Chair's Report

XV.

General Manager's Report

XVI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis Contract Amendment

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO), or
her designee, to execute a third amendment to the contract with Four Nines
Technologies (Four Nines) to facilitate the completion and implementation of the
Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis (Study) in the amount of $435,000,
increasing the total amount not to exceed from $1,603,540 to $2,038,540.
B.

Community Value and Customer Excellence Surveys Scope of Work

For the Board of Directors to approve the scope of work (SOW) for the 2023
Community Value and Customer Excellence surveys.
C.

May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis

For the Board of Directors to adopt the Title VI Service Equity Analysis report for
January 2023 service changes to comply with federal laws, regulations and
guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as well as to meet the
2021-2026 Strategic Plan priority of Community Value.
D.

May 2023 Service Change

For the Board of Directors to approve the May 2023 Service Changes as revised
and summarized in Attachment A and to authorize the General Manager and CEO or
her designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
impacted by these changes.
XVII. Recommended Action
E.

Access-a-Ride and FlexRide Service Contracts

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her
designee to enter into contracts with MTM Transit, Transdev Services, Inc.,
Transdev on Demand and Via Mobility Services for the provision of Access-a-Ride
and FlexRide services. These contracts are for three years, with two one-year
options for a total of five years, at a total not-to-exceed cost of $296,433,073.
Additionally, RTD will reimburse the contractors’ direct fuel costs in an amount
estimated to be $27,006,014 over five years. The total five-year not-to-exceed
cost for Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services and fuel is $323,439,087.

F.

Statement of Employee Appreciation

It is recommended by RTD Directors Catlin, Ruscha, and Sloan that the Board of
Directors incorporate a Statement of Employee Appreciation at appropriate monthly
Board meetings, as identified by the Board Chair.
XVIII. Report of Director Activities
XIX.

Other Matters

XX.

Executive Session
Executive Session regarding the Battery Electric Bus Project and New Flyer contract
pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(a), C.R.S. on the purchase, acquisition, lease, transfer,
or sale of real, personal, or other property interest; § 24-6-402(4)(b), C.R.S., to
receive legal advice; and § 24-6-402(4)(e), C.R.S., for determining positions relative
to matters that may be subject to negotiations.

XXI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.3.1

DIRECTOR REQUESTED AGENDA ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
Statement of Employee Appreciation

March 23, 2023
Board Meeting Date:
March 28, 2023

Added to Committee Agenda as a Director initiated request pursuant to RTD Board Bylaws Art. V,
Section 3(b). Requires formal motion and second at Committee meeting.
MOTION
It is recommended by RTD Directors Catlin, Ruscha, and Sloan that the Board of Directors incorporate a
Statement of Employee Appreciation at appropriate monthly Board meetings, as identified by the Board
Chair.
REPRESENTATIVES
Directors Catlin, Ruscha, and Sloan
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
RTD’s employees strive every day to make lives better through connections. The proposed Statement of
Appreciation celebrates their dedication and acknowledges that the success of RTD relies on their
workplace efforts. The proposed language honors employees’ service and expresses the Board’s
gratitude in a specific, public, and formalized manner.
DISCUSSION
By adopting this recommended action, the Board expresses an intention to include a Statement of
Employee Appreciation at the beginning of Chair-designated monthly Board meetings, immediately after
the Pledge of Allegiance and the Land Acknowledgement. Examples of appropriate Board meetings
include those at which retirement awards are announced and Public Service Recognition Week (first
week in May). Consistent with the Board Land Acknowledgement action, the Board Chair may revise the
statement from time to time.
Text
The Regional Transportation District Board of Directors recognizes that RTD’s dedicated workforce is the
lifeblood of the agency. Every day, RTD employees do extraordinary things to make lives better through
connections. We honor their work in delivering transit excellence and value to the community, even
under difficult and stressful situations. May the Board’s actions demonstrate our gratitude and
commitment to all RTD employees.

Packet Pg. 5

1.3.1

FINANCIAL IMPACT
No financial impact expected.

Prepared by:
Marjorie Sloan, Director, District M
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

1.5.1.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
Monthly Government Relations Report – March 2023

March 23, 2023

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
Pursuant to the Board-adopted 2023 Legislative Program, the agency developed a Legislative Program
that serves as a guiding document for staff to pursue goals related to legislative and policy matters. A
Legislative Program serves as a living document that can be adjusted throughout a legislative session to
provide an avenue for Board adopted policy positions to be communicated and pursued by agency staff.
In line with the agency’s mission and vision established in the Strategic Plan, the development and
inclusion of the goals and actions contained in the Legislative Program are designed to make lives better
through connections.
It is important that RTD serve as a trusted partner to the region’s local, state, and federal elected
officials. To achieve these goals, RTD must be proactive in educating and informing the District’s elected
officials of the challenges and opportunities available to advance shared goals.
In furtherance of the program, the agency’s Government Relations Officer coordinates and develops
strategic communications to advance the agency’s legislative priorities and serve as a point of contact
for elected officials in the Denver metro region.
DISCUSSION
Included herein are notable Government Relations highlights at the federal, state and local levels since
the last Executive Committee meeting held on February 23, 2023. This report was prepared on March
13, 2023, and will be updated verbally as needed during the Executive Committee meeting scheduled
for Thursday, March 23, 2023.
Federal
At the federal level, President Biden submitted the White House federal fiscal year (FFY) 2024 budget
recommendation. As a part of the larger White House budget, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA)
released the FFY24 Capital Investment Grants Report. Included in the report is an announcement that
the East Colfax BRT project received a project rating of HIGH, the best possible rating. Additionally,
$118.8 million was recommended for the project in FFY24 and $8.1 million was recommended from

Packet Pg. 7

1.5.1.1

FFY23. This funding represents the largest award made by the U.S. Department of Transportation for a
BRT project in the nation for FFY24. RTD will continue to work closely with city and county of Denver
and city of Aurora to advance the East Colfax BRT to a grant agreement with the FTA.
State
Regarding state legislative matters, following the Board’s vote to support and amend House Bill 23-1101
(HB1101) – Ozone Season Transit Grant Program Flexibility – staff and contracted advocates have
continued to support the bill’s expedited passage. Following passage by the Senate, an amendment was
added at the request of the Colorado Department of Transportation, which has resulted in further
conversation before the House considers approving the Senate amendments.
Local
At the local level, on March 8, 2023, RTD held a local elected officials virtual meeting to provide
updates on priority projects and programs including people power, welcoming transit environment, call
for projects partnership program, fare study and equity analysis, and improving engagement with local
elected officials.
Lastly, staff continues to further engage with local elected leaders, which efforts include a scheduled
presentation to the city of Westminster on March 20, 2023.

Prepared by:
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 8

2.16.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis Contract
Amendment

March 7, 2023
Board Meeting Date:
March 28, 2023

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO), or her designee, to
execute a third amendment to the contract with Four Nines Technologies (Four Nines) to facilitate the
completion and implementation of the Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis (Study) in the amount
of $435,000, increasing the total amount not to exceed from $1,603,540 to $2,038,540.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, Transit Oriented Communities
Chris Quinn, Planning Project Manager
Carl Green Jr., Director, Civil Rights Division
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
On November 16, 2021, the Board of Directors authorized the GM/CEO to enter a contract with Four
Nines to facilitate the Study. The original contract amount was for $1,503,000. In January 2022, the
GM/CEO executed a first amendment to update the RTD project manager identified in the contract, as
well as Four Nines’ key personnel and rate. In December 2022, the GM/CEO executed a second
amendment in the amount of $100,540 to account for enhanced customer and community outreach
during the first two engagement milestones of the project.
Four Nines has completed a significant amount of work on the Study. Three rounds of customer and
community engagement have been completed with extensive efforts to reach customers and community
members in a variety of ways, including:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Virtual community meetings
Stakeholder feedback panels
Pop up events at RTD facilities
Two extensive online surveys
A project website in both English and Spanish
A second project website focused on detailed information about conceptual alternatives in both
English and Spanish
• Continuous social media presence throughout the Study

Packet Pg. 9

2.16.A

Extensive research and analysis have been conducted on RTD’s current fare structure, fare structures
from other transit agencies in North America, and on potential changes to RTD’s fare structure to
respond to customer and community feedback. The remaining tasks in the scope of work are focused
on recommending and reviewing potential fare changes for consideration by the RTD Board, customers,
and stakeholders.
DISCUSSION
In adopting this recommended action, the agency seeks to meet the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan priorities
of Community Value and Customer Excellence. The purpose of this action is to ensure the successful
completion of the Study.
The Scope of Work for the proposed contract amendment is comprised of three components:
• Schedule Extension
• Enhanced Scope Items
• Additional Scope Items
Schedule Extension
The original Study schedule anticipated completion in April 2023. The schedule has been extended three
months through July 2023, to enable additional customer and community outreach (beyond what was
initially anticipated), sufficient time for Board review, and additional fare structure technical analysis.
This extension requires additional consultant resources for project management, coordination and
extended maintenance of outreach communications through the project websites and other community
engagement tools. The cost of this schedule extension is $195,000.
Enhanced Scope Items Based on Existing Contract Scope
Enhanced scope items are required over and above what was anticipated in the original scope of work as
well as the second scope amendment that occurred earlier in the project. These additional scope items
were requested by staff to maintain RTD’s commitment to strong customer and community engagement.
There are several areas where additional scope has been completed or will be completed including:
Extended Customer and Community Outreach
• Website development and support – to support the communication and outreach efforts for the
third phase of engagement (Evaluating Fare Alternatives, Benefits and Tradeoffs) a separate
website was developed by the consultant. This was in addition to the project website that was
developed earlier in project and served to communicate detailed information about fare study
alternatives. This website was developed in both English and Spanish and was enhanced by
extensive messaging and communication through social media. This website will continue to be
utilized during the fourth phase of engagement.
•

Additional community meetings and outreach for final phase of project – the current scope for the
final phase (Recommendation of Fare Structure Changes) of project only includes outreach
through formal public hearings. This project established a high standard for outreach through
multiple means ranging from customer and community meetings, social media, online information,

Packet Pg. 10

2.16.A

and community-based organization facilitation and outreach. To continue this high standard of
outreach, it is necessary to add consultant resources.
Additional Fare Modeling and Analysis
Additional fare modeling and analysis is anticipated to support the final development of a recommended
alternative. Feedback during the final phase of the project from customers and community members, as
well as the Board, is expected to require additional modeling and analysis support not originally
anticipated in the original scope of work. These efforts will be used to evaluate and respond to specific
ideas that could be raised during the final phase of the project. The cost for enhanced scope items under
the current contract scope is $190,000.
Additional Scope Items Outside of the Existing Contract Scope
Additional work is anticipated that was not identified in the current scope of work. Specifically, it is
anticipated that staff will require consultant support to implement the recommendations of the Study.
With limited resources and capacity of current staff, consultant support to develop refinements on the
to-be adopted fare study recommendations will be critical for efficient implementation and delivery. The
cost of this work is $50,000.
Summary of Contract Amendment
The costs for the enhanced and additional scope are summarized below:
Schedule Extension
$195,000
Enhanced Scope Items
$190,000
Additional Scope Items
$50,000
Total:
$435,000
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This action will require a commitment of $435,000 derived from a combination of unallocated Study
funds ($221,586.14), as originally approved in the 2021 Budget, and the Unrestricted Fund
($213,413.86).

Prepared by:
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, Transit Oriented Communities
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 11

2.16.A

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 12

2.16.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
Community Value and Customer Excellence Surveys Scope
of Work

March 7, 2023
Board Meeting Date:
March 28, 2023

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to approve the scope of work (SOW) for the 2023 Community Value and
Customer Excellence surveys.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Leah Riley, Chief Administrative Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
In adopting a five-year strategic plan, the Board established four strategic priorities and their associated
success outcomes that the agency will strive to achieve:
STRATEGIC PRIORITY

SUCCESS OUTCOME

Community Value: RTD Strives to be a strong community
partner, providing value to customers as well as to the
broader Denver Metro region while sustaining planet Earth

Establish baseline for community value
index and increase by 5%

Customer Excellence: RTD strives to consistently deliver
high-quality customer service

Establish baseline for customer net
promoter score and increase by 5%

Employee Ownership: RTD seeks to attract and retain a
highly skilled and engaged workforce

Establish baseline for employee net
promoter score and increase by 5%

50% of outcome is that RTD spends less
Financial Success: RTD takes very seriously the management money than it receives; 50% of outcome
of all financial resources
is that the community believes that it
sees value in RTD’s spending
Regarding the strategic priorities of Community Value and Customer Excellence, a consultant was
engaged in 2021 to conduct community and customer surveys (surveys) to discern the agency’s
community value index and customer net promoter score (NPS) for that year. Those surveys were
completed November 2021 and the results were validated by the agency’s third-party auditing
consultant in January 2022. On February 17, 2022 the 2021 survey results were presented to the
Board.

Packet Pg. 13

2.16.B

The community value index and customer NPS garnered from the 2021 surveys serve as the baseline
data against which future progress is measured for the strategic priorities of Community Value and
Customer Excellence.
Following a competitive request for proposals, a consultant was awarded a contract on August 3, 2022,
to conduct the 2022 surveys for follow-on data. The instruments for both surveys were based on those
developed in 2021 to ensure consistency in data collection and reporting. The consultant presented the
results of the surveys to the Board on November 2, 2022.
DISCUSSION
In adopting this recommended action, the agency seeks to meet the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan priorities
of Community Value and Customer Excellence. The purpose of this action is to receive Board approval of
the SOW for the 2023 Community Value and Customer Excellence surveys.
To ensure consistency in data collection and reporting, the proposed SOW includes similar requirements
included in the 2021 and 2022 solicitations such as survey methodology and instrument design, survey
execution, results analysis and comprehensive reporting for bus, rail and paratransit. More specifically:
•

•

•
•
•

The vendor will work with RTD to develop a survey method based on the current route/line
configuration and ridership, developing a sampling procedure that ensures the collection of a
representative sample of RTD customers at transit stops/stations and onboard buses and trains in
the process of using the fixed route and rail services
The vendor will survey a statistically valid sample size of fixed route bus and rail customers
onboard buses/trains and at transit stops/stations/platforms while in the process of using the
service
The vendor will survey a statistically valid same size of paratransit customers who have used
services during the prior six months
Surveys will be distributed in a manner to ensure representative samples from both the
communities served as well as customers
The vendor will develop a comprehensive report for all modes that clearly communicates findings
and observations and issue the report to RTD leadership and the Board

The surveys will be conducted in early September 2023, and it is anticipated results will be presented to
the Board no later than November 2023.
Lastly, it is anticipated the contract award will come to the Board for approval no later than May 2023.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The cost of the surveys is included in the 2023 Budget.

Prepared by:

Packet Pg. 14

2.16.B

Leah Riley, Chief Administrative Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 15

2.16.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis

March 8, 2023
Board Meeting Date:
March 28, 2023

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to adopt the Title VI Service Equity Analysis report for January 2023 service
changes to comply with federal laws, regulations and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964 as well as to meet the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan priority of Community Value.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Carl Green Jr., Director, Civil Rights
PRESENTATION LENGTH
15 minutes
BACKGROUND
The 30 service changes proposed for May 2023 provide opportunities for bus and rail operators to vote
new work assignments and for the Service Development Division to adjust the overall operations plan for
the transit network. Additionally, with the Board-adopted Reimagine RTD System Optimization Plan
(SOP), several of the service change proposals reflect the first phases of SOP implementation to provide
the best possible customer value.
The Board-adopted guidance for proposed service changes continues to be:
• Service performance evaluation based on service standards
• Maintaining the overall integrity of the transit network and on-transit dependent markets
• Making alternative services available to affected customers
• Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible
• Compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title VI): benefits and services are
provided without regard to race, color or national origin; also, disparate effects on low-income
and minority populations
• Response to changes in the communities where services are provided
Service Equity Analysis Requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI and Environmental Justice. In this
circular, the FTA requires RTD to evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that
exceed the established major service change threshold, to determine whether those changes will have a
disproportionately negative impact on minority or low-income populations. The May 2023 service change
proposal includes two major service changes out of 30 total changes. Thus, an analysis is required to be

Packet Pg. 16

2.16.C

brought before the Board for approval. The complete Title VI Service Equity Analysis report is included in
Attachment A.
Title VI Service Equity Analysis Policies
Per FTA Circular 4702.1B Chapter IV.7, RTD must establish a Major Service Change Policy, a Disparate
Impact Policy, and a Disproportionate Burden Policy. Collectively, these policies provide the foundational
requirements for evaluating service change proposals for equity. These policies and their applicable
thresholds are listed below:
Major Service Change Policy: A major service change is defined as a 25% addition or reduction in the
service hours of any route that would remain in effect for 12 or more months. All major service changes
will be subject to an equity analysis.
Title VI Policies:
Disparate Impact Policy: A major service change should not adversely affect a minority population 10%
more than non-minority populations; this level of impact is considered a disparate impact.
Disproportionate Burden Policy: A major service change should not adversely affect a low-income
population 10% more than higher-income populations; this level of impact is considered a
disproportionate burden. A low-income population is a group of households who are at or below 150%
of the Department of Health and Human Services Poverty Guidelines.
DISCUSSION
Staff proposes changes to 24 bus routes and six rail lines in the forthcoming May 2023 runboard. Of
these 30 changes, two services have proposed additions or reductions to service 25% greater than that
of baseline service and thus meet established thresholds for a major service change. Those routes are
shown in bold in the following table.
Modified Services (20 services)
(Additional trips, expanded service spans,
increase reliability)
Seasonal Adjustments (10 services)

0, 3L, 10, 20, 28, 32, 34, 38, 52, 72, 169, 169L,
FF2, FF5
D Line, E Line, H Line, N Line, R Line, W Line
11, 30, 51, 65, 73, 225, DASH, JUMP, SKIP, NB

Methodology: Disparate impact and disproportionate burden analyses were performed at the route/line
level, route/line block group and network level to identify any potential disparities in service changes
based on race/ethnicity or income.
Summary of Findings:
• Of the almost 88,000 people served by stops within the service area with major service changes,
low-income populations represented a higher share of population than service area averages. Of
this cumulative figure, nearly 50,000 would receive service improvements for equity populations.

Packet Pg. 17

2.16.C

•

The two bus routes with major service changes serve above-average low-income populations.

•

When considering the demographics within the service areas of routes with major service
changes and as a proportion to the service area overall, low-income equity populations received a
greater increase in service (i.e., were more positively impacted) compared to higher income
populations. Low-income areas had a +1.67% benefit above higher income areas. Minority
populations received a slightly lower increase in service (were positively impacted less) compared
to non-minority populations. However, this difference did not meet the Disparate Impact
threshold, therefore no system-level disparate impact was found with the proposed changes.

Conclusions:
Although one of the major service changes resulted in a potential disparate impact at the route level,
Title VI concerns are minimal at the network level when comparing the service changes between the
January 2023 and May 2023 runboards. In aggregate, a review of all routes/lines found no adverse
impacts between equity and non-equity routes/lines. Overall, the system-wide service increases have
positively impacted equity populations slightly more compared to non-equity populations. Therefore, no
system-level disparate impact or disproportionate burden is found related to the proposed major service
changes in the May 2023 service change proposal.
In adopting this report, the agency seeks to meet the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan priorities of Community
Value, Customer Excellence, Employee Ownership, and Financial Success while maintaining compliance
with Title VI federal regulations. RTD will continue to assess the equity implications for all subsequent
service change proposals and will propose adjustments and service alternatives as appropriate in future
service change recommendations.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The adoption of the Title VI Service Equity Analysis will not result in any direct or foreseeable financial
impacts.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal(PDF)

•

May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Carl Green Jr., Acting Director, Civil Rights
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 18

2.16.C

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 19

2.16.C.a

Title VI Service Equity
Analysis: May 2023 Proposed
Service Changes
May 2023

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

We make lives better
through connections.

2.16.C.a

Table of Contents
Executive Summary ................................................................................................................................................................. 2

Methodology ........................................................................................................................................................................ 2
Major Service Changes ........................................................................................................................................................ 2
Findings ............................................................................................................................................................................... 2
Introduction ............................................................................................................................................................................. 3

Title VI and Environmental Justice ...................................................................................................................................... 3
Service Change Philosophy .................................................................................................................................................. 3
RTD’s Title VI Equity Analysis Policies ................................................................................................................................. 4
Analysis .................................................................................................................................................................................... 5

Data Sources and Methodology ........................................................................................................................................... 5
Public Outreach Overview ................................................................................................................................................... 6
Major Service Change, Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Analysis ............................................................... 6
Changes by Transit Mode ................................................................................................................................................ 7

Major Service Change Review ............................................................................................................................................. 7
Major Service Change Reductions/Eliminations ............................................................................................................... 7
Major Service Change Increases ..................................................................................................................................... 7
Route- and Line-Level Analysis ........................................................................................................................................ 7
Network Analysis ........................................................................................................................................................... 10

Summary of Findings .............................................................................................................................................................. 16
Appendix A: Systemwide Service Changes
Appendix B: Analysis of Impact on Access to Employment, Social Services, Senior Housing & Facilities, Schools, Retail and
Convenience Stores

1

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

Executive Summary
This document summarizes the analysis of service changes between the January 2023 and May 2023 runboards
to ensure changes have not inequitably impacted minority and low-income populations.

Methodology
RTD’s established Title VI program methodology defines the process to identify major service changes, disparate
impacts, and disproportionate burdens. Analyses were performed at the route and block group levels to identify
any potential disparities in service changes based on race/ethnicity or income.

Major Service Changes
RTD proposes changes to 24 bus route/patterns and six rail lines of RTD’s forthcoming May 2023 runboard. Of
these 30 changes, two services meet established thresholds for a major service change. The routes listed below
have proposed adjustments to service that were greater than 25% of baseline service or services being
eliminated.

Service Adjustments (one service)

Route 10 – East 12th Street: extend service to Colfax and
Billings via 11th and Peoria and terminate westbound trips at
Union Station

Service Reinstatement (one service)

FF2 – Boulder Express: Reinstate service on the FF2
(Boulder Express) with three trips in each direction

Findings

Alterations to the proposed May 2023 service changes include extending the alignment of Route 10 and
reinstatement of the FF2 Boulder Express pattern of the Flatiron Flyer. Of these routes, both serve high
concentrations of low-income populations and Route 10 serves high concentrations of both minority and lowincome populations.
When considering the demographics within the service areas of routes with major service changes and as a
proportion to the District overall, low-income equity populations received a greater increase in service (i.e., were
more positively impacted) compared to higher income populations. Low-income areas had a +1.67% benefit
above higher income areas. Minority populations received a slightly lower increase in service (were positively
impacted less) compared to non-minority populations. However, this difference did not meet the Disparate
Impact threshold, therefore no system-level disparate impact was found with the proposed changes.
Finally, though there were no cumulative adverse impacts at the network level, a potential disparate impact was
identified at the individual route-level: of the two routes/lines that had major service changes, FF2 had potential
disparate impact finding but no disproportionate burden finding.

2

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

Introduction
Title VI and Environmental Justice
Equity is a core principle of RTD’s functional mission to provide mass transit service within the Denver region.
An equitable mass transit system fairly distributes the benefits and adverse effects of transit service without
regard for race, color, national origin, or low-income status. This principle is detailed and reinforced by Title VI
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Executive Order 12898 pertaining to environmental justice.
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin in
programs receiving federal financial assistance. Specifically, Title VI states, “No person in the United States shall,
on the ground of race, color or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or
be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.”
In 1994, President Clinton issued Executive Order 12898, which states that each federal agency “shall make
achieving environmental justice part of its mission by identifying and addressing disproportionately high and
adverse human health or environmental effects of its programs, policies, and activities on minority populations
and low-income populations.”
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial assistance
with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI and Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA
requires RTD to evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that exceed the established major
service change threshold, to determine whether those changes will have a disproportionately negative impact
on minority or low-income populations.
This equity analysis report has been prepared to document changes that are proposed to occur between the
January 2023 and May 2023 runboards. Routes with major service changes include one major increase and one
reinstatement of a formerly suspended route pattern. These changes and all others have been reviewed
individually at the route/line level and in aggregate at the block group level to identify potential impacts to the
communities RTD serves.

Service Change Philosophy
An equity analysis is triggered by proposed major service changes to the transit services provided by RTD. These
changes include the addition of new routes/lines, the elimination of existing routes/lines and changes to the
alignment and trip frequency within existing routes/lines. RTD has established principles to identify the service
changes needed to meet the diverse travel needs of those within the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system.

3

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

RTD Service Changes Guiding Principles
•
•
•
•
•

•

Service performance evaluation based on service standards
The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets
The availability of alternative services to affected riders
Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible
Compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without
regard to race, color or national origin; also, disparate effects on low-income and minority
populations
Response to changes in the communities where services are provided

RTD services are divided into various service classes depending on service type, route alignment and frequency.
Each service class has its own service standards derived from the performance of all routes within each class.
RTD continually and comprehensively adjusts services in response to changes in ridership and operational
performance of the transit system. It is also the agency’s responsibility to identify services that are
underperforming and recommend modifications, curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted. In keeping
with Colorado Revised Statutes, RTD utilizes official service standards to establish performance metrics used to
identify underperforming services on a class-of-service basis. The agency uses these metrics to identify a series
of service changes. Equity analyses examine the impact of the proposed major service changes on minority
populations and low-income households at or below 150 percent of the Department of Health and Human
Services Poverty Guidelines.

…The general assembly further finds that the district should be organized efficiently,
economically, and on a demand-responsive basis and that the district should consider least-cost
alternatives in discharging its responsibilities.

Colorado Revised Statutes 32-9-119.7 Farebox Recovery Ratios – Plans

RTD’s Title VI Equity Analysis Policies
Per FTA Circular 4702.1B Chapter IV.7, RTD must establish a Major Service Change Policy, a Disparate Impact
Policy and a Disproportionate Burden Policy. Collectively, these policies provide foundational requirements for
evaluating service change proposals for equity and compliance with Title VI. These policies and their applicable
thresholds are listed below:
1. Major Service Change: A major service change is defined as a 25% addition or reduction in the
service hours of any route that would remain in effect for 12 or more months. All major service
changes will be subject to an equity analysis that includes an analysis of adverse effects.
a. An Adverse Effect is defined as a geographical or temporal reduction in service that includes,
but is not limited to, eliminating a route, shortening a route by eliminating segments, rerouting
an existing route, and increasing headways. RTD shall consider the degree of adverse effects
4

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

and analyze those effects when planning major service changes.
2. Disparate Impact Analysis: A major service change should not adversely affect a minority population
10 percent more than non-minority populations; this level of impact is considered a disparate impact.
3. Disproportionate Burden Analysis: A major service change should not adversely affect a low-income
population 10% more than higher income populations; this level of impact is considered a
disproportionate burden. A low-income population is a group of households who are at or below 150%
of the Department of Health and Human Services Poverty Guidelines.
If a proposed major service change results in a disparate impact or a disproportionate burden, RTD will consider
modifying the proposed service change. RTD will then analyze the modification and make sure it removed the
potential disparate impact or disproportionate burden. If a less discriminatory option cannot be identified and
RTD can demonstrate a substantial legitimate justification for the proposed service change, the FTA may allow
RTD to proceed with the proposed change.

Analysis
Data Sources and Methodology

Demographic data used for this analysis comes from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey (ACS) 5Year Estimates for years 2017 to 2021 and is reviewed at the census block group geographic level. Other data
related to the analysis includes route alignments and block group geography. The linking of these datasets into
a service-geographic-demographic combination relates equity populations with changes in service at a
geographic level to aid in reviewing potential impacts to district equity communities.
The equity analysis for the May 2023 runboard looked at whether an individual route’s major service changes
impacted the communities it served. The review needed to determine the proportional difference in changes
made to equity populations within a route’s/line’s quarter-mile service area. These proportional differences were
compared against district population proportions of equity populations and route/line proportions of equity
populations.
Low-income status for population within the District is derived from the Census Bureau and is based on 150%
of the United States federal poverty level (Department of Health and Human Services guidelines), based on local
context, which is an annual income of $32,580 for a family of three. Minority status was based on the non-white
and Hispanic or Latino count of total population. The service area was based on the collection of block groups
within district boundaries.
Route/line service area population was determined using a quarter mile “catchment area” centered around bus
stops and rail stations. This catchment area was then used to calculate the percentage overlap of census blockbased population underneath. For instance, if a catchment area contained 100% of the underlying block group,
100% of the population would be associated with the services within a quarter mile; if 50% of a block group
was contained in the catchment area, only half of the underlying population would count as being included
(ratios of population demographics would be unchanged).

5

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

RTD calculated the net change in service hours for each route/line modification to provide the percent difference
from baseline service hours. Any change at or above 25% from baseline was flagged as a major service change
for further review.

Public Outreach Overview

Three public meetings were conducted February 21-22, 2022. The comments collected on service changes during
these meetings are summarized in the table below. In addition to the general outreach, the Transit Equity Office
reached out to 68 community-based organizations and schools surrounding the routes/lines to inform and
encourage community members to attend the open houses. Table 1 captures the meeting locations, dates,
number of attendees and the common themes of attendees’ comments pertaining to the three major service
changes described in this analysis.
Table 1. Public meeting details

Date and Time | Location

Comment Themes

February 21 at 12 p.m. | Virtual

Two customers are excited to see the
FF2 come back.
Customer wants more FF2 service
than what is being proposed.
Customer very appreciative to have
FF2 restored

February 21 at 5:30 p.m. | Virtual
February 22 at 12 p.m. | Virtual

Number of Attendees
10
10
14

Customer asked why Route 10 isn’t
ending at Del Mar Circle (was told no
operator restroom available there)
Total – 34
The public was also notified of the ability to submit comments to service.changes@rtd-denver.com, by phone at
303-299-2004 and by fax 303-299-2227.

Major Service Change, Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden
Analysis
Proposed service changes for the May 2023 runboard that resulted in a 25% or greater change in service were
categorized by equity population (minority or non-minority, low-income or higher income) for comparison.
Routes were categorized as either equity or non-equity based on their identification within the prior network
using 2017-2021 ACS five-year demographic data.
A comparative, proportional equity analysis was completed to review the routes/lines individually. This analysis
identified the equity and non-equity populations within a route/line service area and compared those against the
equity and non-equity populations of the District. If impacted equity populations within the route/line service
area received 10% or greater impacts compared to non-equity populations, the route/line had a potential finding
of Disparate Impact (for minority populations) or Disproportionate Burden (for low-income populations) and was
flagged for a finding of potential impact.

6

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

Major Service Change Test
Identify routes with proposed major service changes (annual trips) of 25% or more

Changes by Transit Mode
As RTD continues to adapt to changes affected by the pandemic, 21 bus routes will undergo service changes.
Of these, four routes will see an increase of bus service by over 49 total weekday revenue service hours.
Changes to Route 10 exceeded the major service change threshold and FF2 is a reinstatement of previously
suspended service; both account for almost 41 of the additional daily revenue service hours. Rail services will
have service level adjustments to increase service to midnight.
Table 2. Summary of service changes by transit mode

Mode
All Rail
All Bus
Overall

Additional Daily
Hours
0
49
49

Major Service Change Review

A complete listing of all service changes can be found in Appendix A. Changes were first reviewed in aggregate
equity groupings of routes/lines prior to individual review of routes/lines, route/line block groups, and overall
network levels; equity grouping comparison occurred at every level. Major service changes are categorized as
the following:
•
•

Major Service Reductions or Eliminations (a service reduction of 25% or more)
Major Service Increases/Restructuring (service increases of 25% or more related to new or
restructured service)

Major Service Change Reductions/Eliminations
No major reductions/eliminations.

Major Service Change Increases
Two bus routes had major service changes which include service increases of 25% or greater. This includes one
modification to alignment on Route 10 and a reinstatement of a route pattern on the Flatiron Flyer. While below
the percentage threshold, the reinstatement of service to pattern FF2 is considered a major service change and
is therefore included in the review.

Route- and Line-Level Analysis
Having identified the service changes which meet the definition of Major Service Change, the next step in the
analysis is to look at each route/line individually to determine potential Disparate Impacts (DI) and/or
Disproportionate Burdens (DB). Both service reductions and service increases are analyzed. For service
increases, the analysis examines the extent to which the benefits of the improvements are inclusive of minority
7

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

and low-income populations. For service decreases, the analysis examines the extent to which the adverse
effects of the reductions are disproportionately borne by minority and low-income populations.

Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Analysis
For each route/line with a major service change, determine the percent of the route’s/line’s
impacted equity and non-equity populations comprising the District’s equity and non-equity
populations; if the difference is greater than 10% for equity populations, additional review is
required for potential adverse impacts

In concert with RTD’s Title VI policies, the demographics of each of major service change routes were reviewed
for potential DI or DB findings. For service increases, the following analysis examines the extent to which the
benefits of the improvements are inclusive of minority and low-income populations. Because these are proposed
service increases, protected populations falling below these thresholds are flagged for potential concerns. The
narrative analysis of each individual route follows, which includes further considerations of access to jobs,
education, health care, food and social services for minority and low-income populations.
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue
Proposal: Extend route into Aurora to Colfax Ave and Billings Street via 9th and 11th Avenues and Peoria
Street. Headways between 9th Avenue and Clermont Street would be 60 minutes. All westbound trips
would terminate at Denver Union Station.
As shown in Table 4, a higher percentage of the District’s minority population stands to benefit from the
proposed Major Service Increase as compared to non-minority population (2.41% vs. 2.11%,
respectively). This difference does not exceed the 10% disparate impact threshold (1.90%). Therefore,
a route-level disparate impact is not found. Moreover, a higher percentage of the District’s low-income
population stands to benefit from the proposed Major Service Increase as compared to higher population
(3.30% vs. 2.06%, respectively). This difference does not exceed the 10% disparate impact threshold
(1.85%). Therefore, a route-level Disproportionate Burden is not found.
Table 3. Route 10 Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Analysis

East 12th Avenue
January 2023 to May 2023 Service Change Analysis

Route Service Area Impacted
District Statistics
District Total Base Population
% of District Not Impacted
% District Impacted
Thresholds
DI & DB Thresholds Are 90% for service
increases and 110% for service decreases

8

Non-Minority

Minority

Higher Income

Low-Income

Population

Population

Population

Population

40,614
27,197
52,995
14,184
1,922,542
1,126,534
2,576,564
429,175
3,049,076
3,005,739
97.89%
97.59%
97.94%
96.70%
2.11%
2.41%
2.06%
3.30%
Disparate Impact (DI)
Disproportionate Burden (DB)
DI Threshold
Min Pop Impacted
DB Threshold
L-I Pop Impacted
1.90%
2.41%
1.85%
3.30%

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

The maintenance of Route 10 existing service would maintain access to:
•

•
•
•
•

About 154,224 jobs
o 28% low-to-medium wage jobs, which is below the RTD District average (45%)
o 14% jobs held by minorities, which is at the RTD District average (14%)
o 15% jobs held by Hispanic/Latino workers, which is below the RTD District average (18%)
47 retail/convenience stores
66 human and social services centers
7 senior housing and facilities
27 college, high school, middle school, and elementary schools

The extension of Route 10 would provide new access to:
•

•
•
•
•

About 34,615 jobs
o 31% low-to-medium wage jobs, which is below the RTD District average (45%)
o 17% jobs held by minorities, which is above the RTD District average (14%)
o 15% jobs held by Hispanic/Latino workers, which is below the RTD District average (18%)
12 retail/convenience stores
7 human and social services centers
3 senior housing and facilities
22 college, high school, middle school, and elementary schools

Route FF2 (Boulder/Denver) – Boulder Express
Proposal: Reinstate route pattern with three eastbound trips (7:07 a.m., 7:37 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. from
Downtown Boulder Station) and three westbound trips (7:45 a.m., 4:45 p.m. and 5:20 p.m. from Denver
Union Station).
As shown in Table 5, a lower percentage of the District’s minority population stands to benefit from the
proposed Major Service Increase as compared to non-minority population (0.81% vs. 0.40%,
respectively). This difference does exceed the 10% disparate impact threshold (0.73%). Therefore, a
potential route-level disparate impact is not found requiring further examination (i.e., access to key public
service destinations, community engagement and network level analysis). However, a higher percentage
of the District’s low-income population stands to benefit from the proposed Major Service Increase as
compared to higher population (0.93% vs. 0.51%, respectively). This difference does not exceed the
10% disparate impact threshold (0.46%). Thus, there is no Disproportionate Burden at the line-level.

9

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

Table 5. Route FF2 Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Analysis

FF2 (Boulder/Denver) - Boulder Express
January 2023 to May 2023 Service Change Analysis

Route Service Area Impacted
District Statistics
District Total Base Population
% of District Not Impacted
% District Impacted
Thresholds
DI & DB thresholds are 90% for service
increases & 110% for service decreases

Non-Minority

Minority

Higher Income

Low-Income

Population

Population

Population

Population

15,634
4,534
13,222
3,998
1,922,542
1,126,534
2,576,564
429,175
3,049,076
3,005,739
99.19%
99.60%
99.49%
99.07%
0.81%
0.40%
0.51%
0.93%
Disparate Impact (DI)
Disproportionate Burden (DB)
DI Threshold
Min Pop Impacted
DB Threshold
L-I Pop Impacted
0.73%
0.40%
0.46%
0.93%

The reinstatement of the FF2 pattern of the Flatiron Flyer would improve access to:
•

•
•
•
•

About 43,880 jobs
o 39% low-to-medium wage jobs, which is below the RTD District average (45%)
o 12% jobs held by minorities, which is below the RTD District average (14%)
o 14% jobs held by Hispanic/Latino workers, which is below the RTD District average (18%)
23 retail/convenience stores
28 human and social services centers
2 senior housing and facilities
12 college, high school, middle school, and elementary schools

Network Analysis

In accordance with RTD’s 2022 Title VI Program update, a network analysis is required in addition to route- and
line-level analysis. A network level analysis provides further understanding of changes to service levels for Title
VI protected populations at aggregate levels.
The major service change threshold of 25% or greater used for individual route-level analyses was used as
precedent to determine potential adverse impacts overall and to identify structural issues in areas requiring
further review. Once average district thresholds for low-income and minority populations were established,
subsequent equity analyses focused on the subset of district block groups that experienced major service
changes of 25% or greater (additions or reductions in service), and whether equity block groups with major
service changes experienced service changes of 10% or more compared to non-equity block groups. Routes
with major service changes are later comparatively reviewed for potential adverse effects at route-block group
levels (block groups within route service areas).
The analysis of all service changes identified the following:
•
•

10

Systemwide, bus service was increased by over 49 weekday revenue hours.
Of the almost 88,000 people served by stops within the service area with major service changes, lowincome populations represented a higher share of population than District averages. Of this cumulative
figure, nearly 50,000 would receive service improvements for equity populations.

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

•

At the network level, equity routes and non-equity routes1 were compared only for those with major
service changes. The two bus routes with major service changes serve above-average low-income
populations.

In review of Routes 10 and FF2 at the network level, there are no potential disparate impact or
disproportionate burden findings.
An analysis of all district block groups and their service levels was conducted to establish the baseline equity
thresholds for low-income and minority populations and to determine the systemwide magnitude of impacts of
the January 2023 to May 2023 service change. Block groups with low-income and minority populations at or
above the district average are referred to in this analysis as “equity” block groups whereas higher income and
non-minority block groups are referred to as “non-equity” block groups.

Network Analysis Process
Determine block groups at/above district averages for low-income population (14.3%) and
minority population (36.9%).
Determine which block groups experienced service changes of 25% or more.
Of block groups with a major service change, compare the difference in annual trips for
equity versus non-equity block groups; if the difference is more than 10%, review for
potential adverse impacts.

There are 2,197 block groups defined as being wholly within or mostly within the District2. Using the 2017-2021
5-Year ACS Estimates, total population residing within these block groups was calculated as well as the total
minority population and total low-income population, calculated separately, to determine the District-wide lowincome and minority rates which set the thresholds for which block groups are classified as above average.
While the percent minority figure of 36.9% was derived by using the base population of the service area (3.049
million) the low-income population percentage of 14.3% is derived from a slightly smaller population figure
(3.005 million). This is due to the smaller population whose poverty status the Census Bureau can determine3.
The thresholds summarized in Error! Reference source not found.6 yielded 831 (38% of all) block groups
above the district average for low-income population, and 830 (38%) block groups above the district average
for minority population.

1

Based on existence of the route within the January 2023 network and the population within a quarter mile of bus stops
or rail stations. 2017-2021 5-Year ACS estimates were used for population identification.
2
Some block groups are not completely contained within district boundaries due to differences in boundaries between the
District and Census-defined geographies.
3
The total population whose poverty status is determinable/assessed is lower than the estimate of total population and
results in a different base population used to determine low-income percent of population.

11

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

Table 6. District averages; NTD 2018; ACS 2017-2021 5-Year estimates

Service Area
(sq. mi.)

Total Block
Groups

Total
Population

Percent
Minority

2,342

2,197

3,049,076

36.9%

Total
Population
(assessed)
3,005,739

Percent
Low-Income
14.3%

The proposed major service changes were examined in aggregate by transit mode to determine overall impacts
to underlying population. Table summarizes the change in service for block group population within one quarter
mile of bus stops with proposed major service changes proportionally compared to population in the District.
This comparison reviews the equity composition of those who may be impacted by proposed service changes
compared to the overall equity composition of the District overall. No major changes were proposed for rail
services with the May 2023 runboard.
Table 7. Systemwide disparate impact and disproportionate burden equity analysis summary for all bus major service changes

Systemwide Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Impact Analysis: All Bus
Non-Minority
Population

Minority
Population

Route Service Area Impacted
District
District Total

56,249
31,730
1,922,542
1,126,534
3,049,076

% District Not Impacted
% District Impacted

97.07%
2.93%

Thresholds

DI & DB thresholds are 90% for
service increases & 110% for
service decreases

97.18%
2.82%

Disparate Impact
(DI)

Higher
Low-Income
Income
Population
Population
66,217
18,182
2,576,564
429,175
3,005,739

97.43%
2.57%

95.76%
4.24%

Disproportionate Burden
(DB)

DI
Threshold

Minority Pop
Impacted

DB
Threshold

Low Inc. Pop
Impacted

2.63%

2.82%

2.31%

4.24%

For system-level bus service changes, non-minority populations stand to benefit slightly more than
minority populations, (2.93% vs. 2.82%, respectively). However, the difference does not meet the Disparate
Impact Threshold of 2.63%. Therefore, no system-level disparate impact findings are found with the proposed
major service changes. Low-income populations stand to benefit more than higher income
populations (4.24% vs. 2.57% respectively), with low-income areas benefitting 1.67% more than higher
income areas. Therefore, no system-level disproportionate burden is found with the proposed major service
changes.
Figures 1 and 2 illustrate the locations of above average low-income and minority block groups within the District,
as well as highlight the two bus routes with major service changes (orange). The Route 10 benefits low-income
and minority populations, serving the 9th and 11th Avenue and Peoria Street corridors with a longer alignment
and more connections into Aurora. The FF2 pattern of the Flatiron Flyer is currently suspended and is proposed
to be reinstated with three trips in each direction/peak period.
12

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

2.16.C.a

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

13

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 33

2.16.C.a

Figure 1. District block groups with above-average low-income population (red); US Census Bureau 2017-2021 5-Year Estimates

14

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

Figure 2. District block groups with above-average minority population (green); US Census Bureau 2017-2021 5-Year Estimates

15

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

The
January
2023
to
May
2023
service
changes
are
captured
in
Figure 3. Depiction of route and segment changes by severity of change, s. This map provides a generalized
view of where service is changing at the route pattern level. The January 2023 bus network is colorized according
to the percentage change in service hours. The FF2 is shown in green (7% service change). The network also
includes Route 10 in teal, representing significant modifications to its alignment and accompanying service hours
(74%). All other bus routes, shown in gray, are programmed to undergo minimal (e.g., schedule adjustments,
minor realignments) or no service changes in May 2023.

Figure 3. Depiction of route and segment changes by severity of change, January 2023 to May 2023

16

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

Summary of Findings
The network changes that are proposed between January 2023 and May 2023 include modifications to service
that include schedule adjustments, changes to summer schedules and trip availability, additional trips, and longer
spans of service. The major service change increases were entirely invested in bus services. No major service
reductions were included.
Route-level Findings:
•
•
•

Of the 30 total services with proposed changes, taken individually, one had a potential disparate
impact finding.
Route FF2 has a potential disparate impact finding due to minority populations receiving -0.33%
less of a benefit than non-minority populations.
Route 10 had no potential disparate impact and no disproportionate burden findings.

Error! Reference source not found.8 summarizes major service changes by change type, provides findings
of potential disparate impacts and disproportionate burdens based on a comparative difference analysis, and
provides the individual route service change.
Table 8. Summary of major service changes by change type and impact

Change
Type
Service
Increases

Number
10
FF2

Route
East 12th Street
FF2 (Boulder/Denver) – Boulder Express

Potential
Disparate
Impact?
No
Yes

Potential
Disproportionate
Burden?
No
No

Service
Change
Pct
74%
7%

Next Steps for Potential Disparate Impacts and Disproportionate Burden Findings
Given a potential disparate impact or disproportionate burden, RTD will evaluate whether there is an alternative
that would serve the same objectives and with a more equitable impact. Otherwise, RTD will either:
a) Alter the service proposal to avoid, minimize, or mitigate potential disparate impacts/disproportionate
burdens, or
b) Provide a substantial legitimate justification for keeping the proposal as-is and show that there are no
alternatives that would have a less disparate impact on minority riders or disproportionate burden on
low-income customers but would still accomplish the project or program goals.
Alterations to the initial proposed May 2023 service changes4 include adding improvements to Route 10 and FF2,
both of which serve low-income populations at rates higher than the District average. These service changes
signify the agency’s commitment to ensure an equitable distribution of service improvements.

https://www.rtd-denver.com/service-changes/may-2023
17
4

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

In addition to the systemwide-level findings below, RTD’s on-going pandemic response, the substantial ridership
decline, personnel impacts, resource allocation (human and capital) and recovery uncertainty serves as
justification for maintaining the May 2023 service changes proposal.
Systemwide-level Findings:

18

•

Of the almost 88,000 people with access to bus stops within the service area of the bus routes with a
major service improvement (Routes 10 and FF2), low-income groups represented a higher share of the
population than district averages, indicating targeted services to low-income populations.

•

When considering the demographics within the service areas of the bus routes with a major service
change and as a proportion to the District overall, low-income populations received a greater
increase in service (were positively impacted more) compared to higher income populations.
Low-income areas benefited +1.67% more compared to higher-income areas. Additionally, minority
populations received a slightly lower increase in service (were positively impacted less)
compared to non-minority populations. However, this difference did not meet the Disparate Impact
threshold, therefore no system-level disparate impact was found with the proposed changes.

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

Appendix A: Systemwide Service Changes
Change
Type

Service Changes
Route
Description
Schedule adjustments resulting from running time analysis, aimed at
0
improving on-time performance are proposed.
Perform a running time analysis to improve on-time performance of the
3L
route.

10

In accordance with the RTD Board-approved System Optimization Plan
(SOP), extend route to Aurora at Colfax Ave and Billings St via 11th Ave and
Peoria St. Headways on new alignment at 60 minutes. Existing headways
maintained on 9th Ave and Clermont Rd pattern. All westbound trips
terminate at Union Station.

20

Schedule adjustments resulting from running time analysis, aimed at
improving on-time performance are proposed. Additionally, school tripper
would be discontinued for summer.

28

Minor schedule adjustments.

32

Minor schedule adjustments.

34

Modified

38
169
169L
FF2
FF5

19

Merge with Route 38 at 30th/Downing Stn to create new Route 38 - 38th
Ave Crosstown. Discontinue service at stops #19044 and #10945.
Merge with Route 34 at 30th/Downing Stn to create new Route 38 - 38th
Ave Crosstown. Eastbound routing on Stout from 17th to 32nd, R Downing, R - California, enter station and continue on former Route 34.
Schedule adjustments resulting from running time analysis, aimed at
improving on-time performance are proposed.
Schedule adjustments resulting from running time analysis, aimed at
improving on-time performance are proposed.
Reinstate FF route pattern. Add 3 eastbound Boulder Express trips at 7:07
a.m., 7:37 a.m., and 4:15 p.m. from Downtown Boulder Station and 3
westbound trips at 7:45 a.m., 4:45 p.m., and 5:20 p.m. from Union Station.
Add 6:30 a.m. eastbound trip from Downtown Boulder Station to Anschutz
Campus and shift current 7:30 a.m. trip to 7:50 a.m..

D Line

Reduce service to 30 minutes between 6:30 to 8 p.m., Mondays through
Thursdays and Sundays and extend span to midnight. Reduce Friday
service to 30 minutes between 7:30 p.m. and 9 p.m. and extend span to 2
a.m. Reduce Saturday service to 30 minutes between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m.
and between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. and extend span to 2 a.m.

E Line

Extend span on 30-minute headways to midnight Mondays through
Thursdays. Reduce Sunday service to 30 minutes between 8 a.m. to 10
a.m. and extend span to midnight.
rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

Change
Type

Service Changes
Route
Description
H Line

R Line
W Line

Seasonal
Adjustments

11
30
51
65
73
225
DASH
JUMP
NB
SKIP

20

Reduce service to 30 minutes between 6:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. weekdays and 6
p.m. and 9 p.m. on weekends. Extend span to midnight Mondays through
Thursdays and Sunday. Extend span to 2 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays.
Schedule adjustments resulting from running time analysis, aimed at
improving on-time performance are proposed.
Extend span to midnight weekdays. Reduce service to 30 minutes 8 a.m. to
10 a.m. Sundays.
Seasonal adjustment, discontinuing school tripper for summer
Seasonal adjustment, discontinuing school tripper for summer
Seasonal adjustment, discontinuing school tripper for summer
Seasonal adjustment, discontinuing school tripper for summer
Seasonal adjustment, discontinuing school tripper for summer
Seasonal adjustment, reducing weekday frequency for summer
Seasonal adjustment, reducing weekday frequency for summer
Seasonal adjustment, reducing weekday frequency for summer
Seasonal adjustment, short turns at Nederland H.S. due to Eldora ski resort
not being in operation.
Seasonal adjustment, reducing weekday frequency for summer

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis)

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

Appendix B: Analysis of Impact on Access to Employment, Social Services,
Senior Housing & Facilities, Schools, Retail and Convenience Stores

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.a

We make lives better
through connections.

2.16.C.a

Route 10 – East 12th Avenue
Extension to Colfax Ave/Billings St via 11th Avenue and Peoria Street
Employment

Total POI

Social
Services

Senior
Housing &
Facilities

Elementary
Schools

Middle
Schools

High
Schools

Colleges Retail
Convenience
(Includes Stores
Grocery)

Maintain Access

146

66

6

9

2

2

14

24

23

44

7

3

12

6

3

1

4

8

Maintains access to an estimated 154,224 jobs
28%

Low/Medium Wage Jobs*

Jobs Held by Workers of Color*
Jobs Held by Hispanic/Latino
Workers*

Route 10

New Access

45%
14%
14%
15%
18%

District

Creates access to an estimated 24,615 jobs
31%

Low/Medium Wage Jobs*

Jobs Held by Workers of Color*

17%
14%

Jobs Held by Hispanic/Latino
Workers*

15%
18%

Route 10

45%

District

* Low/Medium wage jobs defined as having earnings of under $3,333 per month, or about $40,000 per year. Jobs held by workers of color include jobs where the race indicated was not “White Alone.” Jobs held by
Hispanic/Latino workers include jobs where the ethnicity indicated was Hispanic/Latino. Source: US Census Bureau, 2019.

1

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

2.16.C.a

Route FF2 – Boulder Express
Reinstatement of FF2 pattern with 3 trips in each peak period
Employment

Total POI

Social
Services

Senior
Housing &
Facilities

Elementary
Schools

Middle
Schools

High
Schools

Colleges Retail
Convenience
(Includes Stores
Grocery)

New Access

65

28

2

7

0

2

3

Creates access to an estimated 43,880 jobs
39%

Low/Medium Wage Jobs*

Jobs Held by Workers of Color*

8

45%

12%
14%

Jobs Held by Hispanic/Latino
Workers*

FF2

15

14%
18%

District

* Low/Medium wage jobs defined as having earnings of under $3,333 per month, or about $40,000 per year. Jobs held by workers of color include jobs where the race indicated was not “White Alone.” Jobs held by
Hispanic/Latino workers include jobs where the ethnicity indicated was Hispanic/Latino. Source: US Census Bureau, 2019.

2

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2023 Runboard Proposal (4754 : May 2023

Service Equity Analysis: May 2023

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

We Make Lives Better
Through Connections.

May 2023 Runboard
Service Equity Analysis
Carl Green Jr., Director, Civil Rights

Packet Pg. 44

Overview

§ Proposed Service Changes Summary
§ Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Requirements
§ Title VI and Service Equity Analysis Overview
§ Title VI Policies
§ Methodology
§ Route and Network Analysis and Conclusions
§ Public Outreach Overview
§ Recommendation
2

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Proposed Service Changes Summary

Modified
Services

0, 3L, 10, 20, 28, 32, 34, 38, 52, 72, 169, 169L, FF2, FF5

(20 services)

D Line, E Line, H Line, N Line, R Line, W Line

Seasonal
Adjustments

11, 30, 51, 65, 73, 225, DASH, JUMP, SKIP, NB

(10 services)

3

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

FTA Requirements for
Service Changes

Proposed May 2023 Service Changes
Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Packet Pg. 47

Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964

“No person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin,
be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to
discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.”
FTA Circular 4702.1B Title VI Requirements and Guidelines and RTD Title VI Program

5

Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Title VI Equity Analysis Overview

Minority and Low-Income = Equity Populations

6

Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Title VI Policies
Major Service Change, Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policies

Packet Pg. 50

Major Service Change Policy

Definition:

§ 25% + or - in the service hours of any route that would remain in effect for 12+ months
Major Service Change Results:

§ Increases – two out of 30 met the major service change threshold

8

Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policies

Title VI Policies
=
Thresholds to
Evaluate Possible Impacts

Threshold Calculation: 10% of 25% (non-minority) = 2.5%
9

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Methodology
1. Route-level analysis applied
2. Network analysis applied

¼-mile route buffer around a route

10

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Route Level Results

§ Route 10
• No potential disparate impact or disproportionate burden

§ Route FF2
• Potential disparate impact and no disproportionate burden

11

Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Key Public Service Destinations Assessment

12

Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Key Public Service Destinations – Route 10
Maintains Access

Total

New Access

Total

Jobs

154,224

Jobs

34,615

Grocers

47

Grocers

12

Social Service Centers

66

Social Service Centers

7

Senior Housing

7

Senior Housing

3

Academic Institutions

27

Academic Institutions

22

13

Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Key Public Service Destinations – FF2

Improved Access

Total

Jobs

43,880

Grocers

23

Social Service Centers

28

Senior Housing

2

Academic Institutions

12

14

Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Public Outreach Overview

§ Open houses held February 21-22, 2023
§ Community-based organizations/key public service destinations direct outreach

15

Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Network Level Results

§ Minority populations received slightly lower increase in service (were positively
impacted less) compared to non-minority populations

• 0.11% less for minority groups (2.82% vs. 2.93% non-minority)
• Difference does not meet Disparate Impact threshold (2.63%)
§ Low-income populations receive greater service increase service (positively
impacted more) compared to non-low-income populations

• +1.67% more for low-income groups

16

Packet Pg. 59

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Conclusion

§ Serve above-average low-income populations compared to service area
average (14.3%)

§ Equity populations were positively impacted slightly more compared to nonequity populations

§ No system-level adverse impacts

17

Packet Pg. 60

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Recommendation

§ May 2023 Title VI service equity analysis approval

18

Packet Pg. 61

Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

We Make Lives Better
Through Connections.

rtd-denver.com
Attachment: May 2023 Service Equity Analysis Recommended Action - March 8, 2023 (4754 : May 2023

2.16.C.b

Packet Pg. 62

2.16.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
May 2023 Service Change

March 8, 2023
Board Meeting Date:
March 28, 2023

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to approve the May 2023 Service Changes as revised and summarized in
Attachment A and to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators impacted by these changes.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer
Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service Development
PRESENTATION LENGTH
20 minutes
BACKGROUND
Commensurate with the service change and voting process detailed in the Collective Bargaining
Agreement (CBA) shared between RTD and Amalgamated Transit Union 1001 (ATU), the May 2023
Service Changes facilitate both an opportunity for bus and rail operators to vote new work assignments
and the opportunity for Service Development Division staff to adjust the operations plan for RTD’s
transit network.
Weekday boardings average slightly more than 185,000 currently, a 10% increase over 2021. Despite
growth, overall system capacity remains ample throughout the transit network, with few exceptions.
Customer expectations and agency goals outlined in the Reimagine RTD System Optimization Plan (SOP)
have driven an interest toward increasing levels of service. However, current employment levels for bus
and rail operators as well as other key positions remain a challenge, limiting resources available to
operate increased services. Accordingly, the modifications for May 2023 have been arranged to leverage
seasonal changes to address maintenance needs, resulting in a limited number of service increases and
resource-neutral adjustments.
DISCUSSION
The service changes herein include a mix of service improvements and adjustments. Notable changes
include an SOP-related change restructuring the Route 10 — 12th Avenue local service and as well as
the reintroduction of select trips on the FF2 — Union Station Downtown Boulder Express branch of the
Flatiron Flyer. This recommendation also supports the implementation of a new North Broomfield
FlexRide service area, which is grant funded.

Packet Pg. 63

2.16.D

Following the guidelines contained in the Strategic Plan, relating most directly to Customer Excellence,
and recognizing the RTD’s workforce challenges, the changes are directed at improving on-time
performance, maintaining CBA compliance and adjusting service levels to match projected summer
ridership demand.
The Board adopted guidance for proposed service changes continue to be:
• Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
• The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
• The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
• Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
• Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964: benefits and services are provided without regard to race,
color or national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
• Response to changes in the communities where services are provided
A summary of service modifications is provided below and are detailed in Attachment A.
Reference materials related to SOP proposals are also included as Attachments B, C, D, E and F.
Summary of Public Hearings
Three virtual public hearings were conducted, on February 21, 2023, at noon and 5:30 p.m. and
February 22, 2023, at noon. These meetings have been recorded and are available for review. Written
communications and public comments collected during this public comment period have been
summarized and listed in Attachment B of this report.
Revisions to Preliminary Modifications
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service modifications are communicated to the Board. Depending on the outcome of the
public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose revision to these initial
modifications. The following modifications have been added or significantly revised:
Route 12 — South Downing: running time analysis, schedule adjustments
Route 43 — Martin Luther King Blvd/Gateway: minor schedule adjustments
Route 83D/83L — Cherry Creek/Parker Road Limited: running time analysis, schedule adjustments
Route 133 — Hampden/Tower: minor schedule adjustments
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES
Services proposed for routine adjustments (schedule adjustment/ schedule analysis)
Route 0 — South Broadway: running time analysis, schedule adjustments
Route 3L — East Alameda Limited: running time analysis, schedule adjustments
Route 12 — South Downing: running time analysis, schedule adjustments
Route 20 — 20th Avenue: running time analysis, schedule adjustments
Route 28 — 28th Avenue: schedule adjustments to address CBA compliance
Route 32 — 32nd Avenue/City Park: schedule adjustments to address CBA compliance

Packet Pg. 64

2.16.D

Route 43 — Martin Luther King Blvd/Gateway: minor schedule adjustments
Route 83D/83L — Cherry Creek/Parker Road Limited: running time analysis, schedule adjustments
Route 133 — Hampden/Tower: minor schedule adjustments
Route 169 — Buckley Crosstown: running time analysis, schedule adjustments
Route 169L — Buckley/Tower DIA Limited: running time analysis, schedule adjustments
R Line — Lincoln to Peoria Station: running time analysis, schedule adjustments
N Line — 124th Eastlake to Denver Union Station: running time analysis, schedule adjustments
Services proposed for improvements
Route 10 — East 12th Avenue: modified SOP expansion of service
FF — Boulder/Denver: reintroduction of limited peak service on FF2 and added trips to FF5
North Broomfield FlexRide: new demand-response service area in North Broomfield
Services proposed for mixed improvements and reductions
Route 34 — Bruce Randolph Ave/Route 38 —West 38th Avenue: merger of Routes 34 and 38 to
address CBA compliance
Route 228 — Louisville/Broomfield: minor route and schedule adjustments
D Line — 18th and California to Littleton/Mineral Station: service frequency adjustment to expand
service span
E Line — Union Station to RidgeGate Station: service frequency adjustment to expand service span
H Line — 18th and California to Florida Station: service frequency to expand service span
W Line — Union Station to Jefferson County Government Center-Golden Station: reallocation of service
frequency to expand service span
Seasonal adjustments (suspension of school service)
Route 11 — Mississippi Avenue: school tripper service suspension and schedule adjustments
Route 20 — 20th Avenue: school tripper service suspension and schedule adjustments
Route 24 — University Boulevard: school tripper service suspension
Route 30 — South Federal: school tripper service suspension
Route 51 — Sheridan Boulevard: school tripper service suspension
Route 65 — Monaco Parkway: school tripper service suspension
Route 73 — Quebec Street: school tripper service suspension
Route 204 — Table Mesa/Moorhead/North 19th St: weekday service frequency reduction for summer
Route 206 – Pearl/Manhattan/Fairview High School: weekday service frequency reduction for summer
Route 225 — Boulder/Lafayette via Baseline: weekday service frequency reduction for summer
BOLT — Boulder/Longmont: weekday service frequency reduction for summer
DASH — Boulder/Lafayette via Louisville: weekday service reduction for summer
JUMP — Boulder/Lafayette via Arapahoe: weekday service frequency reduction for summer
NB — Boulder/Nederland/Eldora: northbound operation only between Boulder and Nederland for summer
SKIP — Broadway: weekday service frequency reduction for summer
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The overall estimated financial impact contained in this proposal is designed to be cost neutral.

Packet Pg. 65

2.16.D
ATTACHMENTS:
•

May23 Service Changes_Attachment A

•

May 23 Public Comments

•

BoCo comment letter_May23 runboard

•

RTD May 2023 Service Changes - City and County of Broomfield Letter of Support

•

Attachment C (PDF)

•

Attachment D (PDF)

•

Attachment E (PDF)

•

Attachment F (PDF)

(PDF)

(PDF)
(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service Development
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 66

2.16.D.a

May 2023 Service Changes

Route 0 — South Broadway
Current average weekday ridership: 31.5 passengers per hour
Current on-time performance: 77.9% on-time, 18.4% late
It is proposed to add resources to Route 0 on weekdays to alleviate current running time
issues. A running time analysis determined there is a significant delay occurring between
Evans and Englewood stations on weekdays, in comparison with current running times
allotted to that segment. Research comprised of route review, operator interviews and data
analysis determined this delay to be primarily due to heavy passenger loads and traffic signal
timing issues. Resource impacts are anticipated to be an estimated seven weekday hours.
Route 3L — East Alameda Limited
Current on-time performance 20.8% late, 79.2% on time
Schedule adjustments resulting from running time analysis, aimed at improving on-time
performance are proposed. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue
Current on-time performance 23.9% late, 76.1% on time
Current ridership is 23 boardings per hour weekdays, 20 boardings per hour Saturdays, 16
boardings per hour Sundays
As outlined in the Board-approved System Optimization Plan (SOP), it is proposed to expand
service east into Aurora. However, the routing proposed in the SOP is not compliant with
the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) between RTD and the Amalgamated Transit
Union Local 1001 (CBA), due to lack of sufficient options for operator respite at the terminal.
To expand service and in compliance with the CBA, it is proposed to modify the SOP and
extend the Route 10 to Colfax and Billings instead, via east 11th Avenue and Peoria Street.
Headways to the eastern terminus would be 60 minutes, as proposed in the SOP.
Further, in accordance with the SOP, all westbound patterns will terminate at Denver Union
Station. This route will no longer serve Decatur•Federal Station or the Children’s Museum
due to lack of ridership compared to the resources required to maintain such routing. The
existing headways will be maintained between Denver Union Station and 9th and Clermont.
This proposal aims to increase ridership by improving transit access and connectivity to
major activity and employment centers in Denver and Aurora. This modified routing complies
with the CBA and provides a greater benefit to Title VI populations, who are more likely to
rely on RTD services. This addresses ongoing customer requests for Route 10 service to
return east of Claremont and is warranted based on the ridership demand on parallel Routes
6, 15, 15L and 121.

Packet Pg. 67

Attachment: May23 Service Changes_Attachment A [Revision 1] (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

BUS

2.16.D.a

Route 11 – Mississippi Avenue
Seasonal adjustment, discontinuing school tripper for summer. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 12 – South Downing
Current on-time performance 19% late, 76% on time
Running time analysis, schedule adjustments. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 20 – 20th Avenue
Current on-time performance 27.2% late, 72.8% on time
Schedule adjustments resulting from running time analysis, aimed at improving on-time
performance are proposed. Additionally, seasonal school tripper service would be
suspended. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 28 – 28th Avenue
Schedule adjustment aimed at providing a respite period and location for Routes 28 and 32
beyond 26th Avenue and Wadsworth Boulevard. Cost impacts would be shared between
Routes 28 and 32 through interlining the services, which is anticipated to be an estimated
19 hours daily and an additional vehicle.
Route 30 – South Federal
Seasonal adjustment, discontinuing school tripper for summer. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue
Schedule adjustment aimed at providing a respite period and location for Routes 28 and 32
beyond 26th Avenue and Wadsworth Boulevard. Cost impacts would be shared between
Routes 28 and 32 through interlining the services, which is anticipated to be an estimated
19 hours daily and an additional vehicle.
Route 34 – Bruce Randolph Avenue
Current average weekday ridership: 27.1 passengers per hour
Current on-time performance: 87.4% on-time, 12.3% late
In order to achieve further CBA compliance, it is proposed to extend Route 38 east and
connect to Route 34 at 30th•Downing Station, due to the lack of a relief station at the
current eastern terminal of route 38. Route 34 will be merged into Route 38, and the extra
recovery time currently available on Route 34 will accommodate the additional running time
necessary to merge the two routes. Eastbound routing will continue on Stout Street from

Packet Pg. 68

Attachment: May23 Service Changes_Attachment A [Revision 1] (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

Customers who previously utilized service west of Denver Union Station will be impacted.
However, that segment of the route was discontinued with the COVID-19 service changes
and previously accounted for less than 5% of Route 10 ridership. Anticipate resource
impacts are estimated to be 34 weekday hours, three vehicles.

2.16.D.a

Stop Consolidation
Current average daily ridership on Route 34 is 720 Weekdays, 539 Saturdays, 307 Sundays
In conjunction with the proposed combination of the Route 34 and Route 38 and considering
the multimodal street improvements being made on Bruce Randolph Avenue, it is proposed
to remove two stops to improve the efficiency, on-time performance, and customer
experience on the Route 34. It is proposed to remove Stops 10944 and 10945 on Bruce
Randolph Avenue at Fillmore Street. These are legacy stops, and do not meet current RTD,
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) or Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA)
standards for stops. Current average daily boardings at stop 10944 is six on weekdays, five
on Saturdays, and two on Sundays. Current average daily boardings at stop 10945 is two
weekdays, none on Saturdays, one on Sundays
This will impact the existing customers that may use these stops, which is estimated to be
at most eight customers per day. However, since the distance to the next closest stop is
less than 0.1 mile, the estimated customer impact is minimal. New stop spacing will meet
the standard for local routes of roughly 0.25 mile between stops. Additionally, this change
will make the route more efficient for other Route 34 customers.
This will mitigate potential bus and bicycle conflicts with the installation of the bikeway
along the corridor.
Route 38 – West 38th Avenue
Current average weekday ridership: 21.9 passengers per hour
Current on-time performance: 79.1 on-time 20.3 late
In order to achieve further CBA compliance, it is proposed to extend Route 38 east and
connect to Route 34 at 30th•Downing Station, due to the lack of a relief station at the
current eastern terminal. Route 34 will be merged into route 38, and the extra recovery time
currently available on Route 34 will accommodate the additional running time necessary to
merge the two routes. Eastbound routing will continue on Stout from 17th Street until 32nd
Street, at which point they will turn right on Downing Street and right on California Street,
where it will enter the station. Westbound routing will leave the station on California and
will follow that until standard routing is resumed with the turn on 15th Street. The new
combined route will be named 38 — 38th Avenue Crosstown. Anticipated cost impact
neutral.

Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: May23 Service Changes_Attachment A [Revision 1] (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

17th Street until 32nd Street, at which point they will turn right on Downing Street and
right on California Street, where it will enter the station. Westbound routing will leave the
station on California Street and will follow that until standard routing is resumed with the
turn on 15th Street. Discontinued stops will be #19044 and #10945. The new combined
route with be named 38 – 38th Avenue Crosstown.

2.16.D.a

Route 43 — Martin Luther King Blvd/Gateway
Minor schedule adjustments reducing excess time at 17th and Lawrence streets. No cost
impacts anticipated.

Route 65 — Monaco Parkway
Seasonal adjustment, suspending school tripper service. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 73 — Quebec Street
Seasonal adjustment, suspending seasonal school tripper service. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 83D/83L — Cherry Creek/Parker Road Limited
Current on-time performance 19.1% late, 76.1% on time
Running time analysis, schedule adjustments. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 133 — Hampden/Tower
Minor schedule adjustments aimed at balancing operator respite times. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 169 — Buckley Crosstown
Current on-time performance 21.9% late, 78.1% on time
Schedule adjustments resulting from running time analysis, aimed at improving on-time
performance are proposed. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 169L — Buckley/Tower DIA Limited
Current on-time performance 25.6% late, 74.4% on time
Schedule adjustments resulting from running time analysis, aimed at improving on-time
performance are proposed. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 225 — Boulder/Lafayette (via Baseline)
Seasonal adjustment, reducing weekday service frequency for summer. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 228 — Lafayette/Louisville/Broomfield
Schedule adjustments resulting from running time analysis, due to recent route extensions
to Forest Park/Arapahoe and Diamond Circle/Aspen Ridge. In addition, minor routing change
due to adjustment of timepoint from Garfield/ South Boulder Road (northbound, nearside in
the northbound route direction) to South Boulder Road (eastbound, far side in the northbound

Packet Pg. 70

Attachment: May23 Service Changes_Attachment A [Revision 1] (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

Route 51 — Sheridan Blvd
Seasonal adjustment, suspending school tripper service. No cost impacts anticipated.

2.16.D.a

DASH — Boulder/Lafayette (via Louisville)
Seasonal adjustment, reducing weekday service frequency for summer. No cost impacts
anticipated.
FF — Boulder/Denver
Current On — time performance: 81.8% on-time 18.2% late
FF2 – It is proposed to add three FF2 (Boulder Express) trips, in the eastbound direction at
7:07 a.m., 7:37 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. from Downtown Boulder Station to address demand
during the peaks. Ridership on the current eastbound FF1 7:15 a.m. and 7:45 a.m. trips
average 48% of the max load or 40 passengers per trip. However, this average is calculated
over a five-day period while most of the ridership occurs on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and
Thursdays. This creates a higher ridership than the average on these three days, resulting in
overloads regularly on these days. In the evening peak, ridership averages 63 passengers
per trip, nine passengers or approximately 15% above the maximum load. More than half of
this ridership boards either at US36•McCaslin Station or prior to reaching the station. Again,
this ridership average also occurs mainly on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays,
creating a higher ridership than the average, on these days, resulting in regular overloads.
It is also proposed to add three FF2 trips leaving from Union Station at 7:45 a.m., 4:45 p.m.
and 5:20 p.m. to address demand during the peaks in the westbound direction. Ridership in
the morning peak between 7:30 and 8 a.m. averages 49 passengers per trip. Ridership in
the evening peak, between 4:45 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. averages 64% of the maximum load
or 44 passengers per trip. Nearly half of this ridership deboards between US36•McCaslin
Station and Downtown Boulder Station. Again, most of this ridership occurs on Tuesdays,
Wednesdays, and Thursdays, resulting in higher than the average ridership on those days,
creating overloads on a regular basis. A new eastbound trip at 4:15 p.m. and a new
westbound trip at 5:15 p.m. are also proposed.
FF5 — Downtown Boulder/Anschutz
It is proposed to add a 6:30 a.m. eastbound trip, from Downtown Boulder Station to
Anschutz Campus, to address the demand for an 8 a.m. shift start time and to shift the
current 7:30 a.m. westbound trip, from Anschutz Campus to Downtown Boulder Station,
to a 7:50 a.m. leave time, for interline efficiencies. Ridership on the current 7:30 a.m. trip
boards along US36 and into Boulder only, with an hourly average of 25 boardings. Shifting
the trip time would help better balance demand into the University of Colorado, Boulder for
9 a.m. class start times.

Packet Pg. 71

Attachment: May23 Service Changes_Attachment A [Revision 1] (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

route direction). This route adjustment allows for a more direct routing along South Boulder
Road and reduces operational turning movement required. No cost impacts anticipated. No
cost impacts anticipated.

2.16.D.a

Anticipated resource impact estimated to be eight weekday hours combined between the
FF2 and FF5.

NB — Eldora/Nederland/Boulder
Seasonal adjustment, short-turn trips at Nederland High School due to Eldora Ski Resort not
being in operation. No cost impacts anticipated.
SKIP — Broadway (Boulder)
Seasonal adjustment, reduce weekday service frequency for summer. No cost impacts
anticipated.
FLEXRIDE
North Broomfield FlexRide
It is proposed to create a new FlexRide service area in North Broomfield that will operate
weekdays between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. to provide transportation alternatives for those
affected by changes to Route 128. The new service area would go as far east as Washington
Street, as far south as 136th Avenue, as far west as US 287 and as far north as Lowell
Street. The primary boundaries would roughly be Washington Street, 144th Avenue, 120th
Street and Baseline Rd (Hwy 7).
The estimated annual cost would be approximately $88,151 based on current service costs;
however, as this is grant-funded, the service is cost neutral until the grant terminates on
September 30, 2025.
RAIL
D Line – 18th and California streets to Littleton•Mineral Station
Current overall ridership 89 boardings per hour; 120.4 boardings per hour Monday —
Thursday, 94.3 boarding per hour Friday, 75.4 boardings per hour Saturday, 63.7 boardings
per hour Sunday.
Purpose of this proposal is to adjust service frequency by balancing service to the demand
and extending the service span to match the E Line creating coverage and spreading service
to create connections to the southwest corridor in the late evening. Balancing service is
intended to improve route performance efficiency and cost effectiveness. Intent is to offset
the D and H lines during the reduced 30-minute service to maintain 15-minute service in the
central corridor and maintain convenient transfers to the E Line for improved connectivity.

Packet Pg. 72

Attachment: May23 Service Changes_Attachment A [Revision 1] (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

JUMP – Boulder/Lafayette (via Arapahoe)
Seasonal adjustment, reducing weekday service frequency for summer. No cost impacts
anticipated.

It is proposed:
• Monday through Thursday and Sunday service days to reduce service between 6:30
and 8 p.m. to 30 minutes from 15 minutes and move those hours to extend service
to midnight instead of 10 p.m. to provide connections from the E Line to Littleton
Mineral in the evening.
• Friday reduce service between 7:30 and 9 p.m. to 30 minutes from 15 minutes,
extend service to 2 a.m. to match E Line and provide connections to Littleton•Mineral
after 10 p.m. that currently is not provided.
• Saturday reduce service between 8 and 10 a.m. to 30 minutes from 15 minutes,
and between 7 and 8 p.m. from 15 minutes to 30 minutes and extend service to 2
a.m. on 30-minute headways to match E Line service and provide connection to
Littleton•Mineral that currently is not provided.
Impacts to existing customers includes a delay to customers during the reduced service
span. Planning service to provide connections to minimize impact to the customers.
Extending the service will provide positive impacts to the community and provide
connections later in the evening that customers have been demanding since fall 2020.
Anticipated cost impact neutral.
E Line – Union Station to RidgeGate Station
Current overall ridership 103 boardings per hour; 116.9 boardings per hour Monday through
Thursday, 101.6 boardings per hour Friday, 99.5 boardings per hour Saturday, and 93.5
boardings per hour Sunday.
Purpose of this proposal is to adjust service frequency by balancing service to the demand
and extending the service span to accommodate demand for late night service for events
and evening staff. Balancing service frequency to ridership is intended to improve route
performance efficiency and cost effectiveness while improving service span coverage.
It is proposed:
• To extend Monday through Thursday service on 30-minute frequency until midnight.
This addresses the requirement to match the increased service hours added to the
W Line per the FTA agreement requiring any increase in service to be matched on
the Southeast Rail Extension.
• Sunday to reduce service between 8 and 10 a.m. to 30 minutes from 15 minutes
due to low ridership and move those hours to the evening due to increased request
and demand for 30-minute service to midnight.
Impacts to existing customers includes a delay to customers during the reduced service
span. Planning service to provide connections to minimize impact to the customers.
Extending the service will provide connections and service coverage in the evening that

Packet Pg. 73

Attachment: May23 Service Changes_Attachment A [Revision 1] (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

2.16.D.a

2.16.D.a

H Line – 18th and California to Florida Station
Current overall ridership is 66.5 boardings per hour; 90.9 boardings per hour on Monday
through Thursday, 71.6 boardings per hour on Friday, 54.1 boardings per hour on Saturday,
and 47 boardings per hour on Sunday.
Purpose of this proposal is to adjust service frequency by balancing service to the demand
and extending the service span to match the E line service creating coverage and spreading
service span to create connections to Aurora in the late evening. Balancing service is
intended to improve route performance efficiency and cost effectiveness. Intent is to offset
the D and H lines on the reduced 30-minute service to maintain 15-minute service in the
central corridor of Denver with convenient transfers to the E Line for improved connectivity.
It is proposed:
• To reduce Monday through Thursday service between 6:30 and 9 p.m. to 30 minutes
and extend service to midnight from 10 p.m. to provide connections from the E Line
to Aurora
• To reduce Friday service between 6:30 and 9 p.m. to 30 minutes from 15 minutes
and extend service to 2 a.m. from 10 p.m. to match with E Line service and provide
connections and service span coverage for the alignments
• To reduce Saturday service between 6 and 9 p.m. to 30 minutes from 15 minutes
and extend service to 2 a.m. from 10 p.m. to match E Line service to provide
connection and service coverage to Aurora
• To reduce Sunday service between 6 and 9 p.m. to 30 minutes from 15 minutes and
extend service to midnight from 10 p.m. to match E Line service and provide
connections to Aurora
Impacts to existing customers includes a delay to customers during the reduced service
span. Planning service to provide connections to minimize impact to the customers.
Extending the service will provide connections later in the evening that customers have been
demanding since fall 2020. Anticipated cost impact neutral.
N Line – Union Station to Eastlake Station
A running time analysis is proposed, which will likely result in minor schedule adjustments.
No cost impacts are anticipated.
R Line – Lincoln to Peoria Station
The purpose of this proposal is to address the on-time performance (OTP) due to safety
improvements on the R Line changing the way trains operate between Florida Station and
the Aurora Metro Center Station.

Packet Pg. 74

Attachment: May23 Service Changes_Attachment A [Revision 1] (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

customers have been demanding since fall 2020. Anticipated cost 67 weekly hours, no
additional vehicles.

2.16.D.a

W Line – Union Station to Jefferson County Government Center — Golden Station
Overall ridership 106.4 boardings per hour; Monday — Thursday 122.8 boardings per hour,
Friday 110.9 boardings per hour, Saturday 84.1 boardings per hour, and 108 boardings per
hour on Sunday.
The purpose of this proposal is to adjust the service span and frequency to meet demand
and balance service to improve route performance and cost effectiveness and spread service
span to improve connections and service span coverage.
It is proposed:
• To extend 30-minute service to midnight from 10 p.m. Monday through Thursday
due to increased demand and ridership
• To reduce Sunday service due to low ridership to 30 minutes from 15 minutes
between 8 and 10 a.m. and to extend service on 30-minute frequency to midnight
from 10 p.m.
Positive impact to the community by addressing requests and demand to extend service
span. Anticipated cost impact neutral.

Packet Pg. 75

Attachment: May23 Service Changes_Attachment A [Revision 1] (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

It is proposed to perform a running time analysis to address OTP due to changes in operations
between Florida Station and Aurora Metro Center Station and improve performance with the
E and H lines. No cost impacts anticipated.

2.16.D.b

May 2023 Service Change Comments
# of Requests
2

Comments
Change stop to 11th Ave instead of Rose Medical

15L

4

Add a bus stop at Colfax Ave and Emerson

21

3

Return route to Federal Center

34/38

12

Support the merge of these two routes

40

5

66

1

Add a bus stop at south east corner of Colfax and Colorado
Blvd.
Increase frequency to 30 mins

67

2

Reinstate to service to Littleton

77

2

Reinstate route

105

2

Change scheduling to match A line arrival

205

2

Reinstate Heatherwood stop

AB1

6

C

4

Schedule service past 11:30 pm from airport to accomodate
late arrivals
Reinstate

D

2

Schedule adjustment for on-time performance

E

3

Improve on-time performance

E

2

Increase frequency

F

4

Reinstate

FF1

5

FF2

15

Improve scheduling for better connection between FF1 and
NB. Increase frequency.
Reinstate

FF4

12

Reinstate

FF5

9

Reinstate

Attachment: May 23 Public Comments (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

Route Name
10

Packet Pg. 76

FF6

2

Reinstate

FF7

3

Reinstate

GS

6

Reinstate - add at least 1 - 2 trips

N

1

NB

3

Change southbound departure to 2 - 4 minutes earlier
weekday mornings.
Add variations for snow seasons - rest of year

P

2

Return to pre-covid schedule

R

7

Run service past midnight

R

3

Continue service to Ridgegate

W

3

Change arrival to facilitate connection to A line ( 6 - 12 mins
later)

Attachment: May 23 Public Comments (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

2.16.D.b

Packet Pg. 77

2.16.D.c

Community Planning & Permitting
Courthouse Annex • 2045 13th Street • Boulder, Colorado 80302
Mailing Address: P.O. Box 471 • Boulder, Colorado 80306
303-441-3930 • www.BoulderCounty.gov

RTD Service Development Staff,
Thank you for the opportunity to provide public comment on the May 2023 Runboard. We
are very happy to see partial restoration of FF2 Express service included as part of this
proposed service change. Since the latter part of 2021, as more work, essential trips, and
social trips have shifted back to in-person, our community has been pushing for restoration
of transit service that was suspended in April 2020, including express service on US 36. We
understand that the operator shortage has been the primary barrier to service restoration, so
we are excited that RTD is making headway in this regard.
We also appreciate the proposed change to the FF5 to better serve the CU-Boulder
community, which is a major transit trip generator in Boulder County.
We look forward to working with RTD staff on future service changes.
Thank you,

Alex Hyde-Wright
Alex Hyde-Wright
Regional Multimodal Planning Division Manager

Claire Levy County Commissioner

Marta Loachamin County Commissioner

Ashley Stolzmann County Commissioner

Packet Pg. 78

Attachment: BoCo comment letter_May23 runboard (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

RTD Service Development Staff
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Blk-24
Denver, CO 80202

February 24, 2023
General Manager Johnson
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake St
Denver, CO 80202
RE: May 2023 Proposed Service Changes - North Broomfield Flexride and Flatiron Flyer
Dear Ms. Johnson,
The City and County of Broomfield is pleased to express its enthusiastic support for the proposed North Broomfield Flexride
service area and additional service on the Flatiron Flyer.

Attachment: RTD May 2023 Service Changes - City and County of Broomfield Letter of Support (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

2.16.D.d

The Flatiron Flyer is a critical link between communities in the Northwest Denver Metro Region. The proposed expansion of
service on the FF2 Flatiron Flyer will help relieve pressure on the highly-utilized FF1 service and increase the convenience and
reliability of the service for Broomfield commuters. The additional FF5 trip will support commuters, students, and residents
needing to access medical services at Anschutz. Broomfield appreciates RTD’s efforts to phase in the restoration of services.
Broomfield has a growing population of residents within vulnerable demographic groups who are in need of transportation
options that are safe, reliable, and affordable. Broomfield's 65+ population grew by 79% from 2010 to 2020; within the
proposed North Broomfield service area approximately 16% of the population are older adults. In addition to a large senior
population, an estimated 24% of the population are People of Color, and 5% are considered low-income. By providing a
dedicated service designed to meet the needs of residents, the proposed service changes will help promote greater access,
equity, and inclusion in our community.
The new flexride service in North Broomfield would benefit the community in many ways. For one, it would provide a
convenient and affordable mode of transportation that can be used to access essential services such as medical appointments
and grocery stores. It will also help ensure that vulnerable groups have access to the resources and opportunities that they
need to thrive.

Broomfield has high hopes for the new North Broomfield Flexride to improve mobility access and options, we hope to continue
our partnership with RTD to expand the areas served and hours of operations to support workforce trips before 9 a.m. and after
4 p.m. We request that RTD consider expanding the boundary to include the new Palisade development along Huron, north of
CO 7, as well as point deviations to support regional access at 124th/Eastlake N-Line, US 36 Flatiron, and/or US 36 Broomfield
Stations.
Broomfield continues to encourage RTD to support the impacted riders of Route 128, suspended since April 2020 and proposed
for elimination in the 2022 RTD System Optimization Plan, by expanding the operational capacity of the Broomfield Flexride. It
remains a top priority to restore Broomfield's transit access to Wagon Road Park and Ride and the N-Line station. Broomfield
looks forward to continuing to partner with RTD to optimize service, operations, and connections to regional transit facilities.

In summary, the proposed service changes on the Flatiron Flyer and the North Broomfield Flexide are vital investments in our
community's future. By supporting our most vulnerable residents and expanding regional access, we are ensuring that the
Broomfield community, and the Denver metro region, remain strong, vibrant, and inclusive for generations to come. Broomfield
urges RTD to move forward with these proposals.
Sincerely,

_____________________
Mayor Guyleen Castriotta
City and County of Broomfield

Packet Pg. 79

2.16.D.e

tte

er

Pl
a

Sp
e

Proposed May23 Discontinued Routing

ter
Wa

Union Station

th

Current Routing (Unchanged)

15

Route 10

I-25

th
th

Colfax-Federal
Transit Center

Colfax

Civic
Center
Station

Colfax

Airport
Û

Centretech Pkwy

Chambers

I-225

6th Ave

Û
Û

Del Mar Cir

Peoria

Colfax

6th Ave

Û
Route 10

Proposed May23 New Routing

Centretech Pkwy

Û

Current Routing (Unchanged)
Proposed May23 Discontinued Routing

Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: Attachment C (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

Broadway

17
15

Federal

23rd

Broadway

Quebec

Monaco

Holly

Central Park Station

Central Park Blvd

30th & Downing Station

d

Colorado

Bruce Randolph

Downing

C

St
al
ou
i fo
t
rn
ia

York

Fox

38th

Smith
R

Attachment: Attachment D (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

2.16.D.f

MLK Blvd

Route 38

Colfax

Current Routing (Unchanged)
Proposed May23 Routing -Moving From Route 34 to Route 38
Proposed May23 Discontinued Routing

Packet Pg. 81

South Boulder Rd
Û

Û

Û

Attachment: Attachment E (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

2.16.D.g

Route 228

Current Routing (Unchanged)

Garfield

Co
tto
nw

oo
d
Û

Via
A

Û

pp
ia

Û

Proposed May23 New Routing

Proposed May23 Discontinued Routing

Packet Pg. 82

Huron

Sheridan

2.16.D.h

Broomfield FlexRide
Current Service Area (Unchanged)
Proposed May23 Midday Service

kw y

Washington

Zuni

144th
Huron

ir

Lowell

pla
C

Sheridan

US 287

Exe
m

st P

I-25

h we
Nort

Attachment: Attachment F (4757 : May 2023 Service Change)

Mountain View

Baseline

136th

Packet Pg. 83

2.17.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
Access-a-Ride and FlexRide Service Contracts

March 8, 2023
Board Meeting Date:
March 28, 2023

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into
contracts with MTM Transit, Transdev Services, Inc., Transdev on Demand and Via Mobility Services for
the provision of Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services. These contracts are for three years, with two oneyear options for a total of five years, at a total not-to-exceed cost of $296,433,073. Additionally, RTD
will reimburse the contractors’ direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be $27,006,014 over five
years. The total five-year not-to-exceed cost for Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services and fuel is
$323,439,087.

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer
Paul Hamilton, Director, Paratransit Services
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
Access-a-Ride
The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) requires that public entities operating a fixed-route
public transit system also provide comparable service for persons who are unable to use RTD’s fixedroute system for some or all trips due to disability. RTD’s ADA-compliant paratransit service branded as
“Access-a-Ride” is provided exclusively through private contractors.
Access-a-Ride contracted services are performed using agency-owned and contractor-owned vehicles.
Ninety percent of the paratransit service is provided using vehicles owned by RTD; the remaining 10% is
provided through the Access-on-Demand contract, to which multiple taxi vendors are parties. Access-aRide services comprise approximately 70% of mobility services to paratransit customers, whereas
Access-on-Demand service accounts for the remaining 30%.
The current Access-a-Ride contractual structure consists of one call center contractor, one eligibility
certification contractor, three service-provider contractors that utilize RTD-owned vehicles, and one
service-provider contractor that utilizes vehicles owned by the contractor. Current contracts for Accessa-Ride services expire on June 30, 2023.

Packet Pg. 84

2.17.E

FlexRide
In addition to fixed-route and paratransit services, RTD also operates FlexRide demand-responsive
microtransit service in 23 service areas within RTD’s transit network, providing first/last-mile
connections along with access to essential activity centers such as grocery stores, hospitals, medical
facilities, employment sites and schools in those areas. FlexRide service is provided exclusively through
private contractors.
The current FlexRide contractual structure consists of two service-provider contractors that utilize RTDowned vehicles exclusively. Current contracts for FlexRide services expire on June 30, 2023.
Solicitation
On December 28, 2022, RTD issued a request for proposals for dedicated (i.e., provided through RTDowned vehicles) and non-dedicated (i.e., provided through contractor-owned vehicles) Access-a-Ride and
FlexRide services for six service segments:
•
•
•
•

Two segments providing 25% each of the overall Access-a-Ride service, to be delivered via
dedicated vehicles
One segment providing 40% of the overall Access-a-Ride service, to be delivered via dedicated
vehicles
One segment providing 10% of the overall Access-a-Ride service, to be delivered via nondedicated vehicles
Two segments providing approximately 50% each of the overall FlexRide service, to be delivered
via dedicated vehicles

The solicitation was made available on the RTD website and was announced via transit industry-related
publications. Proposals were due on January 31, 2023.
DISCUSSION
Following a 30-day solicitation period, six proposals were received. A panel of subject matter experts
assessed the proposals using pre-determined objective evaluative criteria. Based on the overall
evaluations of the proposals, the panel recommends the following:
• That contracts be awarded for Access-a-Ride service, in an amount not to exceed
$228,000,060 over five years, to MTM Transit (25%) and Transdev Services, Inc. (65%)
• That a contract for 10% of the Access-a-Ride service in an amount not to exceed
$19,771,177 over five years, be awarded to Transdev on Demand
• That a contract for the provision of 100% of FlexRide services, in an amount not to exceed
$48,661,836 over five years, be awarded to Via Mobility Services
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding is included in the 2023 Budget for the provision of contracted Access-a-Ride and FlexRide
services effective July 1, 2023. Funding for future contract years is contemplated in the Mid-Term

Packet Pg. 85

2.17.E

Financial Plan and will be presented for the Board’s consideration annually, as identified within each
year’s respective budget.

Prepared by:
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
Erin Vallejos, Senior Manager of Contracted Services
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 86

