2023-03-23
Executive Committee Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. The Thursday, March 23 Executive Committee is now called to order. We're
convened as of 3:00 PM. I respectfully ask everyone attending the meeting to mute yourself unless you're
called on to speak. Let's call roll. I think everyone is here. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I see you so I know you're here. Second Vice Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think you're spotty, but I know you're here too. Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here. Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're muted too. Is it working for everybody? Do we have the systems up and
running?
BOBBY DISHELL: I can hear folks on my end.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you talk, Marjorie?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, but it might be-LYNN GUISSINGER: We haven't had anybody that's responded verbally, so I to make sure it works. How
about Treasurer Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: I am here, and I have been able to hear everyone.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Something's not working.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think something's not working on your end, Lynn.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale, can you talk? Can you be heard?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, I believe that I can be, but we think there's a problem on your end.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I just sent a message to the chair. The speakers must be off. Huh. I wonder if I should
leave and come back. I'm not seeing anything that's-- all right, I'll be back.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Anybody with a good story to tell while we're waiting for Lynn?

BOBBY DISHELL: I went in a Waymo for the first time last night, which was a fascinating experience. For
those who have yet to be in one, they are on-demand autonomous vehicles that drive on the city streets.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Now I can hear everybody. Great. OK. Did you all hear all of the roll call? I assume
Director Tisdale and Director Guzman, and I think that's it for additional Directors.
All right. I'd like to open public comment to anyone who'd like to address the Committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. Before I go
through all of this, Miss Parish, do we have anyone that is wanting to speak?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No, there are no speakers, nor are there any emails.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Then I won't go through all of that. With no participants in the queue, we will
close the public comment period at this time. There's one recommended action on the agenda this
morning, the action is Statement of Employee Appreciation.
It is recommended by RTD Directors Catlin, Ruscha, and Sloan that the Board of Directors incorporate a
Statement of Employee Appreciation at appropriate monthly Board meetings as identified by the Board
Chair. Do we have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I heard Director Sloan and First Vice Chair Catlin as a second. Is there
discussion on this item? OK, Marjorie.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, this is certainly a noncomplex issue, but I would just like to state that it's a
nonmonetary but heartfelt statement of appreciation for the employees who keep our agency running, and
as you know, it's been proposed by Director Catlin and Director Ruscha and myself.
And I see Director Guzman is on. He has wordsmithed this statement, and has a really good suggestion.
And I don't know how you would like to do this if this goes to the full Board. We can have Director
Guzman at the full Board meeting suggest his changes, or we can do it now. It doesn't change the
meaning, but I think it's much better written.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I'd be inclined to just go ahead and address it. Any advice for us, Ms. Snyder?
Yeah, OK. So I guess maybe what we need is somebody to read the language and then make a motion
to amend. Does that have to be from a committee member, Melanie?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, that would be preferable, but we could have Director Guzman read the
language and have a committee member-LYNN GUISSINGER: Make the motion. OK. All right. Erik Da-- Guzman, do you want to read it and then
point out the language you're changing if you would please?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sure. Can you hear me?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You bet.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. So it's the third and fourth sentence on here that we're looking at. And my
suggestion was to state, we honor their work of delivering transit excellence, service, and value to the
community, especially demonstrated during difficult and stressful moments. May the actions taken by the
Board of Directors demonstrate our profound gratitude, commitment, and support toward all RTD
employees.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Any comment? Well, first of all, do we have a motion to adopt these
changes?
PEGGY CATLIN: Point of clarification-- is that to replace those statements, or is it-MICHAEL GUZMAN: That's correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: --in addition to?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No, that's to replace them. It's deletion and addition of specific words. And I have
sent a copy of this to the Board Office so they can send it to all of you to see, but I wasn't sure whether
we did that here or at the other meeting, so it is a PDF that can be sent out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Could you just read the whole thing for us then, the way the whole Employee
Appreciation-- is it handy?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah. OK, so what I'm proposing for a final amended version would be, "The
Regional Transportation Board of Directors recognizes that RTD's dedicated workforce is the lifeblood of
the agency. Every day, RTD employees do extraordinary things to make lives better through connections.
We honor their work of delivering transit excellence, service, and value to the community, especially
demonstrated during difficult and stressful moments. May the actions taken by the Board of Directors
demonstrate our profound gratitude, commitment, and support toward all RTD employees."
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Do we have a motion to accept the amendment?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, then do we have any no votes on this amendment? And we have-- the
amendment is passed unanimously. And we have the initial motion that was-- the movement was
Secretary Sloan and the second was First Vice Chair Catlin. Do we have any No votes on the full
statement on this motion as amended? OK, the vote is unanimous, and great.
[AUDIO OUT] board meeting agenda. Note that there are two additional Executive sessions planned for
Tuesday evening for the following matters. Executive session regarding the Denver Transit Partners LLC
versus RTD, litigation pursuant to Section 24-6-402(4)(b) CRS to receive legal advice in Section 24-6402(4)(3) CRS for determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations.
And Executive session pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(c) CRS to receive legal advice and 24-6-402(4)(c) CRS
are matters required to be kept confidential by state law and rules. Section 40-18-104 CRS and 7 CCR
723-7, Public Utilities Commission rules, 7349(d)(1) and (4), confidentiality of light rail vehicle accident

investigations regarding the March 11, 2023 W Line derailment. Is there a motion to move the Board
agenda as amended to the Board meeting on March 28?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I hear Director Catlin is the movement and Secretary Sloan as the second. Is
there discussion? Note, this is for the whole Board agenda with those changes.
No discussion. All right. Are there any No votes on this action? All right, with five Yes votes and zero No
votes and No abstentions, the motion passes. We had a discussion item portion of the agenda, and there
are two items for today. The first one, I see Michael Davies is the March 2023 Government Relations
Report.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, hello, Chair, members of the Committee. Michael Davies, Government Relations
officer. I just have a brief report for you.
So beginning at the federal level, as written in the report, the good news for RTD with regards to
President Biden's submitted White House Budget. This is a budget recommendation to Congress.
Included in that budget is the recommendation to fund the Colfax, East Colfax BRT project, which is
inside the FTA's Capital Investment Grant Program with roughly $126 million-- that's $118 million from
federal fiscal year '24 and then $8.1 million that was from last year's federal fiscal year 2023 that they're
able to appropriate through that Capital Investment Grant Program.
And so with that recommendation, it goes to Congress. And Congress, of course, has to fund that
program at the adhered levels authorized in the bipartisan infrastructure law. The Capital Investment
Grant Report that outlines this recommendation for the East Colfax BRT is really a road map
recommendation from the Administration for Congress to understand where that money is going. And if
Congress agrees with those recommendations, they'll just provide a lump sum funding for that program
and then let the Federal Transit Administration move forward with ministering and working out final grant
agreements with the agencies.
So it's certainly a big step forward for that project. Along with the recommendation for funding, you get
your project rating from the FTA. And East Colfax BRT was rated high. This is the highest possible rating
that you can get for a Small Starts project within the Capital Investment Grant Program, so good news all
the way around on that project. And our partnership with not only city and county of Denver, but city of
Aurora, state of Colorado, and DRCOG.
So moving on to the state side of things, really connected with the Board's vote to support House Bill 231101, which is the Ozone Season Transit Grant Program Flexibility Legislation. That bill, as I had
indicated in a previous update to the Board, did have a amendment attached at the request of CDOT
toward the end of Senate consideration.
And the House did not concur with that amendment, and they requested a conference committee on the
bill to talk through the issues on that CDOT requested amendment. I know they are working on a
compromise to move forward on that bill. It was on the Senate calendar for today, but it's been delayed
over until tomorrow. So just waiting for essentially final concurrence in both Senate and House to move
forward on that bill. But no concerns or issues that have been raised with the portion of the bill that
impacts RTD and that RTD is in support of.

Also on the state side, there are two new bills that I just want to bring up and mention. They do cross over
into RTD's world. First bill is House Bill 23-1240. That's a sales use tax exemption for wildfire disaster
construction. This was a similar-- there was an amendment last year to a bill that was very similar to this,
and this is largely focused on the Marshall wildfire and victims who had their homes destroyed and now
need to go purchase construction materials to rebuild their home.
Of course, when you purchase construction materials, it passes through all the sales taxes at the state
level, and that includes RTD's sales taxes, sales and use tax. So what this bill would do is create a sales
and use tax exemption or-- should change that-- a use tax exemption for purchasing that construction
equipment.
There is a fiscal note that has been produced. RTD did not give any input onto that because we don't get
enough detail in the information that we get from the Department of Revenue to discern and make a
reasonable estimate on what that fiscal impact would be. We really relied on the Department of Revenue
to do their analysis and look into the level of detail of what that might cost RTD in terms of a fiscal impact.
The Department of Revenue did estimate that in fiscal year '23-'24, the impact would be $1.1 million to
$2.2 million. And then moving forward in fiscal year '24 and '25 would be $800,000 to $1.5 million.
Overall, in conversation and analysis with RTD's CFO on this, really RTA views this as a de minimis
impact and can actually be viewed in many ways as somewhat budget-neutral. If this disaster never had
happened, those taxes would have never been collected, and ultimately, when we look at our long-term
budgeting impacts, it is really neutral. And I know our CFO, Doug MacLeod, is on the line if you have any
questions on that.
But RTD, looking at this bill, does not have any concerns with the bill, and that's essentially all I have in
terms of remarks on that bill. Happy to answer any questions. It has been referred out of the House
Finance Committee and is sitting in the House Appropriations Committee, where many bills are sitting
until the state can work out its long bill and determine how much money they are going to be able to
appropriate to a wide number of bills, including this House Bill 23-1240.
The next bill I just want to touch on and make sure you're all aware of-- and I know you've heard about
this as the legislative session has gone on, and this really is the Governor's land use/housing bill. This is
Senate Bill 23-213, and it is simply titled Land Use. And that bill was released yesterday from the
Administration and bill sponsors and a wide number of supporters around the bill.
It is over 100 pages long, so I can't say I've read every single word in it, but I've done a good quick
review. Based on that initial review, it does not have any fiscal impact on RTD. It does not create any new
requirements for RTD. And lastly, all of the requirements that are in there are not adverse to RTD's
transit-oriented communities, policies, or any of our policies with regards to land use development that
RTD owns.
Just as a quick review of what the bill does, the bill defines communities in a number of different ways.
Generally, if you hear the word tier one communities, that's going to account for most of the cities that
RTD serves. Within that tier one, communities they do define transit-oriented communities and key
corridors, and those two definitions are defined in the bills. Transit-oriented communities really refers to
communities within a half mile of a fixed rail station. Transit or key corridors is referring to communities
that within a quarter mile of a bus rapid transit corridor. And they define bus rapid transit as largely simply
15-minute service frequency or better.

So that is just a quick review. And those key corridors then have requirements for what the cities need to
adopt in terms of density requirements, and that is largely what this bill does is it defines a rule-making
and plan implementation for cities around the state to adhere to and provides an opportunity for the state
to start building a base level of understanding-- how much housing do we have, how much housing do we
need to produce, and it allows the state to track that over time.
So that's just a quick overview of that bill. Again, RTD doesn't have any initial concerns on that bill and
happy to answer any questions.
And then lastly, just to touch on the local level, RTD did-- and many of you, I think, participated-- but RTD
did hold on March 8 a local elected officials virtual meeting. A good number of elected officials and their
staff from around the RTD region did participate.
I actually did just receive some positive feedback from an Adams County Commissioner earlier today that
enjoyed the virtual meeting. Thought it was informative and a good use of their time, so that's certainly the
kind of feedback that we want to hear from our local elected officials and want to ensure that we're giving
them useful information.
Lastly, I do know just with regards to outreach and trying to get before city councils and make sure that
we are being proactive in getting before those local bodies, just this last Monday, Director Buzek, along
with some of our staff that are managing the Northwest Rail Peak Service Study, did present before the
city of Westminster. And I will, of course, keep the Board updated and each Director in their districts that
have community meetings that we're working on and look forward to working with the Board as we set
those up in the future. That will conclude my remarks and happy to answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great report, Michael. Thanks so much. It's a lot of good information. I see First
Vice Chair Catlin's hand up.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. A couple of questions. I was unable to attend the local government forum.
Is that still available to stream or to view online?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, we do have a recording of that and can get you a link to review that.
PEGGY CATLIN: That would be great. And secondly, with regard to the Land Use Bill, I know you said
RTD did not take a-- there's no negative consequence for RTD. That being said, I read a lot from-- and
maybe defer to Mayor Marjorie Sloan on this perhaps-- former Mayor Doug Tisdale on this, I have seen a
lot of concern expressed by local governments about overreach on the state. So just because it doesn't
have an adverse impact, I'm assuming that we remain neutral as a Board on that?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah, and if I may, at least the way that I approach it from the Public Administrator
Government Relations perspective and guided by our 2023 legislative program, if there is no real
negative financial or operational impact to RTD-- yes, and as you stated, this is really a bill that impacts
local governments and really is a bill for local governments to look at and debate and work out with the
General Assembly of how it moves forward. But certainly there is a wide number of views on how this bill
goes about incentivizing or requiring local governments to implement these plans.
PEGGY CATLIN: Again, I just am mindful of the fact that we are trying to foster relationships with local
governments in the way of partnerships, and I just want to make sure that that particular legislation
doesn't kind of cloud or detract from our intent to forge these partnerships. That's just all I wanted to say.
Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, and just to be clear, you mentioned that we're neutral as a Board. I think
Michael's right. It hasn't come to the Board. It could come to the Board. I mean, it's only filed yesterday.
And at this point, it doesn't seem like there's reason for the Board to take an action. But I know Michael
and our team will be following it.
PEGGY CATLIN: I didn't mean to overreact. I just feel-LYNN GUISSINGER: No, no, no, fine.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's a very touchy subject, I think.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It is.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I wanted to get on the record as stating that at this point we're neutral.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, good. Second Vice Chair Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to take the moment to say thank you to Mr.
Davies and all the staff that participated in putting together that Elected Official Forum. I think that's a
really, really great start.
And although I'm traveling in apologies for not being on video here, I've also heard some positive
feedback about that, and I think it represents an opportunity to create a good cadence. And certainly I
look forward to the discussions we'll have this weekend at the retreat, so thank you very much for taking
the time to do that and report on it.
And also, I just wanted to say thank you for Miss Johnson and the entire team on the Colfax Project. That
is very exciting with the high rating. And Mr. Davies, thanks for explaining that that is the highest-tremendous opportunity there, and I think something that we can point to with community value if this
project is to move forward. So anyway, thank you for the hard work on that. I know there's a lot behind
that report that you just provided. There was a lot of substance there, but long-winded way of saying
thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Treasurer Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. And I think just sort of following up on Director Catlin's conversation on the
Governor's bill, which effectively upzones the state and pushes for more affordable housing, it's a political
challenge, right, because on the one hand, we are working to build stronger relationships with a lot of our
smaller municipalities. And on the other hand, the land use choices they made which run contrary to this
bill make RTD as an agency, it makes it a lot harder for us to do our job.
And this bill actually enables a lot more intentional, well-thought out, more dense planning, which is by
and large good for transit. And so it'll be interesting to see how this sort of unfolds and makes its way
through the legislature. But I think I would not want politics to get in the way of policy in terms of making
sure that we are advocating for policies that enable strong housing markets, which enable better transit
delivery. And of course, there are jurisdictions that are welcome to not, but I think that also sort of paints a
pretty clear picture for me as to where they sit on transit and the realities and challenges of providing
transit in a low-density area.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I agree. Good comments. Great. Any other comments on our Government
Relations Report? Erik, you have your hand up still. Is that just a vestige? I'm going to-ERIK DAVIDSON: Yep, sorry about that. I'll take that down. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No problem. OK, our next discussion item is Board retreat planning. I see that
Jonathan Bartsch has joined us, and I think all of you received the draft agenda. We talked for a bit this
morning, and after I talked to some of you and others, and I think we're on the same page so that we
might work through a couple of changes to this and send it out again.
Specifically-- I'll let Jonathan talk about some of this, but the 9:45 to 10:45 and the 11:00 AM to 12:00 PM
sessions are talking about the Directors' key policy goals and what the priorities are and putting together
a work plan. And I think, again, what I'm hearing from several Board members and what Jonathan also
had in mind is that we would actually specify several of those policy topics that we would have the
discussion on not, just set a work plan to discuss them down the road.
Because I think that's what people are looking for in the retreat. At least I'm putting that out there for the
discussion perhaps. Just brief small group discussions on several of the topics. Some things like
communication and relationship with the community and what the Board is doing, the ZEV goal and
transition plan table, several things like that. Jonathan has heard several themes. So Jonathan, I don't
want to steal all your thunder. Are you there?
JONATHAN BARTSCH: I am. Good afternoon, everyone and apologies for not being on video as well.
And as Chair Guissinger mentioned that we intend to have a discussion not just to kind of tee up those
and have them as an action plan, but really to get into the substance of those and provide time to both
discuss those, to understand the values, the sometimes maybe differing perspectives associated with
that. And at the same time to-- the goal on Saturday would be to walk away with a plan about, one, a
confirmation of what those policy goals are. Two, the understandings around those, and three, what are
some of the specific steps and measures of success for the next 12 months.
So as Chair Guissinger mentioned, we'll tweak that a little bit. I don't know whether it's worth sending out
again to that, but maybe to the Board, I'll leave it to your judgment. But that was sort of the plan with that
tomorrow. And I fully concur with the goal of having the Board have substantive, meaty conversations
about these topics and to build understanding amongst each other and also then to think about what's
over the next 12 months.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. Opening it up for discussion, questions on the agenda, suggestions.
Anything else? OK. Oh, there's Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Sorry, I had some trouble finding the raise hand button. I think one thing that I really
want to emphasize is that we come away with firm commitments, that whether it's one, maybe two per
person that actually get implemented coming out of this retreat.
Because, candidly, I think we may have lacked that in the past, which means everyone's time is really
valuable on this Board. And if we're not going to hold ourselves and each other accountable to what we
talk about in next steps at the retreat, then all we really did was spend eight hours together on a
Saturday, which is a lovely thing to do, but it isn't really the purpose of a retreat.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I agree.

JONATHAN BARTSCH: Yeah, I hear that and-- this is Jonathan-- and, Director Dishell, the sort of the
idea as well of sort of building off of the morning discussion is that there's ample time as well in terms of
the next steps and action items and sort of the specific Board of Directors' both commitments and things
that you want to be held accountable for, and that's the goal to have that conversation, both in the
morning, but then to confirm that in the afternoon. And so hear you loud and clear.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything else? OK, Jonathan, thanks so much for joining us.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Thank you all. Looking forward to Saturday.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, we are too.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Bye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Bye-bye. All right. We are at other matters. Are there other matters to discuss?
Secretary Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. I have two things I'd like to bring up. The first has to do with rescheduling
Committee meetings. And it's great to have everybody at a Committee meeting, but we have to recognize
it isn't just the Committee members who are affected. It's the staff has to rearrange their schedule, other
Board members who want to listen in have to rearrange their schedule, and potentially the public and the
media.
I know there are going to be exceptions to this, but I think in the future, we should stick to our Committee
scheduling. I can be talked out of this, but it just seems like a lot of behind the scenes work to reschedule
something that has been set for quite a while. And Madam Chair, if you would like to call on the other
folks to react to this, that would be great. I still have one other item.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I assume Erik and Bobby are reacting to this. Do you have comments?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, go ahead, Erik.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, Secretary Sloan, thanks for raising it. I think consistency and long-scheduled is
always really, really helpful. And my apologies because the change on this one, I'll own. That came out of
a discussion with Board staff, and thank you to everybody on this call right now for the adjustment. My
apologies for that.
It's been a lengthy trip with some challenging connection issues, so I appreciate the flexibility. But I would
say that, Secretary Sloan, I completely agree with your sentiment, and I'll own this one, so thank you very
much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks. Treasurer Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you. I was going to say, I absolutely agree. I think that the caveat would
be for religious or other sort of protected reschedulings. And I think the other thing to note, right, is we
rescheduled because of APTA, an entire Committee schedule. And APTA is great, and it's great that
we're participating, but I think everyone knows that our obligation is here first.

And I'm hard pressed to think that there were really legislative meetings going on in 8:30 PM or 7:30 PM
Eastern. And we all travel. We all have busy schedules, but I think to really nail down on Marjorie's point,
the more we can keep these consistent and really only shift them for religious exemptions or if that means
that person has to miss it, that's fine. But I think it really is critical that we limit rescheduling. I think it's why
we have Chairs and Vice Chairs.
It's why we have Chairs and Vice Chairs and First Vice Chairs and Second Vice Chairs on all of our
committees, which is to allow people the flexibility. And it means you just sort of need to make a
commitment one way or the other for folks. So it's important to have everyone's voice here, but I think we
all also know we're here for the public, and we're here for staff, and we're here to serve our community,
and adjusting these for our own schedules sort of runs against that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anyone else? I'll just say that I agree. I think it's a very good point, Marjorie. Thanks
for raising it. And I think the additional comments I think that we have a pretty good consensus here that
we'll try to stick to our Committee and Board meeting times in the future except for religious reasons. I
agree with that. OK, Marjorie you had another-MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, I appreciate having everybody at the Committee meetings, and this was just a
good example of hearing about consistency. So thanks, all. The other is just a heads up about an
upcoming conference in Denver called the Colorado Transit Exchange Conference.
It's going to be about all things transit and multi-modal transportation. There are plans to honor former
Secretary and former Mayor Pena with an award and having the current Secretary of Transportation
there. The organizer is Bob Dinegar, and he is juggling a lot of commitments from other people right now
about scheduling and when they can be available.
So there is nothing right now for RTD to do, but the organizers of the conference would like, after they
had their schedule together, they would like a resolution in support of the conference from the RTD
Board. So that is an issue that will come up in the future, and that's it for me today. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much. Any other comments on that or other matters for the
Board, for the Committee? All right. I will entertain a motion to adjourn if no one else has anything.
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. We are adjourned. Thank you. See you on Saturday.

