2023-06-26
Performance Committee Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Right. Good morning, everybody. The Monday, June 26, Performance Committee
Meeting will now come to order. We are convened as of 8:31 AM Mountain Daylight Time. I would
respectfully ask everybody who has joined the meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to
speak. Thank you for joining us.
Please note that this meeting will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The
meeting recording, along with the meeting minutes, will be posted as soon as practicable to the Board's
website. Please visit RTB-Denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also available on RTV's
YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you'd like to be acknowledged during today's
proceedings, I would please ask you to raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call upon you before
proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can raise their virtual hands to indicate
they would like to speak by pressing star nine. To toggle your mute settings, you can press star six. I'll go
ahead and now call for the roll of our committee members.
Director Buzek. Director Catlin.
[AUDIO OUT]

I'm sorry, I lost audio. Can you hear me OK?
LYNN GUSSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you. Thank you. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
[AUDIO OUT]
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am here, Director Davidson. That is five present, [INAUDIBLE] absent.
LYNN GUSSINGER: I'm here, Erik.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I believe-- oh, great, thank you. All six here.
LYNN GUSSINGER: Well, maybe, I'm not sure about Peggy, but--

ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, OK. So then we're five present. Sorry. There was a mix up with the audio. So
Director-- we have five present. Director Catlin is absent. And she's joining shortly. So I'll note that for the
record once I see her join. I may ask my colleagues, if you notice, please go ahead and interrupt and note
her presence. Oh, there she is. Director Catlin, here. All six present.
All right, we'll move to public comment. This is for anyone who would like to address the committee
regarding the topic in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If
you would like to speak and have not done so, you may raise your virtual hand or press star nine on your
phone. Do we have any participants in the queue or anyone who has submitted emails?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: We have no one in the queue, and we have no received emails.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you, Jillian. We'll go ahead and move to other matters then. We do have an
executive session at the end here. So we're moving through our other matters. And we'll also note the
following meeting. Are there any other matters to discuss at this committee? OK.
So the next meeting date once we complete our executive session today is going to be Monday, July 17,
2023. That will also be at 8:30 AM Mountain Daylight Time. So this committee will reconvene on July 17,
which is a Monday, at 8:30 AM. I will now move to our executive session. So we will move into executive
session for compensation performance appraisal and employment agreement for our General Manager
and CEO Debra A. Johnson.
I would like to append the motion to move into executive session to state that the committee meeting will
be adjourned after it adjourns in its executive session. For public transparency, this means that once this
committee moves into executive session, the main meeting will be adjourned.
I'll now entertain a motion to discuss the following, executive session pursuant to Section 246-402-4FLBRF for consideration of personnel matters regarding compensation, performance appraisal, and
employment agreement for General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson. [INAUDIBLE] 246-402-4B-BRF
for legal advice regarding the same. Do we have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan, Director Buzek. Any discussion on the matter?
VINCE BUZEK: Is it just me, or is your audio really bad? Does anybody here Eric OK? Or is it bad?
LYNN GUSSINGER: It's really bad.
DEBRA JOHNSON: It's bad. I would suggest, Director Davidson, that perhaps you turn off your camera.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, I am very sorry about that. I have very limited connectivity. When we reconvene in
executive session, I will switch the Wi-Fi network that I'm on.
DEBRA JOHNSON: That's totally better with the camera off, though.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, good to know. Thank you. I'm in rural United Kingdom. OK, so we have the move
for Director Sloan. We have the second is Director Buzek. The performance-- do we have-- I'll go ahead

and say, are there any no votes on this action to move in executive session? All right, being none, the
Performance Committee is adjourned to executive session as of 8:38 AM Mountain Daylight Time. With
all those entitled to participate in the executive session, please move over to the other room.

