Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 18, 2012, at
10:00 a.m.
Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

October 18, 2012

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 18,
2012 at 10:00 a.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Kemp, 1st Vice-Chair Tayer, 2nd-Vice-Chair
Cohen, Treasurer Bagley, Secretary Malpiede
Other Board Members
Present:
Subject:

Board Member Absent:
Others Present:
Call to Order:

I.

Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 10:00
a.m.

Approval of October Board Agenda Review
General Manager Washington asked if there were any questions pertaining to the
agenda. Seeing none, a motion was made to approve moving the Board agenda
forward.
Motion:

Director Cohen made the motion to approve
the agenda for the October 18 Board
meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:


The Motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent



Approval of General Manager Contract

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 18, 2012, at
10:00 a.m.
Page 2 of 4
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee that the Board of Directors approve the new
General Manager’s contract with an effective date beginning January 1,
2013 through December 31, 2015 and with an option for two additional
successive years.



Approval of the January 2013 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the January 2013 Service Change
package as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an
annualized cost increase of approximately $802,500 and, further, to
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.



Approval of the West Corridor Service Plan-April 2013
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the West Corridor Service Plan package
as revised and summarized in Attachment A and, further, to authorize
the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.



Budget transfer from Technical Services Contracts to the
SmartCard project
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorizes a budget transfer of $450,000
from Technical Services Contracts to the Retail Point of Sale (RPOS)
portion of the SmartCard (SMT) project.



Approval of Free Rides for the Military
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the extension of the free rides on RTD
for active duty members of the United States Military from the presently
approved date of December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013. Utilization
has been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal impact on
RTD.



Approval of Corporate Sponsorship Program Contract Award
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee be
authorized to enter into a contract with IMG Consulting for the
development and implementation of a corporate sponsorship program, to
include naming rights and other sponsorship opportunities for RTD
assets.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 18, 2012, at
10:00 a.m.
Page 3 of 4



2013 Salaried Benefit Plans)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board approve the 2013 plan year salaried employee insured
benefits budget and authorize the General Manager to enter into an
agreement with the Insurance Carriers.



Proposed 2013 Fiscal Policy Statement
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors accept the modifications to
the 2013 Fiscal Policy Statement.



Authorization to Award the Construction Contract for the Pine
Junction park-n-Ride (pnR) Relocation Project
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to enter into a construction contract
with Symmetry Builders Inc. in the amount of $1,279,875.68 for the
construction of the Pine Junction park-n-Ride Relocation Project. The
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) will provide $960,000 of
Funding Advancement for Surface Transportation and Economic
Recovery (FASTER) funds for this project.
RTD will provide the
remainder of the funding for this project.



Resolution No. ___, Series of 2012 related to the issuance of RTD
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012A
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the
“Resolution”), authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation
District Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Projects),
Series 2012A.



Recommended Action



Approval of On-Vehicle Advertising Contract Amendment and
Exercising of Option Years
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Director authorize the General Manager or his designee to amend the
current contract for the sale and installation of on-vehicle advertising with
Lamar Transit Advertising and to exercise the two year option component of the
contract, consistent with the terms and amendments outlined in this action
item.

II. Other Matters
 General Manager Washington shared that they have a preliminary
ruling from the DIA arbitration. He will brief the Board in an Executive
Session.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 18, 2012, at
10:00 a.m.
Page 4 of 4







General Manager Washington indicated that work on the scope of
work for the Northwest Corridor Study is progressing well with the
stakeholders.
General Manager Washington spoke to the series of cost
savings/revenue enhancement measures they are looking at in the risk
allocation model for FasTracks. He indicated they plan to brief on the
measures in bite size options that the Board can digest with plans to
roll 7-8 up in a recommendation for the Board. After some discussion,
the Executive committee felt it more expeditious and prudent for the
General Manager to provide a comprehensive, holistic briefing that
the Board could take into consideration for possible approval in 2012.
General Manager Washington will reflect on this and discuss a
possible plan during his General Manager Report at the Board meeting
on October 23.
Director Bagley stated for clarity that since the DRCOG Amendment
is due in 2014, the purpose of the timing to bring forth these
potential measures and the completion of the Northwest Study in
2013 is so they can be included in the 2014 DRCOG Amendment.
General Manager Washington indicated this is correct.
Paula Perdue shared that there appears to be a problem with one of
the precincts in Douglas County because of the re-districting which
appears incorrectly on the ballot. Marla Lien has notified the
Attorney General who has indicated the incorrect ballots will be
voided and new ballots issued. We are not sure of the scope of the
problem but hopefully it is contained.

III. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 10:38 a.m.

