RTD FA&A Committee 11-10-20
SHELLEY COOK: Hello, everyone. I'll call the Financial Administration and Audit Committee to order. I'm
Shelley Cook. And we'll note that we're convened as of 6:08 PM. And as noted in the earlier committee
meeting, we have all 15 Board members present.
So we'll move right into the agenda. We have eight recommended actions, and a good number of them,
though, deal with our budget cycle, the mid-term financial plan, fiscal policies, and the budget itself. And
Heather told me today that we've had no less than seven study sessions and/or workshops this year in
working up to this point. So hopefully that will make getting through these a little bit less formidable.
So I will go ahead and just take them in order. And we'll note the first recommended item is having to do
with the adoption of the 2021 fiscal policy. And the recommended action-- I'll read it-- is that the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee recommend that the Board of Directors approve and adopt the
revised fiscal policy statement for 2021. This recommended action supports the following General
Manager's goals-- mission-oriented goal number three for strong financial management and strategic
priority number six, move RTD toward stable financial situation. And so first, I'd ask if there is a motion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved. Rivera-Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second. Director Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All right, the movement is Chair Rivera-Malpiede, and the seconder is Director
Williams. OK, so Heather McKillop and Jannette Scarpino, I'll go ahead and turn you over to you two.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop. We have included both a
redlined copy and a clean copy in your packet. We have not had any changes since last month when we
brought you this under the updated section.
One thing I did want to mention before I turn it over to Jannette Scarpino is this is Jannette's last FA&A
Committee meeting and Board meeting next week. She has accepted a position with the state of
Colorado. So sad for us, but very excited for her. So I want to thank her for all the hard work over the
years in the mid-term financial plan and the budget. And with that, I'll just ask her if she has any
comments she wants to add.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Oh, well, first, let me thank you for those remarks. I appreciate it. I'm sorry to be
leaving RTD but looking forward to my next adventure. I will miss all of you greatly. It's been terrific
working for such a great team. But at any rate, let me please add my comments to the fiscal policy
statement.
As Heather noted, we do have both a markup and a full document in your packet. But let me just point out
the more significant changes that we are proposing. One of them is that the preparation of the mid-term
financial plan will be determined by the Board but not less than every two years.
Also, we have added of our COVID response policies as they have been brought forward in previous
Finance Committee presentations. And then I also wanted to point out that the Moody's credit rating on
our debt has been updated from Aa3 to A1 on the COPs, which is actually a downgrade. And I just
wanted you to be aware of that. But so other than that, I have no further comments.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you, Jannette. And we'd had that previously. So thank you for bringing that
back again forward, the information about Moody's. I am sorry to see you go and would note that this, in
fact, is the last FA&A meeting for both you and our CFO, Heather McKillop. And I think none of us is

going to be surprised. But I know for a fact that Heather and I wouldn't be surprised if it was you two who
negotiated starting dates that allowed you to get through the budget cycle. You would not leave your
current agency hanging on that.
And so I know there's much we can say about both of you. But I did want to acknowledge and thank you
for the work this year of all years and for making sure that we were carried through to this point before
going and wish you the very best. I'll go ahead and ask for comments or questions from folks going
around the roster. Let's start with Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No comments. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Nothing, Madam Chair. I made them all in the last seven meetings. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. No comments on the fiscal policy itself. But I echo your
sentiments with regard to the departures of both Ms. McKillop and Ms. Scarpino and want to thank them
both for their tremendous contribution to this organization.
SHELLEY COOK: Well stated. Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions, Madam Chair. But also, thank you both very much for your contribution
to the RTD district. It's been tremendous. And, Jannette, all these years I've always told you how well you
articulate what these budget things are, these PowerPoint pictures you put up there.
And while I've never been able to see them, I sure understood them because you were so clear and
articulate. And you'll be a great asset to the state of Colorado. And good luck to you, Heather. Try to stay
safe there in California. I don't know. [LAUGHS] But Sonoma's a beautiful place. I'm sure you'll enjoy it.
That's all, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions. [CLEARS THROAT] Excuse me. But I just echo the sentiments of
others in thanking Heather and Jannette for such great work and wishing you the best.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Jannette, I've told you quite a bit how much I appreciate
you and how easy you make it to understand the documents presented before us. And so I really
appreciate that. I actually have one-- I have one clarifying question on packet page 29 where it says
"expenditure policies." There's a one there.
And I'm curious. There's some stuff that's been redlined out, and I'm curious as what the alternative is. IT
feels like there should be an alternative, and maybe it's not. And if Heather could maybe briefly explain
that to me, or Jannette, I'd appreciate it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Heather. Yes, this is capital improvement policies. I'm sorry about
that.
SHELLEY COOK: Go right ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So are you talking about under expenditure or capital improvement?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Capital improvement. I'm so sorry about that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, that's OK. And I thought that's what you were talking about. But so, yes. So
the changes that we've made under capital improvement policies really relate to us moving to our asset
management plan and our asset management process. So that's why we've crossed that out and really

talked about how we follow the asset management decision-making process, that we have capital
investments that have the purpose of moving people. And that's directly out of our asset management
plan, the TAM that we referenced in here.
So all of the things that have been deleted really go back to the procedures and policies around the asset
management plan that the Board does have access to and reviews. And we have been talking for the last
couple of years that we've moved-- instead of the AGM submitting projects to be funded, we go through
this asset management prioritization process. So that's the reason for the changes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. OK, thank you so much. That's the only question I had.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you, Director. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I have no comments or questions. But I, too, wanted to say goodbye and
actually to say that I'm so happy to have the chance to say goodbye to both of you. You guys are
admirable and give 200% towards making whatever job you do successful. So I so appreciate all the work
you've done and having known you, and good luck in your new endeavors. That's it. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, yes. I'll just state that I'll be a no vote on the fiscal policy as it endorses
use of certificates of participation, which I believe is, I'll just use the word, I believe it's a deceitful way to
[INAUDIBLE] voters, tack debt onto the citizens without their approval.
And in addition to that, as when we passed the COVID statement under here, I was a no vote on those.
So those are the only comments I've got. And the same theme with the certificates of participation will be
found in the agenda items coming up later, which is an interim financial plan and the budget. That's it.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Chair. Jannette and Heather, you'll certainly be missed. I'm glad you're not
going as far as Heather is, Jannette. But as far as tonight, I've got the same concerns as Director Menten
as far as the COP usage. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have no questions. And I do just want to go on the record
joining in the kudos and plaudits that have been presented to Ms. McKillop and Ms. Scarpino for their
tremendous work with the RTD. Thank you, ma'am.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I don't have any questions or comments. But I'll also join in and say that I guess
I get to-- or I guess you guys get a jump on me missing you since I won't be around at all next year. It's
been great working with you and running into you downtown and chatting about stuff that doesn't relate to
RTD. Best of luck to you, both of you, and thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No questions or comments. I echo the compliments and the so-longs to two
outstanding people that have given everything they've had to this organization. You will be missed, and
good luck to you both. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Jannette, that's not very nice. Heather was-- Heather, you either. OK, that's all. I have
no questions or comments. Goodbye, you guys.
SHELLEY COOK: [LAUGHS] All right, Chair Rivera-Malpiede.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would like to take this opportunity to join my
other colleagues in saying thank you. And actually, thank you doesn't seem to convey the depth of my
appreciation for the work that your team has done over the years that I've worked with you. I'm so excited
for you, and I'm really sad, too.
I will just stop with it's really-- this has been such a fascinating year. And so I've been thinking a lot about
it. And the only thing that I keep thinking about is the Greek philosopher Heraclitus who said, "The only
constant is change." And I just want to wish you both well and send you with blessings. So thank you very
much, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. OK, let's then go around and get the votes. I'll start again
from the top. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Aye.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yes vote.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a yes as well. That measure passes. The motion was 11 votes in favor and 4
votes opposed with Chair Rivera-Malpiede as movement and Director Williams as seconder. Thank you
very much.
OK, moving along to the next item, it's the adoption of the investment policy. Let me read that item,
please. Got to get to it. OK, it's recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that

the Board of Directors adopt the attached investment policy, which contains recommended changes to
reflect a change in ownership of the indices used to benchmark return and risk of the district's
investments. The recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals-- missionoriented goal number three, strong financial management. Have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved. Tisdale.
BOB BROOM: Second. Broom.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, so we have motion by Director Tisdale and a second by Director Broom. All right,
looks like this to Heather McKillop and Brenden Morgan. Please go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop. I just want to point out you
have both a redlined copy and a clean copy in here. And I will turn it over to Brenden to point out the
changes. Brenden.
SHELLEY COOK: Please go ahead.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you, Heather. This is Brenden Morgan, senior manager of debt and
investments. Just that the change we're recommending this year is simply to reflect the name change of
the two different benchmarks that we use to benchmark investment returns and risk of RTD investments
and those. were formerly known as the Bank of America Merrill Lynch three-month US Treasury Bill Index
and the Bank of America one-year US Treasury Note Index. So the names of those indexes have
changed. And the recommended changes really just reflect the new names of these indexes. So with that,
we're happy to answer any questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Seems very straightforward. I'll just, if I may, open it up and ask if you have a question,
please announce your name, and I'll turn it over to you. OK, it looks like-PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, this is Director Catlin. Oh, this is Director Catlin.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I just need a clarification on 4.5 Ethics and Conflicts of Interest. And it talks about
officers and employees involved in the investment process. But given that the Board of Directors
approves our investment policy, would it not be-- I guess we are considered employees of the district. But
I think for the record, I want to note that that particular section would apply to to Directors as well. Am I
correct? I don't know.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Doug or Brenden.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, go ahead, please, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, it would. Directors are considered both employees and officers.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I just wanted to make note for the record that Directors are subject to that particular
4.5 Ethics and Conflict of Interest section. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you for that. Anybody else? OK, we had a motion by Director Tisdale and a
second by Director Broom. I'm going to ask if there's anybody opposed to the motion. Anybody opposed
to the motion, please say your name. OK, I'll declare that passed with 15 votes in favor and no votes
against it. Thank you, everybody.
Moving on to the third item, here's our mid-term financial plan. We're adopting the 2021 and 2022
modified mid-term financial plan. Let me read that item. Going to scroll down to it again. OK, it's
recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
adopts the 2021 and 2022 modified mid-term financial plan.

This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals-- mission-oriented goal
number three on strong financial management, COVID-19 financial goal to identify funding sources, 2020
strategic priority number six, moving RTD towards stable financial conditions. Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved. Tisdale.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second. Second. Director Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: And Director Williams. OK. All righty, this one is, again, Heather McKillop and Susan
Cohen.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. Thank you. This is Heather McKillop. I just wanted just to point out the
information contained in there We've been over this information quite a bit. So I'm not going to repeat it.
But I just want to point out that we have provided you the six-year outlook, so '21 through '26. However,
we're only asking you to adopt '21 and '22. But we felt it was important, as we discussed in previous
meetings, for you to see kind of the outlook going forward. In this case, we are able to balance 2021 and
2022 in the case of FasTracks using a significant amount of reserves to do that.
The good news is in this particular plan, in the near term, the first two years, we do not utilize any of the
rubber tire service money that goes to the FISA. That does occur in out years in FasTracks unless
something else changes by then. We have included a line by line narrative of the Base cash flow and
FasTracks. We have included the 2020 estimated year-end reserves. And as we had discussed
previously, those 2020 reserves, assuming they materialize, will be used for the three months' reserves
for both Base and FasTracks, particularly the Base System.
In addition, we've included in the exhibit E the asset management plan, and I was referring to that earlier,
those projects listed on packet page 88. And then also FasTracks is listed on packet page 94 for 2021.
Those projects are going to be deferred into the out years 2022 through 2026. The Asset Management
team is going back and working with all of our assets stewards throughout the region or throughout the
district to reprioritize those into future years.
Even with these lists, we were only hoping to be able to fund at least 70% of them. So there will continue
to be deferred projects each year that we need to try to address in future years. So more we defer them,
as you know, the more expensive those projects get and the more potentially out of compliance or safety
issues we may encounter in the future. So I did want to point that out.
So with that, Madam Chair, we would be glad to take any questions that you have of the 2021-2020
modified plan. 2021 and 2022 did include the information that you'll approve later in the 2021 budget. So
they match each other. So we just pulled the 2021 budget off of the first year of the modified plan. I'd be
glad to take questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. I appreciate that. I'll start from the back. Director Williams, do you have
any questions for staff on this?
KATE WILLIAMS: I do not. Thank you, Madam Chair. No questions or comments.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Likewise, no questions or comments tonight. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No questions or comments. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, ma'am. No questions or comments at this time.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Chair. I'll be a no for the same reason as before, the planned use of the
COPs.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Same response I had on the prior action with the fiscal policy. And I do have a
question that I'm going to bring up. After you go around, Chair, with questions, I will have a question for
Melanie about our voting method. It may not as much pertain to this action, but it's been something on my
mind. So if you don't mind, after we're all done with the comments, that I speak and ask a question of her
before we vote, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No comments or questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity to speak. I will actually be a no
vote on this as well. And I'd like to share for Heather and Jannette that it's not a reflection of your work. I
actually appreciate all the work that you all have done in this regard. There are some concerns that I
shared early on. I know we've had these conversations a few times, particularly as it pertains to the
deferred projects list. I mean, there are a number of things.
And the considerations for the Board's guidance, I don't think we had consensus with the Board. I think
there were some directors who really pushed the, first, consider reductions in administrative costs, OK to
utilize reserves but try to limit use, OK to utilize rubber tire service contributions, OK to utilize future
contributions to a credit risk premium, should not utilize existing FISA balances, don't reduce service
levels below what we are currently offering.
And I can't morally support this as it is. I believe that there are some dollars that we could use to really
ensure that we are managing our assets, that we are taking care of our assets. And this is not a reflection
of that, and I do believe that it should be-- our dollars, where we prioritize our dollars, should be a
reflection of our priorities and our values. And unfortunately, this doesn't align with mine. And so
unfortunately, I'm going to have to vote no on this. But I do appreciate the work you all h ave done.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I believe I've had my questions answered at other times. So thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No comments or questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Most of my questions have been answered, and I do
appreciate the narrative that accompanies the spreadsheets. It really gives a complete picture. Thank you
very much.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions or comments. Thanks, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think we got in another month's sales tax receipts. How does
that amount compare with what our revised estimates are?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Ms. McKillop.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we still have not gotten-- we have still not gotten a sales and use tax for this
last month-- sorry, not October, but September. So as soon as I get those, I will let you know. The August
numbers were a little under the forecast but only by a million or so.
So I think we're fairly on track right now at least to be close to that number that we have reflected in the
reserve ending balances for 2020. But I will let the Board know as soon as we get those numbers.
Hopefully, they'll be in tomorrow. And I can let the Board know where we stand.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Broom. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have no questions or comments. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: And for my part, I don't either. I've had ample chances to get with Heather offline and in
prior meetings. So thank you. I would note that this is the really tough part of what we do is making
choices when our resources are so constrained. And the needs all around are compelling. So I want to
just recognize the difficulty of what we're doing.
We've had plenty of input. We'll have a chance for additional input next week when this comes to the
Board. But I just wanted to acknowledge the fact that I believe we're all putting our best into this and
grappling with difficult decisions. So with that, let me ask Director Menten to refer her question to the
General Councilman, Melanie Snyder. Go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Melanie, I am going to be probably catching you off guard here, and it won't be
an issue with this vote because we know there are already some Board Directors who are going to be
voting no. But I seem to recall our bylaws, at least in Board meetings, but potentially also Committee
meetings, do require either a voice vote-- I'm reading from it right now, but this might be an older version-voice vote, show of hands, electronic voting, or rising as determined by the Chair.
Where we have been going over meetings the last-- especially, I think, the last couple months is a call for
it. Is there anybody who objects to a resolution? And I don't know that we're in compliance. And what I
fear is that, especially as some may struggle and forget that they're on mute, that somewhere in the
future, somebody's vote may not be appropriately reported.
I don't think this is an issue with this agenda item right before us this very moment. But would you mind
letting me know if we are in alignment with our bylaws in asking, is there anybody opposed, and leaving it
at that? Please.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Melanie Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder. So, Director Menten, I'm looking at our
bylaws right now. Section 2 of the voting requirements do require the affirmative vote of at least eight
directors present and voting shall be required for an action of the Board. So I don't see in the bylaws that
there is a requirement that it be a voice vote or show of hands. It might be in our guidelines. I can go back
and take a look at those. I don't have those right at the ready. But I think that we're OK right now with that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so the page that I was looking at-- and you could look at this after we're done
with this-- but it's Section 5 titled "Resolutions and Actions-- Vote Recorded." And under paragraph E is
where I was quoting "adopted by voice vote, show of hands, electronic vote, rising."
MELANIE SNYDER: Right, OK. I see the language you're talking about in 5E. But it does say "as
determined by the Chair." And so I think when the Chair makes the determination at the Committee
meeting to ask for just the no votes, I think that that is within the discretion of the Chair.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I'm fine with that, that interpretation. I am just concerned, as we have
experienced I don't know how many times, that, oops, I didn't know I had my mute on. So I'll just bring
that forward. It's been on my mind for a couple of months. Thank you very much, Chair, for allowing me to
ask this question that's been on my mind.
SHELLEY COOK: And, sure, and I-BARBARA MCMANUS: Excuse me, Chair. This is Barbara McManus.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure, go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten also mentioned if this might be referenced in the operating
guidelines. This detail is not referenced in the operating guidelines. I just wanted that noted for the record.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. And for my part, to the extent it is the discretion of the Chair, I would
myself want to use it only in cases where it's a pretty routine matter, and there has been no indication of
significant discussion or concern. But I think you bring up an interesting and good point, Director Menten.
So with that, let me please go around and get the votes. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm trying to make sure I'm off of mute. I'm in favor of-- I am in favor of the-- and of no
other comment.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Could you repeat? I'm sorry.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Nay.
SHELLEY COOK: There was a-- nay. OK, great. Thank you for that. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.

SHELLEY COOK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a yes. So that passes with 11 votes in favor and 4 votes opposed, the opposed
being Director Folska, Director Lewis, Director Menten, Director Mihalik. OK, moving now to the next
major action on the budget cycle, the adoption of the 2021 budget. And let me-- again, I'm scrolling down
to find that item. Give me a second here. Oh. Excuse me, guys. If I knew how to bookmark this online, I
would do it.
OK, here we go. It's recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt resolution-- we don't have that number yet-- series of 2020 for the adoption of the 2021
budget, resolution number X, and series of 2020 for the 2021 budget appropriation and resolution number
blank, series of 2020 for the appropriation of 2021 previously appropriated capital. Did I read that right?
The recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals-- mission-oriented goal
number one for successful delivery of transit services, mission-oriented goal number three, strong
financial management, and strategic priority number six, move RTD towards a stable financial situation.
OK, again, turning it over to you-VINCE BUZEK: Buzek. So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale. Second.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you for that. OK, Vince Buzek, Director Buzek is the mover, and Director Tisdale
is the seconder. OK, and then I'll go ahead and turn it over to Heather McKillop and Jannette Scarpino.
Thank you. Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop. I just wanted to mention that
we appreciate everybody's input into this adoption of this budget. It's been a long road, and the ADMs
and their staff have been extremely supportive in working with us and putting this together as well as the
Board and the many hours of input that we received from you guys. I know it's been a long time since
March when we did the first workshop on this. So I appreciate all that. And with that, I would ask Jannette
if she wants to add anything before we take questions.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: I don't believe I want to add anything. Yes, thank you. It's Jannette. I don't
believe I want to add anything. The recommended budget is a follow-on to the Mid-Term Financial Plan. It
is a balanced budget. I can summarize the various aspects of it, but I think we've been through it enough
times. And it has been laid out to you that I will just hold my comments and take questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. All righty, let me go around then. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Just a couple-- or maybe one. Farebox revenue on the base system for 2020
is $65,677,000. And then in the next year, it drops almost $5 million, $60 million. And I heard 61, and then
that's just [AUDIO OUT] in the district. And I was just wondering this year, we obviously had two and a

half months pre-COVID with normal ridership, two and a half months, I think with free fares, and then the
COVID ridership projected [AUDIO OUT] what the 15 is [AUDIO OUT].
SHELLEY COOK: Kind of breaking up. It was a little muffled and broken up. Heather, could you
understand that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, I apologize. I think it had something to do with farebox revenue, but that's the
only part I got.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you understand now?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, that's better. Thank you. Go ahead and say that again if you would.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [AUDIO OUT] make it quick. The 2020 farebox revenue is projected [AUDIO OUT]
about $5 million [AUDIO OUT]. I was just [AUDIO OUT] section came today.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. I think I know what she's asking, and it has to do with
farebox revenue and why it's about $5 million less than the 2020 amended budget. So I just wanted to
clarify that the 2020 amended budget had about a 40% decrease or a 60% assumption of farebox
revenues. When we moved into the 2020 recommended budget, we dropped that down to 50%. I believe
it was 50%.
So that's why the drop is only $5 million instead of much higher because we had already made significant
reductions in the 2020 amended budget. And then we just reduced it further for an assumption-- I'm sorry,
it's 55% in 2021. I think we're going to be close to being about 50% down in 2020. It might be a little lower
than that. But we think for 2021, that number is still the best number we have. Did that answer the
question?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just to make sure I understand, are you projecting a further loss of ridership in
2021?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: In 2021, not necessarily a further loss of ridership. But we're not anticipating that
the fare revenue will be-- it will be about the same ratio as ridership is to fare revenue now. And that's
what this number reflects for 2021. So we're not anticipating really much of an increase in ridership in
2021.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I appreciate the balanced budget. See comments from the action item before this.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I have one question, and it's kind of an oddball question. Because for
another item in the agenda, which is the September monthly financial status report, there's an attachment
D, I believe, that's on page 192 that talks about the FISA. And it has different information in it in my
opinion and what I see in the cash flow documents included with our exhibit B for the budget. And I was
just wondering if we could look at that page 192 in our Board package, and you guys could explain to me
why it appears that the balance is different.
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair, this is Doug MacLeod.
SHELLEY COOK: Heather McKillop, do you have that page in front of you? Oh, go ahead, Doug.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. This is Doug MacLeod, Controller. I was just going to mention-- so in the
monthly financial statements, until the Mid-Term Financial Plan gets passed with the new FISA balance in
there, we have not updated the monthly financial statements with the new FISA amounts. That FISA

statement on page 192 was last updated in June. So we will update that once the Board passes-- if the
Board chooses to pass the Mid-Term Financial Plan.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. I thought maybe I was crazy. But thank you. It's different. OK, that
answers my one question. Thank you very much.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you for that. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, it'll be a ditto on some of the previous comments. Certificates of participation
are in here. There had been a motion, which did fail earlier in the year, which would have been increased
reductions, more reductions, which I would have liked to have seen incorporated into this. I believe we've
had many discussions about revenue projections. And I feel we should be leaning towards the most
cautious level possible. And I don't believe that's in here.
So while I appreciate the reduction, I don't think it went far enough. And Director Lewis, she brought up
earlier and we heard a very passionate, passionate presentation a couple months ago maybe about our
Asset Management Program. And with those reasons and perhaps some others, I'll be a no vote on this.
That's it. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: --correct something. So I keep hearing that there are COPs in here. So there is
no issuance of COPs anywhere in the future that we can anticipate. We do not have the wherewithal to
issue those, and we don't have the wherewithal to repay them if we were to issue them. So I just wanted
to clarify that there are no COPs issued in this 2021 or '21 to '26 Mid-Term anywhere.
NATALIE MENTEN: I agree. The payments are in there, though.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is a correct statement. We have to pay the debt that we've already issued.
So, yes, payments on that existing debt but no new issuances. We have not issues any debt or COPs
since 2016, I believe, early '17.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. So it is the payment of those COPs, and that is where the statement is that I
making, that I believe it is truly debt, that there is interest there. And it's a bond. There is collateral. And it
was, as I had mentioned before-- I'm not pointing this word to you, Heather, because you didn't create
certificates of participation. It was Ken Fellman who created this idea.
And I think it is absolutely wrong, immoral that the tax payers believe under taxpayer's bill of rights they
have the right to vote on that, which, right now, is just strangling part of the budget. And it's those
payments. So I will stop at that. But agree there's no issuance because we're maxed out. We're maxed
out on debt. And it's more than the voters approved. So there's my statement on COPs. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I have no questions or comments. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just one clarifying question, if I may, for-- I'm not
sure who specifically would be best to respond to this. But on page 107 of the packet, in looking at-- on
the combined basis for operating expenses, it does very clearly say it's excluding depreciation. And I'm
looking at the other non-departmental line, which is a 293% increase in the budget over the 2019 and
2020 numbers.
And I know that obviously the depreciation is covered on pages 114 and 115 where talks about
depreciation on the Base and depreciation on FasTracks. And I apologize for not asking this earlier. But

can you give me some sense of what caused, since we're not talking about depreciation, under other nondepartmental the $20.7 million increase in those expenses.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yes, let me try to address that. This is Jannette. This is Jannette. The nondepartmental is kind of a holding tank, if you will, for some of these large adjustments we are making to
the budget. For example, we are holding the pension lump sum contribution in non-departmental. We
have pandemic costs in non-departmental.
And so you are right. It does not include depreciation. Depreciation numbers are in the hundreds of
millions of dollars. So we have just-- it's kind of a catch-all for a lot of items. If you would like, Director
Tisdale, I could follow up and give you the actual detail tomorrow or later tonight via email.
DOUG TISDALE: It's hardly that urgent. I thank you very much for the offer. I did just want to get a
clarification and to confirm that it obviously didn't include the depreciation. So I was just trying to figure
that out. And I assumed it was some sort of what I like to call in the kitchen my junk drawer where I just
throw everything that I don't know where else it goes.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: [LAUGHS] Thank you for that. Nonetheless, I will get you the detail.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I have a question because this comes up often. COPs or C-O-Ps-- [COUGHS]
excuse me-- it's not really deb.t It's just exchanging one form of capital for another. Is that correct? We
have the asset. We have a form of capital in trains or buildings or land or something. And we kind of
exchange that for cash. But it's not really debt because we have an equivalent.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So, Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.
SHELLEY COOK: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, so certificates of participation are basically asset backed, as Director
Walker alluded to. So we get cash in exchange for a third party holding our assets. And then that asset is
released as we repay the funding associated with that asset's useful life.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, so it's just an exchange. That's the only question I had because it keeps coming
up in my understanding from way back when. And Ms. McKillop is the one who explained it to me back
before some presentation on here. That was my understanding. It's not actual debt because we have the
cash. We have an asset that's equivalent to the amount of cash that we get. All right, that's it. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: And thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have no questions. I'm needing to depart for a short
obligation with another organization. I am definitely a yes vote. If it moves quickly, I'll hang on because I
definitely want my vote recorded. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. In the interest of Director Whitmore, I am a yes vote, and I
have no other questions or comments. I appreciate all the work that's been done on this to get it this far.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have no questions or comments.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, I will start and go from the rear here so that we hit Whitmore first or early. So Chair
Rivera-Malpiede, is your vote-- do you have your vote?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It's a yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Williams, you said you were yes. Can you affirm, please?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yes vote. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I am a yes vote. I'll be departing shortly. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: And you'll be returning, I understand. Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Walker is a yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Lamentably a no.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm going to respond to the certificates of participation under other matters. But there
is financing. It is debt. It's like taking a second out on your house. I'll go into more detail later. But I want
the record to be clear on that. So the answer is no.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, and with a vote of 11 in favor and 4 opposed, that motion with the motion made by
Vince Buzek, Director Buzek, and seconded by Director Tisdale passes. The no votes were Director
Folska, Director Lewis, Director Menten, and Director Mihalik. Thank you very much.
OK, moving on to the next item, it's the PABs refinancing documents. I'll read the action here first. It's
recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
adopt the attached resolution number blank, the bond resolution, authorizing the issuance of tax exempt
and taxable refunding private activity bonds, series 2020, parentheses Denver Transit Partners Eagle P3
Project.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals-- mission-oriented goal
number three, strong financial management, COVID-19 financial goal, identify funding sources, 2020
strategic priority number six, move RTD toward a stable financial condition. Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved. Tisdale.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale is the mover. Who else?

BOB BROOM: Broom.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom, the seconder. OK, so with that, I'll go ahead and turn it over to the staff
and point people on this, Heather McKillik-- McKillop, sorry, and Brenden Morgan.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop. I did want to point out the
month before last we brought to you another Board action allowing us to move forward with this
refinancing. We now have the documents prepared.
A lot of people worked a lot of hours to try to get those done. It's a complicated transaction. Those
documents, the loan agreement, trust indenture, bond purchase agreement, preliminary official statement,
and continuing disclosure undertaking were all posted online for the public to review as well as the Board
Office. And they're in the Board Office for review.
But we felt since we have limited ability for people to come review, we needed to make those front and
center on our website. So they have been available there for a little while. We also have attached the
actual authorizing resolution. And with that, Brenden, I would be glad to take questions that you may
have. Also, Melanie's here. She's been involved with Amy Beckwith also from a legal perspective. So
between all of us, we'll try to address your questions this evening if you have them.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Starting around from the top, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: I don't have any questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. I'm just looking forward to getting this done.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis. Director Lewis? I'll come back to her. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No questions. A thank you to the staff for the hard work.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Nothing for me Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. One comment. And I would just like the record to
reflect that even in the midst of hard fought controversy, the RTD is able to collaborate with people with
whom it works to confer a benefit on them. And that is exactly what this refinancing does. Thank you,
Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No questions or comments.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. I'll check just in case. Director Whitmore, are you back?
TROY WHITMORE: I'm on hold. I have no questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm not on hold. I have no questions or comments.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you. And going back to Director Lewis to see if perchance you're
there now, do you have any questions?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm here. I'm sorry. I keep getting disconnected. I have no questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Yeah, the technical problems. OK, so with that, Chair Rivera-Malpiede,
do you have any wrap-up questions or comments?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do not. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Let's go ahead and get our votes. Director Broom, I think we need an affirmative
on this one for sure. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Perhaps Director Mihalik was in there, but I'll go ahead and vote yes anyway.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I'm a yes as well.
SHELLEY COOK: Did I skip him? Oh, forgive me. I skipped right over you but wrote down-- OK. Thank
you for catching that. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore. He's participating in another meeting. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm a yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, and Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a yes. Just in case, Director Whitmore? OK, I'll note for the record a motion by
Director Tisdale, a second by Director Broom. Passes with 14 votes in favor, nobody opposed, and one
person absent. So that would be Director Whitmore. All right, so that passes.
We're moving along here. Next is the Masabi contract. And let me get to that. OK, it's recommended by
the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors approves an increase to the
contract with RTD's mobile ticketing vendor Masabi-- that's contract number 16DH050-- to a not-toexceed value from $1,450,000 to $8,867,000-- it's a difference of $7,417,000-- and expansion of the
scope of works include Masabi's account-based ticketing feature for the remainder of that contract.

This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals-- mission-oriented goal
number one for successful delivery of transit services, mission-oriented goal number three, the strong
financial management, 2020 strategic priority number three, enhance current and future transportation
methods, and 2021 strategic priority number four, increase ridership and improve rider experience via
implementing the account-based ticketing system. OK, do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved. Tisdale
KATE WILLIAMS: Second. Director Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale is the mover. And Director Williams is the seconder. Thank you very
much. So turning it over to Heather McKillop and Paul Snyder. Please go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop. I just wanted to do a quick
introduction. Paul Snyder is one of our project managers in IT, and he has been working on a big project
as well as the original conduit project he inherited a couple of years ago since he's come to RTD. So he
has not, to my knowledge, presented in front of the Board before. But we wanted him to give you a quick
overview of what we're asking here.
I did want to point out that I think about 4:00 or 4:30 this afternoon, you did receive from Barbara
McManus a letter from Vix, which is a competitor of Masabi, with some information in there. Paul is going
to address some of the points in that as he goes through his quick presentation on what we're requesting
here. There's a lot of information in the packet. After we had received a previous letter from Vix, we went
back and did spent a considerable amount of time making sure that we were on solid footing with moving
forward with this request.
We worked with procurement and legal to get their buy-in. We hired a third party to do some financial
analysis and look at what others are doing around the country. So with that, I'm going to ask Paul Snyder
to talk a little bit about our request here, and then we'll be glad to take any questions you may have.
Before we go to Mr. Snyder, Barbara McManus, did we in fact-- I don't see anything, but I'm just scanning
here. Did we get that letter?
BOB BROOM: I got it by email.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I believe I sent it to all Directors. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you. Just verifying that. All right, Mr. Snyder, welcome. Please go
ahead.
PAUL SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. And good evening, RTD Board of Directors. Tonight, we are
meeting with you to present and request for your approval for an increase in the Masabi mobile ticketing
not-to-exceed contract authority in order to achieve two important items-- first, to provide funding for
additional commissions and fees as a result of higher than expected mobile ticketing sales revenue and,
second, to implement an account-based ticketing fare feature with Masabi, which will both simplify and
improve RTD customer accounts and allow RTD to sunset the existing conduit smartcard system.
As stated, we are requesting an increase from the approved amount of $1,450,000 to $8,867,000, or a
difference of $7,417,000. For some brief background, in 2017, RTD began its work with Masabi to
implement a cutting edge mobile ticketing solution. RTD entered into a commission fee structure per ticket
sold with Masabi versus high upfront lump sum payment that other vendors required. Over the last

several years, mobile ticketing has been far more successful than we ever expected, resulting in higher
revenue for RTD, which has equated in higher than anticipated commissions and fees.
These fees are broken out in detail in the table that has been provided in the Board report for your
information. Moving forward, in order to build on the popularity of mobile ticketing and sunset our first
generation conduit smart card system that we use for Eco Pass, Neighborhood EcoPass, CollegePass,
and MyRide, RTD is seeking to implement a new account-based ticketing feature through Masabi.
The new ABT feature, once implemented, will improve and simplify current complex account management
process for our customers and offer many new features, including the abilities to use student IDs or
contactless credit cards as fare media and many other new features. In order to make sure that RTD
performed our due diligence in our selection of Masabi and to strengthen our legal and procurement
approved sole source justification, we contracted with a third party consultant to help us analyze costs
and timelines of various ABT competitors.
The results showed two important findings. First, Masabi has one of the lowest upfront costs and saves
on a substantial duplication of costs if other vendors had been selected. While Masabi was in the middle
of the packet cost-wise compared to other vendors, selecting Masabi over other competitors would result
in a savings of $4.33 million and a substantial duplication of RTD costs and efforts.
Second is unacceptable delays. Other vendors' timelines for implementation were significantly longer than
Masabi. Due to having to redo what is already done, the average increase in implementation time by
going to bid and selecting a vendor other than Masabi was up to 15 months-- sorry, up to 24 months
longer. With the selection of Masabi, we are planned for an implementation by December 31, 2021. Also,
further information is provided in the approved sole source justification and cost analysis presentation that
had been provided for your information.
I'd like to address a few of the points that Heather mentioned that came up today on the recent Vix
protests, one of the competitors of Masabi. Inside of the mail that was sent, there were several bullet
points that Vix had expressed some concern on. The first one is that this indicated that Masabi is
significantly more expensive than other vendors, especially given that the system will be run for longer
than five years and usually 10 years.
For some supporting information on this, the system is actually planned for rebid in 2023. So the
statement made by Vix that the 10-year option is more expensive does not seem particularly valid. This is
also misleading as the cost analysis did not show Masabi as the most expensive and, in fact, was not the
cheapest either but was in the middle of the pack as previously stated.
Another point made by the Vix protest was that our third-party consultant that performed the cost analysis
stated that by awarding Masabi as the sole source, it would significantly reduce competition in RTD for
our validators that we are doing as part of this project. This is an actual untrue statement as [INAUDIBLE]
actually stated in the provided attachment that any vendor, whether it be a validator vendor that uses
SDK or an open API, has the same sort of limitations and therefore is not specific to Masabi and should
not reduce competition for the RFP for validators.
Another statement made by Vix was that the financial viability of Masabi has not been contemplated as
part of the selection. In fact, RTD is reviewing financials for Masabi every quarter and has most recently
done in this past quarter.
Another statement made by Vix is that the customer references listed in the presentation performed by
our third-party analysis were all significantly smaller agencies than RTD Denver and offered advantage to

Masabi. In fact, the analysis that was performed was not based on the size of the agency at all. It was
based on the type of the system and the tiers the different vendors were in.
Our third-party consultant had three choices when picking competitors to look at-- a staff solution or tier
one, an off-the-shelf solution or tier two, or custom development, tier three, which is the most expensive
of the three. RTD is in tier two or off-the-shelf solution. And those are the types of vendors that were used
as part of the comparison, and it was not based off of size.
And then the last statement made by Vix was that the substantial duplication of costs for competitive
procurement were not clear. Those details for the sole source justification were provided in the
attachment provided to the Board and include many items such as duplication of RTD staff and resource
efforts to retrain customer care for a new system, time spent foregoing and redeveloping an RFP to go to
procurement, as well as many other items.
With that in mind, RTD feels that we made the right decision moving forward, and we are seeking to get
the contract authority extended. I'm happy to take any questions you may have, and thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. I'll start from the top. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: That's a long winded explanation. This barely passes the smell test. Whenever you have a
original contract of a million four and a change order is eight million eight or seven or whatever it is-- but it
just seems like the original project must not have been carefully thought out. That's my comment. Thank
you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Any response from staff at this point.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. Madam Chair, why don't we go through? And then I'll try to address that
issue.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, sounds good. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I've got a number of concerns as well, the ones expressed by
Director Broom. And I am just not a fan of sole source contract unless you're in some kind of an
emergency setting where you don't have time and something has to happen as quickly as you can, and
you have to get it done to save lives. That's not what we're looking at here. And this is not an increase in
rates. This is a brand new product that's being added. This is a new contract.
I know Masabi has given us the excuses and responses. And by the way, I don't have that Vix letter. All
I've got is a Vix letter from August 2020 that was very cryptic. And Vix isn't here to defend themselves on
this. I think this is a new contract that should've been put out to bid. I have real problems. I don't know
how I'll vote. I'll wait to listen to my other Directors. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I had the same sentiments as both Directors Broom and
Buzek. And in addition to the extraordinary increase in the contract value, I have some concerns about
being able to extradite ourselves from a contract like this and at what cost it would take if we wanted to
make a change. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Do you want to address the questions that Director Catlin had, or shall we
again wait until the end?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather. So I'll try to address them. It sounds like they
are similar questions. So just to go back to remember, when we started this, we started it as an option to
give our customers an option to the card-based system we had. So card-based system means that all of
the technology resides on the card and not in the back office.

That card-based system is currently being used for Eco/NECO/College and the MyRide card. We have
been talking for multiple years that we want to move off of that card-based system to an account-based
system-- still would have some card features. One of the things we've been talking to you guys about is
potentially being able to use CU as an express, they're concerned about wanting to be able to use their
Buff Card as their way of paying their fares. That is not possible in the current system.
We implemented with Masabi several years ago. It has been wildly successful. And because of that
success, the Commission's [AUDIO OUT] our sales are much higher, therefore the Commission [AUDIO
OUT] and the cost of the vendor merchant fees, which is a large portion of this that we would have
regardless of the vendor, is what has exceeded the Board amount. On top of that, we have continued to
add options to Masabi.
So for instance, the Uber interface that was the first in the world to do that was an amendment to this
contract. In addition to that, we've done one with the Transit app, where we sell our tickets on the Transit
app. And we are also moving to Lyft in the next few weeks.
Those are all the same back office platforms that we're talking about for going to moving the cards over.
So, again, this is just moving the cards to the Masabi back office platform. That is-- the majority of the
fees are the vendor fees to the merchants, then the commission fees. And again, as we mentioned, the
upfront costs are extremely small, 100-and-something-thousand dollars initially for implementation.
The Board could choose not to approve this, which is fine. The Masabi contract expires in 2023. That
would just mean that we would not move to an account-based ticket system until after 2023. It does not
make sense at this time to go out to bid with a new vendor for the mobile ticketing as well as the accountbased system until the Masabi contract is completed.
And the reason for that is, as we mentioned in the sole source, we would lose about $4.3 million in
duplication costs. That doesn't make sense to do at this time. So if the Board would choose not to move
forward, that is the option the Board has. However, we would come back to you next month and still ask
for an amendment to the Masabi contract to pay for the ongoing commissions of just the mobile ticketing
portion, which is the majority of these costs.
So you will still see an increase coming forward next month if you choose not to move forward with
account-based ticketing. We feel very strongly that this is a huge benefit to our customers-- basically we
have lots of complaints about the current card-based system. It takes a long time for you to see your
money being loaded, it takes a long time for the money to come off. And we know it's a very complex
system for Eco/NECO and College pass holders-- very difficult to add and subtract. Whereas, when we
go to the account-based ticketing system, it will be very seamless.
So that is the decision that the Board needs to make. Like I said, we can go ahead and continue with the
contract as is. However, we still will need the authority to continue to pay the merchant fees and
commissions on the Masabi contract going forward. It just wouldn't include the account-based ticketing
portion of it. So with that, I'd be glad to take more questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. We know now that Barbara has forwarded that-- Gary Googins from Vix's letter to
us-- and my name wasn't included in the original addressee, and probably some other folks, too. So I'm
glad that you did that, Barbara. Thank you for re-transmitting it. And it should be in your inboxes right
now, folks. Director Buzek-- or I'm sorry, Director Catlin, do you have any other questions?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, thank you. And I do very much appreciate Mrs. McKillop's explanation. I'm always a
little bit wary of sole-source contracts, but it sounds like the analysis of the benefits, and the fact that this

Board has wanted to go to an account-based ticketing system outweigh-- and also, the potential cost
savings outweigh some of the concerns that I have. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek, go ahead, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. I'm sorry. Ms. McKillop's explanations raise a couple of questions. She
indicated that next month they'll come back to us again and ask for an increase to the Masabi contract in
any event for other matters. How much is that increase going to be for compared to the $7.4 million
increase in this ask?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, please go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So if you go to packet page 137, we've outlined the cost. So on the top, it says
"costs exceeding the current authorization August through September 2020." That will be $1.145 million.
So that's the amount we'll need for that. And then to continue just the mobile ticketing part without the
account-based ticketing piece of it is $4.4 million.
So to go to the account-based ticketing piece of it is an additional $1.8 million. So of the $7.4 million, only
$1.8 million of it is moving towards the account-based ticketing. The rest is just getting the fees that we're
anticipating based on the higher sales volume that we're seeing with mobile ticketing.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that clarification. And my last question-- yeah, my last question is, whose idea
was this account-based ticketing? Did Masabi come to us with the proposal, or did we go to them and ask
them to give us a proposal?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We went to them. So a couple of years ago, I-- Dave Genova had said that he,
with this being so successful, we need to move off the card-based system. We did a tremendous amount
of research at that time. And we heard about a few vendors that were moving in this direction.
We had Masabi on board. And they were rolling this particular account-based ticketing out to other
entities in Europe, and then they have two or three here in the United States. So we asked them for a
proposal on what it would be to add this feature to our already existing platform.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks very much. Nothing further.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And Board members, thank you for letting me backtrack to him. Director Catlin, we
were OK there, correct?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, I'm good.
SHELLEY COOK: Then moving on to Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska, any question?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Heather, I think this-- yes, I have a lot. So, Heather, I have a few
questions here. And please, Heather correct me if I'm wrong, because based on my recollection-- and
lately it's sketchy-- didn't we spend like $26 million on this to begin with many years ago?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I think what you're referring to, Director Folska, is the contract we had with
conduit for the card-based system, so the MyRide, the Eco/NECO and College pass. And so yes, that
was approximately $23 to $25 million. I can't remember the exact amount.
That technology has now been obsolete for several years. And so that is-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But wait a minute, you've only been here-- sorry to interrupt you, Heather, you've
only been here five years, OK? So, I mean, that maybe that's several to you, but we haven't had it that

long, you know. You know, I'm very skeptical about these things. You're putting all this money, sinking
millions and millions of dollars into this technology, and, you know, you turn around and, boom, we're hit
in the head with another bill for millions of dollars because it's all of a sudden outmoded, you know.
And what was the payback period? I mean, did we actually get the revenue to pay for the $25 million that
we've spent on those card things, and now we're going to-- and it's frustrating. And I don't know enough
about IT to make an intelligent decision, really, other than it doesn't smell right.
Now, I mean, they're already beginning to get their fees anyway. It's kind of like, I think of like, when you
do a credit card transaction, right? So there's a merchant fee. They're getting those fees. So they get in
the door, they get their foot in the door with $150,000, put in some stuff. And then where they're really
making their bread and butter is on each transaction every time somebody clicks, right?
And that's why it's so important that everybody clicks, more so that they can get their numbers and get
their money from us, because those people have paid or they haven't paid. So I don't know why you need
to come back and ask us for money when it's kind of built into the original contract. This is more or less an
extension.
In your presentation, you said this is the cheapest route, or the cheapest, and that's why we had to solesource it. Then further along there, you guys said it was in the middle. And then this email comes and
says they're in the middle-- or whatever. It's like playing in that Hide the Tee game in Las Vegas or
something. I'm skeptical about it.
But here's the most exciting part that I was thinking about. And I'm not going to support this, by the way.
But those guys who just built the Access-a-Ride app, well, if they're geniuses and could whip that together
in eight months, why don't they start expanding that to the broader community? And really, what that
speaks to that is RTD is well known by all of you-- everybody on the Board, every staff member knows
this. It is a very siloed organization.
And if our new General Manager, bless her heart, Ms. Johnson, can get her head-- hands around one
thing, it would be kind of breaking down some of those silos so that you can leverage the synergies that
are built from one part of the district or the agency to another. And imagine that you take this new mobile
app that we developed internally and take care of all this other ticketing stuff.
That's all I have to say. But for that, for now, I'm a no. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Thank you. Dr. Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I guess I would start with, that is a question, is that-- have you looked at
having it created by IT? Is that even a possibility?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is not a possibility. We have made a decision a long time ago to go to
software as a service instead of creating internal systems of this magnitude. The custom-made systems
that you're describing are more like what Boston is doing, $100 million project in some of these other
large cities. We're not in that league.
And that goes back to the tier 1, 2, and 3 that Paul was describing. And we're going down the route of
kind of [AUDIO OUT] which is a combination of software as a service with some minor customization. But
we're not doing a build like we did the conduit system. That was a custom build, and we learned our
lesson on that. And they become very obsolete very quickly. That system's 12 years old and is not
supported by conduit or any other vendor at this time, so.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Then maybe that answer my next question. There was a statement in there that, if
there's someone else-- this could go up for re-bid that the letter from Vix was wrong about the 10 years,
this could go up for re-bid in 2023. Somebody else to take this over? Or do we have to start over at that
point? Or am I not understanding what the point was there?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So, yeah, just like any system, we have to re-bid it every five years. And so the
Masabi contract is up in 2023. And so in 2022 we'll start the process of developing an RFP. The
validators are going to be an open source, so any vendor can, unlike our current validators that we have
with conduit-- they are proprietary, they cannot be used by any other vendor. That will not be the case
with the validators we're purchasing.
So when we go out to bid, we'll be asking for a similar system to what we have now with low, upfront
costs with certain features. And any vendor that's out there that will be participating at that time is
welcome to bid. We anticipate in the future, with just the sheer amount of new vendors coming on board,
as it was mentioned in that document, a lot of the large custom vendors that are getting into this particular
market, they are not quite there yet but probably will be in two to three years. And so we should have at
that time some more competition.
But right now I think that competition is somewhat limited by people just getting into that work. And we
don't really want to be an experiment for one of those companies. We have a history with Masabi, and
they have been a very, very good vendor to us. And they have-- any time we've asked for new features,
they've been available. If they can't provide it, they let us know, so we got promising something we can't
deliver.
But I also wanted to mention that the current contract, it is the belief of Legal, that it does not include the
ability to move forward with additional commitments without Board authority, whether we pay the
merchant fees, which go to the merchants not Masabi, or the extension for the Masabi, that has to be
done, and we have to get improved-- or increased authority from the Board just to be able to operate our
current mobile ticketing system that we have now.
So I just want to clarify that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you. And you've mentioned the significant, the large use of the mobile
ticketing that we have, and that, I think, most of the additional money is the additional commissions and
fees on that. Let's see. The piece that is ABT, the account-based system, is this-- in terms of benefits to
RTD, is it your thought that this will help our ridership? Will it streamline our admin of some of the passes
of the LIVE program? What benefits do you see?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop. Yes, absolutely. I mean, our big thing
right now is, with our Eco/NECO and College passes, we get-- the administration is one of the biggest
barriers that people complain about. This will eliminate those barriers that we have there. And also, we're
hoping to allow them to use their cards, such as the Denver card that they've been asking us to use to
load value onto, as well as like a bus card or something like that. So that will-- we'll be able to move
forward with that direction.
As I mentioned previously, the additional cost we're estimating, $4 million of the $7.4 million request that's
related to the account-based ticketing portion is $1.8 million. So it's not that significant compared to the
overall number that we're asking for as it relates to the commissions and the vendor fees-- I mean, the
merchant fees.

But yes, we believe that both from a customer service standpoint-- so the group that we have in our
customer care area, they have a lot less complaints with the mobile ticketing than they do with the cardbased system.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I guess I just would have a comment that it's a lot of money if you look at the
total, but much of that is commission that's being paid to increase our sales. And certainly, it's hard judge
how much commission we're paying and how much that increases our sales, but it does seem to be
[AUDIO OUT] to do that.
And in terms of the account-based system-- I guess I've talked with you a number of times and heard
from others that it can change the ease of admin. And moving to a system that really works for the future,
I think it's important. And I'm still listening to what everybody else has to say, but I think that moving to the
account-based system is important. Thanks.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop. I just wanted to emphasize that when we
originally came to the Board, we thought the penetration of mobile ticketing would be about 2%. We're
now up in the 14% penetration. So that difference between the 2% and 14% is what these additional fees
are related to.
Just to give you an idea of the $4.4 million, which is estimated fees between October 2020 and May
2023, of that $4.4 million, $3.2 million of that is related just to pay the merchant fees. So that means
people using credit cards, right? So whenever somebody uses a credit card, we have to pay a merchant
fee.
We pay those merchant fees regardless of whether we use Masabi or anyone else. So the majority of the
cost is the merchant fees, not the commissions to Masabi, or whoever the vendor might be.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, that was useful. Thank you for that information. Director Guissinger, anything
else?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate Director Buzek's comments and Director
Broom's comments about the sole-source contract, that it did-- especially to this value, it did make me
pretty nervous. And so I appreciate that being raised.
One of the questions that I have, Heather, is in previous presentations, even today, we've talked about
assumptions that have been made in terms of ridership and being able to grow our ridership. And you
mentioned earlier that you had received-- or that you all were receiving a number of complaints, and that's
why you wanted to move forward in this direction.
And so I'm wondering what assumptions you all have built in-- the COVID assumptions, specifically-- in
terms of the folks who might who might have maybe been presenting these concerns in terms of
convenience that may not even be currently utilizing our services to the extent that they were.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.
SHELLEY COOK: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we have looked at the impact on COVID on these numbers. And they were
adjusted accordingly. I think we are still seeing a large amount of renewals for our Eco/NECO and
College pass, as well as the MyRide. So when we look at that, the customer base, although they may not
be riding as much, they are continuing to renew their contracts.

We have-- we're going to be reporting out, probably next month or in January, what those numbers look
like. But from a college, we've only had one college that has decided to wait till the spring semester. And
we still are getting quite a bit of positive return on our Eco pass. So the people that use these cards are
continuing to renew, and they do pay-- the highest percentage of our revenue comes from those pass
programs.
So we still feel this process is very necessary. And as we come out of COVID, hopefully soon, and we
start rebuilding our ridership, the convenience of a touchless system is going to be extremely important to
a lot of people. And so the sooner that we can get this implemented, the better off we feel we'll be.
And I think if you've seen around the country, this idea of touchless system is quite prevalent right now.
And a lot of people are scrambling to go in that direction.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Heather. I don't necessarily disagree with the touchless. One question that
I do have is, will you all have the capability for those who might have-- who might not have access to a
smartphone or the internet to be able to enroll in this program?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, absolutely. So there will be a card feature available on this. There will be
features such as being able to buy gift cards that you'll be able to use. The other thing that this accountbased ticketing provides us is to expand our base of where people can purchase.
So right now they can go to King Soopers, or Safeway, or one of our outlets. We are looking at expanding
that under this system to other vendors such as a 7-Eleven, or a Walgreens, or wherever it might be. And
one of the advantage is that they don't have to have a separate machine. So one of the things when we
approached people for the current card system we have is, they have to have a special machine.
When we go to the new account-based ticketing system, they'll be able to run that through their point of
sale system, and they don't have to use up counter space for our tickets or our cards or those type of
things. So we do expect that to help the unbanked people moving forward, It's definitely a feature we
don't have right now.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And do you have any-- two questions. Do you have any idea of the places where you
might expand, particularly for people who pay cash fares, to ensure that they have access to being able
to purchase their fares via this method?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather again. So I don't have a list of vendors at this
time. I know the list of vendors that they participate in, and I can get that for you. We have not gone down
that particular path yet, because we haven't moved forward with this account-based ticketing until we get
Board approval.
But there is-- there are vendors that Masabi and other account-based ticketing people work with. So for
example just to give you, TriMet is an agency we talk a lot about this with. TriMet does not accept cash on
their system. Instead, you go to a Walgreens, or a drugstore or liquor store, and you purchase a gift card
or a card, and you then use that to get on and off the bus system or their train system. So those are
different people that we're looking at and how their distribution process works so that they can-- people
can have access to their system.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And then-- thank you for that, Heather. The last question I have for you is, would
this come back to the Board once you've identified that expansion? Or with this vote-- I should assume as
a Board member that you all are going to expand to those different vendors.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So part of this process would be to look at what other vendors we can sell
through. And that would be part of this. But there might be additional phases in the future once we

implement this and before their contract is up that we might want to exercise, kind of like what we've done
with Uber, Lyft, and the transit app. So those would need to be brought back to the Board any additional
expansions.
But if you give us the green light for this, we would be moving forward with the basic account-based
ticketing. And I could give you a better idea on what that scope looks like in more detail. I just don't have
that handy.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, I appreciate that Heather. But just to clarify, this would be without that expansion.
So we wouldn't necessarily-- so what I should assume is that-- go ahead, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, I'm sorry. No, actually, I can get you some dates. But we were looking at-hoping sometime late this year, early next year, expanding to other vendors potentially, with the mobile
ticketing piece of it. And that would provide that framework for us to do it once we move the cards over,
too. I just don't remember the exact time frame for that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Do you remember-- do you recall the percentage of our ridership that is unbanked?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: When we've done-- when we did the low-income, I believe we had 85% of lowincome had smartphones, 15% did not. And I don't remember if we asked the specific unbanked question.
But I can go back and look at those results.
I know Monica's on the line, too, and she might have that answer. But we can get you that information.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. If you could give me that, I'd really appreciate it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, that would have come from-- the most recent, I believe, is when we did the
LIVE survey. So I think we have that data from that particular survey. So I will go back and look.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I appreciate that. I'm just interested in if this unintentionally creates a barrier to access
that we might not be considering. I'd appreciate that information.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, we're-- actually, the goal of this is to expand access, not create barriers,
but is to actually expand access to our riders.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate it. That's all I have, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I have a couple of questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
JUDY LUBOW: It seems to me that the increase, the $7.4 million increase, is really in two parts. The bulk
of it, $4.4 million, is for commissions for use of the Masabi-type equipment. And so that commission has
to go to Masabi. It isn't something under their contract. It isn't something that we could go out and bid a
new contract for somebody else to do it, right? They're the only ones who are going to collect that
commission, and they're the only ones who can under the contract that we already have. Is that accurate?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
JUDY LUBOW: So the other part of the contract is the-- something like $1.3 million, or whatever it is, for
the account-based ticketing. And that seems to me, to me, difficult to include as a contract amendment,
because that sure seems like it's a whole different animal, whereas the bulk of it seems like-- that's all
we're doing, is paying for commissions. And I feel differently about the two different types.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather. So that is correct. The $1.8 million would be
converting our card-based system to Masabi's back office, the same back office we use for mobile
ticketing. So that's what the $1.8 million of the $7.4 million.

The rest of it is related to credit card processing fees and commissions related to the existing mobile
ticketing system.
JUDY LUBOW: Right. And it kind of would help me to-- if that would have been divided, because I think
they're two very different things. The question I have about the commission is that, wow, we really were
expecting much less service, and we increased it enormously.
Is this now a good contract? Given the fact that we've had so much more use, and these commissions
are exploding, would we be paying that to anybody? Or are we not? Is this not particularly good deal in
what we're paying to Masabi?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather. That's why we had Four Nines do that analysis
that's included in the PowerPoint presentation. So what it does is it compares what other vendors have
bid in other environments recently compared to what we're paying. And basically, what it says is we're
right in the middle.
If you add all those costs together, we pay more in commissions, but we paid virtually nothing up front to
get the system running. So if you look at that comparison in the Four Nines, it shows that other systems
require a lot more money upfront, which we do not have. So instead of paying up front, we pay
commissions over time.
And that analysis, like I said, is included in that Four Nines. That's why we had that done, so you can see
that it's right in the middle of potentially what we would pay if we went out to bid now for a whole new
system. But right now what we're asking is to take our card-based system and convert it to Masabi's back
office instead of on the card.
JUDY LUBOW: I appreciate that summary. Obviously, I needed somebody to summarize it for me. I
wanted to ask Melanie something about the idea of including-- I understand asking as a contract
amendment, asking for the commissions based on the contract. But expanding the scope of work to
include the ABT feature does seem to me, after reading that Vix letter, like that's really hard to include as
a mere amendment.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. And this is Melanie Snyder. And that's why you'll see included at pages 1-starting at page 166 of the Board packet, that's why the sole-source justification that was submitted to
myself and Brian Iacono, there's a detail about the two bases under our procurement code to proceed
with the sole-source. That's why that information was included.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
MELANIE SNYDER: [AUDIO OUT] amendment to the scope of work.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Well, thank you on that.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow, may I piggyback on your question right quick, interject in there? Since
you're up, Melanie Snyder, we didn't see your sign-off on that and wondering if, in your judgment, or Brian
Iacono's, are we on solid ground there in terms of going sole-source? Or are we straying to justify?
Just, what's your gut-- your gauge of that? I didn't see where you had signed off on it.
MELANIE SNYDER: Right. So the Board packet talks about the fact that the sole-source justification was
ultimately approved by myself and Brian. And ultimately, you know, you see the justification for the two
different bases that it could cancel duplication of costs and the unacceptable delay. And so based on the
information that staff provided-- and they did provide a lot of additional information-- based on questions
that we had had, we did approve that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lubow?

JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. Yes, thank you. I appreciate that input. That's it from me.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I think one of the more interesting points in the Four Nines technology
report is on the packet page 150, which reflects that-- they state confidentiality agreements require that
they do not identify the vendors or the agency. Yet, when you look up Four Nines technology, it says
consulting for public transit agencies.
So, I mean, I know there's not code, you know, like high-level code putting into a contract, so why that's
even considered confidential puzzles me, I guess. There's a lot of questions with this proposal. I think
[AUDIO OUT] other Board directors have asked a lot of good questions. And I personally would like to
know on this comparison, who were the agencies and who were the vendors. And if they're public
agencies, it should be public records, because as I say, they're not putting the code in a contract. It's
simply scope of work. So why would that be considered confidential? It could help us do our analysis.
So that's-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather. Four Nine will not provide that information. It's
information that they were able to get for us as long as they protected the agency and who the vendor
was. So I don't think we'll get that information.
PAUL SNYDER: Madam Chair, that's correct. We asked for that information, and we were told that is
confidential.
NATALIE MENTEN: It's an odd answer.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Mr. Snyder.
NATALIE MENTEN: I just stated that-- this is Menten. I find that's an odd response for a consulting
company for a public transit agency. The Colorado public records laws-- most states are pretty similar. So
I'll just leave it at that. There's been a long list of questions about this proposal.
So I'll let you move on to the next Board Director. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Hi, thanks. Heather, if you go forward with this and no one bought a ticket on it, we're out
of-- the sunk cost portion, the fixed cost is like $330,000?
PAUL SNYDER: That's correct.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather. Yes, that is correct. The project implementation
costs for the ABT is $211,000. And that is the amount of money we would be out if nobody bought a
ticket.
KEN MIHALIK: And the rest is just projected on the anticipated adoption or utilization.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. So if there isn't a sale-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: --then you will have no expenditure. If there are more sales made than what we
forecasted here, the expenditures will be even higher, which would be a good thing, because we would
be selling a lot more tickets than what we anticipated.
KEN MIHALIK: That's-- you kind of got to where I was-- where I was trying to get to, is that high cost is
simply a reflection of the usage of these products. And to go back to some of the other comments, this is- my understanding is Masabi does all the software as a service. They do all the processing, all the cloud
stuff, all the servers, all the upkeep, and they're-- yeah, they do all that stuff.

And so we're trying to cut back. We can't have increased in IT personnel just to develop these types of
really complex applications that then require all kinds of upkeep and maintenance. And the thing with this
is if Masabi comes up with another product, I'm sure it's pretty easy just to add-- again, the fixed cost on
this is $300,000, not the $7 million and change.
I'm supportive. Thanks.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you. And that's an excellent point, that the other piece of this is they have
to maintain PCI compliance, not us. So that has been a big thorn on our side moving forward. So that is
another benefit, is we don't-- we pay them a fee, and we don't have to deal with any of those issues, other
than making sure they are compliant.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I have several questions, I presume for Heather,
or for Paul. Number one-- concerning timing and the unreasonable delay that we might face, as I
understand it, if we do not agree to this amendment to the contract to allow for an expansion of scope, we
could not even begin looking-- well, we could, but it would be a waste of time and energy. We really
couldn't begin looking at this until sometime in 2023, and then by virtue of the bid process, and then to
build an implementation process, it wouldn't be in place until late '24 or even 2025. Is that a correct
assessment?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
PAUL SNYDER: Yes, that is. Yes, that is correct.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So that-PAUL SNYDER: And it gets into that-DOUG TISDALE: Go on.
PAUL SNYDER: Go ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: No, please go on, Paul.
PAUL SNYDER: Just, in addition to those delays, you have the factor of having to worry about trying to
upkeep the current system until the new system could be implemented in that time frame that you've
suggested, meaning it's part of the duplication of cost to have roughly $3 million that will need to be spent
to upkeep the existing conduit system just to keep us up and running that would otherwise be able to go
away if we would be able to implement something like Masabi in this quick fashion.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. We'd do sealing wax and bailing wire to try to hold things together until we could
get a true ABT system in there. So this system that you're talking about, were we to agree to this
amendment to the contract to allow an expansion of scope, would be in place December of 2021, is that
correct?
PAUL SNYDER: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. So that's a four-year delay that we're talking about then. Am I close on my math?
PAUL SNYDER: I think probably a little bit overstated. We think more around three years. But we're in the
ballpark.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Three to four years. And the actual cost for the ABT, as Director Mihalik points out,
the hard sunk cost up front is under $300,000, right?
PAUL SNYDER: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And the resolution, the recommended action that is presented to us tonight, is not
simply an increase in the contract amount. And it's not for a new contract. It's a specific request to amend

the contract by an expansion of scope to say you're doing x in terms of our back office work. We want you
to expand that back office work to provide for more inputs into the system. Is that correct?
PAUL SNYDER: I believe that is also correct.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And it is presented to us as a sole-source contract with a justification memo.
But of course, that's subject to our approval of that sole-source analysis, right? But, I mean, we've been
provided with that sole-source analysis already. Is that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So, Director Tisdale, this is Heather. So not quite. So the sole-source justification
is only approved by Legal and Brian Iacono in Procurement. So they've already approved it. We just
attached it so you could see the documentation that we used to be able to get that approval of the sole
source.
So the Board is not technically approving the sole source, but you are approving the contract amendment
which is allowable because we got approval of the sole source.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Now, that's really very helpful. I'm glad we highlighted that point, because I
think that might have gotten lost in the discussion, that, in fact, it's already gone through that full approval
process as a sole source. And it's presented to us now for our information. Correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. It's to present-- the sole source is presented for your information. You still
need to approve the contract amendment.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I wouldn't presume you assumed that somehow you could just go
ahead and do this on your own. I got it. And one of the reasons-- and this is perhaps an inartful way of
putting it, but-- one of the reasons that we're looking at this and saying, well, let's go ahead with Masabi,
we're already married to them, OK? And it's always cheaper to cement your relationship with your spouse
than to try to maintain two separate households, one for your spouse and one for your mistress. That's a
very expensive proposition. That's why most people don't do it.
So in this case, we say, look, how do we save money? How do we get it done sooner? And how do we
achieve this increase in ridership that we have seen by virtue of using these electronic methods for
ticketing? Is that fair?
PAUL SNYDER: That sounds fair.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. That's all that I had at this time, Madam Chair. I'm actually in
support of the recommended action.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Yeah, luckily it went alphabetically this time, so I got the benefit of a lot of good
discussion. I do know that we have talked about going to an account-based ticketing system for a while.
And it looks like the opportunity is here. It looks like the opportunity saves us a good deal of money.
One of the biggest complaints that I hear about that-- well, before the cards came out, people couldn't
wait to get them. Once they came out, the complaint I heard was the time it takes to load up the money,
or to have the money show. It's not instant.
It looks like this solves that problem. And since we need to satisfy our customers, especially in this time
and coming year-- or hopefully months, but definitely year-- but let's just say a year, something like this is
needed.
As was just discussed with Mr. Tisdale and staff, it sounds like this is a quick way to help solve that
problem. The issue of a sole-source contracts, as far as I'm concerned, has been answered. Or, the solesource service has been answered in that we're looking at a contract amendment. So I'm supportive of

this, because it solves a problem that I've heard about since these tickets were-- I'm sorry, since these
cards were rolled out.
So I'll keep it short. I'm in favor. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, thanks. I appreciate Director Mihalik and Tisdale's comments. Especially shed
some very pertinent light on this topic. I am leaning towards supporting the motion. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. This is an advantage to being at the end of the line. You get to hear the whole
discussion. And I-- I want to ask a couple of quick questions. Heather, you did say that our relationship
with Masabi has been good, that you perceive them to be a good, responsive vendor, yes?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: And would you say that are very well-received partnership with Uber was helped by the
fact that Uber also uses Masabi?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct. Without Masabi, we would not have done that deal.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. And in my experience, the industry is moving to this kind of account-based, and so
we would probably be well advised to continue to move that way, as the vendor base will grow and the
products will expand. Would you say that's true, too?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. We feel this is really the direction of the future, especially for agencies our
size that are not looking at the intensive infrastructure investment that some of the very, very large
agencies are doing.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So I'm in favor. I have one really off-the-wall question. Is it possible that this
software platform could help us in the future to do the day of free rides that we talked about for the
election? Or is this some place that we could maybe look at doing that in the future?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I think it would enable us-- it would help us in that direction just from a timing
perspective. And it would also allow us to potentially access those cards like Eco/NECO and College that
we can't really give a refund for one day or something like that. So we really haven't talked about how that
might be able to help.
But the one thing we do know where it will be extremely helpful is what we're using right now with like
Denver Public Schools, where they can activate-- where they can tell us how many tickets to push out to
certain students. We could push out different numbers to different students. The other thing is, the
vendors don't-- the vendors such as Denver Public Schools, we're doing it with the Boulder schools-- they
only pay for what they get to use. So if you want to push these out for a conference per se, in the past
you had to buy tickets in advance and pay for them. Now we can push them out to all conference
attendees, and they only get billed for the actual people that activate that particular ride.
So, I mean, that is one of the huge advantage is that it's very user friendly than the current card-based
system we have now.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Yeah, that's some of the stuff I wanted to look at. I appreciate it. I appreciate the
work that you've done. I remember when I first came on board, and we were having not such a good time
with Xerox and then conduit. And so I'm very much in favor of this. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: As seconder, I expected that. Thank you, Director Williams. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank, you, Madam Chair. You know, I agree with Director Williams. It's
great being at the end and listening to all of the comments. Heather, I just want to thank you and your
team for this work.
And, you know what? All of my questions have been answered. I will be supporting this. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And Heather, likewise for me, except for one issue. The cost for the
validators. Was that-- is that in the asset management system? Is that in the mid-term financial plan?
Where is the money for that, and how much is it?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the validators are currently funded. It was in a previous budget, the 2019
budget. And we received-- it's about $3.6 million. And Paul, correct me if I'm wrong. I think $1.8 million of
it is federal funds from DRCOG, which we need to spend within the next year, and then the other $1.8
million is match that we agreed to. And that came out of the 2019 budget, I believe.
PAUL SNYDER: Yes.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So that money is already allocated by the Board and is just waiting-- RFP is out
there, and we're waiting for finalized responses.
PAUL SNYDER: Yes. What you just stated is correct.
SHELLEY COOK: And you had mentioned-- Thank you, Mr. Snyder. You'd mentioned $1.8 million is part
of this contract, correct, that is needed to move, I think you said, to the back office-- move this ABT part to
the back office. Did I get that right? That's what the $1.8 million is-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. Yes, so that is a separate $1.8 million [AUDIO OUT] money for the
validators.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, good. And we're getting a grant-- so we are matching the grant at $1.8 million, and
then we're getting a grant for $1.8 million. Did I get that right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct, for the validators.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you. All right. Let's wrap this up, if we may. I'll go ahead and get the
votes. Director Broom, your vote on this motion by Director Tisdale with a second by Director Williams.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm a no for now. Hopefully I'll get some more clarification between now and the
Board meeting. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm a no for now. I just need the information from Heather that we spoke about earlier.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm going to be a yes for now, but I might be a no later.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yes now and yes in the future.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a yes. All right. So looks like we have the motion passing with 13 votes in
favor, 2 opposed. The two are Director Folska and Director Lewis. Thank you, all.
Heather McKillop, are you clear about the information that is being sought? I'm sure you'll reach out if not.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. I will reach out to Director Folska, and I'm pretty sure I know what Director
Lewis' questions are, so I will get those taken care of.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you very much. OK. Now, moving on to the bank signature authorization to
add Debra Johnson. And it's another one where I need to scroll, sorry, through the remainder of this. OK,
here we go.
The recommended action is, it's recommended that the Board of Directors approve the attached bank
account signature authorization agreement, the agreement. This recommended action supports the
following General Manager's goals mission-oriented goal number three-- strong financial management.
Do I have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: Catlin, so moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
SHELLEY COOK: Catlin. And who was the second? Vince Buzek.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So we have a motion and second. And looks like it's Heather McKillop and
Brenden again. Please go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop. All we're doing with this action is
adding Debra Johnson, our new CEO and GM, to the signature, and then also removing me, since next
week will be my last week. So then as we get new potential officers and a new CFO, we will make those
adjustments early in the year. Usually we do that in January. So this is to get us through till we do those
election of officers and we have a new CFO.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. This is one-- I'm going to hazard a guess-- is pretty routine. So if I may,
I'll just ask first, if there are any questions from Board members, please announce your name.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis, please go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'd just like to stay for the sake of the records, it's probably not surprising to anyone
that I truly believe that we should not be banking with Wells Fargo and we continue to. I know this is just
for signatories. I will be supporting this, but I wanted to say that for the record.

SHELLEY COOK: Right. Thank you very much. Anybody else? OK. Well, I will call for a vote. And again
on that same basis, if you are opposed-- anybody opposed? Please indicate by saying your name and
your vote. All right. I'll declare that passed unanimously, with everybody present, all 15 Board members,
voting yes.
Thank you very much. And then we're moving on to another similar item-- authorization of fiscal authority
to the GM for the North Metro Rail Line Project. So let me go ahead and get to that action. We can read
that right quick.
It's recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors,
the Board, increase the authority granted to the General Manager or designee to enter into all contracts,
real property transactions, and intergovernmental agreements for the North Metro Rail Line Project by
$35.2 million to a total authorization of $757.5 million. This authority shall include the ability to negotiate
and execute all contracts, work orders, change orders, and contract modifications, agreements for the
acquisition and conveyance of property interests, and intergovernmental agreements that are necessary
or advisable to complete the North Metro Rail Line within the scope of the North Metro Line Project
budget.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goal-- strategic priority number four,
increase ridership, improve rider experience. Do I have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: Whitmore.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek so moved. Buzek second.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore, OK. And Director Buzek second. All righty. So we'll turn it over
again to Heather McKillop and Susan Cohen. Please go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop. I'm going to ask Susan
Cohen to speak to this one. And I believe we also have Henry available to take questions if they come up
about the project. So with that, I might turn it over to Susan.
SUSAN COHEN: OK. This is Susan Cohen, Senior Manager of Finance. Hi. This is an action that's
essentially updating actions that the Board had taken earlier in November 2013 and in 2015 to grant
authority to the General Manager to execute contracts for construction of North Metro 224th Avenue. The
budget for the quarter was increased in 2017, and we did not bring-- and we did not bring an action to
increase contract authority at that time.
After that, when the Board approved the settlement with RRP in October 2018, that increased the
contract authority and the budget. At this point, the contract authority is about $35 million lower than the
budget. And while the line is open for revenue service, we still have a list of items that need to be done for
closeout. So we are asking at this time to increase the contract authority to the budget to allow the
General Manager to execute contracts needed to complete all the outstanding items. That's the
presentation. I'm happy to entertain questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Just given the dollar amount, I think we will go around. Director Williams, I'll start
with you.
KATE WILLIAMS: No ma'am. I have no questions or comments. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No questions, thank you
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No questions, thank you.

SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No questions or comments, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No questions or comments.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I do have one question, and I may want to have you continue through the rest of
Board directors as I'm trying to bring up the November 2013 action item that came before the Board.
While this is a dollar amount issue, it was the main thing that folks would see in the recommended action.
What it also does state is that it gives the General Manager or designee authority over agreements for the
acquisition and conveyance of property interests.
And as I go to look back in November 2013's recommended action-- could Susan-- I know I'm catching
you off top of your head here, probably. Was that language also included in the 2013 action?
SUSAN COHEN: I will look that up right now, and I can get back to you as I bring up that action.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And I'm rapidly going back to the 2013 and-- if you don't mind, Chair, could you
continue-- oh, go ahead. Susan, did you already bring it up?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: I'll come back.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SUSAN COHEN: Yes, I actually have-- yeah, I actually have it in front of me. I just have to get to the
correct page of the packet.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, what I'll do is I'll go ahead and come back, and we'll get that answer. So, Director
Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, I just have one question, and it's more process than anything else. It looks to me like
on page 181 there is a list of items of work that still need to be done, such as 124th station PED crossing
updates and 72nd train signals, system changes with whatever. There's just a list of things that still need
to be done, and I imagine that supports the additional money.
And I am just wondering, because every time we have to put more money into a contract, that's less
money for the unfunded corridors. So I'm just wondering, could have these things been foreseen and
understood before as being necessary? Is this all new?
SUSAN COHEN: No. This is actually-- Chair, this is Susan Cohen. This is actually the original-- this is
actually the approved budget of the corridor. This is just to complete-- this is to complete the corridor to
124th, as the Board has previously approved it.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, I see. So these aren't new. These are just things that were part of the original project
that haven't been finished yet.
SUSAN COHEN: Correct.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. OK, that helps me. All right, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No questions for me.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Nothing from me, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry about that. My button wasn't working very well. No questions, thank you.

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, no additional questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. In the backup it mentions that in 2014, RTD issued $441 million in
COPs for this project. What did that $441 million cover?
SUSAN COHEN: This is Susan Cohen. The $441 million covered the construction of North Metro from
Denver Union Station to 104th Avenue.
BOB BROOM: OK.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: That's a good answer.
SHELLEY COOK: Anything else?
BOB BROOM: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have no comments or questions. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And returning to the question that Natalie Menten, Director Menten posed.
Susan, have you found that in that prior action?
SUSAN COHEN: I found it. There were two prior actions. The original action from November of 2013 did
not contain that language. The updated fiscal authority from August 2015 did.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, yes. And I did find on packet page 258 from November 2013, that
language was not in there. And this has been a concern for me over the years, in where the Board has
delegated authority over land acquisition and disposition. And as I got on the Board, when we had a lot of
concerns about eminent domain and development, and although it was later stated in the 2015, I do recall
this was a concern in 2013 for me. And it's concerned with other authority that's been given away, I would
suggest that perhaps the recent action I almost think of it as like the Greyhound discussion that we had,
where we have given away that authority.
So for me, I feel strongly enough that that section of this resolution reinforcing that the Board has given
away land holding decisions doesn't sit well with me. So I'll have to be a no vote on that. But thank you
very much for helping me explore that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And thank you. And I have to say, I'm really impressed that both of you were able
to track that down so quickly. All right. Let's do the vote. If it's OK, I'll start from the rear. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, I'm a YES.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: But for the point that Director Menten just brought up, I'd be a yes. But I'm a no.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Dir Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, but I think it would be helpful for some clarification about the point that Director
Menten brought up, and maybe Melanie could tease that out a bit and share that later with the Board.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I agree with Director Folska, but I am a yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And just to double-check, Director Folska, you were a yes also, correct?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, I am a yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. I'm a yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a yes also. So that makes the motion by Director Whitmore second by Director
Buzek passes with 13 votes in favor, 2 votes opposed. Those two are Director Menten and Director
Mihalik. OK, thank you all.
And there we are through all of our recommended actions on the agenda. Thank you. And moving on to
updates, we have the September 2019 monthly financial status report. That's Heather and Doug. I'll turn it
over to you. We already heard that we don't have the sales and use tax numbers, unfortunately. Go
ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather. I'm going to ask Doug to speak to the report.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, please. Go ahead, Doug.
DOUG MACLEOD: Good evening. Thank you. This is Doug MacLeod. That's correct. We do not have the
sales and use tax numbers yet. We get those from two different sources. The bulk of those reports come
from the Department of Revenue. But the Department of Motor Vehicles also sent us a report for their
portion.
That's the portion that we're missing. We anticipate getting that anytime now, so probably tomorrow, at
which point we will update these financials and update the Board package. I'd also like to apologize to our
new General Manager that I have the wrong person addressed in the top of the financial statements, and
we will get that corrected as well.
Moving on to ridership, ridership has actually stabilized. You can see in the third column over, that's our
month-over-month comparison September 2020 versus September 2019. So we were down 63.2%

compared to last year. And if you take out our non-revenue service, which is the mall shuttle, we're
actually right at 62%, which has been very consistent for last several months, at least through September.
So that seems to have stabilized at that point.
Our fare revenue continues to be at about 50% of where it was last year. The reason for the discrepancy
between that and the 60-or-so percent on ridership is due to the fact that we do have a lot of renewals.
We've kept a lot of our customers with Eco pass and College pass. So that's really helped our revenue up
to this point.
That's just a brief update, and I'd be happy to take any questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Doug. Just asking if anybody has-- and by the way, when you do get those,
would you mind sending that through? Maybe the Board Office, if they could send that. We'd had a
question earlier about that, and we're all kind of interested. So if you could perhaps ask Barbara
McManus to forward those sales and use tax numbers to us, that'd be great.
DOUG MACLEOD: We sure will.
SHELLEY COOK: Does anybody have-- oh, thank you so much. And does-- let me just open it up and
say, if you have a question for Doug MacLeod or Heather on this financial status report, can you please
indicate so by announcing your name, and then I'll call on you.
OK. Looks like we're good there. Then moving on to information, we have three items that are included in
your packet-- The. Third quarter investment report, the fiscal sustainability update, and the LIVE program
update. I didn't have a request from anybody to pull this. And so-- all right, I would just suggest if you
have questions, please get with the staff.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Direct Lewis.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't actually have a question, I just have a request. This topic has been perpetually
a topic of interest to me prior to COVID, but especially as we've seen lots of folks losing their jobs. And so
I request that we actually add this back to our updates so that we can see the progress on those that are
getting enrolled, understand the barriers that folks might be facing, and the challenges that staff might
even be having on getting folks enrolled in this program.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. You know, any director can request that it be pulled from the information on any-but let me ask, is there any object to doing that for the time being-- let's say, as we make it through this
period of transition and pandemic impact, and so forth, does anybody object to having that brought back
into updates? For the time, being not permanently. OK. I think that is a good suggestion.
All right. Then-- anybody there? Did I cut off too soon?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm here.
SHELLEY COOK: All right. Then we're onto Other Matters. Who was that, sorry?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Rivera-Malpiede.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Under Other Matters tonight, I would like to thank
our [? 401 ?] 776,000 residents who voted for RTD Directors in this last election. I do think that it shows
the commitment of the community to this Board of Directors and the impact that we have in terms of the
transportation, really backbone for the entire economy.
I'd also like to take this opportunity to thank the Boulder Commissioners for this selection of Director Eric
Davidson. I would like to just congratulate incumbent Director Williams for her re-election. I'd like to also

congratulate new Director Dishell for District D; Director Rosenthal for Director E; congratulate incumbent
Director Broom for District F; congratulate new Board Director Bouquet for District G; congratulate
incumbent Director Tisdale for District H; and congratulate Director Sloan for-- gosh, this is getting hard-District M.
I would also like to take this opportunity, Madam Chair, to profusely thank Director Folska, Director
Lubow, Director Mihalik, Director Menten, and Director Walker for their outstanding commitment to our
districts, our community, and to the transportation industry. I think you guys really have been an
inspiration to all of us and have really done an amazing job in moving forward this agency. Thank you,
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yeah, go ahead, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. May I also express on behalf of myself, and I believe on behalf
of the Board, our tremendous appreciation to Director Mihalik for his four years of service on this Board.
And I know that we wish him all well in the future, and we thank him for his past.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Well put. Director Buzek, go, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And piggybacking off what Chair Rivera-Malpiede said, the
number of votes cast for RTD Directors, I think, also sends a clear message that the public confirms what
they also said in 1980-- that they want an elected Board of Directors, that they care enough about their
taxpayer dollars that they want an elected Board of Directors to govern the RTD.
Second thing, once upon a time somebody asked that page numbers, packet page numbers, be attached
to each agenda item so that we can scroll through if we lose our place. I'm going to make that request
again. It's really difficult when you're scrolling around looking at different things to try to get back to the
Masabi issue. It's on page 112,000 or whatever. If we could get packet page numbers on the agenda, it
would really help. Thanks.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Director Folska.
SHELLEY COOK: Good suggestion, thank you. Go ahead, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair, Director Folska. You know, I think Director Buzek shouldn't whine so
much about trying to find stuff on the paper, you know.
[LAUGHTER]
It's not that rough, you know? I don't look at anything, And I'm still following along here.
VINCE BUZEK: You're killing me. You're killing me, buddy.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You're killing me. Yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: Touch.
DOUG TISDALE: score, score.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry. But it had to be done. But really, I just want to say-- and I hope we're going to
say it again in December. It's just been a thrill and a privilege and an honor to be elected and to be on the
Board for two terms now. And I think Director Buzek is quite right as well as Chair Rivera-Malpiede, that
the constituents in the district have shown that they support us, and they did so by voting, and they
support an elected Board. And it is special and unique.
But beyond that, I wanted to just again welcome our new General Manager Debra Johnson to the RTD.
This is a big organization with a lot of great challenges and opportunities. And I for one think you're going

to do an amazing job. And I can't wait to see what you do. So thank you very much for taking us on.
That's all.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Anybody else?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, Guissinger.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Guissinger, go ahead, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just an update on the Accountability Committee. The Committee has started
rolling-- after spending a fair amount of time figuring out procedures, they have focused on certain topics
that they want to look at. The overall Committee is meeting once a month, and then they have three
subcommittees-- Governance, Operations, and Finance, that meet twice a month. Those are all public
meetings. I'm not sure if all of the agendas are sent out, but they're all very available. Barbara can send
them out, and her team.
And they're-- the Committee, the Finance Committee, I think, is looking at the statutes, some of the
statutes that govern RTD. It's some provisions from the RTD statute, things that we've talked about
before, the fare recovery requirement 30%, some of the statutes to do with-- limitations to do with parking
and contracting. And there's one other one I'm blanking on.
At any rate, they're looking at making some recommendations to the legislature. We'll be getting
something written out to all of you in the next few days. And we'll probably discuss it in other matters to
get comments, questions. And certainly, if you have comments or questions, you can get in touch with
Troy or me before that.
They're also looking at-- they've looked at various other transit agencies. The Governance Committee has
looked at, in particular, LA Metro and their local service councils and beginning a conversation of what
something like that might look like, to give local governments more of a voice earlier on in some of the
decision making.
And then finally, the Operations Committee is looking right now at fares and Eco passes and passes and
things like that. So if you have interest or questions, feel free to get in touch or to join any of those
meetings. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. We look forward to-BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Barbara McManus, go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hi. So Director Guissinger did a great job of over reviewing everything that's
been happening with the Accountability Committee. She did reference that the Board could listen to that
discussion in other matters, and that would be in the Executive Committee meeting this coming Thursday
starting at 11:30. She didn't mention that element, so I wanted to add that for the record.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: What I meant was that we'd probably raise it in other matters at the Board meeting
next week to see if there are questions, concerns, and perhaps a head nod in terms of thoughts at that
point. But that's right. Thanks, Barbara.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Dir Broom.

BOB BROOM: Yeah. I'd like to have staff give us a briefing on high-speed rail. There was a big article in
the paper over the weekend. And obviously, half of that system parallels the one line that we've got that
we haven't been able to build up to Longmont. And, you know, we need to start talking about ways that
we can partner with other organizations to get that line built.
So I think it'd behoove us to get some information on the findings of the study that was just recently, I
guess, completed. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: You're talking about Front Range Rail study?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And probably, it sounds like it would be Bill Van Meter that-- staff, would you be able to
take that request to him?
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, you're on the line. Thank you. Hi, Bill. Go ahead.
BILL VAN METER: I am. You're correct. I am a Commissioner on Southwest Chief Front Range
Passenger Rail Commission representing RTD. And I was just speaking with the Chair of the FasTracks
Planning and Capital Programs Committee Chair Lubow this morning about doing that type of update at
December 1 FasTracks Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee meeting. So I have that on my to-do
list, and I am planning on providing that update at that time.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Excellent. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: OK, anybody else? Go ahead, Director Menten.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
NATALIE MENTEN: So now we have Commissioner Van Meter?
[LAUGHTER]
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: Bill? Does that mean you're above or-- where does that put you in this [INAUDIBLE]?
BILL VAN METER: That was an appointment approved by the RTD Board of Directors. So I serve at your
behest and definitely not above.
NATALIE MENTEN: Did you get a fancy badge with that?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BILL VAN METER: Just extra responsibility.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten, anything else?
NATALIE MENTEN: I do have one question. And this is for Ms. McKillop, because-- Heather are you
going to be at next week's meeting, or you're already gone?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. No, I'll be here next Tuesday.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So there was a discussion at one of our Board meetings regarding, perhaps, a
change in when the Board sets strategic goals, annual strategic goals ,which you 've been to enough of
our retreats, advances, whatever you want to call them, to know how that plays into the budget process.
If, let's just say, as you described at the beginning of tonight's meeting, we had seven budget updates-maybe a little more this year than normal by a couple. Let's just say strategic goals were set for the

following budget year instead of set at a March retreat set in more of a, let's say, June. Just for grins, let's
say June.
How would that affect the budget process, from your point of view as CFO, before you head out?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. I think as long as they were done prior to the end of
June, that would work. We start the budget process in the June/July time frame in a normal year. This
year we started in March. But typically, we don't start that until around June/July, where we start asking
the departments for all of their input.
So I would not do it any later than June. June might be a little tight. I would say you could probably do it in
April/May with no problem. But not any later than that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. That's the answer I wanted to hear. All right. That's it. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. And Director Lewis, I heard you I think. Any last question or comment
here?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I had a clarifying question. Director Guissinger mentioned that there would be an
update in Other Matters at the Executive meeting, or at our next meeting?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it may come up with the Executive Committee too, maybe discuss with them.
But it would be-- my thought is to bring it up in Other Matters. It's not for an official action or anything but
for a chance to discuss it, perhaps a head nod next Board meeting next week.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. With that, do I have a motion to adjourn?
JEFF WALKER: Walker.
SHELLEY COOK: [AUDIO OUT] OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JEFF WALKER: Wait, Walker. No, no, no, not to second. I had one [AUDIO OUT]
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, you-- sorry. Sorry to rush past you there. Go ahead, please.
JEFF WALKER: I'll be quick. So regarding the goals, the CEO has to-- or the GM has to come up with the
tactical plan. And that's what has the dollars tied to it. So that takes about a month to get going. So April
would probably be the latest that we could have-- or that you could have a retreat, because that takes a
while and then the Board to discuss, and it's usually approved like in May or June-- or May, I guess. And
then the amended budget comes in June. So I think where it is now is probably logistically, or I guess
chronologically, the best place for it to be.
Also, if you haven't looked at or signed in to watch one of those Accountability Committees, I strongly
recommend it. They're interesting, very interesting. DRCOG has them on their website. I think that link
was sent out a while ago. I've checked in and watched a few of them on 1.5 speed, and that's probably
the best way to do it. They're different than what I expected.
I did talk to somebody from a transit agency who used to have an elected Board-- that used to have an
elected Board, and now it's an appointed Board. The operation of the agency hasn't changed much, the
operation of the system hasn't changed much. The perception of it is what's changed. You know, whether
the Board is elected or not is kind of inconsequential, especially the people who are waiting for a bus.
The one thing that's different is that those Board members can be removed a lot quicker if something
does go wrong. So individually, a member can be removed, if that member isn't in line with the person or

the entity that appointed that member to the Board. That's probably the biggest change, but everything
else is pretty much the same, especially the Jane and Joe citizen waiting at a bus stop.
And that's it. That's all I wanted to add. That's it. Thanks. And I can move to adjourn.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. OK, we have a motion to adjourn from Director Walker. Is there a second?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second Rivera-Malpiede.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede. OK. Any objection to that motion to adjourn? OK. I'll
declare us adjourned. Our next meeting day is December 8, 2020. It is now 8:57 PM. Thank you,
everybody. Good job.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good night.

