RTD GM Oversight & Performance Management
Committee - 5-6-2021 video
VINCE BUZEK: --6. I will call the meeting of the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee
to order. I'll take the roll. Vince Buzek is here. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis. She's on vacation, is that right? Yeah, OK. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair Riviera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Thanks for being here.
OK, so we're going to-- we've all got the agenda. We're going to switch the order of presentation from the
evaluation process then strategic planning to strategic planning followed by the evaluation process. And I
want to thank our TransPro team for being here.
As we came out of the meeting last night, and as was reflected in our Executive Committee earlier today,
there were some questions and concerns about the process and what it looks like in a big picture. And I
think we only got a snapshot of it last night. We on the Executive Committee, or those who attended that
meeting, had a bit of an explanation that helped allay some of our concerns. And I think we're going to get
a little bit of a rehash of some of that this afternoon.
And I think some of the concerns that I heard coming out of the meeting last night was that some of the
Board members felt they were not as involved in the strategic goal setting process as they would have
liked to have been. And I think that may be just a misperception based upon an incomplete understanding
of the process.
So one thing I'd also like to know for sure-- and Madam General Manager, perhaps you could tell me-- do
we know if the TransPro team has seen the charter for the GMOC?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, I'm not certain. So Mr. Aesch, have you seen the GMOC charter?
MARK AESCH: I don't know that I have seen it personally, but I would-- members of my team may well
have who are deeply involved. So if someone could provide that, we would welcome that, certainly.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I think it'd be important for you guys to have, because in particular-- and I'll read
from it-- it indicates that this committee develops the General Manager's annual performance evaluation
program for review and approval by the full Board. This program includes the goals and metrics by which
the General Manager will be evaluated. So we're not just performance evaluation. We're also really
involved in the strategic planning side as well. So it would be good for you guys to know that.
That all being said, I didn't give a safety moment. Do I need to give a safety moment? Wear a mask. Get
a vaccine. Just do it. OK.

We'll move on to the strategic planning process. And I don't think we need to completely go over
everything we did last night, but just some high level stuff on how it's going to look moving forward and
with particular attention to what the Board involvement will be moving forward as well. Thanks.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Buzek, before the start, can I quickly comment on something you just said, or
mentioned about it.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. And maybe this is my misunderstanding of the purpose of our consultants. But I
certainly view our charter as more of a living document. We have a new General Manager and CEO. I
don't think I need to belabor the point of perhaps some of our older documents not reflecting reality or
people being selective on when we want to say, yeah, this is what it says and we get to do this and this
isn't.
So I certainly am open to also changing, and I think others are as well, the charter to reflect the new
strategic direction that we're going to be taking. And I think that's not just this committee but across the
board, right. If we're really hiring consultants, bringing in new General Manager, we should really think
about looking, are we really going to open this up or are we really going to try to section these consultants
who we hired off?
VINCE BUZEK: OK, thanks for your comments. And Mr. Aesch, I think, are you going to present on the
planning process?
BOBBY DISHELL: It looks like Ms. McManus had a comment as well.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So yes, Director Dishell, that is part of the big picture plan. John and I have
already been looking through the bylaws and earmarking certain things that we know could possibly
change, as well as some administrative changes based on some of the protocols that have changed
during COVID. So that is embedded in a lot of what we have been doing in the background.
So we will, of course, look to the Directors for specific direction. And I'm sure the Chair will probably set
up some smaller committees that can review and help us move forward in making all of these changes
based on the new path forward.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Does that address your concerns? Good. Thanks.
BOBBY DISHELL: Oh, and Miss Johnson I see also has hand.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I guess no one can see my hand because it's brown and it camouflages with the
brick. I'm just being serious. That's why I think oftentimes Director Lewis' hand is missed. But thank you
very much, Director Dishell, for noticing that my hand was up. Because we can see, if you pull up the
panelists, you can see your hand over there as well.
But one thing I wanted to add, if I could, Mr. Chair, as relates to the question or the comment that Director
Dishell stated. I just wanted to qualify, recognizing the intent of the GMOC, as I spoke this morning as it
related to the Executive Committee, I was very forthright in reference to what has been outlined in my
contractual agreement with the Regional Transportation District and with you all, as my policy body and
as my bosses, recognizing that we collectively agree that there would be performance metrics that we
would agree upon. Hence, that is the genesis in reference to us having dialogue around strategic
planning. So I wanted to qualify that as well. And that's what led me on this trajectory to introduce this
process in this format, and that was the impetus for the amendment to said contract as well.

So recognizing that that's the document that covers what you and I-- you, being a collective body-- are
doing here, I just wanted to qualify that for everyone's edification, because I don't think that came across
in the statement relative to just the GMOC charter. So thank you very much for the opportunity to speak.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks very much for that.
OK, moving on. Who's going to-- who's the first up on the strategic planning process?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Mr. Chair, if I may, if I may set the tone, as you requested at the Executive
Committee, just for broad brush activities. Unless you don't want me to speak to that, I'll yield the floor to
Mr. Aesch, but whatever is your pleasure.
VINCE BUZEK: No. Why don't you start, General Manager Johnson? Then we'll move on to them.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. Well, thank you very kindly, sir.
So for those assembled here today, I wanted to share once again how we came to retaining the services
of TransPro. Basically it was predicated upon the employment agreement, as specified earlier in my
remarks, regarding an evaluation process as it relates to me being in the capacity of the General
Manager and CEO. With that as a backdrop, wanted to ensure that we were creating alignment about
how we work collectively towards success outcomes. And in doing so, it was stipulated in said contract
that we would collectively come to some agreement as relates to that.
Recognizing that there had not been, from my vantage point and from what I discerned, a strategic
planning process whereby we all recognize what our north star was we embarked upon an effort whereby
I worked in tandem with Miss McManus as a representative of the Board Office and in conjunction with
the Chair and with the Chair of the GMOC outlining the need to retain a consultant service to help us with
this endeavor. Went through a procurement process starting in the early January, February timeframe.
And in turn, did a solicitation, a request for proposals, where we received several different proposals.
We assessed those proposals based upon the scope of work that was outlined and through that
competitive process selected TransPro to work with us in the space of them being a national thought
leader having a myriad of experience as it relates to working with transit boards, not only nationally, but
internationally, to create high functioning boards, with that as a backdrop, recognizing the first step was to
engage with each and every member of the Board to ascertain what your initiatives, your desires, and
your wants were as relates to where we should go collectively as an organization.
Concurrently on that path, there were discussions as relates to the leadership team, as well as with me,
to garner a level of understanding of what activities would help determine how we got to said outcomes.
And so basically, through the advent of conversations that ensued, there were recurring themes that
basically were extrapolated from that engagement that ran the gamut relative to caring about being a
trusted leader in the industry, recognizing that there have been some questions or concerns relative to
the transparency of the organization, also, as relates to being engaged and highly communicative.
So from the advent of those discussions, there were some elements that spawned out that led to the
broad brush categorization of those success outcomes. Recognizing that we have functional units within
this organization that are generally led by an AGM, there were discussions around what are the activities
that will enable to garner results relative to what the Board's expectations are. And so through those
iterative processes, that led to the interim Board discussion that we had last night. And more so as we go
forward, there will be more dialogue recognizing that there is an understanding of where we need to go
collectively.

One thing is for certain I want to share, we are now working in a virtual format, which makes it very
challenging. And I want to commend our consultants for doing the best that they could in relationship to
this format, as well as all of you. But considering that we have the SLT, the senior leadership team, we
have the Board, quite naturally, the same process has taken place, whereby we saw our mission, whether
it's the current mission, the one that's in the strategic plan, that really was telling and illustrative of the fact
that we don't know what our mission currently is and we need to work towards something in that vein to
understand what our why is.
And so we, as a leadership team, basically were giving something to react to because bringing a
collective group of people-- and I think Director Dishell mentioned this last evening-- in the advent of
having something to react to, we probably wouldn't have been able to garner a level of support around
where we are. So as we go through this process, making adjustments, what I did put forward today during
the Executive Committee, working in earnest with Miss McManus, would try to decipher how we could
best get us together. And perhaps that's looking at a hotel ballroom that has ample space where we can
socially distance, so it brings that level of interaction that I think would assuage some of the concerns just
in the lack of-- for a lack of an ability of being able to engage in such a way that people are most
comfortable.
So I just want to share that, I guess. You know I pride myself on being a person in the people business
and try to be highly communicative, but it was very apparent that there was a small faction that felt as if
perhaps this wasn't as transparent. And I want to reiterate that in any instance, I'm a very earnest and
straightforward person and there's nothing I'm trying to do behind a cloak.
So with that being said, I thank you for the opportunity to clarify that and address the intentions here,
because nothing is prescriptive. This is our organic process. And it doesn't make sense for us to pick up
and carry over something that maybe Cleveland RTA did or Transport for London or the Washington
Metropolitan Area Transit Authority. We need to look at what is for the betterment of our region in which
we serve, for the people that come to depend on us.
So with that, I appreciate the opportunity, Mr. Chair, to have the floor to clarify that and provide context
around the intent of this process and I trust that you will take it at my word in earnest that I want to work
collaboratively. So with that, I will yield the floor to Mr. Aesch, if that is permissible. Thank you very much
for the opportunity to speak.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, General Manager. And again, thanks again for that. You conveyed that
message at the Executive Committee meeting, and it was appreciated there as well. So thanks very
much. And Mr. Aesch, we'll go on to you. Unless there's any questions. Any questions based on what
General Manager Johnson has just relayed?
Seeing none, we'll move on. Great.
MARK AESCH: Very good. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I think well said by your General Manager.
This is very much an iterative process. The goal is to put something in front of a Board and have it
respond and react. If we need to start over, we start over. If we need to adjust, we adjust. But the whole
purpose is certainly to provide the opportunity for the Board to actively engage and really respond to best
thinking from your professional management team.
The committee had asked for a brief update on the strategic planning process. And so Mr. Chairman, I
know we went through a presentation last evening. I think we'll make it a brief update on the strategic
planning process, if that's OK with the committee.

VINCE BUZEK: You bet.
MARK AESCH: So we'll give you a very brief update in regards to that.
I would say three things, as we kick off to the more substantive part of the conversation, which is the
oversight responsibilities of this Board. I've had the pleasure to actually work for a public board, working
with groups such as yourself. Today, have the opportunity to work literally with dozens upon dozens of
public boards as they provide oversight. And I actually serve on a public board. I'm on a board of a large
university, a state university that's appointed. So very familiar with all three roles in this.
And Mr. Chairman, as you know, there are three primary functions of a board, public board. The first is to
hire your Chief Executive, which you recently did. The second is to root for and ensure the success of that
Chief Executive. And the third, and let's hope we never have to deal with this one, is terminate the
relationship with the Chief Executive because the second doesn't perform well.
The key, which I think you spoke to in regards to the charter, is how do you connect organizationally your
strategic plan to your oversight of your Chief Executive? How do you knit those two together such that the
success of your Chief Executive is tied to the achievement of your strategic plan?
And so we'll begin this evening with sharing-- Amanda, we're going to do this very quickly so we'll flip
slides super fast-- really for the record, setting the concept of that first component, getting your strategic
plan in place. And the reason this is so critically important is it ties directly to how you will do the second
most important part of a board, which is root for and ensure the success of your Chief Executive.
So we shared with you last night-- you can go ahead, Amanda, this is kind of the agenda ribbon in place.
We shared with you the left hand side of this, which is where the board very much lives, the why and the
what. And I want to repeat what we've said a couple of times. All we've done at this point is work to
integrate a number of conversations that have taken place, the one-on-one discussions we had with you
as Board members, the recovery workshop where you were thinking about what success looks like for the
organization, the sessions that we've had with your senior management team, certainly direct
conversations with your General Manager of putting in front of the Board, for your consideration, the why
and what, the outcomes which the Board might care about.
On the right hand side lives the management team. This is how they will work to achieve those outcomes,
the actions, the budgetary, the personnel that are needed, the KPIs that they will put in place. At the end
of the day, it's the General Manager who works to determine what are the KPIs that we should be
prioritizing to produce the outcomes. On-time performance is a KPI. Higher customer satisfaction, net
promoter score, is an outcome. Let's go, Amanda.
You saw these questions. How does the Board go about clearly articulating what success looks like? In
two ways. One, objective, quantifiable results, which the General Manager just spoke to in regards to the
contract that she has, an objective, fact-based way to establish success. And secondly, a more subjective
way to determine the spirit by which those results are achieved. Are we doing this with the spirit of the
organization in mind? Does the Chair and the General Manager align around those definitions of
success? What are the KPIs that we will use to track is the work plan working to produce those
outcomes?
And then finally, the fourth key question, which is the reason we're here today, how do we tie this to the
General Manager's evaluation process? This is how we make the strategic plan come alive, both in the
KPIs that we review, the outcomes that we look at on a quarterly basis, and annually, the CEO's
performance review. Amanda.

You saw this slide. This is how this literally comes to life, the why and the what at the top, the activities
and the budget which the leadership team is responsible for driving, and then the KPIs at the bottom. Are
we measuring those things that actually matter in order to produce the outcomes?
So often in public sector, we are awash in data and very weak in regards to information. If we measure
the right KPIs, we're measuring those things that will allow us to be successful. Go ahead, Amanda.
So we shared with you last night very wet paint-- go ahead, Amanda-- drafts of a mission. We welcome a
dialogue and feedback. We may change this entirely. It's simply something for the Board to provide
feedback and comment to. We shared with you a vision, in thinking about so many of the one-on-ones
that we had with Board members talked about the criticality of being trusted. And so you see that word
specifically showing up in the potential of our why, the vision which we might pursue.
The next component-- and I played for you last night the President Kennedy clip-- this is the part where
on an annual basis the Board and the CEO align around what does success specifically and objectively
look like in the pursuit of our vision. If our vision is what we strive to become over the next three to five
years, how will we objectively measure whether or not we are putting ourselves in a position to realize
that vision through our declaration of success outcomes. Amanda.
So this component really begins to set the cornerstone, once we've aligned around our outcomes, of how
we will review the CEO's performance, objectively, based upon the achievement of these success
outcomes, a fact-based way, and then secondly, connecting that to the values of the organization, the
spirit by which the CEO achieves those outcomes. And I'm going to show you some examples in a
second.
And then following this process cascades it deep into the organization. As you might expect, Mr. Chair,
the CEO will likely build a similar performance model for her senior executives, who will do so similarly for
the teams that they work with, cascading the Board's vision and success outcomes throughout the
organization.
So I shared with you a couple of examples last night of the distinction between activities, outcomes, and
then the clarity of a success outcome. I'm not going to repeat the slide. You can read it. But it speaks to
the distinction of thinking with objective, fact-based way of determining, has the CEO been successful on
the objective side of the equation? Did we achieve a net promoter score of 32? Did we reduce the carbon
footprint by 2.5%? Again, these are simply examples. We are not suggesting. This is illustrative only,
simply examples for consideration. This is merely theoretical. But it demonstrates the point between an
activity, subjective in nature, and a success outcome, the clarity of what that looks like. Go ahead,
Amanda.
So we shared with the Board last night some working success outcomes. This is by no means to suggest
that we have aligned around these, that we think these are the right answers, that we think we are ready
to even propose to the Board for consideration that these be the success outcomes. They're simply the
working outcomes that we have in front of us today.
So you can see strategically on the left hand side four key areas of focus, community value, customer
excellence, employee ownership, and financial success. You can see a definition for what that means, the
activity that we would engage in to actually measure that, and then finally, the information system. Where
does the data come from for us to be able to determine if this is actually being able to achieve the results
that we would put in place? Next slide, Amanda.

These are all prioritized. As Aaron said so artfully last night, we have to determine which child is the one
that we're most connected to. We have to recognize, we can't be great at all things. So we have to
recognize which priority is the most important. We put an option in front of you for discussion yesterday, a
really robust debate. It's, frankly, one of the hardest things for a public body to do is to think about which
of the cornerstones are the most important to get right in the pursuit of our vision.
We put some options in front of you. This may be directionally right. It may be directionally wrong. The
point being, it's prioritizing where are we committed to being best-in-class? Again, this is simply for your
discussion, at this point, of thinking through how the GMOC will evaluate the CEO's performance in
regards to achieving the most important outcomes, as opposed to the less important outcomes. In this
case, all are important, because they've found their way onto the list of priority outcomes we want to be
able to produce. It's which one is the highest priority. Amanda.
So how do we make it all come alive? How do we go from simply having a strategic plan to the point of
the discussion last night about mission statements? How do we actually make this come alive, so it's not
simply something that the Board adopts and then disappears from there? How do we make it part of our
daily life? Go ahead, Amanda.
So part of it is beginning to connect to the KPIs, the performance metrics in the actual work that will be
driven by your senior leadership team and reported on on a monthly basis in regards to KPIs and on a
quarterly basis in regards to progress related to the outcomes. Amanda.
So the next steps in regards to the development of your strategic plan will be to take the robust
discussion that took place from the Board and pull that back with your senior leadership team, engage
directly with your General Manager. And if we have to go through that iterative process 19 more times to
get it to a place that the Board feels comfortable and that the General Manager feels demonstrates the
passion the organization has to bring value, we will move that process back and forth 19 times to be able
to get it right. What we are engaging in now, literally today, is working with the senior leadership team in
developing department scorecards and the work plans, the activities that will take place to produce those
outcomes which we will eventually put in front of the Board for your consideration.
So with that, Mr. Chair, I wanted to take about 10 minutes, hopefully I succeeded in kind of summarizing
the strategic planning process. I will pause here to take questions or comments, essentially summarizing
yesterday-- or, last night, I should say-- and now begin to connect it to the second part of your agenda is
how do you take your strategic plan and share with you some thinking of how to tie that to the CEO's
performance review. Let me pause for questions and comments.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that summary. We'll go to questions and comments. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. I think this question may actually be for Ms. Johnson. But my question is, with
the sort of linear plan of really that going into departments, is it in your plan to sort of look at a reorg or
changes in departments, consolidating some departments, breaking out other departments? And where
does that sort of fit in this process, if at all, to make sure that our departments are aligned with our
mission and our vision?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Dishell. That's a very good question. Quite naturally,
as we talk about the functional units and the activities that we need to do as a team, and I have the
auspices over in my capacity of executing the day-to-day activities to provide services to our district, quite

naturally I want to ensure that we have success outcomes. So once we align around those success
outcomes, it's incumbent upon me to discern if we have the right people in the right places in actuality to
deliver said services and make good on those outcomes.
One thing's for certain. I've had that conversation early on when I came into the organization, and this
proceeded you, where I was asked by members of the Board relative to right sizing the organization. And
I said it wouldn't be fair to me nor fair to the staff, because we have to create alignment around what we're
working towards. And that will enable me to make informative decisions if I have the right person on first
base or do I need to move somebody to center field.
So yes, this would enable me to make those very informed decisions. So thank you very much for that
very wonderful question.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Does that answer your question, Director Dishell? Thanks. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I wanted to thank our consultant for-- and also CEO/GM Debra
Johnson for clearing up some of the misperceptions that some of us may have had last night, and that it's
reassuring to know that this will be an iterative process, and that we had a place from which to start last
night. And it wasn't, as CEO Johnson said, it wasn't a fait accompli. And I think that's very, very
reassuring, that we'll have a chance to come back and really examine some of these things in more
detail. So I really very much appreciate it.
But with regard to Director Dishell's question and CEO Johnson's response, that's clearly a right side of
the graph that she's dealing in. And I know that she's really done a deep dive into a lot of the organization
to discern what's going on. And I think she'll be well poised, once we develop the strategic-- not strategic,
but these success outcomes and our vision and everything. I think she's going to be well poised, based
on the information that she's gleaned thus far, to make some of those decisions in a really well-informed
way.
So I just wanted to make that comment. From what I've observed, she's just been very deliberate and I
personally am very encouraged by it. So thanks to both of you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Catlin. GM Johnson, did you want to respond to any of that or no?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would like to acknowledge my appreciation for said comments, without speaking too
far out of school, recognizing the Director Catlin and I have been working on some things, as we look at
the auditing functions and things of the like. And what I will say publicly is yes, I've been pulling back the
layers of the onion. There's no question about why we're embarking on a fare study and equity analysis.
As I look at procurement practices, does it make sense for us to have 14 amendments to a contract? I
was very forthright when I took on this position to say that I needed to figure out what it is I didn't know,
and I'm learning a lot.
And as I shared with a member of the Board today, Director Guissinger, I said, I like fresh air and
sunshine too much to do anything that would be contrary to that. So with that being said, I'm looking
forward to ensuring that we still receive federal funding and we are adhering to regulatory compliance and
all statutes. So thank you very much, Director Catlin.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook, you're next.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. And partly, we are just rehashing some of what we said this morning.
But just to double check with the consultants, what I was looking for and was concerned about last night

in part was not having the success outcome that sounded like the moonshot example that you gave. By
the end of the decade, we'll have put somebody on the moon.
So it sounds like part of this iterative process, and what will be in the plan that's produced this summer, is
in fact those success outcomes that are a result of this going down into the organization, making sure that
the eventual measure, or whatnot, relates to the particulars of the people in the department, but that then
comes back out at the higher level with that more ambitious goal listed there. Is that-- am I still in keeping
with the understanding on that?
MARK AESCH: I think so. I will say two things, which will hopefully provide clarity.
The first is in regards to establishing an outcome-- and this is simply an example, so I'm not suggesting
this would be the end. If the Board and General Manager align that an outcome is a customer satisfaction
level of x, however we might choose to establish that, I expect that the General Manager will then begin
to work with her team to build the work program, the staffing that's necessary, and the right
measurements based upon the factors that are most important to your customers to improve customer
satisfaction at the end of the day.
The piece that I would wrap all that in is at the Board level, the CEO is going to provide you information
and insights in regards to the achievement of the outcome while she is responsible of working with her
management team of the actions, the personnel, and the measurements to produce that outcome.
Hopefully, that provides clarity.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Just to verify, we don't currently know what the draft success outcomes are,
because some of that is iterative. It's coming back to us, and then we may ally on what those will be. OK.
I also wanted to just highlight, you had mentioned that our three roles are to hire the GM, root for and
ensure their success, and hopefully never have to terminate. And I understand. I see where you're
coming from. But we also are responsible, I think, for establishing direction and providing oversight that
hopefully ensures that you don't end up at that third step.
So the act that governs us talks about the Board delegating our authorities. Thank goodness we do that
to a professional. But we assume, and it's part of the act, that our executive will carry out policy that we
set. So we were talking last night about what seems quintessentially to be policy, what they call often the
30,000-foot view, the ambition and vision, the values of the organization.
And when I've participated in doing, in establishing those in the past, we had had provided ahead of time
maybe an environmental scan. We had the details of a citizen survey. And then we all met with key
leadership, our executive plus the Board, and with the help of a facilitator hashed out what those would
be over the period of a day or two, and also steered towards the outcome. Now I recognize, things are so
different right now, with the pandemic, plus we have an organization that may not be like the ones I have
in the past. But that's kind of the high bar that I was comparing to last night. And that sort of took me
aback. And I just wanted to lay a little bit more groundwork for that, since you had talked about that some.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Cook. Mr. Aesch, would you like to respond to any of what Director
Cook raised?
MARK AESCH: I think that the comment that I would make is in high performing organizations like this
one, there is that balance which we talked about with outcomes, KPIs, all of the like. And in this case, in
regards to Board governance, it's the recognition that while all of the authority lives with the Board, these
processes are best led by the professionals that live in the organization 250 hours a month.

And so by definition, to the point of who will establish the outcomes, who will establish the mission and
vision, that clearly lives with the Board. It's best led by the management team working to propose and
convince the Board that this is the strategic direction and the outcomes that will be best designed to
achieve the vision that the Board ultimately endorses.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Aesch. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Chair, all of your titles.
Listen, I was sitting here thinking, and as an Executive Director of a nonprofit who works with the Board
and as a member of the Board of Directors that works with the staff, I'm kind of in conflict here. Because
I'm thinking about roles and expectations, and it seems to me that I'm feeling a little bit amiss here.
Because it seems to me that the iteration on how I function is that I'm a policy maker on the RTD Board of
Directors. I hire, or I participate in hiring, a General Manager to run the agency based on the policies that
I make, listening to my constituents and my key elected officials and key stakeholders.
And then she disseminates that information to her staff to execute as action steps, so that at the end of
the day, if I say something like, ridership has got to increase, then the General Manager takes that to
whomever in her staff to implement it. They develop goals and expectations and timelines, execute it, and
then report back to us that, in fact, this has happened and this is how it's happened. And we then
determine whether she's done a good job or bad job based on the outcomes of said goals and
expectations.
So I kind of feel that the other piece that's been talked about is kind of like micromanaging, and that's not
my role. I'm not a transportation expert. I am a community advocate and I've been involved in TDM
components for 20 years. But I don't know how to do a run board. I don't know how to buy diesel fuel. I
don't know what it's like to worry about the PUC, the FTA, the FRA. That's why I hired the expert in our
General Manager to oversee that and to alert me on what's happening. So it's a collaboration. So please
help me go through that process, because I'm having a little bit of a conflict here with that. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And yeah, just to summarize, I agree with what I think you're
saying. And I think what we at least perceive is missing is that collaboration component when we're
setting the policy. Some of us feel that SLT is saying, we think this should be the policy, and we can
either say yea or nay. But I think some of us want to be more involved in that, in determining what that is.
Some of us might even say we should be the only ones involved. But I know we need to have the input of
our senior leadership team to do that. So I want to make sure we don't miss out on that collaboration
piece.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [INAUDIBLE] ask the General Manager, if you don't mind, if she could
respond to that, though.
VINCE BUZEK: General Manager Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. It's so funny, I just put my hand up. So thank you very much, both Chairs
of your respective body, for that opportunity.
So I just want to make sure that I understand the comments. And I think we're talking about this process
in reference to the confusion, because as I said before, I pride myself on being collaborative. And as you
all set policy, recognizing that that is within your jurisdiction, no disrespect intended with my comments.
And oftentimes when people say that, they're like, oh, she's about to be disrespectful. But I mean it in
earnest.

I do possess the acumen. I do have the knowledge, skills, and ability, and I've been in the transportation
space and I've been successful. And to the point that Chair Rivera-Malpiede raised, as it relates to policy,
yes, you guys set the policy, but you rely on a team that have the subject matter expertise to help you
navigate that. So if we were talking about our policy is to only have battery electric buses and you put that
without conferring with me, I'd let that we would be a horrible failure at that, recognizing that no one on
this entity right now probably has the understanding of what I mean by Altoona testing. Nobody knows
who OEMs are. No one knows what we have to do in relationship to pulling something off of the line to
ensure that we have fuel, i.e. electricity, to do all that.
So I give that example intentionally to say, while it is your responsibility to set policy, you would set policy
that couldn't be effectuated by me and my team, if, in fact, there wasn't a collaborative effort. So I believe
that there's two sides of the coin. However, it's one coin. And that's me as the head, maybe you as the
tail, or you as the head, me at the tail. But it's a collaborative effort. So I just want to qualify that. Because
in all honesty, I'm feeling a certain kind of way right now hearing this.
Because let me be clear, I can't run this organization by myself. I need the help of my teams. But I do
have the wherewithal to lead this organization where it needs to be led. And I think we have a lot of work
to do collectively. Because if a General Manager/CEO wasn't needed, then I wouldn't be sitting in this
seat right now actually pontificating in reference to what it is that we do need collectively.
So I just want to be clear about that. Because as we talk about the activities, one thing's for certain, with
your all's involvement with the Accountability Committee, we clearly heard about KPIs yesterday that
were meaningless. And I will qualify them as meaningless because we have to do what is for the
betterment of the region in which we're serving. And yesterday, having heard the conversation by a
consultant who couldn't explain what the useful life meant in reference to a KPI, and other people opining
over whether it could be 20 years old and you could still run, that absolutely is absurd in the transportation
space.
So I provide those examples to iterate the collaborative effort and in the spirit in which we need to do this,
as a policy body and as a public administrator/chief executive that we're in it to win it, and we need to
understand that going forward. And while I may have been in this seat for six months, I don't believe that
I've ever showcased to anybody my inability to not be cooperative. So I just needed to say that. Thank
you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam General Manager, and appreciate those comments.
Since you're talking about collaboration and information and knowing what's going on, I'm going to put
Director Guissinger on the spot. And I think earlier this morning, you talked about some requests that you
had made to get some information to know what's happening in this process. And would you mind
repeating some of that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. I had a great conversation with General Manager/CEO Johnson this morning.
And it really clarified a lot for me, and then the Executive Committee and this meeting clarified-- I
apologize, I was late to this meeting, so if I repeat anything or ask a question that's been answered, I'm
sorry.
But I think, Mark, in terms of-- I think it's-- someone else referred to, a few of us, I don't know whether it
was generally felt, but having a little more information about what's going back and forth would be helpful.
We came to-- it looked-- I don't know what you took from our individual meetings to the SLT, for instance.

I don't know-- and maybe this will come back to us-- but what you, you know, last night we didn't have a
flipboard because we were on Zoom. There was no sort of bringing the discussion to a close.
So it would really be helpful to me to hear what you have heard and what you're reflecting back to the
SLT. I have some other comments, but if you want to respond to that.
MARK AESCH: Sure. Happy to provide sort of a summary couple of slides. I think last night we provided
you with the seven themes that we heard from the recovery workshop that you had with your General
Manager last week. And happy to provide a similar summary slide of the discussions that we had with
each of you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I think that seeing that we're being heard and how we're being heard, since we
haven't worked together before, at least it would be helpful to me. I can't speak for others. But that would
be helpful.
I thought, you know, there was a lot of good conversation last night. I'm still kind of confused about the
success outcomes. And I think-- I guess I got the sense more last night that these were the success
outcomes, and maybe that was just my own confusion.
So now you're going back to the staff and talking about the activities. I mean, what do we typically end up
with? Do you typically end up with four success outcomes? Are we going to reach a point where we're
going to talk about others? We started prioritizing these, which seemed like that was what we were
focused on. But if you could help me understand what next steps would be and if these are the things we
should be focused on and those sorts of things, that would help.
MARK AESCH: Sure. So whether you are Apple, Eastman Kodak, or the Regional Transit District in
Denver, there are three components to every organization. Customers, money, and employees. All three
of those are central to every organization's success. As a public organization, I would say oftentimes,
probably not even typically, but oftentimes, there is a component of the community value which is central
to your success. Doesn't have to be. I've seen public organizations that choose not to develop an
outcome in regards to that.
And in some organizations, you might see a fifth outcome. You might see a fifth, rarely. But it's typically
three to five at the most. And four is a pretty reasonable number in regards to the number of outcomes
that a public board expects its chief executive to deliver at the end of the year.
Again, it's about not the activity of the organization. I use the word deliver with intention, to deliver those
outcomes, rather than what they will actually do. The doing is up to the chief executive. The outcome is
what the Board cares about.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So to follow up on your example that I think was being used as a success outcome
of, it was an environmental, electric buses. And I get it, electric buses is at a different level. But
environmental, you know, that's a high priority. Does that fit under another success outcome, such as
community value? Is that a different level?
MARK AESCH: It's a great question. And so one of the things-- this is my opinion-- we would want to
prove this to be true. We don't have data that I know of that proves this. It may exist-- is would the
community rank climate as a critical important of its value, so it would be the outcome to achieve the
ultimate success outcome, which would be improving climate conditions?
So I think in my view, that would rate as one of the core inputs to delivering community value. But we
would want to prove that to be true. The community may say that equity is a key component of that.
Again, we would want to prove that to be true in a fact-based way.

LYNN GUISSINGER: And is that where your surveys come in?
MARK AESCH: That would be one component. So I don't want to get too far into the how. But we would
certainly engage a multitude of voices to determine the key priorities, and then that's how we would be
able to demonstrate true value back to the community, based on what the community values in a
prioritized way.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thanks very much. That's very helpful.
MARK AESCH: You bet. Good question.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Guissinger, are you good? That's it?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We're good. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Just a few comments, I think. In addition to hearing what went to SLT, certainly
for me and I assume for others as well, really important to also hear what SLT said back. I am someone
who happens to put the trust in our consultant and trust that you guys did it properly. But I think that would
also be valuable. And just want to remind everyone that I would venture to say that all but maybe one or
two-- and that's just a guess-- it could be all of the members of SLT are also constituents.
And so as much as everyone likes to say, oh, well, I heard from my constituent x, y, z, or my constituents- I'm pretty sure all of our SLT are also our constituents, with the exception of maybe one or two people
who lived outside. But that'd be a long commute in, unless you lived in like Castle Rock or something.
And so just making sure that that is of mind as well.
And then the last part is, values, I know, is sort of another corporate thing that exists. Do those-sometimes I find them to be superfluous on top of the mission and a vision. I might have missed it. Where
those-- are those a part of this? Are they not part of this? How does that play in?
MARK AESCH: Great question. If I could get you to hold that, I'm going to speak to that hopefully in the
next 10 minutes or so.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks, Director Dishell, for those comments. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to piggyback on First Vice Chair Guissinger's
question about the community-- like the surveys and every piece that we looked at as examples. In my
thought, I'm thinking that's only one tool in the toolbox, correct? It's not the whole thing. So it would be
one of several kinds of action steps that would be taking place to achieve that goal. Correct?
MARK AESCH: We just presented this morning to the Charlotte management team their third quarter
results. And one of their components is something similar to community value. It's not precisely that but
it's very similar. And there are essentially 50% of the weighting are objective results in regards to
community value, and about 50% are subjective in regards to people's opinions of that.
I think we gave the example last night of on-time performance where we will actually balance between an
agency's true measurable on-time performance and the customer's impression of on-time performance,
both of which matters, but we do it in a fact-based way.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. And then secondarily, Mr. Chair-- and this will be my final
comment-- is I cannot agree more with Director Dishell that our staff are actually our constituents and they
ride our services every day, except for those who live outside of the District. But the majority of them are
the top of their field in the country. And you know what? I actually trust their ability to lead this agency
under the leadership of our General Manager and would like to see what they bring back to us in terms of

working together to achieve the policies that we have seen and heard in our tenure as elected officials,
and understanding that in two years there could be a whole different Board in place. And I keep thinking
about the transition and how fluid our role is as policymakers.
So I just wanted to say that. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Thanks for those comments. And yeah, I know General Manager
Johnson is not here to fail. She's here to succeed. And we've put that confidence and that faith and trust
in her to do that.
But one thing I'll say, just from my own perception, every member of this committee that has been around
for a couple of years or more came into this year saying, we need to do this differently. This is-- we need
a big change. And that's why TransPro is here.
That being said, when there's big change, you're going to get some people, like me, going, oh, wait, I
didn't know it was going to be that big. So be patient with us as we kind of make our way through the
process.
Director Cook, you're up.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Sorry. And sorry to second bite at the apple.
General Manager/CEO Johnson, I wanted to just stress that my comments aren't meant to challenge or
disparage or question your competence or your stellar expertise. What I was thinking-- and this is part of
the research that Director Tisdale and I have been doing to look at the small committees-- was that this
piece is more philosophical of these values and visions aren't just a matter of professional expertise, but
we bring to the table those values, those things, what's important in our community, that sort of thing.
And that's why it rises, as it says, above technical and operational detail, and is necessarily collaborative
among your professional component who also have values and philosophy. But also we on the Board,
from the community standpoint. So I just wanted to stress that in making those comments, or highlighting
a difference, it was never meant to insult you. Because the opposite for me is true. I'm really a huge fan of
what you're doing.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may. Thank you very much, Director Cook. I appreciate that. Because
I'm going to be honest, I was offended. So I appreciate those comments. And I think this has been a great
dialogue. And I think as we talk about values and all those things, it's understanding what values are. A
value is an ideal or belief that you hold to be true. And so when I hear that safety is a core value, in my
opinion, from where I come from, safety isn't a value. Safety should be a priority that's interwoven. And
I've heard people say countless times, safety is a value.
So that's what I'm trying to do here collectively with all of you, as we garner a better understanding of
what we're working towards, because safety really isn't a value. And so all of those things-- and we talk
about diversity, equity, inclusion, but more important, belonging. The operative word there is belonging.
Because we can talk about diversity and inclusion, but if you're not being heard and you don't feel as if
you're belonging, all of that is for naught. And that should be a value. Because it should be an ideal and
belief that we hold to be true. So thank you very much for that, Director Cook.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Aesch, let's move on to the evaluation process.
MARK AESCH: Thank you very much. And appreciate the dialogue around this. And I appreciate,
Chairman, you're being kind enough to flip the agenda for us. Because as you can see, we can only really
begin to move to the second part of the conversation, which is how does a public board think about

evaluating its General Manager's performance, once you've established your strategic plan and the
success outcomes that cascade from that.
The Board Chair, I think, spoke to it quite nicely of how do you ensure that at the beginning of the year,
you have established with your Chief Executive what success looks like such that-- and Chairman, you
spoke to this-- your General Manager is here to succeed. So we are incumbent to inform her what
success looks like such that she can and she is not left to managing the episodic of what the Board might
bring to her, what elected officials might bring to her, what customers might bring to her. The Board was
clear at the beginning of the year, this is what success looks like in an objective, fact-based way, and we
look forward to having regular updates, typically on a quarterly basis, as to how you and your
management team are performing to produce exactly those outcomes.
So with that, let me step in-- before we start, I want to be perfectly clear in regards to the discussion of
last night. Everything I am about to share with you is theoretical in nature. It is not locked down. We have
not decided these are the answers. It is purely theory to align upon the process by which we would do this
rather than the actuality of what will be.
So I've got maybe 15 or 20 minutes of content, and I'd love to sort of put this in front of the committee and
then welcome conversation and feedback from there. So a couple of cornerstones of what makes for a
powerful General Manager's evaluation, this sort of second key function of a Board. First, we have clearly
defined outcomes. They're fact-based. They're objective. Man to the moon and back safely by the end of
the decade. Absolutely clear what success looks like, and it's connected to our strategic plan.
We had a little bit of a discussion in regards to the mission statement last night. And my guess would be
that if we interviewed just about every employee at the agency, they would struggle to tell you what it
was. What we need to do is make that strategic plan come alive. One of the quickest ways to do that, tie it
to your CEO's performance review. So this is one of the key steps in making the strategic plan come
alive.
Once we've done that, ensure that the CEO's outcomes are communicated at the beginning of the year.
Just having the Board adopt it and not formally sharing with the CEO, this is how you will be evaluated at
the end of the year, based upon this fact-based model, is a critical component.
There should be regular dialogue between the Board Chair and the General Manager, formal regular
dialogue as to how we're performing. Communication. The exchange that takes place with the
representative of the Board, the Board Chair, and the representative of management, the General
Manager is key.
There is a balance between objective outcome-based measures and subjective, the values, Director
Dishell, which you spoke to, the spirit by which is connected. And then finally, tying this to compensation.
Making sure that the success of the organization is tied to the success of the individual. The better the
organization does, the better the individual does. High performing organizations are able to align around
the process and really cause phenomenal results for both taxpayers and customers, which was one of the
core pieces of feedback that you did provide as a Board during our one-on-one sessions that we had.
Amanda.
So as we think about the role of the Board and the General Manager in this process, I'm going to start on
the left hand side and then move to the right. So on an annual basis, the General Manager is responsible
for both preparing and presenting what these outcomes might look like. On the right hand side-- and this

is that collaborative process that we're talking about-- the General Manager will prepare and present
these outcomes, but the Board is responsible for the adoption.
And I've been part of conversations where that will go back and forth three or four times, working to get
aligned on precisely what the outcomes will look like. The Board adopts them, but in a high functioning
organization, like this one, the General Manager prepares and presents them, and there's a dialogue that
goes back and forth. On a quarterly basis, the General Manager uses KPIs-- those are not outcomes-the KPIs, to monitor progress of whether the activities are working to produce the outcomes.
Let me give an example. The outcome might be a net promoter score of 32. The actions might be a new
training mechanism for operators in regards to how they will better manage their schedules. And the KPI
is on-time performance. What the Board is interested in is higher levels of customer satisfaction. What the
CEO is interested in is driving on-time performance to produce that higher outcome. On the right hand
side, on a quarterly basis, the General Manager presents, in a fact-based way, the metrics which she is
monitoring to produce those outcomes. It's essentially like a private company presenting its stock price
and the market responds to how you're performing at the end of the year.
And then finally, the CEO is responsible for developing a self-evaluation tied to the objective outcomes
and then her perspective in regards to organizational values. Finally, the Board is responsible of providing
feedback in regards to those fact-based outcomes-- there's an objective truth to that-- and then the Board
shares their perspective in regards to the values. Again, the values are done in a subjective fashion,
whereas the outcomes are objective backed. Amanda, if you would.
This is a discussion that the Board can really nicely have and can be led, obviously, by the GMOC. Many
organizations-- I wouldn't necessarily say most-- but many organizations take a 50-50 approach, where
50% of the General Manager's performance review are tied to the achievement of the outcomes and 50%
is tied to the reflection of the agency's values, the spirit by which you produce those outcomes. And I'll
talk about the safety example that your General Manager just shared in a second.
So it's, again, you can think through, and we would welcome the dialogue with you as to where you may
fall in moving the dial in regards to 50-50. Some organizations think of it as 60-40. You typically don't get
much more than 65-35, at the absolute most, of thinking about that balance between the objective factbased results and the spirit by which your executive achieves those results. Amanda.
And so as we think about building the model in regards to this balance between an objective performance
review tied to the subjective performance review, on the left hand side you can see we have an outcomebased result tied to the net promoter score. That's quantifiable in nature. Typically, a third party or
technology-- one of the two, right, so you don't have internal folks that are responsible for this-- a third
party or technology will give you the answer in regards to, in this case, the net promoter score.
And there'll be an answer. The goal might have been 32, and it's going to be 28 or 35 or 32. But it's a factbased answer. It is what it is. And the Board will be invited to provide feedback in regards to that factbased answer, things for the General Manager to think about. But the fact is the fact. We either achieved
the result or we didn't, and we'll talk about why in the CEO's self-evaluation.
Meanwhile, on the right hand side is the subjective spirit. So this one happens to be-- again, it's simply an
example for theory-- is that the General Manager provides data to the Board with transparency. One of
the clients that we work with, one of their values is forthrightness. Are you forthright with the way that you
engage? It's an organizational value. And so that is the spirit by which you engage. And the Board would

be invited, in this case, in a subjective way, to provide feedback to the General Manager in regards to the
example that I used, forthrightness, and the spirit by which she does that. Amanda.
So you can see here, this is simply a screenshot example of a wizard that the Board would go through.
And there are really three components to it. The first is going through the success outcomes themselves.
So there would be a fact-based answer to each of the four outcomes, or however many the Board
ultimately adopts. And we would populate that with the answer. It's a fact. There's a truth to it. And then
the Board is invited to provide feedback to the CEO, based upon her self-evaluation, of how to potentially
think about that fact. But it is an objective result that's produced.
The second component is the organizational values. Again, the CEO will do a self-evaluation of how she
believes she performs in regards to those values, and then the Board is invited to provide subjectivebased feedback in regards to those organizational values.
And then finally, there is a third component, which is really reflective in nature of asking some open
questions in regards to development of the CEO, risk taking, different quality that might be in place. And
you can see here, there are some questions. We can think through with the GMOC what these questions
might look like specifically. We should do so at the beginning of the year, so the CEO has the opportunity
to think about that, rather than at the end of the year, in regards to these feedback and candid
conversations that the Board might provide feedback to. Amanda.
So the next steps in this-- and again, I want to be clear, this is simply to put the concept of the
performance review, there is nothing that we just shared that was specific related to RTD, this is simply
the theory behind this. The first piece would be to align around the success outcomes and the evaluation
criteria. The next, as you shared, Mr. Chairman, would be the GMOC's consideration and adoption of a
process.
The third would be to present that, potentially at the annual retreat during the summer, for the Board to
adopt the outcomes and the process. And then the last step is once the Board has aligned around all of
this, we would actually begin to develop the criteria and the wizard and all of the technology that would
support all of this. So those would be the four action steps that would flow from this.
So with that, Mr. Chairman, I think I promised 20 minutes. Hopefully, I hit that. Be happy to take
questions, comments, or clarifications, or simply feedback.
Did we lose our Chairman?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh? Me.
MARK AESCH: I was going to say, did we lose me? Am I still connected?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, he was having trouble this morning with his technology. I don't
see him.
MARK AESCH: Well, then let's all tell him it was the best presentation he's ever seen.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I think he's here. I think he's just off camera and muted. He's still connected.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is he? Secretary Buzek, are you there? I think he was having this problem
earlier during the Executive Committee. Vice Chair Sloan, do you want to take over then? You're muted.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. All right. I see two hands raised. I didn't get them in order. But Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Vice Chair. I think Director Buzek alluded to this, but a number of us
were very frus-- oh, I see he's back-- a number of us were very frustrated in the past couple years that we
were measuring activities and not results. And I think what I heard today makes me, or reassures me that
we're on the path to measuring results and outcomes.

And so I really appreciate this approach, and also that it's not a fait accompli and we have a chance to
work on it. But I absolutely appreciate this philosophy and am looking forward to what we come up with
later this summer, because it just has to be better than simply measuring activities.
So thank you, Mark. I really appreciate it.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, First Vice Chair Sloan. I just have to concur with every single
word that Director Catlin said. Because we were frustrated as a board in the past that there wasn't any
real teeth to the evaluation of our General Manager. And I think this really shows that we will have that.
So I really also appreciate everything that's gone into this philosophy. I think it's a great way as we move
forward. Thank you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Mark, I believe you have laid out our pathway. But can you give us the estimate of
the timeframe for this pathway? Can you hear me? You look like you're-MARK AESCH: I heard the question. I apologize. I was disoriented where the voice was coming from.
MARJORIE SLOAN: From the sky.
MARK AESCH: So I think that's really up to the Board. From a pure functional perspective, realistically, I
mean, this could be done in 30 days. I mean, there's not magic behind it. So it really is incumbent upon
how quickly the Board is prepared to move.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Any-- oh, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
I think what Mr. Aesch said is right on point. It's really up to all of you, having had this earnest dialogue
about the level of involvement, recognizing there's a myriad of things on your calendars, it's carving out
time to prioritize this and move forward relative to what it is and what you want to do.
And as I was saying earlier at the Executive Committee, it's really discerning what our path forward is
from those timelines. If there needs to be another iterative session, whereby we're having dialogue where
we can all rally around the flagpole, then maybe that's necessary. But I think we need to garner a better
understanding from all of you. And that's what I was talking about earlier this morning in relationship to
managing expectations. Because clearly, from the dialogue that we've had to date that has been very
good, we need to ensure that we're all singing from the same sheet of music. Because it's apparent that
some people are in a different key.
So with that going forward, I think it would be best to lend some time to having a discussion about what it
is that you collectively envision so there's no missteps, so we're not, let's be good stewards of taxpayers'
money. TransPro, while they may be great and all that, they're in a business to make some money, and
we need to ensure that we're doing this in a fashion where we're being good stewards. So we need to
carve out, I believe, right at this juncture, your expectation so we can meet those so there's no surprises
on either side of the fence. Thank you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And Chair Buzek is back. I don't know how much you've missed of our discussion.
VINCE BUZEK: Everything. I'm sorry. I got called away. My dog tripped my wife outside and she came in
bleeding, so I had to attend to that, so-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I hope she's OK.
VINCE BUZEK: She'll be fine.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Good.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Well, we were discussing timeline. And I believe you can lead the conversation from
now on. Is that right?
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. Thanks, Director Sloan.
OK. So yeah, so we've got a deadline. We've got a drop dead date of June 30, 2021 to get some stuff
done. So how are we looking in terms of next steps and what do we envision for a timeline to get to that
point?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Mr. Chair. We were just talking about that.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, sorry.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And if anything, I said it's imperative upon us to have a discussion, I believe, this
afternoon, so we have a common set of facts relative to how we're proceeding forward. Because I want to
ensure, in reference to the earnest dialogue we've had, that expectations are managed, so people aren't
walking away thinking that there's not a crystal clear understanding about what the next steps would be. If
there needs to be another session, we're fine with that. And I say we're fine in the sense of TransPro
working in tandem with all of us.
But we need to hear that from you all what the expectation is, recognizing that there is the June 30 date
as relates to my contractual agreement having goals established. I come from the school of thought, and
I'll offer this up for consideration, I don't want to be hamstrung by an arbitrary date. I'd rather have it done
well so we can all be collectively successful. So Mr. Aesch was saying prior that this could be done in 30
days. So if you all would like it to be, in the sense of carving out time, but that's contingent upon
schedules and what we need to do collectively.
So I think it really rests in your court relative to what it is that this group's expectations are, and the
greater body of the Board. So I will yield the floor to you for consideration of what I put forth. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, appreciate that. Thanks so much. And yeah, I'm going to open it up for questions
and comments. And of course, the June 30 date is not set in stone, right? We can, if we need to amend
that and ensure that we have a good process, I'm more than happy to consider doing that.
So I guess from my perspective, I would love to see another workshop like we had last night, taking what
that discussion was, documenting it, seeing how we've moved forward in terms of-- I think we started with
the one-on-ones with the Board, then that went to the SLT, then we had the workshop. So kind of see
where we're evolving this process and maybe have another workshop to hit some more of the highlights,
that I don't know if we then need more one-on-ones. Mark, I guess I'd leave that kind of, the process, up
to you.
But I would like to at least see at least one more workshop. And I'll open that up to-- first, I'll start with you,
Mark, and then I'll open it up to other Directors for comments.
MARK AESCH: Yeah. So I would say we are at the pleasure of the organization. And so I use that word
specifically, thinking about the management team, represented by your General Manager, and obviously
the Board as well. We're happy to engage in whatever time and format allows you to feel comfortable. So
we're happy to do more workshops. We are happy to have more one-on-ones. We are happy to do
whatever form and volume is helpful to you all to feel comfortable. We are happy to engage on that.
VINCE BUZEK: Appreciate that. I'll open that up to comments from the Board. And Director Dishell, let's
hear from you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Stayed quiet for a little while, but just a quick food for thought. I would welcome the
opportunity to engage not necessarily one-on-one, but in maybe dyads or triads with folks who, based on

your guys' listening, you know either we're not in agreement. Or the same could be said on the other way,
which is this group of people are all sort of aligned on this, let's let them champion this one issue. But I do
think a lot could be gained from smaller groups that are intentionally created, either to be homogeneous
or not, sort of iterating on these, and then bringing all those together instead of one-on-ones, or 15 on 3,
or 2.
VINCE BUZEK: Great comments. Good ideas. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. OK, I'm a little bit confused. But I was thinking
evaluation process of the General Manager and how we have executed this in the past, with sending out
a Survey Monkey to all 15 Board members. And then there are a series of questions that we evaluate on
good, excellent, fair, whatever it is. And do we need to amend something that says we're going to detain
this till later, so that as we're moving down this road, that it all comes together in a unified system?
Because I'm worried, if we move forward in a rapid pace to do an evaluation, how is that going to tie in
with the strategic plan and the goals and all of the stuff that we're going to be working on? Isn't that the
ultimate goal of how we need to evaluate our General Manager is on our collective work together to
determine what the goals and expectations and the measurements are in terms of whether we exceeded
or achieved or we need to improve on? Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Thanks for those comments. And I'll go to you in a second, Mark. I think those are
great comments, and I think they are all woven together. I think they always have been. And I think even
more so now they're pretty woven together. Mr. Aesch, if you've got some comments, that'd be great.
MARK AESCH: Sure. Appreciate the comment. My recommendation for your consideration would be for
the GMOC to get comfortable with the process that you would follow for your General Manager's
performance review. And then I think to the Chair's comment, by definition you can't establish the CEO's
performance-- you can't strategically tie the CEO's performance review to the outcomes of the strategic
plan until you have a strategic plan. They're directly connected.
So my recommendation would be that you align up on the process by which you evaluate your CEO. And
then we would, for your consideration, at the time that you adopted your strategic plan, you would also
adopt the process and the criteria to evaluate your CEO. That happens, and literally one time, because
that's the chief individual responsible for the execution of your strategic plan.
But you could adopt the process prior, and then the Board can adopt both a strategic plan and the
outcomes and process at the same time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mark, I really appreciate you outlining it that way. Because those processes are
inextricably linked and I think we just-- but my comment is that I think that we need to move forward at
not-- I don't want to-- not with haste, but I think we need to move forward deliberately and with a timeline
in mind. Because to protract this process, you lose some of the momentum and you lose some of the
thought. And I, for one, feel like we've gained some energy. And I wanted to, my personal self, I wanted to
noodle on what we heard last night and some of the ideas that were thrown out so that I would be
prepared to come back at perhaps another session to maybe further flesh out some of these success
outcomes.
So I support Chair Buzek's suggestion that we might have another workshop, that I think that could be-after we've all given it some thought, especially since we now have your slide deck from last night and

some of these other things, we can then move forward on that strategic plan and then also through the
evaluation process in tandem.
So Mark, thank you for outlining that, because that's kind of the way my mind was thinking about it. That's
all I have, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Catlin. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Chair. Just out of curiosity, and this might be just me a little confused.
But from our next potential workshop, what do we want to have as the ultimate takeaway from that
workshop? And what would be our next steps forward? I don't know if we've kind of had an idea of would
come next? That's my only question is, after that workshop, does that lead to another workshop
ultimately? And going back to what Director Catlin says is, it's great to have these discussions, but
eventually, what are those next steps forward? I think that that's really what I'd be looking for.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. And yeah, so this is part of the process, right? So I think there was talk about the
culmination of this being an in-person event somewhere. I don't know if that's still on the table. And then
what happens in between those. I personally really like directed Dishell's ideas of getting maybe three
directors together at a time to talk about issues. And I like the non-homogeneous group of directors so
that they could really hash things out.
The question then becomes timing and whether, how much time we have to commit to that and get that
on the schedule. And then maybe, do we do another workshop after that? Or is it the Board in-person
retreat after that? So I'm open for ideas and input from people. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think General Manager Johnson was raising her hand. I'd love to hear what she
has to say.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. Mr. Chair, if I may. While I totally support
what Director Dishell was saying in we should have smaller groups, so recognizing that any member of
the Board can come, for all intents and purposes, we may have three or four small workshops. So I mean,
I'm just stating the obvious. We have open meetings and any Board member can come. So even though
the intent is to have three, recognizing you all's energy and spirit, I doubt that anybody's going to be a
wallflower.
So I'm just saying that we would end up having four different groups. So would it be more advantageous,
getting back to the question you posed, Chairman Buzek, do you think in relationship to what I said
earlier, if we can look at having this in-person, per se, in a hotel ballroom, per se, where people are
socially distanced, per se? Then, within the confines of that large room, perhaps there could be breakout
sessions in and of that, whereby you are having the private groups-- I can't say the word right now-- and
go forward and do it in that vein and have everybody come together. And I think we would be addressing
the great recommendation that Director Dishell put forward, whereby we could be on a deliberate path, as
Director Catlin specified.
So that's just something for consideration in listening to the dialogue. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, sounds great. Thanks for that input. And yeah, that makes a bit of sense.
Director Guissinger, you still got your hands raised? Did you have something more?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, just to say that I'm glad I let her go first. Because that's, I think, a really great
idea. I like the small groups idea that Director Dishell came up with, but I think that Ms. Johnson's
suggestion of getting together and doing some of it as small groups and some of it as a bigger group is
great.

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. And we did that before. We've done that in the past, at our Board retreats, where
we've broken off into small groups, had dialogue there, and then came back to the whole. And that might
be the way to go and get it all done at one time. So I think I would favor that approach, setting something
up for an in-person event, where the entire Board can get together, we can break out small groups. We
could finalize this plan and decide what the outcomes are and take it from there.
Any other comments from-- Director Guissinger, your hand is still raised.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think that these were great ideas. I'd like to see a
show of hands of people who are interested in doing that, number one, just so that Ms. McManus can see
if we're in or out. So can people raise their hand if they think that that's a great idea and would like to
move forward?
VINCE BUZEK: Looks good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And then secondarily, I was thinking about the timeline of when to do this.
Because we have so many meetings planned in the future. I'm trying to figure out when we're actually
going to be doing this. And Ms. McManus, I don't know if you can just talk a minute about how many
meetings we have and when could we possibly do this.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we have a study session that we have no subject in right now, on May 25. I
would have to do some quick homework and figure out-- I'm sure all of the hotels and facilities are
wanting people to engage, so I don't think it would be that hard to find a meeting space in a set-up that
would be conducive to what this group is looking for.
If we're moving into June, it's a pretty tight month. We have a number-- yeah, we have a couple Finance
workshops. We have a JEDI session, whether it be one four-hour or two shorter, depending on what the
Board would like. We have another-- we have a no meeting week on June 29, if we want to push these
decisions out a little bit further. It didn't sound like the group wanted to do that. It sounded to me like we
have momentum and we wanted to strike while the iron was hot.
Yeah. The 18th was a no-meeting night, but we're having the second JEDI in May. So not that we can't do
it any other night of the week. But with Board meetings on Tuesdays and with a Thursday and a Tuesday
with the JEDI workshops, I don't know how many nights we can engage with success.
So that's what it looks like at the calendar that I have in front of me. But I am totally open to whatever this
group would like to do. And of course, we have to consider the availability of TransPro. I know they have
other efforts going on and I don't know what their schedule looks like.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks very much. General Manager Johnson, did you have a comment?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. Just for your consideration, recognizing when I first came on board, I
remember Ms. McManus was saying traditionally you guys had something in March and you forfeit a
Saturday. If this is important to everybody, I think that we could probably knock it out on a Saturday. So I
wouldn't limit us to an evening. But that's for your consideration. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I just wanted to say, Mr. Chair, that the dates that have been given to
us right now are Tuesday nights. And I know that people are working and they need to come down. So it
seems to me that maybe a weekend would be advantageous.

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. I think a Saturday would be good. So if you could work with TransPro and figure
out what their availability is and then check out some Saturdays coming up in the next few weeks, that
would be great.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Absolutely.
VINCE BUZEK: And then we'll-- of course, you know the process, clearing it with 15 cats and figuring that
out.
OK. Any other questions? Oh, Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sorry. Just as a follow-up, just to solidify this point. A potential in-person meeting, the
hopes would be for, at the end of this meeting, us to have a consensus, correct?
VINCE BUZEK: Correct.
JULIEN BOUQUET: What if that does not exist by then?
VINCE BUZEK: No, it will.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We have to live there together.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, it'll happen.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Just double checking. As Ms. Johnson has noted, there's a lot of opinions and
personalities. Just double checking. I was just hoping that we would come to it.
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. No, we'll make it happen.
OK. Any other comments or questions? We kind of have some direction, at least, to get this thing moving
forward. I appreciate everybody's input and comments. TransPro team, thanks again for everything.
Directors and staff, thank you all for being here.
If there's nothing further, I will call this-- I don't know if I need a motion. I'm just going to adjourn the
meeting. We're done. See you guys.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks, everybody.
VINCE BUZEK: All right. Bye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye.

