Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 29,
2011 at 5:30 p.m. Page 1 of 7
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

November 30, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 29,
2011 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy,
James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and
Walker.
Director Anderson participated via Conference Call.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Bob Brown, Rick
Clarke, Libby Cox, Sherry Ellebracht, Isan Fan, David Genova,
Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Russ Larson,
Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Chris Marko, Jerry Nery,
Alice Osner, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent
Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria
Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Cherie Sprague, Walt
Stringer, Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike
Turner, Del Walker, Phil Washington, Brian Welch, and Lisa
Vallejo.

Others Present:

Aurita Apodaca – FRESC, Ferd Belz – USA, Ed Blair –
Sage/Oxford Hotel, Anna Bogler. – UNI, Rusty Brown - USNC,
Sarah Brown - USNC, Michael Carr-Turnbough, Doug Childs –
Opon International, Jocelyn Childs, Dana Crawford - USA, Kim
Corrigan, Katherine Davis – USA, JoAnn Elston – Sage, Chris
Frampton – USNC, Jerry Glick, Adam Hazlett – Sage, Jeff
Hermanson – Larimer Associates, Darren Hinton, Dennis
Huspeni – Denver Business Journal, Walter Isenberg - USA,
Margaret Jackson – Denver Post, Jim Johnson – USA, Jan
Lucas – Sage, Sherilyn Luke – Sage, Kelly McCourt, Pat
McHenry – Larimer Associates, Mike McPhee, Tim Mackin –
Kiewit, Dick Marshall – TDP, Kyle Miller - USA, Rob Pahl –
Pahl Architecture, Rebecca Pasquariello – Sage, Rebecca
Peralta – Sage, Annie and Joseph Pruetti, Darron Roue –
Kiewit, Mackenzie Snyder, Jonnie Thomas – Trinity CEO, Haily
Tweedie, Cynthia V., Cody W. - USA, Martin Willie – USNC,
Bob Wilson, and Susan Wilson.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 29,
2011 at 5:30 p.m. Page 2 of 7
****
I. Call To Order
Chair Kemp called the Study Session meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
II. State of the District Presentation
General Manager Washington explained that this was the 3 rd year of providing
the State of the District Presentation to the Board. This is an important
session for the Board since the State of the District highlights the goals,
accomplishments and challenges of each department within the agency.
General Council
2011 Accomplishments:
 US 36 BRT Agreement with CDOT and High Performance
Transportation Enterprise (HPTE)
 PUC Completions on West Rail Line – 24 Crossings
 RTD- Aurora Eagle P-3 IGA
2012 Goals:
 Continue PUC applications and approvals for Eagle
 Develop IGAs for North Metro Rail
 Assist with negotiations and represent District in legal
proceedings on RTD/ATU Collective Bargaining Agreement
(CBA)
Challenges for 2012:
 Negotiating challenges in times of uncertain funding
 North Metro Rail IGA
 Provide support for an increased number of projects and issues
Finance
2011 Accomplishments:
 Fiscal Sustainability Task Force
 Sales and use tax forecasts
 Installation of fare box collection equipment
2012 Goals:
 Provide financial strategies
 Establish accounting, budgeting and reporting for FasTracks
operations
 Implement Oracle Version 12
Challenges for 2012:
 Working within the current economic environment
 Develop and implement a FasTracks cost allocation
methodology
 Training and implementation of Oracle upgrade and new
functions
General Manager Washington added that we guard against technology fatigue.
If we push too much, people will get tired of learning.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 29,
2011 at 5:30 p.m. Page 3 of 7
Administration
2011 Accomplishments:
 Major technology upgrades to support base operations
 RTD’s Strategic Leadership Program
 WIN Pilot Program
2012 Goals:
 Provide support for operational efficiencies
 Provide innovative procurement support
 Build an enhanced employee “Total Rewards”
Challenges for 2012:
 Competition for and management of limited resources
 Establishing clear goals to meet business and customer
expectations
 Improving and maintaining lines of communications and
coordination
General Manager Washington noted that we are moving towards being a more
innovative and adaptable agency.
Safety, Security & Facilities
2011 Accomplishments:
 RTD Asset Management – State of Good Repair
 Automated fare inspection and database program
 Two rail safety audits with the Colorado Public Utilities
Commission
2012 Goals:
 Civic Center Station rehabilitation
 Support for the FasTracks Program
 Maintain compliance with all safety and environmental
regulations
Challenges for 2012:
 Maintaining older facilities and equipment
 Meet special requests from DHS/TSA
 Possible changes in safety regulations for transit rail and bus
General Manager Washington explained that we are consistently looking at
changes in safety regulations from the FTA and FRA. Facility maintenance is a
challenge and meeting new safety requirements is also challenging. The
METROLINK accident a few years ago set off a chain reaction in federal
requirements that were not originally budgeted for in the FasTracks proposal.
Communications
2011 Accomplishments:
 Marketing Campaign and Awards
 Media Relations and Public Information
 TIC/myStop information, 5 million calls

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 29,
2011 at 5:30 p.m. Page 4 of 7
2012 Goals:


Marketing for 2013 West Rail Line opening and for SmartCard
awareness
 FasTracks Public Information; Revise FasTracks Strategic
Communications Plan; Education needs of the FasTracks
program
 Text-enabled myStop feature
Challenges for 2012:
 Increase effective Communications despite reduced funding
 Access to communications tools to meet the needs of
passengers and residents
 Define and refine RTD’s message
General Manager Washington added that tailoring our message to the
FasTracks program is going to be very important. We will also need to define
and refine our message.
Bus Operations
2011 Accomplishments:
 Service Optimization Plan
 Initial draft of West Rail Line service plan
 Bus Operator refresher training program
2012 Goals:
 Development of final West Rail Line service plan
 Testing of Design Line prototype bus for potential use as Mall
Shuttle vehicle
 Facilitate the transition of bus operators to light rail operators
for West Rail Line implementation activities
Challenges for 2012:
 Maintain full headcount of bus operators while working with
Light Rail to staff West Rail Line
 Procurement of a variety of ADA related services that address
the mobility needs of the disabled
 Continue to develop service plans that respond to growing
community transit service needs
General Manager Washington explained that there is 100% refresher training
for all bus and rail operators each year. And, we are in the process of moving
40 bus operators to rail. Also, we have received one of two prototype buses
to be used on the Mall Shuttle. There is an option to purchase 55 buses if
that decision comes to fruition.
Rail Operations
2011 Accomplishments:
 West Line and Denver Union Station service shutdown and
cutover
 Implemented 4-Car train operations throughout system

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 29,
2011 at 5:30 p.m. Page 5 of 7


Upgraded key elements of RTD’s Supervisory Control and Data
Acquisition (SCADA) system

2012 Goals:


Successfully recruit, hire and train operating staff for 2013
West Line Opening
 Implement annual refresher training for Light Rail staff
members
 Continue the fleet overhaul program
Challenges for 2012:
 Implement and activate the Automatic Train Stop (ATS)
system at its highest technological level
 2013 West Rail Line staff training and certification
 Hire and retain key skilled crafts persons for maintenance of
fleet and system
General Manager Washington noted that it is very difficult to find individuals
with the skill set to understand and maintain our vehicle fleets. We will be
working this training into the WIN Program.
Planning
2011 Accomplishments:
 EAGLE Full Funding Grant Agreement - $1.03 billion
 Significant progress on TOD Implementation
 Approval of FasTracks DRCOG SB 208 Report
2012 Goals:
 Entry into the Small Starts Grant program
 Achieve timely RTD and DRCOG approvals
 Implementation of TOC/TOD Joint Development Agreement(s)
Challenges for 2012:
 Transit Oriented Communities model
 Developing continuous, timely and accurate technological
information
 Finalizing capital and operating plans for FasTracks projects
General Manager Washington indicated that we will be adding 57 new
stations. We will be working to add vitality and vibrancy around our stations
to further the TOD model. The question that remains is how we deliberately
and incrementally move to the TOD model.
Capital Programs
2011 Accomplishments:
 Notice to Proceed on the Eagle P3 project for the Gold Line
 Construction Accomplishments
 Continued design and construction work on a myriad of
projects
2012 Goals:
 Start construction on the Construction Ready Plan

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 29,
2011 at 5:30 p.m. Page 6 of 7
 Start integrated testing on the West Rail Line
 Start full construction on the Eagle P3 project
Challenges for 2012:
 Successfully working with the stakeholders
 Construction challenges
 Project management challenges
General Manager Washington added that there are challenges working with
our stakeholders due to all of their different requests, but we do the best that
we can to fulfill their needs.
District-wide Emerging Challenges and Priorities for 2012
 Continuing to improve the level of bus and rail safety
 Public information messaging
 Work to implement 2012 goals from Board/SLT advance
 Manage issues that arise in implementing a nearly $4 billion
capital program
 Implement and manage new technology and human capital
General Manager Washington further added that we have been aggressive
with innovation, initiative and timely decision making. Our vision has been
articulated throughout the organization, and there is a new national visibility
which requires us to think outside of the box.
Other things on the Horizon
 West Rail Line testing and activation
 Prepping design build and related packages for immediate
release after successful ballot measure (partially-funded
FasTracks corridors)
 Furthering Transit-Oriented Community and resulting RTD
value-capture mindset.
 Continued innovative approaches
 Remains sound, with challenges that must be addressed but
with opportunities that are achievable; with status regularly
reported to the RTD Board of Directors, passengers,
taxpayers, stakeholders, employees, contractors, and the
general public
Director Tayer indicated that he wanted to make sure that Finance was
focused on finding additional revenues and additional operating efficiencies
consistent with the other elements of the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force
recommendations.
Terry Howerter explained that we do have that high on our list of priorities.
We want to maintain the fiscal sustainability throughout the longer term to
meet our fund balance projections. As we move forward we are looking at
revenues and sales tax collections.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 29,
2011 at 5:30 p.m. Page 7 of 7
Director O’Boyle lauded our safety program, but noted that the public is more
accepting of auto related deaths than public transportation deaths. We should
be as safe as we should possibly be and try to get to zero. Lastly, Director
O’Boyle inquired what factors are considered when operators transfer from
bus to rail.
Austin Jenkins indicated that it is a career decision to move from bus to rail.
There is separate seniority for bus and rail operators and separate
classifications. If an operator were to move from bus to rail, their seniority will
not necessarily transfer over.
Director Tobiassen inquired if a rail operator moved back to bus, would they
receive their previous seniority status. Austin Jenkins explained that there is a
probationary window of 90 days. If they transfer back after that timeframe,
they must from scratch again.
Director Tobiassen further inquired about the silent crossings to make the
trains audible for those pedestrians with low or no vision. David Genova
explained that all crossings will have the traditional bells that you see at
railroad crossings now or it will have a digital device that is a lower decibel
level that we worked with the community to establish. We are starting to see
similar trends in the industry regarding the use of that device. Austin Jenkins
added that the operators are always free and encouraged to make noise as
necessary for safety.
III. Other Matters
Director Cohen noted that a FasTracks advocate activist in his district, Fran
Yaley had passed away and wished to express his sympathy and condolences.
IV. Adjournment
The Study Session adjourned at 6:29 p.m. to the Special Board Meeting.

