2020 -12-01
RTD Planning and Capital Programs
and FasTrack Committee
JUDY LUBOW: Hello, everybody. This is Judy Lubow and I am Chair of the Planning/Capital
Programs and FasTracks Committee. And I'm calling to order the December 1st meeting. The
time is approximately 8:17 PM. We have one recommended action to update and one
information item. And as you may remember, the information item is something for us to have
read. And if we've got questions, to speak to the relevant staff people offline.
So let's go first to the one recommended action. I'll read it and then ask staff to do a presentation
on it. Approval of contract extension for Jacobs Engineering for FasTracks Program Support
Consulting Services.
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to Jacobs
Engineering for Program Support Consulting services, PSC, for FasTracks to extend the contract
completion date from December 31, 2020 to December 31, 2021 with no change to the contract
not to exceed amount.
Funding for this contract is included in the 2021 adopted budget for the FasTracks capital
program in the specific projects where PSC support would be utilized. This recommended action
addresses the following General Manager's goals. Mission-oriented goal number one, successful
delivery of transit services. 2021 strategic priority number 4, increase ridership, improve rider
experience. Do I hear a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you
BOB BROOM: Broom, second.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK. Staff presentation, please. I believe it's Henry Stoppelcamp.
HENRY STOPPELCAMP: Thank you, Madam Chair and Board members. Henry Stoppelcamp,
AGM with Capital Programs. We have one item tonight, and I'll make it quick.
First, this is not an ask for funds. With the completion of the construction of the current
FasTracks corridors, we need to finish the right-of-way legals and exhibits for the final land
transfers and RTD records. Jacobs has been providing this support from beginning of the
FasTracks program.

These tasks were scheduled to be completed this year, but as you know, we had just finished the
N Line and wrapping up the Eagle projects. Funds have been approved and budgeted to complete
these tasks. The ask tonight is to extend the Jacobs contract for the right-of-way tasks outlined on
page 58 of your Board packet.
No other work will be added to the contract. Triunity/Hill is under contract for any additional
construction support. So we're not asking for any additional funds to the Jacobs, but a wrap up so
we can turn all the files over to RTD and then close out on exchange of right-of-ways properties
with adjacent property owners and municipalities. So no additional funds, just a contract
authority request. And with that, open to any questions.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I think what I'll do now is go in alphabetical order and ask
Directors for their comments or questions. Going to start with Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No comments or questions. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do have a couple of questions for Henry. The
first is-JUDY LUBOW: Excellent.
PEGGY CATLIN: --even though you're not asking for additional funds, would there be any
chance that we might not spend all of the funds that are budgeted? That's my first question. My
second question is that some of the activities that are associated with extension of the contract, I
was wondering if they could be reassigned to some of your staff who may, at this point, be at risk
for being separated from RTD?
I'm familiar with some of the activities associated with as-builts and with right-of-way, and
survey, and I just didn't know if we had some of that capability in-house, and if there might be
some opportunity to preserve some RTD jobs. Those are my two questions. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
HENRY STOPPELCAMP: Madam Chair, may I?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, please.
HENRY STOPPELCAMP: OK. Two great questions. The funds we will spend only what is
needed. And yes, the goal is to bring money back in when it's all said and done.

As far as the staff, our real property staff is made up of basically four individuals. Surveying, I
have one surveyor on staff, but not even a full crew. So it's basically a spot checks.
So I'd love to be able to bring this stuff in-house. But we don't have the resources or the skill
sets. And with the work should be finished off relatively shortly into the new year.
But to bring people on board to get them up to speed would not be beneficial to the
organizations. And Jacobs is the custodian of the files. And those files will be transferred over,
and we do have our own folks formatting and putting them into our system. So we're already
doing that portion. But the actual surveying and writing the legals, we do need Jacobs to
complete those tasks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. If I might-- I figured that was the answer. If you need a Board
volunteer to write legal descriptions from survey documents, [LAUGHS] I could dust off some
of my old skills. I used to do that a lot.
I'm just kidding. Just kidding. OK. Thank you, Henry.
HENRY STOPPELCAMP: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry, I was so enraptured by Director Catlin, I lost track of everything.
No questions or comments. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No question. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Nothing for me. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: I'll call on myself, and no questions or comments. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No question or comment.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Mihalik, please.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Chair Lubow. No questions or comments for me.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to say that if First Vice Chair Catlin is
willing to draft the legal, I'm willing to proofread it. Thank you, that's all, Madam Chair.

JUDY LUBOW: [LAUGHS] Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: I can notarize it after it's signed. No questions or comments. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, I think we have three Board members that need to find
other hobbies. But with that, it's good to hear your voice, Henry, and thank you for the update.
HENRY STOPPELCAMP: Appreciate it.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I appreciate Director Catlin's questions. I think that was something that I
was wondering. But we've got to do what we got to do. So nothing else.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have no questions or comments.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. OK, so at this point, we'll call for the vote.
NATALIE MENTEN: Chair Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes?
NATALIE MENTEN: This is Menten.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, sure.
NATALIE MENTEN: I do actually have one question.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, all righty then.
NATALIE MENTEN: If you don't mind. Is that OK?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Just as we go-- Henry, as we go to close out the books, let's call it, on
some of this, are there any cities, municipalities that have been dragging their heels on turning
over right-of-way or easements, or are they all assisting in a quick fashion to do that, so that we
can close it out?
HENRY STOPPELCAMP: So-- Madam Chair, may I?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, please.

HENRY STOPPELCAMP: Most of the cities, I mean, they're like us. It's not the highest priority.
But there are projects that they want done and want access to our property, so we tie it together.
And sometimes it takes a little bit of a nudge to remind them that we won't transfer over
additional property until they close out these projects.
So right now we're doing pretty good. There was a lull on a couple of municipalities, but I think
we've started the momentum. So that's been due to staffing. And some of these municipalities
actually are cutting back on their Real Property folks. So that's been a challenge, finding the right
people.
But overall, I think we are where we need to be. And our goal is to wrap it up as we can. And
we'll have stuff down on our side. But I will say that when municipalities realize that they need a
little bit of property and we're waiting for them, that speeds the process up.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Because some Board Directors have good connections that can help
push those things if needed. I'm sure you're already aware of that and may not want to go to that
level. But I'm anxious to close this out, as you know, because of the concerns I've got with the
local match, and whether that spreadsheet's going to look right when it's all done.
So you and I have had a conversation about that. That is why I asked the question. I'm sure
you're not surprised to hear that.
HENRY STOPPELCAMP: I'm not. And I do appreciate the offer. And we've seen, when we've
mentioned to bring Board members on and elevate, that typically, just the mention of it is enough
to get municipalities back on track. So I do appreciate it, but right now we're doing pretty good.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right, thank you, Henry, and thank you, Chair, for letting me
slide in afterward.
JUDY LUBOW: No problem. I wouldn't have thought that a mention of any of the Board of
Directors would frighten anyone, but apparently we have a lot of impact. That was a joke.
OK. Let's go to the vote for this action. I have Director Buzek as the movant. And I forgot to
write down the second. Was it Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. All right, thank you very much. OK, so we're going to go do the roll call
for the vote. And it's going to be alphabetical again. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.

JUDY LUBOW: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Myself, yes. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.

JUDY LUBOW: OK, well that's 15 yes votes and no no votes. So it passed unanimously. And
that's good.
HENRY STOPPELCAMP: Thank you so much.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Yeah. Thank you. So let's go to the first update. And the first update is
RTD redistricting. And I have Chris Quinn as the presenter.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you, Chairman Lubow. The intent of this presentation really is to be just
a quick reminder of the redistricting effort which will begin next year. I think everybody is aware
that the district boundaries must be updated every 10 years, following the federal census. And
the intent of that is to keep each one of the Director districts at approximately equal populations.
I'll point out a couple of key elements that we will need to focus on with the redistricting. Key
one is the redistricting maps must be adopted by the Board before March 18 of 2022. If not, the
state legislative council will step in and create the map.
A couple of other key items is, in the past, what we have done is relied on a Board redistricting
committee. And we've worked through that committee to work with the individual Board
members to kind of seek out what their preferences are based on what we can work with, trying
to keep whole precincts together as well as trying to keep Board districts somewhat similar to
municipal boundaries whenever possible. We do expect that given the significant growth that's
occurred in the East end of the district, that we will probably have some significant shifting of
the individual districts.
But our intent also-- or not even our intent-- we would ensure that no Director would be redistrict
out of the district that they are currently in. We would use consultant services for creating the
redistricting map, and we are currently in the process of working with Procurement to finalize
the scope and the procurement documents. So we would hope that that would go out soon so that
we could begin this effort next year.
Now, on one hand, we expect that the census data will be released first quarter of next year.
However, we have heard grumblings that there could be some delays due to the pandemic. But
even if there are, we have enough slack in the schedule that we think we can easily still meet the
March 2022 deadline. So the intent, again, would be that we would approve a new map the first
quarter of 2022. And I guess with that I would like to answer any questions that the Board might
have.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much, Chris. So I'll go do a roll call in alphabetical order to
initiate the discussion of questions and comments that any Director may have. Director Broom?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Buzek.
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thanks.

JUDY LUBOW: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions at this point, but Chris, I may have a question or two offline.
Thanks.
CHRIS QUINN: Sure.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No questions. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions, thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions, thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Five Point is in my district. I expect that I'll
probably be one of the directors who might need to have these conversations with Mr. Quinn,
and I look forward to it. I will just say that I am pretty attached to Five Points. It's the
neighborhood that I grew up in, and I'd like to not be districted out of that neighborhood.
CHRIS QUINN: OK. Certainly.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, and for myself, no questions. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTON: I do have a question on-- let's see-- page 5 of the document, packet page
65, titled Next Steps and Timeline. I think I just must be a little bit brain dead or something, but
what does it mean, "meet with individual directors to determine individual preferences in the
second and third quarter 2022", which would be after finalization. So I'm not sure I understand
that.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you for pointing that out. You found a typo. Sorry about that. So yes,
that would be 2021 that we would meet with the individual directors. So my apologies on that,
and thank you for catching that.
NATALIE MENTON: OK. And would that be that just going to, like, ask the Board members
what they would prefer to see the map drawn out?
CHRIS QUINN: Kind of a meeting with each individual Director to determine if-- just as an
example, as Director Lewis mentioned, her preference would be to hold onto the Five Points
area. So in the past, we've had Board members that have maybe wanted to-- as an example of

maybe they previously represented a certain jurisdiction, on, say, the City Council level. In the
past, often they've wanted to make sure that they keep that particular municipality within their
district, if at all possible. So it's just looking for those types of preferences from each Director.
NATALIE MENTON: I find that very fascinating considering the controversy over when we
look at the congressional and state legislative boundaries being redrawn. It's very interesting. It
won't mean much to me, probably, but considering the controversy at the higher levels of
government, that's very interesting, as I say. I've already said that three times. But anyway, OK,
go ahead. Were you going to add something?
CHRIS QUINN: Oh, I was just going to add that, of course, always keep in mind that the intent
is to keep each one of the Director district's populations equal to the others. So there obviously
will be limitations to what we can and cannot accommodate.
NATALIE MENTON: OK. All right. All right, well, thank you very much. That's all I wanted to
ask.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: No questions or comments.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. To address Director Menten's
comment, it may well be that it's just an unfortunate phrasing on that line on page 65. So we
might say there are actually two typos there.
I think the real reason for meeting with the Directors is to take advantage of their local
knowledge of situations. We are, after all, elected from districts, and theoretically, at least, we
are best informed as to the jurisdictions within our district, and therefore can provide useful and
beneficial information in this redistricting process. So I think that's really how I would read that
particular bullet point there. And I think it's a worthwhile exercise to give the benefit of our own
personal knowledge to the process. Thank you, Madam Chair, and that's all.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Yeah, I'll follow-up on that, also. There's no attempt to gerrymander or
anything like that. It's a nonpartisan election, anyway.
But it came in handy for me. I had the chance to-- there was some opportunities for different
configurations of District D back in 2012, I think it was. And so I went to a couple of council
reps and I said, do you want one RTD rep-- this is in Denver-- I said, do you want one RTD rep
or do you want to have to deal with two of us?
And the answer I got was, if you can keep all of whatever council district it was at the time in
one RTD district, that would be helpful. So they only had to make one phone call to complain.

So that's the benefit that I found. And that's what Staff was able-- or I guess that's what we were
able to do is to keep all of this whatever district it was in one RTD district.
Nothing nefarious. Just convenient for the people that have to deal with us. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. Appreciate the comments from the last three Board members. That
was helpful and added to Mr. Quinn's presentation. That's all. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I understand that situation. Director Lewis and I share, our districts
butt up against each other and we operate on opposite sides of one street, and often have things
going on that involve both of us because it's on that street. The rest of the world perceives it as
one street, where in fact she's on one side and I'm on the other.
So redistricting can point out those kinds of things. So I appreciate the thought and I appreciate
the conversation. And it'll be interesting to see, as always, to see where we go. Thanks, Chris.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. And Chris, thank you again for your
presentation. I don't have any comments or questions.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, that's it. Thank you, Chris. I appreciate it. Appreciate your work.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you. Good night.
JUDY LUBOW: Good night. The next item is the-- next update is the Front Range Passenger
Rail Commission presented by Bill Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Chair. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of
Planning. I'm referencing the presentation and the update that begins on packet in page 67.
Just want to give a quick note of thanks to the Southwest Chief from Front Range Passenger Rail
Commission Staff, Randy Grauberger, who is the Project Director, and Spencer Dodge, the
Commission Liaison. They provided the PowerPoint slides that you are looking at tonight.
Turning to packet page 68, that slide presents the membership, the current composition of the
Commission, including me. You, the RTD Board, appointed me as a Commissioner in 2017 to
represent RTD's interests on the Southwest Chief and Front Line Passenger Rail Commission.
Turning to packet page 69, there are two primary purposes for the Commission that were
outlined by the state legislature in Senate Bill 17-153. One is to work to preserve Amtrak's

Southwest Chief surface across Southeast Colorado, and the other is to facilitate the development
of Front Range Passenger Rail Service, and that's what tonight's presentation focuses on.
Turning to packet page 70, there's a summary of the Front Range Passenger Rail study. The
Commission requested and was granted funding by the legislature in 2018 in the amount of $2.5
million to support their work. Commission has used those funds for three primary uses.
One, hiring the two staff I referenced to support our work. Two, matching various grant
opportunities to support capital improvements necessary to preserve Amtrak's Southwest Chief
service, and three, hiring a consultant team to develop this Front Range Passenger Rail study
which is substantially wrapping up this year.
So this slide lays out the key study elements that are being completed by the blended team with
the Consultant receiving strong support from CDOT on the blended team. This study is intended
to set the Front Range Passenger Rail project up for entry into the next step of project
development, which is the National Environmental Policy Act, which would primarily determine
a preferred alignment and identify project impacts and mitigation measures.
Turning the packet to page 71, just going to spend a little bit of time on this one. These are the
alignments that the study is recommending to advance into further analysis under NEPA. The
general alignment stretches from Fort Collins on the North end to Pueblo in the South, and I'll
focus in on the Denver Metro area. There are three alignment options that are under
consideration.
The easternmost option, the one in purple, starting on the South end, starts in Castle Rock,
extends north to a shared station with the RTD Southeast Corridor, then follows 470 around to
DIA, continues on 470 to I-25, and North along I-25. So that is the easternmost alignment. The
two more western alignments, depicted in yellow and green, extend north from Castle Rock
along the railroad freight line, consolidate mainline with a shared station on the RTD Southwest
corridor in Littleton, and continuing North to Denver Union Station.
At that point, the yellow alignment goes north along the RTD North Metro corridor, connecting
with I-25 farther north. The green alignment goes north from Denver Union Station along the
BNSF RTD B-line northwest rail alignment through Boulder and Longmont. And there's
capability to mix and match components along the various segments of the whole corridor
between Fort Collins and Pueblo.
Turning to packet page 72 through 76, there is a summary of the various stakeholder engagement
that the Commission has engaged in, in terms of reaching out to citizens and other residents
along the Front Range. There's a summary of the engagement on slide 72, and then 73 through
76 give some highlights of the input received from the public. I won't read those slides in the
interest of time, but they're there for your edification.
So turning to packet page 77, titled The Big Takeaway. I've covered the alignments. The other
thing that a lot of stakeholders, and planners, and others are always interested in a study of this

sort is the ridership forecasts for the corridors. This is an example of where the collaboration
between the Commission and CDOT really has yielded benefits.
CDOT's travel demand modelers completed this work in support of the study effort as part of the
blended CDOT and Consultants team doing the work on this study. So you'll note that there
would be notable demand for rail service along the Front Range corridor. Demand was highest
for commuters. But there's also substantial demand for recreation and special event trips. And
there's some comparisons further on between these Front Range Rail passenger projections and
peer agencies in a couple of slides.
Turning to packet page 78, you'll see the results of the strongest alignment, which includes the
BNSF RTD B Line Northwest Rail alignment. 191 mile border lengths, projected population in
the Front Range in the year 2045 of seven million people. With service of 25 trains a day in each
direction, 14 stations, the projection is for an annual ridership of 2.9 million, average weekday
ridership of 9,200.
So trying to packet page 79, that is a table that allows you to set some context for what those
projections and those numbers look like compared with peer agencies in North America. Now,
the peer agency numbers are recent numbers. They're 2018, 2019 numbers, while recall the Front
Range Passenger Rail projections are for the year 2045.
But you can see how the BNSF alternative compares to peer projects. So that's an update on the
Front Range Passenger Rail Study. Commission continues moving forward with that work in
collaboration and with great support from CDOT. It's really a blended team working on that
project.
Now, switching gears, the other item that I wanted to update everyone on is the Amtrak proposed
service on packet page 8. So the commission has a non-voting representative from Amtrak who's
very engaged. And Amtrak is very closely aligned and participating in the Commission
meetings.
There's been some real interest among Commissioners and other stakeholders generated by
Amtrak's proposal, outlined on this page, on this slide, that they made earlier this year with the
creation of a new Network Modernization Program-- that's what they named it-- as part of the
upcoming Service Transportation Act reauthorization that Squire Patton Boggs discussed earlier
this evening.
So Amtrak is requesting a new program, as part of their transportation reauthorization, to support
rail network evolution and an expansion. So this program, as Amtrak proposes it, would make
federal grant funds available to cover up to 100% of capital costs and initial operating costs of
new corridor service throughout the US. States or other operating entities would then gradually
assume a greater share of the operating costs over a five-year transition period.
So again, Amtrak's proposal is that they would cover up to 100% of the capital costs and 100%
of the initial operating costs for the first couple of years and then declining over the next three
years. At the end of that five-year transition period, Amtrak would look for a state or other

operating entity to gradually assume a greater share of those operating costs and eventually take
over all the operating costs.
So we're talking about this because Amtrak, in the succeeding months since they introduced this
request early this year, has identified the Front Range corridor or as a strong candidate for this
program if their request is successful. They recognize the population, the explosive population
growth, the lack of current commuter rail service, and the fact the state has supported the efforts
to date, and put money where their mouth is by creating the Commission and funding the
Commission.
So this graphic and the proposed grant program description are both from Amtrak, and the
graphic depicts the proposed alignment from Fort Collins to Pueblo. Proposed service would be
three daily round trips. So not nearly as robust a service as the full envisioned Front Range
Passenger Rail development, but it would be a big start or this to come to fruition. And you'll
note that the proposed corridor follows the green line from earlier that I described, which is on
the north end of the district, following the BNSF RTD B line and Northwest Rail corridor
alignment.
In conclusion, I'd just like to also share with you that a slimmed-down version of this update was
shared earlier today at a meeting with Northwest Rail stakeholders, who expressed support for
RTD collaborating with the Commission and CDOT on Front Range Passenger Rail, and they
also expressed their continued interest in pursuing an RTD Northwest Rail starter type service,
often referred to as the peak period service, as laid out in RTD's 2019 FasTracks unfinished
Corridors Report, and as updated in the succeeding report on the 2020, providing the 2020
update, FasTracks unfinished Corridors Report. With that, I conclude my remarks.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much. I'm going to take the Chair's prerogative and just
take my comments at the start. I think because this is such an exciting prospect, given the eight
very dry years of trying to get movement on either the Northwest Rail or finishing North Metro,
and we have two, Bill is talking about two possibilities of potentially getting some funding for
one, or, well, for either one of those projects, either the Front Range Rail Commission, and they
are thinking of possibly doing a special district to pay for it, whereas Amtrak is actually looking
for money from the Feds.
And both of them sound very exciting in comparison to us getting the money soon from
FasTracks' sales tax, because it's just not projected until many decades. So this is very, very
exciting. And I would hope that my fellow Directors would feel excited about it, too, or at least
some of you will.
And the question that I wanted to ask you as you make your comments tonight is, do you think it
would be a good use of our lobbyist time, federal lobbyist time to be monitoring the Amtrak
issue? And even, as appropriate, promoting it If it seems like there is some way to do that
appropriately. To me, that makes sense. It's very little effort for getting information that we
would need to stay on top of this whole issue.

And the other thing is a little more difficult, it has to do with getting, possibly, some money for
the Peak Service 30% Engineering Study for the Northwest Rail, which would be necessary to
find out from Burlington Northern to get a reasonable cost of what the peak plan would cost.
And that would help us get funders and just help push forward the whole Northwest Rail by
having more information.
Anyway, it wouldn't cost very much money. So I just wanted you to think about those things.
And as you're making your comments, if you would just, if you have an interest in commenting,
this is kind of the first salvo in moving forward like this.
It won't be the end of the conversation, it's the beginning of it. Thank you for taking the time to
listen to me. And let's go in alphabetical order. And of course, please comment, of course, on the
presentation, also. Director Broom, do you have any comments or questions?
BOB BROOM: Just maybe a couple of comments. One, I think it's worth pursuing. I'm not
exactly sure how it'll end up going forward. And the other thing is, we need to discuss as a Board
at some point, are we going to ask voters for an additional sales tax to finish up FasTracks?
And at least you'd know at that point, whether RTD has the ability to do that project in a
reasonable timeframe. And of course, if you put, like, 1/10 of a percent sales tax on the ballot
with a sunset, say, of 10 or 15 years, if that's all it took to fill the gaps in our regular 1% tax,
then, could carry it after the end of the construction period and the early startup costs, those are
just things we need to take a look at, just stand back and wring our hands and say, there's just no
way we're just going to have to wait 25 years for this to possibly get done. I think we owe it to
the voters to try to get this done since they approved it. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And I just wanted to comment that one of the beauties of the idea
of federal funding and also the special district is the potential to get help in paying. OK, Director
Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair, Mr. Van Meter, the Front Range Passenger Rail was at one time
considering a high-speed rail out of a component, were they not?
BILL VAN METER: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: But ultimately, to get from Pueblo to Fort Collins, whether there's going to be
direct runs or not. It seems to me, I believe that one of the important considerations is the speed
at which these trains can go from stop-to-stop to move people efficiently, is that right?
BILL VAN METER: That is correct.
VINCE BUZEK: So we've got a couple different things going on. The Front Range Passenger
Rail and then we've got our Northwest Rail Line. And I just do not see Front Range Passenger
Rail being the replacement for the Northwest Rail Line. I'm sure this map on page 71 is not as
detailed as it could be.

But if it is, it shows no stops on the Northwest alignment between Denver and Boulder. And that
makes sense, because the train's got to go. It's not going to stop twice in Westminster, twice in
Broomfield, once in Lewisville, before it gets to Boulder. So I don't see this as a replacement for
our Northwest Rail obligation.
So it's worrisome. I don't want us trying to conflate the two. So also, there's a lot of work that has
to move forward, and it seems to me that the Front Range Passenger Rail Commission is one of
the things they need to do sooner rather than later is choose an alignment before you start any of
the environmental work and things like that. Is that correct?
JUDY LUBOW: No.
BILL VAN METER: Co-chair, this Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning, may I respond?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, of course.
BILL VAN METER: OK. Yeah, so actually, one of the first actions would be, in NEPA, one of
the planned actions in NEPA would be to select a preferred alternative, to do the additional
analysis in terms of impacts, mitigation measures, benefits, and costs, and to provide that
information to the decision makers so that a recommended alignment can be selected to provide
that additional information.
So the study today has identified that there are no fatal flaws in any of these alignments, but it
hasn't delved down into fine detail on costs, environmental impacts, and mitigation measures,
and that next level of analysis that NEPA would provide in order to be able to make a decision
on a preferred alternative. And exactly to your point as well, our discussions, and my
representation of RTD's interests has been that if either the North Metro or Northwest Rail Line
that were selected for Front Range Passenger Rail, it would present great opportunities for RTD
and the Front Range Passenger Rail projects to align, and share resources, and share track, and
share services, quite probably as you have posited with much fewer stops for a Front Range
Passenger Rail and RTD providing that more local service, that more robust service to our
citizens in our district, seeing the two services operating on the same alignment being
complementary and not competitive.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. Do you have any idea of the timetable of selecting an alignment?
BILL VAN METER: Optimistically, sometime next year. And I say optimistically because that
will require funding for proceeding into NEPA. And NEPA isn't inexpensive. Rough guesstimate
that has been provided to the Commission is on the order of $10 million. And in these fiscal
times and environment, that could be difficult.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. And in terms of whether they use North Metro alignment or the
Northwest Rail Amtrak-- I mean, BNSF alignment, work has to be done on those alignments-track, bridges, things like that, because they're not designed to carry certain loads and operate at
certain speed, isn't that fair to say?

BILL VAN METER: That is accurate. And so the concept would be a potential collaboration
benefiting both projects.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. I just, I worry that some of us are thinking that this is going to be the
solution to our Northwest Rail problems. But even if they choose that alignment, I don't see it-maybe it will help. But anyway, thanks for the report and I look forward to seeing how things
shake out. Thanks, that's all I have.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. Bill, I appreciated your response to Director Buzek
because I have some of those questions as well. My additional question with regard to the
Amtrak proposed service, and they want to create that in NMP. What is the timeline for that?
Because you talked about a five-year period, but when does that five-year period start and what's
the anticipated timeline to do the Amtrak proposal?
BILL VAN METER: Thank you. Chair?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, of course, please.
BILL VAN METER: Yes. This is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. Yes, so that's pretty murky to
me right now. The first step in the timeline what is whether Amtrak actually has success in
getting this proposed program included in reauthorization. Following that, there would still need
to be NEPA clearance done on the corridor negotiations with railroads improvements,
presumably not nearly as grand with the limited number of trips, but improvements that would
need to be constructed along the full corridor in order to accommodate both freight traffic and
Amtrak traffic on that proposed corridor.
So NEPA clearance, design, construction, significant costs, certainly less than a full Front Range
Passenger Rail Network, but still significant costs. And so I have uncertainty about the timing of
reauthorization, how long the design and construction would take, and what those costs would
look like, vis-รก-vis the funding made available presumably through this program. At that point,
then operations would commence, and that is the period, that's the five-year period I was
referencing.
And so as soon as operations commence, for the first two years, Amtrak is proposing that they
would cover 100% of the costs. And then, I'm trying to do this off the top of my head, so don't
hold me to it, but I think in the third year they would go to something like 80% and expect the
state or another operating entity to cover the other 20%, in the fourth year, 50-50, and in the fifth
year, something like 20% Amtrak and 80% local. After that, the state or other operating energy
entity, local entities, would have to cover the full operating costs.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, if I might, a follow-up question?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Yes.

PEGGY CATLIN: So if-- this is a big if-- Amtrak would be successful, and it sounds like a long
process through NEPA, and planning, and everything else, but if they were to be successful,
would there not be some opportunity to leverage the information gained through their NEPA
process for any subsequent work with regard to the Northwest Corridor or the Front Range Rail?
And I ask this because presumably there would be no out-of-pocket money for the Amtrak, from
RTD for the Amtrak [AUDIO OUT]. But it seems to me that there could be some utility from
those studies that we could leverage.
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill-PEGGY CATLIN: Is that a possibility?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. Yeah. Certainly, that's my
presumption and the presumption of my fellow Commissioners as well as the team. And I'll
share that Amtrak has been open in talking about it, and their willingness, as I said, they're active
participants in the Commission, and their willingness to support the Commission's work because
they see the potential alignment and benefits for their proposed service, and eventually for a
Front Range Passenger Rail Service.
Similarly, BNSF and UP both also serve on the Commission, and they have actively participated
and heard the discussion with Amtrak and elsewhere. So there are a lot of opportunities for
sharing information regarding impacts and mitigation measures, planning, and design and
construction work. And if Amtrak were to proceed, some of the ground work for a Northwest
Rail peak period or starter service and Front Range Passenger Rail would be taken care of by
someone else, you are correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Don't you want to ask Director Cook?
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, I'm sorry.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry-JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, sorry, I just flew over. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: No worries. Yeah, so apart from the questions raised by Director Buzek
about whether or not it's viewed as or taken into as a substitute for the Northwest line, I think it's
pretty helpful and interesting as a general thing, as a general possibility.

And regarding your question about whether we'd like to see our lobbyists, I suppose, monitoring
and possibly advocating, it sounds good, but I would want to defer to Director Guissinger, and
Director Whitmore, and Chair Rivera-Malpiede on that. So thank you, Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And now, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Well, though, very well done. I mean, I think this is
some of the most exciting news we've had in a very long time, and well overdue.
With regard to what our lobbyists do, we have a new Board coming in next year and I would
defer to that Board to make that decision. Although we do get information like we did today with
Amtrak Joe and so on and so forth from Squire Patton Boggs. And so it doesn't appear that it's a
big deal for them to give us that information.
And I think it will be interesting to see the type of technology that you all kind of come up with.
25 years is a long ways out. And we know that technology is growing exponentially. It's
changing so fast that, who knows what we're going to have?
And it seems like high-speed rail would be the right thing to plan. And then, for the denser areas,
just sort of have different trains dropping off sort of flybys with a high-speed rail sounds kind of
interesting.
So Bill, are you already having conversations with BNSF like DJ over there and finding out what
their take is? Because it seems like that was kind of a big problem we had in some of the stuff we
were trying to do on the Northwest Rail. We hadn't really talked to them before passing that
FasTracks.
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. The short answer is yes. In
fact, the BNSF, until this summer, had a strong representative very knowledgeable about rail in
Colorado filling their seat. And as they've seen this project progress, that Chair is now filled by
DJ Mitchell. And he has shown up for the past few meetings and has been very willing and
capable participant, and expressed BNSF's interest in working, moving forward in terms of rightof-way issues and supporting development of a Front Range Passenger Rail Service. So DJ
Mitchell, himself, is the BNSF's new current Commissioner, actively engaged.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, great. And he's sitting at the table with you?
BILL VAN METER: That is correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, that's so reassuring. That is huge. All right. Well, well done and
congratulations. This is very exciting. Thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Guissinger?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Yeah, I want to follow-up on some of Vince's questions, but I
guess I'm seeing it differently. It seems like it's just a matter of who's operating an expressing
and a local, and you kind of suggested that.
But if Amtrak or Front Range Rail were to come in and build out the facilities for Northeast Rail,
or for Front Range Rail, wouldn't those be shareable? Whether RTD's is providing the local, or
whether Amtrak decides that that's worth it for them? I mean, it seems to me like it does kind of
solve the Northwest Rail problem. It would still require, potentially, some money, but am I
missing something?
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. Yeah, so in terms of many of
the infrastructure improvements, the track, grate crossings, structures, and things like that are
kind of operating assumption, the Commission's operating assumption, and in the study, and in
everything that we've progressed today, and on both North Metro alignment or Northwest Rail,
that's exactly the assumption, that we would share those infrastructure improvements. There
would still be significant costs for an RTD service in that, as Director Buzek noted, many of the
stations are not being proposed by either Amtrak or Front Range Passenger Rail. Many of our
key stations on, particularly the Northwest Rail corridor, we would still have to build those, and
the associated park-and-rides, we would still have to acquire a fleet to provide our service to
those stations.
We would likely need a major expansion to a current maintenance facility, or more likely a new
maintenance facility, so there'd still be significant costs. But the capability to share track, and a
lot of that hard infrastructure, and right-of-way acquisition, or to have someone else bear those
costs and us share that, those are policy decisions to be made down the road, but they're real
opportunities.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And we've discussed this a couple weeks ago, we wouldn't be
sharing track in the southern end, that's Light Rail, but once you got to Union Station, if you're
going through this area, then potentially whichever alignment, we'd be sharing track with
Amtrak. Is that right?
BILL VAN METER: That is the operating assumption, yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Page 75 in the packet is a look at the main reasons to use-- the
responses why people would use the rail. And business purposes and commuting together are
39%, roughly. And recreation and leisure is about 58%. But the conclusion on page 77, if it
demands its highest for commuters, is that a different study that led to that conclusion?
BILL VAN METER: Yes, it is. So the page 75 graphic is depicting the results of a survey
question. So it's a stated preference survey, while the results depicted on page 77 are the results
of the Colorado Department of Transportation's ridership forecasts and their travel demand
model, which uses the DRCOG model combined with all the other MPL models along the Front
Range corridor and throughout the state.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So that's a more rigorous, that's one that you think is the better?

BILL VAN METER: Yeah, exactly. Yes. Fair statement.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And to project 9,200 weekday riders in 2045, is that also DRCOG's
study?
BILL VAN METER: Yeah. Or, the CDOT actually, and their statewide model. But it uses
DRCOG forecasts and inputs.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And in packet page 80, it says that after a five-year period, if states
want to continue service, warranty on costs should be allocated in accordance with existing
Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act, or PRIIA. What does that mean? Is there a
sharing?
This strikes me as weird that they would say after this five-year period, if the states want to
continue service. Is that entertaining the possibility that after five years nobody would continue
to do it? And I guess my bigger question is, what does that mean that it would be allocated, costs
would be allocated in accordance with PRIIA?
BILL VAN METER: Yeah, so a lot of that is unclear to me. I'm not an expert on the Amtrak
proposal. So I apologize.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's all right.
BILL VAN METER: But my reading of that is that they really would want a commitment from
the state or another operating entity to continue that service after the five years, because they'd be
making a significant investment. And what the details of the PRIIA section 209 methodology are
beyond me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Fair enough. Thanks. I think that's it for now.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I actually did have a few questions. And Director
Guissinger, thank you so much. You touched on some of them.
I'll start with a comment first. I actually don't disagree with Director Buzek about the-- I'm not
sure if he used replacement alternative for the Northwest Rail. And I think this is probably a
good opportunity, as a Board and as an agency, to have some tough conversations about where
we are as it pertains to-- sorry, I'm getting some feedback, so maybe someone can put their
phone on mute-- where we are as it pertains to finishing out FasTracks and how realistic that is.
And so that's my first comment.
I do have a few questions for you, Mr. Van Meter, if I might. And it pertains to packet page,
well, it's actually a few of them. On packet page 77, it says model projects and notable demand
for rail, and it looks like at least the data that I'm seeing, that you all have provided in terms of
stakeholder engagement, that the surveys were conducted in 2019, except for this one, this online

public meeting on June 29 and June 31. And I'm curious to see if this data is even-- if this data
even-- if we should be making decisions from the data as it might be old data are not useful data
considering COVID and how people may or may not be traveling, and how folks may or may not
be traveling in the future. And so I'm curious as to if that came up at this discussion, if that came
up in any of the discussions you all had?
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter. Certainly, the impacts of COVID and the
current impacts on travel demand and travel behavior is a topic that has been discussed. As far as
I know, it has not been addressed in these projections. You are correct.
They are-- to my understanding, based on what would be 2019 to early 2020 current
understanding of travel behavior and travel mode. That online public survey in 2020, certainly,
was in the midst of pandemic and could easily have been influenced by that. But I think moving
forward, that's a question that we're having locally, nationally, and part-SHONTEL LEWIS: Mr. Van Meter?
BILL VAN METER: --of the study as well. Yeah?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sorry to interrupt you. I went on a music hold and so I did not hear any
of your answer at all. [LAUGHS] I'm so sorry.
BILL VAN METER: OK, no problem. I'll probably go on a musical hold in a second or two
myself. That'll be awkward. So I was just saying that, real briefly, the answer is no. This is 2019
type data, to my understanding.
Now, the public survey obviously was in 2020, so that's influenced by it. And also, yes, in that
we've recognized that. CDOT has recognized it and the Commission has recognized that the
future looks potentially noticeably different than the past, and that the impacts of COVID, longterm impacts of COVID on travel behavior, and how and where people travel, and when may be
impacted long-term. Don't know what that's going to look like, know that we have to address that
moving forward.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'd be interested in that moving-- I'm sorry. I would be interested in that
moving forward, and I'm curious as to how these pie charts might look differently in terms of
percentages if we had the conversation now in 2020 or even in 2021 regarding this project.
Particularly, as it says here, that 59% as Directors Guissinger pointed out-- I don't know if folks
are traveling to downtown Denver to those degrees. And so it just might be interesting to know
as we're moving forward.
I'd also be interested in this data and how it would be broken down demographically. Like, are
there folks-- and I think what we're seeing-- are there folks who are frontline workers who might
travel differently than folks who are working from home? I don't know. I just wonder if we
might want to spend a little bit more time collecting data, more recent data, in order to be able to
inform how we might move in the future. So sorry, Director Lubow, not trying to rain on your
parade, but I'm just curious if we're operating off of old data and if we should be.

BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter. Understand those comments and we'll carry
those back to the project team.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Bill. I appreciate it.
BILL VAN METER: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Nothing else for me.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. All right, thank you. Director Menten, please?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah I've got-- let's see, first question is, when did they come-- I don't see
any dollar amounts in here and I understand we've got to do certain steps before we get to a
dollar amount. But looking at news articles about this proposed project, at one point, the news
seems to indicate it had, like, a $5 billion price tag with it. Do you happen to recall, Bill, how
long ago in time-BILL VAN METER: Chair-- Director Menten and Chair, I apologize. I just heard some groovy
music for the last minute or so and not Director Menten. As soon as Director Menten started
speaking I started to hearing groovy music instead of her question.
NATALIE MENTEN: Boy, we could go down a rabbit hole with that one. OK. Anyway.
JUDY LUBOW: Why don't you ask your question again? She's probably on music hold.
BILL VAN METER: She's does the same groovy music I did.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. She liked the music better than the conversation. OK. OK, well let's go
to Director Mahalik.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So now, I'm back after that music break. Yeah. So anyway, going
back here. First, I want to start with, instead of my opening thing was supposed to be
Commissioner Van Meter, I have some questions. OK.
So when I read the news articles about the dollar price tag on this, they seem to indicate at some
point in time-- and I don't know when, that's the main question-- there was an estimated, maybe,
$5 billion for this line. I realize in reality, some steps need to be taken before, or one like a
proposed alignment or preferred alignment and multiple other steps. So how did they get to the
$5 billion, if that was correct?
BILL VAN METER: Yeah, so the $5 billion number was based on ranges of estimates from
previous CDOT studies, and taking a number near the lower end. The current study has been
working on preparing updated capital costs and operating costs. I, as a Commissioner, haven't
seen them yet.

In fact, a similar question was posed at the meeting that I referenced earlier this afternoon, and I
was caught flat-footed without having a good answer. I checked with the Commission staff after
that meeting, and they tell me that they're going to be sharing some information regarding
projected ranges of capital and operating costs with the Commission at our regularly scheduled
meeting, which is this coming Friday. But that $5 billion number was based on, what I recall, is
towards the lower end of ranges of estimates from previous CDOT studies.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So then my question is, why would they go with the lower range,
knowing how government works?
BILL VAN METER: I don't have a good answer for that. I wasn't involved in developing those
questions and that information.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I will take that for an answer. Then, as I hear about going down to
the root of what would RTD get out of this? How much would RTD get out of this? So one first
question, just based on some previous comments, here, tonight, does the Front Range Passenger
Rail committee already have a lobbyist?
BILL VAN METER: They do not have a lobbyist. They have two staff people.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then, I just want to go ask this, and I'm interested in your
answer-- I don't know if you'll be able to give me. Do you sometimes wonder if this is kind of a
mission creep for our KB as to our involvement with it, because we don't know exactly what we
will get out of it?
And we've enough of from our own problems and unfulfilled tasks, because with our new GM-and she's asked you know what is one thing you would say I think what's helped her mission
creep. So is this potentially something that the path that we could see out of this that we start to
spend money and be involved or diverting our attention away from our core responsibilities
which we have not really fulfilled in some ways?
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. I take my charge and my
understanding representing RTD to make sure that our interests are protected and well
represented. So if there are opportunities to advance our mission as part of this Commission, if
there are opportunities to share resources and collaborate, and it's to our advantage, I'm interested
in pursuing those. I think I'm keeping an eye on that idea of mission creep, but I think I
understand the question, and antennas are now raised.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I'll accept that. After somebody takes many steps down a road and
then somebody were to say, well, was that mission creep, that wouldn't be the best time to ask it.
It would be early on. And this has already kind of been moving forward. So that's why I asked
the question, especially in light of where RTD is right now and the challenges that dollars, and
energy, and time are important. So anyway I think that all of the questions that I have. Thank you
so much, Commissioner Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you.

JUDY LUBOW: All righty, then. Director Mahalik, please.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, thank you, Commissioner Van Meter for that. You don't like that?
BILL VAN METER: [LAUGHS] I'm blushing.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that very thorough, I guess, update or briefing. And I guess the
only thing I'll say that a lot of this is-- and it's not directed at you or anything like that-- I just
think it's very aspirational when we talk about the schedule, and where the money is going to
come from, and after the previous meeting, talking about federal money and that it's just kind of
in the ether these days. And yeah, I'll just use that word, aspirational. But I do thank you for the
very thorough and informative update.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Aspirational is a good word. Appreciate it. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I am, I think, obligated to remind us all
that the reason we have all this good information in this second update to the FasTracks
implementation report is the fact that Director Lubow and I created the FasTracks resolution in,
it was April or May, and requesting that the initial report come to us in June of 2019. So it's good
to know that we're still getting this information, demonstrating to the public that we are
following up on all possible paths toward the completion of the FasTracks plan throughout the
system.
The other thing I would note is that I really have one question. When you talk about the
possibility that Amtrak may get involved and Amtrak may get some federal funding, that may
have some kind of synergistic beneficial effect with us as we look at the Peak Rail Service Plan
or the actual completion of the full Northwest Rail. I have one question. Do the words Amtrak
Joe mean anything to you?
And I do think that it's very possible that the Amtrak will have a significant part to play in all of
this. Yes, it will not substitute for the North West Rail, but as I say, the synergies generated by
that are something that we cannot ignore. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Well, one of the comments I have about the questions and the reason
for using a high-speed rail to Denver is, I don't know if those persons who said that they would
use it for commuting commute currently or would use the opportunity to commute. I remember
when I worked on the corridor, the Mountain Corridor decades ago, I thought, I could live in
Idaho Springs and work in downtown Denver. That'd be really convenient, that'd be nice.
I didn't live there, but I would use it for commuting, even though I didn't live up there at the time.
So I'm always a little suspicious of surveys, especially when they have a really low number of
respondents. That's just an observation.

I'm wondering on the table of those peer regions or systems-- I'm not going to ask you to do it
now, but I'm just curious, like, what the price of gas is in those regions, how many lane miles
they have in those regions, what the density is around those stations, or in the region as a whole.
Because all of that goes into the number of people that ride, need to ride. I think anything that
comes out of this should be tied to land use.
I'm pretty sure it's Puget Sound Regional Council ties their TIP money and STIP money to land
use, development pattern, so zoning and parking ratios, parking requirements, things like that.
They have a strong tie where they have to show a strong benefit before they get a certain amount
of money for those improvement projects.
I guess that's it. Thanks again for the presentation. It's always nice when you step to the mic,
because I know I'll get a real detailed explanation of everything that's going on. So that's it.
Thank you, Mr. Van Meter.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Whitmore, please.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think Commissioner Van Meter has been
adequately drilled tonight, and I do appreciate the breadth of the presentation and your
participation. I guess I have a bit of mixed feelings on turning the federal lobbyist loose on this.
I'm leaning towards making sure that they are in the loop. And from the sounds of the report
from Patty and Mike earlier, they are. So I guess as long as it's not an extra fee or something of
that nature, I'd like to have them on top of that situation with Amtrak, especially in light of the
comments with our new president being a very Amtrak-favorable person and commuter for
many, many years. With that, that's all I have this evening for the Commish.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. All right, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I actually shared the same comments as Director Whitmore.
Thank you so much.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. All right. Well, we went through it. Thank you all. Thank you all for your
patience.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hello?
JUDY LUBOW: And thank you, all for-KATE WILLIAMS: Hello?
JUDY LUBOW: Hello?
KATE WILLIAMS: Hello.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh my--

KATE WILLIAMS: It's Director Williams here.
JUDY LUBOW: I jumped, yes. Sorry. [CHUCKLES] I'm really looking forward to getting this
evening over, but I do apologize. Yes. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's right. I'll be quick and to the point. I want to point out that we are the
Regional Transportation District, and the project that we are talking about will be in our region.
So I think it behooves us to be well-advised-- thank you, Mr. Van Meter-- on what all of the
potentials are, and that any solution that we can tie into for the Northwest Rail [AUDIO OUT]
that our elected peers are all very, very interested in, that we have a governor who is interested
in, an accountability committee who's interested in, should be of interest to us. So that's all I have
to say. Quick and dirty. Thank you, Judy.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, thank you. OK, as I said before, thank you all for your patience. Next up
is other matters. Are there any other matters that people need to speak to?
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Lewis, please go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to take the opportunity to let you all know that we do have the
Safety and Security meeting tomorrow, and I will be recording that for the Directors who might
be interested in that, in knowing that information in advance.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you very much. OK, the next meeting date is February 2. And
that's it for us, we are adjourned. Thank you.

