Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held Tuesday, January 29,
2008
Page 1 of 2
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

January 29, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, January 29, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D

****
Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

FasTracks Committee Chair Director Quinlan, Directors; Busck, Brohl,
Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kinton, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer, Yamrick and Chair Kemp.
Chacon and Martinez

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Dennis Cole, Kevin Diviness,
Carol Duecker, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Jennifer Heisler,
Marla Lien, Lloyd Mack, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Liz Rao, Scott
Reed, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Bill Sirois, Liz Telford, Lisa
Trujillo, Mike Turner and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Howard Alton (ATU 1001), Karen Morales, Steve Roberts (Systra
Consulting), Robin Knieln (FRESC), Steve Fesch, Bobby Baumgartner,
and Jim Hall.

Call to Order:

Director Quinlan called the meeting to order at 5:36 p.m.

Chair Quinlan allowed for two people to speak.
Bobby Baumgartner was first to speak and gave his time to Steve Fesch. Steve thanked
the board for the opportunity to speak. He stated he is here to ask to be treated fairly.
His goal is to save his property. He would like to know what land in the area is owned by
RTD. He will not be able to relocate; being displaced miles away will not work. He would
like to work with RTD so he can stay at his location.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, January 29,
2008
Page 2 of 2
I. Patti Silverstein Presentation from Development Research Partners, Inc.
Chair Quinlan introduced Patti Silverstein from Development Research Partners,
Inc. Patti gave a power point presentation on her views as to what is going on in
the Metro Denver Economy. Please refer to the power point presentation for
details of the presentation; it is available in the board office minute notebook.
Chair Quinlan opened up the floor for questions. There was a lengthy Q & A
session, if you would like specifics on questions and answers, please let the
board office know.
II. Recommended Action:
Request for Approval of Public Private Partnership (P3) Goals and Schedule
Milestones
Liz Rao, Assistant General Manager, Planning and Development introduced this
item to the committee. Liz handed out a re-cap of the Recommended Goals and
Schedule Milestones for Public Private Partnership.
The board expressed strong concern to incorporate public views before the RFP is
written. There was a modification to the 2nd bullet item under Control to –
include “maximum opportunity for private sector to perform” and a request to add
an additional bullet to talk about public review/information.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to
approve the recommendations.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:
III.

The motion passed.

Updates



Quiet Zones
Bill VanMeter, Senior Manager of Systems Planning presented this item to the
board. Please refer to the handout for specifics.



Corridor Fencing Process – This item was deferred to the next meeting.



Preferred Alternative Refinement Process – Commuter Rail Corridors – This
item was deferred to the next meeting.

IV.

Other Matters

V.

Adjourn
Chair Quinlan declared the meeting adjourned at 6:50 pm.

