2024-04-18
Operations and Safety Committee Meeting
TROY WHITMORE: Good evening, everyone. I'm Troy Whitmore, Chair of RTD's Operations and Safety
Committee. The Thursday, April 18 Operations and Safety Committee will now come to order. We are
convened as of 5:33 PM. And I would respectfully ask everyone in attendance to mute yourself unless you
are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website. During today's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Realtime Translation also
known as CART. Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone
who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish.
Also, anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided. A live stream of this meeting is also available
via RTD's YouTube page. At this time, I would like to call the roll of the committee members. First of all,
Vice Chair Julien Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Ian Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Also present.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Bringing the enthusiasm for you.
TROY WHITMORE: That's a good duty for you, sir. Director Jaime Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Director Paul Rosenthal. We will make note when Director Rosenthal
makes it. Director JoyAnn Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Director Marjorie Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
TROY WHITMORE: And I'm Director Troy Whitmore, Chair of the Committee, and am present. We also
have non-committee board members attending and we're pleased when we have that happen. And at this
point in time, I will announce the ones that I have seen. We have Chair of the Board, Erik Davidson. We

have First Vice President Peggy Catlin. We have Secretary Michael Guzman. We have Director Bob Broom.
Have I missed, Mr. Kroll, any other board members? All right. For the record, I see that we have six
committee directors present.
Now I'd like to open the public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish
to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your mobile
phone. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you'd
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. All right, are there any hands raised or anybody that have indicated like
to speak to via the phone, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Committee Chair Whitmore. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office.
At this time, we have one individual who has raised his hand and indication of his desire to provide public
comment. That is Richard Bamber.
TROY WHITMORE: All right, Mr. Bamber, I got a little ahead of myself on the agenda. So you are the last
person that needs instructions. But I definitely want to make sure that we do that for the record and for
anybody else that may comment. So, Richard, you will be up in just a moment. Staff will unmute you when
it's your turn to speak. If you're dialed in again, dial star 6 to toggle for your mute settings.
And the disclaimer. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you
do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing. Comments can be
submitted to the Board Office at the following email address. rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. And
speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names and each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. All right, Mr. Bamber, thank you for your patience. The floor is yours.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi, good evening. Can you hear me OK?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, we can.
RICHARD BAMBER: Good. It's Richard Bamber, Greater Denver Transit. Good evening, everybody. Really
nice to see on the agenda there's a discussion item against what seems to be an unfortunate incident that
occurred on the A line on April the 7th. The press reports say what they are. We've made some comments
in a letter you guys have.
There were previous O&S committees where you'd have a major incident and this committee would never
even discuss them. You'd wonder what was going on. We would scratch our heads with that. So it's nice to
see the reaction. And that's kind of the thrust of what it is. I'll defer. No doubt staff have something to say
about the incident, so we'll listen to what they have to say with interest.
Without hammering this next subject home too much, I do need to circle back. This committee last month
did collectively come to the wrong decision on the service changes, and that is with the notable exception
of Director Ruscha. All it is, I'm going to repeat what we've said, your votes really do matter. Let's think back
whatever you have to do individually, collectively, and say that if you guys had voted no at the time, we
could have prevented a lot of outcry. We could have started making the changes that needed to be made
earlier, and I think we'd have given everybody a much easier, easier ride over this whole incident.

That said, we remain pleased that the changes were walked back. But we do urge service planning and
staff to monitor the effects of the withdrawal of some of these early light rail services, as they do affect
people trying to get to work for early shifts. Thank you very much.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bamber-- I was unmuted-- for your comments. We always
appreciate them. Mr. Kroll, I do not see any other hands raised. Do you see any in queue?
JACK KROLL: Director Whitmore, Jack Kroll again. I do not see any additional attendees who have raised
their hand in indication that they desire to provide public comment.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you very much. As Mr. Bamber mentioned, we did receive a letter from GTD
earlier today. And you all received that letter. Is there other correspondence that need to be recorded in the
minutes for the record?
JACK KROLL: Director Whitmore, did not see any additional correspondence other than that which was
provided by Greater Denver Transit and has been previously circulated.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much, sir. I will declare the public comment portion of the
meeting adjourned. We will move on now to information item C, information from external entities. We have
one external entity report from Denver Transit Operators, Denver Transit Partners, commonly known as
DTO/DTP Regarding the April 7, 2024, A line service disruption. With that, I would like to call on GM and
CEO Debra Johnson to begin the information and introduce the speakers that are here this evening. Madam
CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, to members of the committee,
and all that are virtually assembled. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. Before us tonight, we
have our colleagues who are part of our concessionaire agreement with Denver Transit Partners and
Denver Transit Operators recognizing on April 7 we had an unfortunate circumstance where there was
severe impact as it relates to our commuter rail service delivery on the A line that occurred.
Recognizing the way this information was brought to us, quite naturally, we met with our colleagues at
Denver Transit Partners and Denver Transit Operators and requested that they come before this body to
explain the circumstances surrounding that service disruption. This evening we are joined by Doug Allen,
who is with the Denver Transit Partners, Paul Kenney with Denver Transit Operators, as well as Nate
Morgan. In addition, I'd like to acknowledge Mike Millage, who serves as our Senior Manager of Rail
Contracted Services who liaises with our concessionaire, and also Dave Jensen is on the call, who serves
as the AGM of rail.
At this juncture, I will yield the floor to Mr. Allen to commence with a presentation. I would like to note as
well that it is my intention to have our colleagues from DTP/DTO be present at the board meeting in person
to further follow up, recognizing there are several elements in which we're working with our partners on to
ensure that we do not have an unfortunate circumstance, as we did on April 7 reoccur without putting in
some mitigation measures. With that, I will yield the floor to Mr. Allen. Thank you very much.
TROY WHITMORE: Proceed, Mr. Allen
DOUG ALLEN: Thank you. Let me see if that works. Can you hear that? How about now?
TROY WHITMORE: We can hear you. Thank you. Now we can't. We had you briefly.

DOUG ALLEN: I'm sorry, let me try it again. This is not my forte, by the way. I'm Doug Allen. I'm the Project
Director for the Denver Transit Partners. We are the concessionaire for the Denver Eagle Project, which is
comprised of the three lines, A line, B line, and G line, and all the facilities associated with operating those
lines.
I'm joined here today, as Debra mentioned, with Nate Morgan, who is the technical director for DTP, and
Paul Kenney, who's the General Manager for Denver Transit operators. DTO is our subcontractor for all the
functions related to the operation and maintenance of the A, B, and G Line commuter rail lines and is here
to provide you with a briefing of the incident and to address any questions that you might have relative to
that. Thank you.
PAUL KENNEY: Hello, my name is Paul Kenney. I'm the General Manager of Denver Transit Operators.
Thank you, Debra, Doug, and Chair Whitmore. On Sunday, April 7 at 1:46 PM, commuter rail trip 179
heading eastbound from Union Station to Denver airport experienced an en route failure caused by a
propulsion issue.
The train came to a stop half mile west of the Ulster Street crossing and had 43 passengers, no ADA on
board, who were then on the train for the next two hours. Towards the end of the incident, the passengers
initiated a self evacuation, which DTO and the transit security specialist who was on board then facilitated
by deploying the emergency ladder.
DTO's management of the incident was unacceptable, very out of character for our DTO team, and I echo
the apologies that at least we've expressed here for inconveniencing the passengers. The overarching
cause of the two hour duration was an over prioritization of effort to resolving the train's propulsion system
defect and a resulting disregard for the passengers' consideration.
Particular shortfalls that contributed to the time frame over which passengers were inconvenienced include
not calling for a bus from RTD to retrieve the passengers earlier in the incident, a delayed transition in
incident management from troubleshooting to facilitating a passenger evacuation, delayed and abbreviated
notifications to our DTP, DTO, and RTD stakeholders, and inadequate announcements to the passengers.
The impact of those shortfalls would have been mitigated or eliminated through better adherence to DTO's
Standard Operating Procedures or SOPs. For instance, closer adherence to the SOP for evacuation of a
passenger train prompts a team to be prepared to evacuate after 30 minutes of the initial event and would
have resulted in more expeditious contact with RTD bus operations.
Additionally, the SOP for incident and emergency notifications includes a contact list, and placing the calls
to all on that list would have informed stakeholders and offered more resources to contribute to the incident
management and resolving it earlier. The customer service standards prescribed in operators and the
control center's personnel's process for keeping passengers informed. And though announcements were
made, the end result of the self evacuation is reason enough to conclude the communication of the
passengers should have been more robust.
DTO leadership provide retraining to all involved in the incident. The operations control center personnel
were retrained on the aforementioned SOPs, evacuation of the passenger train, and the incident emergency
notifications. The train operators received a rules blitz from our team regarding announcements to
passengers in the event of a stopped and stranded train. Further, tabletop drills with passenger centric
problem sets will be incorporated into DTO's already existing monthly tabletop drill schedule.

So what would normally be business as usual and a high quality experience for the passengers had a far
different result on Sunday the 7th. I and DTO are committed to upholding our high standard of service and
will learn from the unfortunate outcome of this particular incident to drive more reasonable results. If the
committee has time within the schedule here, can I entertain a few questions?
TROY WHITMORE: I certainly think that we would have a bit of time. We do have one item on the agenda
that we would like to get to before one of our staff members has to depart, but this is very important. I find
your explanation of the situation and the remedies satisfactory. I know you're all embarrassed and it's a
difficult situation. And I feel for passengers that maybe missed a flight or had anxiety or things of that nature
and feel fairly confident that we will move ahead and this will not happen again.
So I appreciate all three of you being here. It's very important, and we'll certainly appreciate your further
input or enlightenment at our full Board meeting coming up later in the month. With that, I do see that
Director Harwick has his hand raised. The floor is yours, sir.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. And I appreciate you all being here today. I'm just curious, how have you all
compensated the passengers of the train?
PAUL KENNEY: Chair, Director, we do not have a policy towards reimbursing passengers that may be
inconvenienced. And so we'll continue to stand by that. Either the screen is frozen, sir, or your face is held
there.
TROY WHITMORE: I appreciate that. I'm just thinking sometimes it comes across visually as not doing
anything. But I appreciate the question and think maybe there is an opportunity for something to happen
there, but that may be an internal matter between RTD and you all. So good question, though, Director
Harwick. Director Davidson, the floor is yours.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate it. Mr. Kenney and team, thank you for being here. It
means a lot for you to be here and be accountable. We certainly appreciate that a great deal. I had just a
few questions on the standard operating procedures that you referenced. It sounds in large part, the
resolution to this is doubling down or retraining on the existing standard operating procedures.
I'm curious if you could touch on what the standard operating procedure is for. You noted that there was a
delay in calling for a bus. Can you just touch upon what that existing standard operating procedure is in
terms of when a bus would be called and then touch on when a bus was called in this instance and whether
you've made any adjustments to those standard operating procedures?
PAUL KENNEY: Thank you for the questions, Director Davidson. The process that the operations control
center should have taken would be to start with being prepared to evacuate the train within 30 minutes.
And so one of the opportunities to evacuate the train would have been to a bus that we would have brought
adjacent to the alignment. What that means, in answer to your question about when should the bus be
called, is the bus should have been called effectively within the rest of the notifications and as the time
would allow as you're dialing all the different phone numbers that bus ops would have been called very
early in the incident management.
At first, simply to report that we have a stranded train and we may need support and to gather an idea of
what response time that RTD bus ops could generate so that we can incorporate that into our planning for
the passengers and whether that is evacuation or rescue train or what opportunity we would have to remove

the passengers from the incident. And then the bus ops was called very late in the incident when we realized
that the dispatched rescue train was not going to be the best option for a better outcome.
And then you had a question on SOP. So regarding the SOPs to guide the operations control center, I see,
despite how poor this particular outcome was, very little opportunity for them to be revised to drive a better
outcome. Because the real nature of why it goes poorly is due to the poor adherence to the SOPs. Despite
that, we are, and this is still somewhat fresh, but we look at many of our procedures as we go through
document review processes, and this will be no exception. Does that answer your question, sir?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It does. Thank you. And, Mr. Chair, if I may, just one brief follow up on this and then
happy to hold other questions until the end of the month.
TROY WHITMORE: Proceed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. So just related to that, in terms of-- so understand that the standard operating
procedures were not followed by personnel and that's what led to an undesirable situation. Is there
redundancy in terms of the notifications? In other words, for example, if you can see that the train is not
moving back at the dispatch center, are there ways to call in and check in with operators and personnel?
Are there essentially escalation paths for ensuring that procedures are met, communications are followed,
et cetera?
PAUL KENNEY: If I understand your question correctly. So the first onus is on the operator to report to the
control center that he or she has an en route failure. That was done. The OCC then between the dispatcher
assigned or other support personnel have, if you will, their own embedded redundancy to employ the
standard operating procedures. Beyond that, the notifications that I mentioned that were not adequate to
the larger team is, if you will, greater capacity to ask questions and to offer, whether it be suggestions or
the guidance of let's do this, just go forth.
And then lastly, I would mention that a transportation supervisor was dispatched to the scene. And in
following the incident, he certainly went about his business very diligently. But that would be another layer
of redundancy, in answer to your question, where an opportunity to make a call that would have shortened
the time frame the passengers were on board could have been leveraged.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the answers. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, sir. Director Sloan, the floor is yours.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Well, thank you for the floor. And thank you, Mr. Kenney, for being here. You gave a
complete description of what happened, if dry. Would you say that the news reports of this incident were
essentially correct?
PAUL KENNEY: There are some factual elements to the Denver Gazette. Article. In general, the timeline
is relatively accurate, Director Sloan. Some of the embellishment in there I really can't speak to. And of
course, I wasn't on the train to know what rhetoric within the compartment drove some of the behavior or
the feeling that the passengers or Ms. Whiteside, who was featured in it, experienced. But I really can't
dispute the timeline very much. And that's certainly one of the things I'm most concerned about that
contributes to the self-evacuation at the end of the incident. Does that answer your question?

MARJORIE SLOAN: It does answer that question. However, it does appear from the witnesses that there
was certainly, to say the least, abrupt treatment of the passengers and they were kept uninformed of what
was happening. Would you agree with that general description of the incident?
PAUL KENNEY: I agree that given that the passenger behavior resulted in them taking destiny into their
own hands that they weren't kept well enough informed. We did make announcements over the intercom,
if you will, within the passenger compartment, and the transit security specialist was at times within the
passenger compartment to engage with passengers. But it really doesn't matter at this point to me whether
it would have been adequate or not in retrospect, because I don't find that it was adequate since people
self-evacuated.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. And just one last perhaps suggestion. I understand you would need legal
advice on this. But have you considered issuing an apology and an explanation of lessons learned to the
media about this incident?
PAUL KENNEY: I will take it away as a homework assignment and echo your note, Director, that I'd probably
seek counsel before we put something into the open forum. Likewise, we work through DTP, who
represents public relations within the Concession Agreement, and then of course, work through the public
relations on the RTD side. But I will take it away as a note.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you very much. That's all I have. And again, I appreciate your being here.
PAUL KENNEY: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Sloan. The floor is yours. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good evening, everyone. I have several comments and
thoughts, and I'm going to try to keep it tempered. I don't have the patience of Director Sloan. But I do want
to be very clear, this is not just a public relations matter. This is a safety issue. Staff did not have control of
what was going on inside of a train. And to suggest that passengers, whom are our customers, acted in
such a way because of something they did versus a failure on DTP's part I think sets the wrong framing.
I have a few other questions and comments, but as you can tell, I'm going to calm down. What I have heard
in this presentation so far does not meet my expectations. Not as a member of this board, not as a member
of this committee. And so I'm asking you politely to please consider your framing. What happened was
unfortunate. It was entirely preventable. But we do not blame other people for being human when we make
mistakes that we made. Thank you. And I will yield while I take a breath.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Mr. Kenney, if you would like to reply and then I will open
up for questions from non-committee board members if there are any. So proceed, Mr. Kenney.
PAUL KENNEY: Director Ruscha, I appreciate the comment and I don't disagree with your comments in
that I'm definitely not attempting to blame any passengers. And it's more in the management of the incident
and the distribution of information where we could have worked with the passengers better and maybe or
ideally it's not the same outcome.
I concur that safety of the passengers is our first priority. It's how it is. That priority is referenced within the
passenger train emergency preparedness plan. The guides are response to emergencies for us. In fact,
their safety over convenience and comfort. And I appreciate the comment and we'll certainly internalize that

and work on the framing that doesn't point to the passengers as a part of the problem, if you will. Thank
you. Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you. Are there any other members that wish to address the gentleman,
including Mr. Kenney? Otherwise, I will give Director Ruscha a second bite. OK, Director Ruscha, the floor
is again yours.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Also thank you, Mr. Kenney, for your response. I should add
that also includes operators as well. You did mention SOPs. And pardon me, I'm hard of hearing, so I was
trying to track along with the closed captioning services that we have.
Just for clarification, can you just kind of repeat maybe in the most layman's terms where are those SOPs
broke down regarding the operator, our second individual on the train, and supervisor? Can you help us
understand, again, just, just walk through it again very plainly what happened there?
Because I also have a concern, and this can be any governmental body, any employer, when something
like this is preventable, that we also point fingers at front line workers or individuals who were not in a
position to, as I said, prevent the preventable. Generally, accidents are preventable. So if you could just
walk us through a little bit about the SOPs that broke down on that train and what training you provide and
how often. That would be very helpful for me to understand. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Mr. Kenney.
PAUL KENNEY: Thank you. The notification back from the operator to the control center occurs very soon
after the train comes to a stop. The notifications that the OCC, abbreviating here the Operations Control
Center, owes to a list of people did not occur at all quickly. It did not include the OCC calling to the RTD
bus operations to learn whether a bus would be available and when to deploy to adjacent to the right of
way. And that would offer one avenue towards evacuating the passengers were that to be necessary.
And what ensues is an effort to troubleshoot the propulsion issue, thinking that it is something that can be
resolved probably in a much quicker amount of time. As you say, dealing with humans, the humans got
wrapped up in that. And we didn't have the employed structure, given a lack of notifications, for some people
to aid them a little bit better and work to seek a place for the passengers to go quicker.
The train proved not to be the place where we wanted to keep the passengers, as we were not able to
rescue the train with the passengers. And that could have been learned earlier and a decision made quicker
to alight the passengers, evacuate the passengers by other means and send them on their way, though
late, as opposed to having them be a part of the eventual emergency that was the evacuation.
Immediate efforts in the time frame since the 7th with the control center and operators, and as you'd expect,
a great deal of management discussion, was around the evacuation of the train and the incident and
emergency notifications procedure which structure the notifications that I mentioned. So retraining to the
SOPs in the immediate aftermath.
Further, aside from annual rules refresher for anyone that is rules qualified, we also do spot drills, if you
will, to some extent, but we structure an actual scenario around multiple departments' participation in a
tabletop. And as I say, that occurs monthly.
And though I can think of certain scenarios even in the last several months that did regard the passengers
as a part of the problem set, we will as a part of upcoming of those monthly tabletops to incorporate

something a little bit more challenging on the care for, handling, convenience, and/or if it were to come to
this evacuation of the passengers in those tabletops. I think I hit most, if not all, of your questions, Director.
If I did miss something, my regrets. I yield the floor to you again.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Mr. Chair, if I may.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, go ahead.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. Recognizing this is also my district, a lot of these are my passengers,
including DIA workers. And I frequently drive through these intersections at which the A line operates. I
appreciate you let me having another bite at the apple or eating half of the orchard. You just shook your
head at half the orchard? Well, I'm going to go until you cut me off, Mr. Chair, but I think there's Robert's
Rules for that.
So I actually do have a follow up question. Regarding the OCC and individuals who are responsible for that
communications, can you please advise us of, first of all, are they represented workers? And what kind of
training do they need to be qualified for? What does that training look like?
PAUL KENNEY: The dispatchers and ops coordinator that work in the OCC are represented workers by
the Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen. The training for a new dispatcher promoted or hired into that
position first includes training under the operating rules that I mentioned, as well as a fairly lengthy, if you
will, side by side on the job training with qualified dispatchers under the supervision of a OCC supervisor
with a final check off, if you will, by my OCC manager that takes the input of the dispatchers and the
supervisors under which the student dispatcher, if you will, had trained.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. Sorry, Mr. Chair. May I just dialogue so we can go faster?
TROY WHITMORE: Please proceed with dialogue. That would be great. Thanks.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, sir. Thank you. And then on the training component, I think if I caught you,
you said at least once a year. Do you have internal reviews? Do you have an audit that's checking to make
sure that folks have received training? I know some of this is regulated, but I guess, human people make
mistakes. It sounds like there were several mistakes made, right?
So maybe that could just be a follow up. That's something I would really like to understand. Just, again,
recognizing what happened and how there was a series of unfortunate incidents, for those of you who read
Lemony Snicket as a kid. So maybe that was more of a comment than a question, but if you'd like to address
that, the frequency, who approves the training procedures, or how that works, that would be very helpful
for me. And then I do have a comment and maybe it is also a bit of a request for our GM CEO.
So I do appreciate very much this presentation. We have had other incidents in which O&S or even the
entire board has not had such presentation. Some of them included DTO/DTP. There have been times
where I've personally had safety questions related to gates. And so what I feel like what happened here,
thanks to leadership of some members of the board who raised this, is that what we're having here is almost
a corrective action plan discussion. And we want to make sure this never happens again. So I do appreciate
that and I recognize that.
However, this is only as going to be as good as a follow up. And so I'm just asking as a member of the
board, and I think maybe this might be more for our GM CEO, to assure us that we do have appropriate

oversight or that we can be reasonably certain something like this does not happen again. And if it does,
there are appropriate procedures in place.
We're not just placing this on front line staff, but we have backup plans A, B, C, and D, particularly when it
comes to passengers who aren't just going to miss a train, but they might have a mobility need or a medical
need to get off that train and get somewhere else. That was one of the more concerning things that I read
from the various reports, both in the news and circulating online, and that were related to me personally.
So the first was regarding the audit or who approves these SOPs. How often do you audit to make sure
you're doing them? And this second is just a request of our GM CEO to see if we can't come back in the
future or get some updated data just to ensure that what we said we were going to do actually did happen.
And again, I recognize the tenor of my voice is a little tense, and I do apologize for that. And I apologize to
you, Mr. Kenney. You're just doing your job. But again, as a person who represents this area, including a
lot of individuals who use this train to get to and from work and heard about it quite a bit, it would greatly
alleviate the concerns that I had coming into this meeting. Thank you very much. And then I will yield my
time.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Go ahead, Mr. Kenney.
PAUL KENNEY: The SOPs that you mentioned, and I'll address that perhaps first, are amongst many
different enclosures that are part of the emergency and incident management plan. The passenger train
emergency preparedness plan is an FRA approved document that basically flows through the rest of the
documents, including SOPs, that are leveraged to manage an emergency.
That has followed a course, the DTO's own creation of those different plans and SOPs, which we likewise
review regularly as a part of our document review process. And then within an audit function, we have a
quality management program where we set about a certain audit program. We can't audit everything in a
particular calendar year, but identify certain efforts that are worthy to audit.
And given the attention the double checks, if you will, on doing what we say we're going to do, I haven't
leaped to doing it specifically for this, because we need to have something then that we would audit in the
way of an event. But I can appreciate that the nature of the comment and appreciate the question. I believe
that answers most, at least from my end, Chair, and I yield.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Kenney. Director Ruscha, CEO Johnson is prepared to make
comments as we close this matter. So with your permission, I would like to proceed with that. Maybe your
item will be taken care of with that. If not, I'll give you another bite. Can we proceed? Go ahead.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I appreciate that, sir. You don't need my permission as a chair of this body. And I did
not recognize that GM CEO Johnson was prepared to speak. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. And she absolutely is. So GM CEO Johnson, the floor is now yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Chair Whitmore, and thank you, Mr. Kenney, for your comments
and being present this evening. For everyone's edification, I want you to know that we work in a
collaborative and partnership manner with Denver Transit Operators and Denver Transit Partners. I believe
Mr. Kenney spoke to safety plans and emergency management protocols that are overseen by the Federal
Railroad Administration. All of those programs in which we submit operating being the railroad or being the
owner of record basically is done in tandem with DTO/DTP.

With that as a backdrop, as we move forward, recognizing that I had the opportunity to convene these
gentlemen, along with members of my team, being the Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations, and
the Senior Manager of Rail Contractor Services. Mike Millage. There is a myriad of next steps in which we
are going to pursue. Recognizing that no one likes to be in this position, whereby there was a greater
emphasis on a rescue train versus people, considering that we are people moving people, that's where the
main aspect rests.
As members of this team can attest, during the course of the conversations that we had, quite naturally, my
emphasis was on, what did we do relative to our standard operating procedures, ensuring that there were
audible messages being provided, and when in doubt, reach out, being that a bus bridge should have been
instituted. Recognizing that we are all professionals and they concede that point.
This is an unfortunate misstep. Recognizing that it is an unfortunate misstep, there are certain elements in
tenets, terms and conditions within the contract, or I should say concessionaire agreement, that we are
revisiting. Mr. Millage has requested a myriad of different elements. And I know there were questions posed
relative to operational aspects, and I understand the nature of this board's inquiry. Considering that the
contractual agreement that we have, staff is quite capable of addressing those matters, as we have done
previously.
And I am very amenable to bringing forward information that would be helpful and conducive for this board's
edification as well as we go forward. So recognizing I was intentional in the sense of inviting back our
colleagues from DTO/DTP at the April 30 meeting, because there would be a period in time in which they
would have had an opportunity to assess and mitigate critical elements that would put them in a better place
to address some of the questions about mitigation and remedial efforts going forward.
So with that, I assure you that the team and I are taking this matter seriously, as well as our colleagues,
recognizing that we're in this agreement together for a couple more decades. We cannot afford to have
greater missteps because, as I shared with the gentleman, the vehicles are graded at a Regional
Transportation District rolling stop. And we understand collectively that the vast public are looking at RTD
as if we have not been providing a level of service which we pride ourselves in doing and making lives
better through connections.
So with that, you have my commitment. And I am certain that I have the commitment of Mr. Allen, Mr.
Morgan, and Mr. Kenney in conjunction with the members of my team that we are going to do everything
humanly possible to ensure that this will not occur in the same manner in which it did. So with that, Mr.
Chair, I yield the floor. And thank you for this opportunity to provide those closing remarks.
TROY WHITMORE: And those closing remarks are greatly appreciated, as was the dialogue with the
directors and the representatives from DTO and DTP. Thank you for being here, and we look forward to
hearing from you in a couple of weeks at the main board meeting with new information. And certainly we
may have some new questions for you as well.
So with that, we will move to the next item on the agenda. However, I've been neglectful in announcing that
Director Rosenthal, our seventh member of the committee, arrived after many technical difficulties at 6:01.
So he has been with us for a while. So welcome, Paul. We're darn glad to see you.
So recommended actions, Item D. [CLEARS THROAT] Excuse me. There's one recommended action on
the agenda this evening. It's the Allied Universal Security Services contract third option year for the Board
of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, GM CEO, or her designee to execute the third

and final option year of the existing security services contract with Allied Universal Security Services, also
known AUS, including amendments discussed below for a total cost not to exceed $21,012,715. Do we
have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved, Sloan.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Do we have a second?
JAIME LEWIS: Second, Lewis.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, sir. So I heard Director Sloan with the motion and Director Lewis with the
second. I would now like to ask Dr. Joel Fitzgerald, Chief of Police and Emergency Management, to present
this item to our committee.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Chair Whitmore, thank you. You did a fine job summarizing it, but I will do my best to
outdo you here. So we are asking, again, this is our second time presenting before the Operations and
Safety Committee and ultimately the Board members that are attending the meeting as well, to recommend
to our General Manager that we extend our contract by one year. It's our third and final option, as you know.
And our security models beget upon a hybrid between police officers and security officers. As we move
towards transferring the security officers, some of the security officer positions, I should say, to that of sworn
police officers, we will need this third and final contract to do so, to cover us until we're able to have the
appropriate amount of manpower to cover the system.
So as you will read, the initial contract term for this began in July of '19. That's when we first filed the
procurement process for this. But it expired on June 30, 2022. Shortly, I guess you could say, before I
arrived at RTD. I came to you in 2022, asked for the first extension, and then again last year for a second.
This third and final year, again, only extends from July 21 to June 30 of next year.
The services that Allied Universal covers are summarized below. Our critical infrastructure, the security
services that we provide at Denver Union Station, Civic Center, Downtown Boulder, Blake Street, and other
locations. One of the things that you'll see in the amended recommendations are to add more fixed locations
as places where we place security personnel.
They conduct fare enforcement on rail and bus and vehicles. Our security officers do it. Our police officers
do it as well. But we need that continuous engagement and ability to educate customers with the force
multiplier of having the security officers. That is an ongoing process for us, and we've made numerous
strides in making more contacts and doing more fare checks.
Our patrol services. The security guards also cover our RTD facilities and platforms. I said that they do rail
checks. I should say also that the patrol checks at our facilities, our bus shelters, and our park and rides
are also a huge component of what our security officers bring to the table. We place them strategically
around the system, and it enhances the presence of security not only on a day to day basis, but in any
event that we have events.
Several times we've referenced and over the last few months the Taylor Swift concert, the Denver
championship in basketball, Broncos games, and such. So that crowd control is critical. And much of that
is done with this hybrid approach. We know we operate as second crew members pursuant to federal
mandates. Those second crew members are on our rail system. And they provide ticket checks and
compliance and help us meet on time performance standards.

So pursuant to this recommendation, again, we are hoping that you can authorize the GM CEO to exercise
this third year. Allied has performed at a satisfactory level. And the amendments below are quarterly
reductions in their staffing hours, beginning in quarter two of this contract year, resulting in an overall 31%
reduction in contracted security services by June 30 of 2025. So that's a layered approach of us reducing
the number of security hours that we are relying upon with Allied Universal to fulfill the contract.
The addition of, as I spoke to earlier, security services at RTD fixed facilities, being able to work inside East
Metro, [INAUDIBLE], Boulder, Platte Street, and walk around those facilities. Our operators have indicated
to us the need to have security officers at fixed locations. This is one of the efforts that we're making to
meet that request.
Pursuant to what our calculations have told us about Allied Security and where we were in meeting median,
I should say, hourly billing rates, we came far under, I think you can see. I mean, $27 an hour now what
we're asking for, we were at $23 hourly billing. We were asking for 43.72, and we were at 39.10. And that's
just for our armed services.
This is an effort to make sure that Allied is able to fulfill their end of the contract by being able to hire. They
have a hiring issue. They have been able to fulfill our contract, but we feel that by normalizing the rates that
we are paying Allied Security, we're able to better ensure that we're meeting both ends, not only the second
crew member, but the public safety aspect of it.
And another part of this is we're asking to bifurcate the contract. Mike Millage, who was on earlier, we've
approached Allied and they're willing to allow the management of the second crew member contract to be
done under Mike Millage's crew and the security services being done and controlled by the police
department. That's crucial for us, because as I've explained in previous meetings, it was very hard for us to
calculate who exactly were going to be available to us for purposes of public safety. And it didn't allow for
planning.
So the financial impact of this, again, as you read, Mr. Chair, is $21,012,715. $10,506,357 are accounted
for in our 2024 budget. The remaining funds or the balance, I should say, require incorporation into the
2025 budget. Our prayer here is that you will move this forward and we can bring this to the full board.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Chief. We do appreciate the presentation. I see Director Lewis
has his hand raised. Proceed, Mr. Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Chief Fitzgerald, for all the work you do. I think for the
most part, I think people are looking for more of a presence from your department, and I think that's very
welcome. Safety's become such a big issue. And the expression about how people feel safe is different for
every person.
By the end of the summer, it appears you're going to have 90 officers under your purview. You're going to
have about 12 social outreach people that work with the homeless and actually go out there and work with
people. And you also have the security, the Allied.
My question is, how do you measure success? By the end of the summer, it seems like you'd have a pretty
good staffing. And to be able to know if we're successful through maybe some exit surveys, some customer
satisfaction surveys, and actually some statistics of lowering physical incidences and other would really
provide this board a better chance to assess what will be needed in 2025.

Obviously, we just can't keep adding to your staff until infinity. There has to be a point where we feel like,
wow, we've really made a dent. And maybe we don't. Maybe in the middle of November, we find out that
we only lowered those things by 5%. That's not acceptable. However, if it's lowered by 20% to 25%, we
can feel comfortable that we did our job and that your staff is an adequate level. So how are you going to
measure success this year?
JOEL FITZGERALD: So you've thrown a fastball into my bailiwick, so to speak. Strategic planning is a
strength of mine. We do have strategic goals and action items within the police department where we are
setting-- where we look at things like staffing issues in terms of workload. So the workload determines how
many police officers we believe that we need. And it's not an arbitrary figure.
We don't just compare ourselves to-- I'm famous for comparing ourselves to SEPTA, for example, because
the total area we're covering mirrors SEPTA to a certain degree, but it's different spatially and we have a
different-- there's a big difference in the way our populations are not necessarily piled upon each other like
SEPTA is. So we can't just compare apples to apples when looking at another agency.
We actually have to look at our call volume, what it is we're providing to our customer, what it is we believe,
what percentage of our time should be dedicated to community policing and proactive policing. We look at
75% of our time handling calls, filling out paperwork, doing the back end things that police officers have to
do pursuant to responding to calls.
But then 25% of that time, we feel we need to be in the community, on the platforms, being present and
being accessible to our customer and being able to talk with our customers and build the confidence that
they need in our organization and know that they're within a welcoming transit environment.
So we do have goals and action items. We have, I would say, and I'm pulling this number right off the top
of my head, but upwards of about 126 goals and action items that go through our commanders, our
sergeants, and our patrol officers. So there are expectations and expected levels of performance. And
those goals and action items are constantly reviewed as to where we are in that process.
Incidentally, I brought our security related calls for service are up 11.9%. Some may say, well, are your
calls up because there's more crime on the system? Sometimes when calls are up, that is demonstrative
of the confidence that people are gaining within your organization to call and know that things will be
handled properly.
We're proud of the fact that as we put more police officers into the system, more people are telling us and
informing us about things that may have been neglected in the past. That instead people went home angry
with RTD or angry with our police department and felt unsafe. So now what we're doing is promoting that
feeling of safety by actively pursuing what the problems are in every location around the alignment, looking
at the entire transit environment, and understanding that we're going to now have the ability to push police
officers out into each one of the sectors and to have someone that's going to be personally responsible for
each one of those areas being our commanders.
So our reports, our actual crime rate or our crime reports are down 1.87%. But again, we don't rest on our
laurels and say just because in the short term we're doing well and we don't need to push forward and
adequately staff. We need to, pursuant to the APTA recommendations, still move towards transitioning from
security to licensed and post certified police officers. I hope I answered both of your questions.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.

TROY WHITMORE: Proceed.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. I just wanted to augment Chief's responses as well in
reference to what he and his command staff and his entire police force are doing with the key performance
indicators and the goals that they have outlined overarchingly specifically to our customer value and our
community survey, as well as our employee survey.
There are specific questions in which we ask about one's personal safety and security. That's a barometer
as well as we utilize, because we revamped those questions to specifically talk about one's own personal
safety and security. Hence, that's how we landed in the place where we have a laser like focus on the
welcoming transit environment.
And I can just tell you as well, in reference to what Chief Fitzgerald is doing, along with his command staff,
that we have received notable acknowledgment and have had various transit properties reach out to us. LA
Metro just reached out a couple of days ago relative to the pilot program that we've initiated.
Yesterday when I had the opportunity to testify before the House T&I Subcommittee on railroads, pipelines,
and hazards, a question was posed relative to what kind of police presence and security that we had on
our system. And I could speak from a place of positivity relative to having individuals at the ready and our
deployment status. So I just wanted to ensure that you all had an understanding of what we're doing and
how we're leaning into the moment by trying to mitigate factors that often spill into public transit as we're
interwoven into the fabric of the communities that we serve. So thank you for the opportunity to add that
additional information to the Chief's comments.
TROY WHITMORE: And thank you, Ms. Johnson. We are on a tight timeline for the next presentation, and
we have some good news to talk about. So I just wanted to let everybody know that I'm going to push you
hard to get this wrapped up and get to a vote, if at all possible. So I see Director Ruscha, please be as brief
as possible so we can get to our HR report. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair, I can vote no today and we can have questions at the board meeting if
preferred. This is a pretty significant contract. Questions were raised when it came before us as discussion,
and I think the Chief is trying to respond to them. But if we've got a tight timeline, we can kick it to the end
of the month, sir, and I'll yield.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, if you have questions, then proceed.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So this is more related to the commuter aspect. And I think a memo
went out on this earlier, and I could not remember. But for Allied Security that is on our commuter rail, are
they all armed? Some of them armed? So, that, I think, would just be a question for the Chief.
And then you did say that they're meeting expectations. And I'm not suggesting that they're not meeting
whatever expectations we set as an agency. But I do have a question, because this is pretty common in
other contracts that we have. There are contractual obligations. And, of course, I'm assuming with this one
it relates to staff and maybe some other things. But do we have anything written down in which-- how should
I say this?
Do we set expectations on paper, whether it's part of a contract or adjacent to, that says, and this is how
we know you are performing well, just relative to all the things that you talked about in the benefits. And
then is there a scoring process? And they have sort of-- and again, I'm not suggesting, Chief Fitzgerald,
that your assessment is incorrect. I just know that, again, with other contracts, that is a process that we

have. And I think it's kind of the other side of what Director Lewis was saying regarding how do we know if
we're being successful. So those are two questions.
And then my third is just more of a comment. It's a bit of a feedback that I've seen it and I've heard it from
constituents and just others who are writing, and it's the customer service aspect, in the, I don't know if it's
the Board report, the attachment, it references assisting customers with directions and such. And I just think
that is an area in which Allied could improve.
And so maybe there's maybe a knowledge breakdown or a gap. And so for me personally, that is just
something that I've seen it, I've experienced it, and I've heard it enough that I think we could improve in that
area if it is, in fact, an expectation of Allied Security as they provide services for us. Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: So I'm sorry, Mr. Chair.
TROY WHITMORE: Proceed.
JOEL FITZGERALD: So, yes, we do have expectations that we level from Allied. Part of the guardrails, so
to speak, that Allied has to live by as if they don't meet performance expectations or staffing expectations,
people are removed from the contract. When people are removed from the contract, that means that Allied
loses money, because Allied is unable to then staff.
And when they're unable to staff pursuant to the contract, they are billed in liquidated damages. So we are
able to give them direct feedback when we're dissatisfied with an outcome of Allied. And it affects them and
their ability to be able to staff, again, the contract because we can dictate that they immediately remove
someone from our contract.
How do we measure satisfaction? Well, that's a bit of a loaded question, because satisfaction can be
measured a ton of ways. But I will tell you that I measure satisfaction by the feedback that I get holistically
throughout the district. We overwhelmingly receive compliments for not only what Allied has begun to do
more of, and that is making proactive checks of stations, park and rides, and on the actual implements of
transportation well beyond what I received when I first started here. They come through the customer care
lines. They come through other department heads.
So the idea that we don't measure success, well, we do. We wouldn't have a strategic plan and we wouldn't
have goals and action items for everyone if we didn't. We have management within the police department
specifically looking at our staffing and what Allied is doing, investigating complaints about discourtesy and
other things. We investigate Allied complaints for discourtesy at the same level that we would investigate it
for a police officer.
I doubt many other police departments do it that way, but we do because we have a higher set of
expectations that we want for Allied to meet when they're interacting with customers, they are more visible,
they are doing a better job, and it is supported by the feedback that we get not only at one location or two
locations throughout the system, but many, many different locations in many different areas and many
different demographics.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And thank you, Dr. Chief Fitzgerald. I really appreciate that. And again, I hope you
realize the intent behind my question is just recognizing with other contracts at least in the past, that sort of

information would be given in terms of whatever goals or clear expectations had been set out before we
did a renewal or an extension. And so that's why I was just sort of asking a bit how that process works.
And again, I would just, again, strongly suggest, if not lightly beg, that we make sure. Because when folks
see Allied, they see us and they see you. They see you, Dr. Chief Fitzgerald. And I know that if someone
asks you for directions or a question about fare or how to get to A to B, I know they would do just fine. And
so I guess the question is-- maybe we can continue this conversation.
And I'm not knocking staff, the Allied staff, excuse me, if they don't have that level of knowledge that I think
that customers expect from our RTD staff. And so that's an area of improvement that I would like to see.
But maybe we can just take a look at just moving forward.
JOEL FITZGERALD: I think I can address that really quickly.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sure, sure.
JOEL FITZGERALD: The reason why we're asking for an increase in hourly rate is because Allied, although
they have a massive number of people that they can dedicate to contracts, we would like them to be able
to be very consistent with dedicating the same people over and over again. And when you get new people,
you may run into a situation or a one off where a director may walk up to an Allied person and ask them for
directions and they may not know, because they may be new employees.
So what we're doing is trying to assure ourselves that-- or ensure, I should say, that the Allied folks that we
have here are compensated at least within the 10% median. But also that when they're assigned to our
area, in particular police, that they're the same people that we're getting over and over again. That way we
can instill those things that you were talking about, the consistency that you are really hitting on. And overall,
they do a pretty good job at that.
However, we realized that we needed to tighten things up. And that's why you're seeing a contract that
adds a little money to the hourly rate to potentially improve the employee that we get and to make sure we
get better consistency and bifurcating the contract.
JOYANN RUSCHA: The other. Sorry, Mr. Chair. The other question I had about armed. I wasn't clear if all
of the Allied officers who are-- again, we're not federally mandated to have specifically security or armed
officers on our commuter rail. We're federally mandated to have what we call second man, second person.
But did you have a response to that question?
JOEL FITZGERALD: Yes. Yes, ma'am. The second crew members are traditionally those transit security
officers that are armed. They are trained to function as second crew members. The TSSs, is the Transit
Security Specialists, are normally the people that are newer to the job. So they're not the ones that are
given the specialized second crew member training. And they are most likely the persons that we see on
platforms in white shirts that don't have firearms. So they're, again, two separate levels of security officer
that we employ.
Again, this is an effort to obtain some degree of consistency with this last option year and to go into the
next procurement phase with any potential security provider that we may explore to be able to better define
what we need out of the next contract with a security company.

JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm so sorry, because I'm trying to-- I'm tracking with you and I have a habit of trying to
read lips and apparently now CART at the same time. But just for the commuter rail, we have a mix of
armed and unarmed you're saying?
JOEL FITZGERALD: Right.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, so commuter rail is all armed, but across the system it might be a mix. Is that-DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
TROY WHITMORE: Let me interrupt, Director Ruscha, because Debra Johnson, CEO, may have some
comments to help.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I do. Thank you very kindly. So I just want to qualify that we do have on our inline that
we directly operate, we do have what we qualify as conductors, as a second crew member pursuant to the
Federal Railroad Administration. Recognizing when our concessionaire agreement was put into effect with
DTO/DTP, there was a decision made at that time to actually leverage the Allied contract. Because from
my understanding, there was a need to ensure for expediency purposes that we did have a second crew
member and some of those second crew members are armed.
There is a precision-- excuse me, a provision in the contract where there are some unarmed TSSs on
commuter rail. So I just wanted to qualify that from a contractual vantage point, recognizing that I believe
there are some misunderstanding relative to the dialogue that was commencing. Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Yeah, thank you for clarifying that.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I will yield. Thank you, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much. I do not see any other hands up from committee
members. However, I've seen a very patient Director Guzman with his hand up and down several times,
and I would like to call on him for his comment or question.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. A really quick comment. Thank you for the dialogue. It's
unfortunate we won't get through everything tonight. I was looking forward to the other reports. But we will
get there soon. Chief Fitzgerald and Madam CEO, I have Federal Decatur Station in my district. It's a tough
spot. I'm through there a lot because I work on federal, and we've had a lot of issues there.
Given my reticence to vote in favor of the contract extension last year from some of the community feedback
that I got, but also seeing how this year has panned out, especially at federal indicator, which has been a
hotspot. I mean, let's be honest. A lot of social illicit activity goes on there every time I pass through on the
W, on the 31, to catch the 15L, to get home, to go into downtown, there's a lot of activity at that particular
bus stop and that train station.
And they have done an outstanding job of making sure that people are safe, clearing the track and the stop
itself, making sure that at night if the lights, for whatever reason, are not working, that they are there and
they're guiding people to the right directions. And so they have, in my humble estimation, for where in my
district, we need them the most done an outstanding job in one of the most difficult front line positions we
can put any of our security officers in.

And I know we are working with RTD police department for recruitment efforts and hiring and getting them
through academy, but I do need to vocally say that AUS has supported us in a way in that particular area
that is extremely important and has created a sense of safety and security that is not just a perceived sense
but an actual reality change to what was going on there in the previous couple of years. And so I know I'm
not a member of the committee, but I would encourage all of you to vote to advance this particular item to
the board, because I think that they are really needed right now.
And given everything that we've got going on, we can't afford to lose any ground on making sure that we
have a welcoming environment at one of our busiest bus stops. And it's not just there. I know they're working
in other spots and I see them first usually when I'm out and about before I see RTD PD. But again,
manpower, leveraging people, moving them around, I understand why. And so it's not any disrespect at all
to the RTD PD, but AUS is out there and they're doing the things and I've never had a negative interaction
with them. And that was my worry in prior years. So thank you. That's all I have.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you for that feedback.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. I'm sorry, Chief Fitzgerald. I do appreciate Michael's comments. We do
have our Chief People Officer in queue and we're really pushing her deadline. What I would like to do is
take the chair's prerogative to take a vote on this matter. We have a motion from Director Sloan, a second
from Director Lewis. Are there any no votes on this matter for the Allied Security third stage contract
amendment? All right, seeing no votes, we'll declare the motion passed on a vote of 7 to 0. Thank you all
very much.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: But move quickly to first discussion item. Chief People Officer Charlene Polege, who's
been extremely patient, and we want to move her through this agenda, because she's got some great news.
Charlene, proceed.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Great. Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. I appreciate Chair Whitmore and the
committee's tolerance of my schedule. Unfortunately, with the move from yesterday to today, I had a
[INAUDIBLE]. But I've managed to push it back. So I think we have enough time to get through. But I will
preface that by saying so long as [INAUDIBLE]. Is it hard to hear me? Can you hear me?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Ms. Polege, it's echoing. It's sort of difficult to make out your words.
TROY WHITMORE: If we could get you closer to wherever the microphone is, it would be good. It's pretty
distorted.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're on mute.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Here? How about that.
TROY WHITMORE: That seems to be a bit better. Proceed.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Excuse me, Mr. Chair. I'm sorry. If hearing people are having difficulty understanding
Ms. Polege, that also means that our captioner might also have that. So can we check in with the captioner?
Because I've been reading these captions and I'm pretty sure some of this is not quite what Ms. Polege just
said.

CHARLENE POLEGE: I said, oh goodness, can you hear me now?
TROY WHITMORE: That's a bit better.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Here I thought I was going to have complications with sharing my screen, but
apparently now my hockey puck, as I call it, the volume is not working well.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, you're better now. We don't see your screen, but I'm sure that's in progress.
CHARLENE POLEGE: That's in progress.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry. Excuse me. I have to. Mr. Chair, I'm pretty sure that Miss Polege just talked
about her coffee pot getting knocked over? Is that what just happened?
TROY WHITMORE: She did have a reference of coffee pot.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, because the caption say hockey puck. So if this meeting is not going to be
accessible to me, I will just need to exit, because [INAUDIBLE] many times. Can we just make sure that we
have an accessible meeting for 1/7 of this committee here? Because again, if the hearing folks-TROY WHITMORE: Director Ruscha, I get your point. We need you to be silent so we can get Charlene
adjusted here. And if it does not work, I assure you we will postpone this matter to another time when it is
able to hear, because we were struggling for a bit too. So let's test some other things and maybe Jack can
help her with the sound system and we'll proceed if it works. If it doesn't, we won't. Charlene, can you do
some more testing so we can check the closed captioning?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. How is my communication now?
TROY WHITMORE: Sounded good to me, but is it working for you, Director Ruscha? Go ahead and do a
test statement again, please, Charlene.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. Director Ruscha and for all committee members, is my communication clear?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Miss Polege, would recommend that you put your presentation in slide presentation
mode. Slide show mode.
CHARLENE POLEGE: I will do that too.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
CHARLENE POLEGE: I was hoping to just get my volume figured out first. How is that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: It's great. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: It sounds better here.
JACK KROLL: And I can confirm that the captions are matching what I am hearing.

TROY WHITMORE: Great, thank you. Let's proceed.
CHARLENE POLEGE: OK. So you're going to have an odd view of me, because all of my cameras, my
whole system has had to shift. But what's important is what I say, not what I look like. And so I'm here
before the committee to present the HR update for Q1 of 2024. The update contains our People Power
Dashboard, which is focused on recruitment and retention.
I would like to draw the committee's attention in your packet when you were reviewing this presentation, I
trust that you will have noticed there it looks a little different than it has in prior presentations. I have taken
feedback from members of this committee and the broader board to make a few augmentations, mainly
one to have some year over year representation, and then also just to create a more visual slide to assist
with communication.
So with that, we're going to start with recruitment. In this first slide, we are covering employee recruitment
and separation by quarter to assist as some of the feedback was to provide year over year comparisons
and a visual. So we have added that to this slide. From a data perspective, I would just ground the
committee in our 2024 budgeted full time and part time employee numbers.
We are budgeted for this year at 3,457 active employees. At present, as of March 18, of course, this data
is lagging a bit in order to get the presentation in advance to the committee. These metrics are as of March
18. We had 2,880 active employees. These numbers exclude all contractors, all of our contracted services.
These are only full or part time active employees for RTD.
When looking at our active employee numbers to our budgeted numbers, we are sitting at a 17% vacancy
rate. You'll note the two arrows in this slide. Green is good. So for hired in Q1, we hired 165 new employees
compared to 148 in the same quarter of '23, roughly a 10% increase, hence the up facing arrow, which is
green. Conversely, with respect to separations of employment, we had 67 in Q1 up to March 18. And in Q1
of 2023, we had 82. I will note that, again, the green arrow going down is simply highlighting that we had
fewer separations in Q1 of 2024 reporting as to Q1 of 2023.
This slide and the next slides here will look very different than the slides that I was presenting all of last
year and for the year end summary of 2023. Our attempt here is to be more visual in our representation.
And while this does represent vacancy rate, we wanted to also highlight our percent staffed. As has been
noted by this committee, we have been challenged to continue to increase our staffing levels and so we felt
it appropriate to change our reflection from vacancy rate to a more positive percentage of staffed. These
charts are by position and they are as of Q1 2024.
So when we look at bus operators, full time bus operators, we are at 87%. From a visual perspective, 0%
to 30% full staffing rate would be in red, 30% to 90% is in yellow, and 90% to 100 we have in green. That
is not to say that once we get into green, we never want to get at 100. You do not see 100% staffed on this
slide, but you will see it on other slides. Our intention here is to show progression.
And so for full time bus operators, we're sitting at 87%. Part time bus operators we're sitting at 78%. With
respect to our maintenance and general repair, you can see 86% and equal 86% for maintenance and body
shop. Our service and cleaning is sitting just on the cusp, entering into the green at 90% with an overall
staffed rate for bus operations of 87%.
One thing I do want to highlight is for the first time, certainly since I've been here, and these numbers are
changing. We are continuing to progress. Every month we are progressing in a positive trend, pardon me,

with recruitments. And I'm very happy to say that with bus operators, we are for the first time since my
tenure in single digit of number of open positions, meaning we have fewer than 100, just under fewer than
100. But that is a significant milestone, given we were in the hundreds when I arrived.
Moving on, I'll move on now to rail operations. I'd also like to share that we have broke out in our reporting
now in 2023, we reported rail operations as a whole. We are now reporting and separating that out, again,
based on feedback we received from this committee and directors at large to have this broken out by light
rail and by commuter rail. This slide is representing the staffed by position for light rail.
At present, we are sitting at 82% for an overall staffing rate for light rail. When we look at full time train
operators, we are in yellow there sitting at 85%. Our part time train operators are at 100%. So that is 100%
of our budgeted part time positions are filled. For light rail maintenance, 87% staffed. The area that
continues to be our most challenging area to staff is our maintenance of way, currently sitting at 69%.
I can say, however, we have had some good movement here with respect to some signal traction technician
positions as well as rail laborers. This committee may recall from I believe even starting in Q1 of 2023
through into the start of Q4, had expressed that we were really struggling and had some challenges in
recruiting rail laborers. We have actually had some significant success in the last two quarters. Service and
cleaning as similar to bus is sitting at bus operations at 90%.
When we look at commuter rail, the numbers for overall staff rate are close to light rail at 85%. For our train
engineers, which are our operators, we are sitting at 90% staffed. Conductors, which is our second group,
are at 87%. Track maintainers, we are fully staffed for budgeted positions with our track maintainers in
commuter rail.
Rail laborers, we are doing a bit better with our rail laborers for commuter rail at 81%. Our challenge with
commuter rail would be in our signal maintainer sitting at 60%. So for light rail, very similar, but we still hope
that the information being broken out meets the expectations of the directors.
Moving on then to transit police. From a percent staffed, we're sitting at 74% staffed overall. Our
commanders and our lieutenants and corporals are 100% staffed for budgeted positions. We have added
additional sergeants to stagger with the increase in additional officers for the 2024 year. So that is now
sitting at 60%. I believe we have four more sergeants to hire there.
And then for our officers, our rank and file officers, we are sitting at 70%. I think earlier in the chief's
presentation, I believe Director Lewis was indicating that our transit police would be, from an officer
perspective, hopefully staffed by the end of summer. I concur with that and would suggest that it's highly
possible, given our current recruitment rate that that will happen actually closer to the beginning of summer
is a real possibility.
Moving on then to retention. I recognize, Director Lewis, that your hand is up. I'll certainly come to questions
at the end of the presentation. I have two slides on employee retention. Again, this is another change with
respect to our reporting. There had been requests from this committee to report not just on overall
separation but to break out voluntary and involuntary separation. So we are doing that similar to the first
slide that we had in this presentation, we are also doing a year over year comparison.
So in Q1 of 2024, our total separations equaled 67. Involuntary, of those 67, 24 were involuntary separations
and 43 were voluntary. What you can see clearly from the year over year comparison, we had significantly

fewer voluntary separations in Q1 of 2024, but we did have a marginal increase in involuntary separations.
And we can look at that a little bit deeper in the next two slides.
Looking at voluntary, again, for ease of review, we have changed the layout of this slide whereby the reason
for turnover that is the greatest will sit on the bottom of the slide. Should be no surprise to this committee
that retirement continues to be the number one reason at 28% of the total voluntary separation. So that's
sitting at 12 retirees in that quarter.
And the other, again, these trends hold. Through each quarter they are consistent with retirement, family
reasons, or unknown being that it has not been openly communicated to the agency the reason for
separation. They tend to continue to be the leading reason.
In breaking out involuntary, again, this was another responsive slide to request from directors. When we're
looking at the involuntary turnover, 37%, the equivalent of nine individuals, were subject to involuntary
termination due to job performance, 33% due to violation of RTD's attendance policy, And then 26%, so six
individuals, were subject to involuntary termination or turnover due to medical DOT or not being authorized
to enact in their capacity. And unfortunately, and very sadly, we had one active employee who passed away
during Q1 of 2024.
Chair Whitmore, that wraps up the extent of my presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions. I will
respectfully leave the slides up in case any director or any question wishes to have me reference it.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Ms. Polege, and thank you for your flexibility in the presentation
and for some green good news. I want to alert the committee that I'm having some computer issues and I
am not the best at computers. My computer wants to restart in about 10 minutes and I have not been able
to get it to delay. So Mr. Vice Chair, there may be a time where I leave abruptly. I'm not leaving, Matt, I'm
just leaving and I'll be back with you. I do believe that we had some questions in queue, and I think was it
Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, Charlene's last three slides answered my question, so thank
you very much.
TROY WHITMORE: OK, very good. And I have some screen issues with my RTD warning center here on
the computer. So I'm not able to see the group very well. At this point, until I can get that done, Mr. Vice
Chair, I think it would be best to keep the committee moving along. Vice Chair Bouquet, would you be able
to take over for the rest of this item? And I will get in and out of this situation and be back as soon as
possible.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Of course, Chair.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you so much. I will restart and be back with you all. Proceed.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sounds good. With that being said, I do see Director Broom's hand up. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you for recognizing me. I just had a couple of comments. If we're at 100% for part
time operators, do we over hire to make up for our shortfall of full time operators? That's my first question.
And then my second comment goes back to an earlier discussion. What I've found over the years is when
you make a large increase in the number of police officers in your department, you would expect crime
rates to go down. Well, actually, initially crime rates go up because you've got more people writing tickets.
So you have to look at these numbers carefully. Thank you.

CHARLENE POLEGE: May I respond?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Of course, Ms. Polege.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you, Vice Chair. So thank you for the question, Director Broom. I suspect the
question is directed with respect to the 100% for the part time operators in light rail operations. We have a
very small number of budgeted part time positions for light rail. And so we are not overstaffed in part time.
Actually, it is less than 1% of budgeted.
So most of our operators are full time. In fact, that is the preferred mode of employment, even for our
applicants is to be. So the answer to your question, are we overstaffed in part time? No, I would say no.
BOB BROOM: No, not my question. Would we purposely go over staff to make up for the shortfall of the
full time people?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Of course, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Director Broom, thank you for the question. And I'm sending Ms. Polege a lifeline,
because as it relates to service delivery, it's contingent upon the runs and how they go, because you can
utilize part time operators for short spans of time. And contingent upon the way we do our run cutting, how
we do our schedule. You may need an operator out for a fuller length of time.
So when we talk about having part time using it interchangeably, it basically is predicated upon how we
divvy up the pieces of work and how people bid on said work. And so if you had a multitude of part time
operators, you may have to make relief that's more costly to the organization. Recognizing where our
facilities are located, you'd have to deadhead and incur costs. So no, getting back to the point that Ms.
Polege raised, we would not be overstaffed. Did that address your question?
BOB BROOM: I think so. I guess I would prefer, if I were running the organization, that you overstaff in that
one area so that you could hopefully make up some of these missed runs with these extra part time people.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. Well, thank you very much for that, Director Broom, but recognizing in light rail,
we have one operating facility and one of our furthest stations, it takes 73 minutes to actually get out there.
And so we would not be making up for that, because we would be paying these people to sit around and
not actually leverage the work that we have. So it'd be more costly for us as an organization, because even
if you did have missed runs to get somebody there. That's why we often have missed trips. It's by virtue of
how we deliver service here with only one operating facility.
BOB BROOM: OK. Well, thank you for your explanation.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
BOB BROOM: That's all had.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Broom. I do see Chair Davidson's hand is up next.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. I appreciate you recognizing me as a non-committee
member here. Ms. Polege, thank you very, very much for these visuals and for this presentation. It is
exceptionally helpful the way this is dialed out and raised up.
I have one question. It definitely occurs to me you've joined RTD in a very stressful time in transit history. I
think many industries continue to struggle with workforce shortage, but transit is especially interesting in
how elastic it is. I mean, the workforce shortage really directly impacts our service delivery. So thank you
for all of the progress. There's been notable progress in the numbers and movement. Thank you for the
reporting, which is very helpful to see.
My main question, and it may warrant-- there may be many things that come out of it and perhaps it's better
as a follow up. But what do you and your team need right now? I know as we're dialoguing with the
community and community partners and the state, there's progress happening. And I suspect there's limits
in areas in terms of what we can do in our four walls and things that perhaps our community and its partners
could be doing. Are there things that know that you need that this board could help in going to seek
throughout the community?
CHARLENE POLEGE: May I, Vice Chair?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, please.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Great, thanks. Thank you for the question, Chair Davidson. I greatly appreciate it.
It certainly is a challenging labor market. I was in a separate meeting this morning with some colleagues in
other industries but in HR, and everyone is feeling a pinch in some shape or form, and it doesn't matter at
what level or type of position.
What I could say, I do want to share one thing. One thing that I had mentioned a couple meetings ago was
the dedication and commitment, truthfully, from GM Johnson to increase and have faith in our ability and
our talent acquisition team if we got appropriate numbers so that we could appropriately staff ourselves to
actually engage in proactive, in many sense, mass hiring. So that was the first thing.
And that has made-- you're seeing this quarter over quarter increase and you've heard repeatedly, I don't
want to say we don't have a recruitment challenge, because we still got to keep moving forward. We're not
all in the green yet. But it has made a huge, huge difference to have those numbers. And we're seeing the
return on that. So that's number one. And thank you for that support, because that comes from approval of
budget.
The other piece that I would say that's critical is being an ambassador, as you all are. And thank you again
for your service and your comments during what has been obviously a very challenging time for each of
you and for the agency as a whole. But to continue to be out there talking about what an amazing agency
we have and what amazing opportunities are available to individuals who want to have a career at RTD,
not just a job, we need to continue to do our part to help build the pathways. But that is immensely helpful.
And to just demonstrate that, I believe I might have the wrong date, March 27 or 28, we held a job fair. And
we had great attendance by members of the agency who came out to talk to employees. And I believe we
had between 40 to 50 applicants who went right through the process in place. And that really made a
difference, because we're seeing the uptick of that. I can tell you it's a sneak peek. But as of a week ago,
we have nine.

There's a whole bunch of people in training, but we have nine vacant light rail operator positions. Nine.
That's not double digits. That's single digits. We have almost 30 in training right now. And that just comes
from being that advocate for the opportunities that exist working at RTD. That would be the key thing.
And the third one that I would say, and I know you asked this question and I know I'm super late for where
I needed to be, but this is critically important. Support for our front line operators with respect to legislation
to ensure that and support for the work of Chief to get the safety and security for our employees. They
deserve it. They work hard, and they are front and center, working tirelessly and at times less than
advantageous working conditions. And so anything that the board can do and continue to do to support us
and them, that would be my ask.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for sharing that, Ms. Polege. Really appreciate it. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Chair Davidson and thanks, Ms. Polege for that. I do not see any further
hands. Are there any final comments or questions for Ms. Polege from either committee members or noncommittee members? With that being said, I do want to thank her greatly for her presentation and also her
patience. I know right now she's late for an event, so I want to respect your time. I know that because of
the rescheduling of this committee meeting, we greatly appreciate it and greatly appreciate the work you
have done. So thank you so much, Ms. Polege.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: With that being said, I see that our chair is back on, so I'm going to give this back to
Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Vice Chair. Well done. I appreciate your assistance. We have two other
items on the agenda tonight. The next one is regarding safety, the 2023 safety performance review. And
I'd like to ask Dan McClain, Chief Safety Officer, Senior Manager of Safety and Environmental Compliance,
to present this item. Dan, the floor is yours.
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah, thanks, Chair Whitmore. I just want to confirm everyone can see my screen.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
DAN MCCLAIN: This presentation is for the safety performance for all of RTD for the calendar year 2023.
I can't see hands up, so hopefully someone will watch or maybe hold the questions till the end.
Tonight we're going to cover safety performance data for commuter rail, light rail, bus rail, bus data, the bus
system, along with the safety performance targets and what we have going on in safety management
systems, the activities and what we're doing with both the system safety program plan and the public
transportation agency safety plan.
We'll start out with the on the job injury data by month. And this compares the last three years of data. What
you might notice here is that in 2023, we have a pretty good uptick in all months. And we have the reasons,
which will be revealed here in the third slide, the next two slides after this one.
As you see, a total of 718 on the job injuries. Where we have the skew and where we have the uptick is
that 356 of the first report of injuries here is for exposure to illicit drug smoke. And so most of those only
result in a record only, which means they write a report into our risk management and it doesn't result in

medical attention or a loss of time due to a medical condition. But that's the biggest skew we've had for
2023. The second highest then is your strains and the next one, slip and fall.
One thing it shows here, this is the incident rate. It's normalized per 100 employees. You see in 2023, we're
clear out to 30. Without the illicit smoke, incidents would be down at 15.15. And that is shown in the OSHA
rates. The OSHA rates, which again, are number of injuries per 100 employees, only include the medical
injuries that took medical attention or those that lost time. And you see the last three years, '21, '22, and
'23, they're continuing to go down slowly.
One new thing we've had to track since the passage of the bipartisan infrastructure law and the new
requirements to report operator assaults to the NTD is total operator assaults. The NTD established a
definition along with that is almost the exact verbiage that's in the infrastructure law. And it relates to
interference with the operator performing their duty, operator or other transit worker.
You can see in 2023, we reported to the NTD and they were reported as on the form, which the form is
labeled SNS 50, which covers other safety events not otherwise classified. And that's how they want them
reported. But we reported 371 assaults on the system. The majority of the assaults were on the bus system.
And it was about an equal split between physical and non-physical. This interfered with can be just yelling
at the operator, threatening the operator. A physical assault can be anything from throwing your drink on
the operator to actually a physical assault.
We'll go on to the commuter rail data. Commuter rail safety performance. This slide shows the FRA
reportable events, the near misses, the recordable events, the rule violations, and the trespassers, with the
orange color being the 2023 data. The trespassers in 2023 tend to dominate this graph in that in 2023,
trespassers had-- on the A line, we had 80 trespassers. So that's the scale. I believe that's what it is, the
scale. Yeah. Look at my notes here. I was wrong with that. Trespassers on the A line in 2023 were 423.
The next is the inspection reports. These are categorized as a defect or a violation, and it's categorized by
the line it was on. The others are locations such as Denver Union Stations, maintenance facilities and
vehicle maintenance records not directly associated with the line.
Light rail data. These are the Colorado Public Utilities reportable events for the last three years. These are
events that happen on the light rail system that are required to be reported within two hours, such as grade
crossing collisions, trespassers, strikes, and derailments and such. You can see 2023 was a fairly good
year compared to 2022, down to 24.
The second slide here is the reportable hazards. These are hazards that are included in the Colorado Public
Utilities program standards that have to be reported to them in 24 hours. These would be such things as a
door malfunction or a near miss with a pedestrian or trespasser on the system or a grade crossing
misactivation or a failure of a grade crossing activation.
And the last statistic here for the light rail is their red signal violations. Those are the ones that allow us to
run on our block system. And this continues to be a good story and continues to go down and trend downhill
for the past six years now.
Bus data. What we have here is the preventable and non-preventable accidents. The non-preventable
accidents are in orange and the preventable in blue. And you can see they've been increased year after
year here since 2021. Just significant challenges in the system. As you know, we've done a lot of different

increasing traffic as the pandemic recovery happened and that we've had significant urban infrastructure
changes with bike lanes, bus lanes, and other things that have been added.
The performance targets on the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan were for preventable accident
rates. We had a goal of 1 per 100,000 miles. In 2023, we achieved 1.2 per 100,000 miles, 1.24. We had a
5% reduction goal of lost days due to on the job injuries. We actually achieved a 41% year over year
reduction in lost days.
The remaining goals of the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan. We wanted to reduce the goals. The
5% reduction on all of these categories here related to injuries. The OJIs, again, it talks about that 68%
increase, but that being with the illicit smoke. If we take those out, we had a 0.27 reduction. Slip and fall
injuries. We had a 4% decrease. Injuries from strains reduction. We actually had a 8% increase in that. So
we've looked at that and we've also looked deeper into our data and how things were classified there.
And our other goal is a reliability goal. Mean distance between failures. We had a 2023 goal from the
strategic plan that reduced by 3% from 2022. We ended up decreasing the mean time between failures by
1.9%.
The activities that we have, what we have going on. In 2022, we adopted the operational management
framework and policy. We currently have active operational risk registers at all of our garages and
throughout the agency. The combined risk registers are reviewed at the committee meetings that we have
at each garage and at the Joint Labor Management Safety Committee.
And this year, we have identified over 250 hazards. We've closed 188. And some of the open items, we've
transferred those to, for example, we did have some security related ones and those have been transferred
to be followed up by the security and police team.
The system safety program plan for commuter rail. Couple big ticket items are the fatigue risk management
plan that was submitted in July of 2023. It was then reviewed by the FRA. And this February, we came back
and they told us what we needed to correct, both from an RTD perspective, from a DTO perspective, and
that will be resubmitted in May.
We also, in 2023, we had a passenger train emergency drill that happened in September of 2023. This
year, 2023, it was led by Denver Transit Operators and it was on a [INAUDIBLE] bridge train evacuation.
We had all of the DIA, Denver Airport were involved in the exercise and involved in the planning, the
execution and the debriefs of those.
In 2024, late quarter to early quarter three, we're going to have another RTD led commuter rail emergency
exercise that will be done. Additionally, with commuter rail on the FRA side, we're continuing to do system
safety program plan, internal assessments. They're similar to our internal safety review on the light rail side
and review and updating of the plan.
On the FTA side or the bus and light rail side, we have initiated and continue to do the event investigation
train the trainer. We did that through the last part of 2023, conducting internal safety reviews on the light
rail system. We're revising the PTASP document and the document that we have revised targets, joint labor
management, safety committee, and emergency operations plans. That was the big changes. And then the
new requirements. We'll talk a little bit about those as we go forth here.
We have had since the change of the law, which came into place in 2019, but really affected in 2020, it
went from the old law was 659. It was a system safety approach to a management systems approach in

2020. And at that point, the new regulations require that we have a formalized program, everything written
down, documented, who did what, where, and how, and was it working, and if so, how did we know it. So
with that, most of our caps were related to inadequate documentation or lack of documentation or lack of a
program.
And caps are also generated from events such as derailments and such. But over the last two years, we've
closed 64 caps. We currently have 21 caps open currently as of February 28. And we had two under review.
There's been more turn with that. We have currently I think we've got 67 closed and five under review and
15 more open caps.
A little bit about what's going on regulatory wise from the FTA. There's a lot of activity on the FTA side.
They just issued last week a revised part 673, which is the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan Rule,
which is going to require a lot more than it did before. Along with they changed the National Transportation
Safety plan, which requires reporting of now 11 new metrics to the NTD. That came out last week.
They also have a proposed general directive that is focused on operator assault, which is expected to drop
in May or June, and it will have a 30 day implementation, which will require us to do risk assessments and
make the operator assault prevention program part of our safety risk management and look at all of our
assault data and then look at it from a risk based perspective and then determine the mitigations and give
those to them.
They've also put out proposed rules on the state safety oversight. That's the Colorado Public Utilities
Commission that does our auditing of our light rail. A significant change in that is their special directive on
risk based inspections. And FTA has put that out through a special directive. And that's going to require the
PUC to change their regulations and conduct additional inspections and requires us to provide additional
data and additional access to the PUC to inspect the light rail system.
Other things that have come out recently is a roadway worker protection for light rail. That's a notice of
proposed rulemaking. And then they have fatigue and hours of service, which is an advanced notice of
proposed rulemaking that came out last fall. All of these things, it's going to be a pretty full next one to three
years of additional requirements that are put on by the FTA. And the FRA has a couple too, but they're not
as big as scope as what we have here.
That's all I have. Questions, comments.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Dan. Very, very comprehensive report, covered a lot of ground.
And we do appreciate your hard work and your conscientious manner in the way you approach safety,
which is job one for sure. I see two committee members in queue. We'll start with Director Jaime Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Yes just quickly, a point of clarification. Dan, when you say trespassing, are you just referring
to the people that don't have a fare or are we talking about traditional trespassing on properties?
DAN MCCLAIN: No, that's individuals that are in a protected right of way. So they're in our right of way that
we have where our trains run. So if someone's in there that's not authorized, they're considered trespassers.
And so we've had on the A line especially, and there's particular areas that we have on the light rail system.
But on the A line particularly, we have as a result of some of the newcomers that are in the area, we have
specifically had a problem for a short time and continued to monitor at Peoria where they were cutting
through the fence rather than taking the bridge over the right of way. They were cutting across. So I know

that Mike Millage and the team have been working to resolve some of those issues. But that's what a
trespasser is, someone that's in the right of way that's not authorized.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Is that all?
JAIME LEWIS: That's it. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. Thank you, sir. Director Sloan, you're next.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you very much, Chair. I would like to drill down a little on the extraordinary
number of our operators exposed to illicit drug smoke, because it just jumps out in this whole report. And I
know it's related to retention and maybe even recruitment of operators and a welcoming transit environment
for our customers. But I was wondering what the relationship is with reliability of service.
I noticed in this presentation you said that there was no loss of time involved in that, but I thought in a
previous presentation, we learned that operators could, if they felt affected by the smoke, they could call in
and say they were no longer able to work. So is there lost time in connection with the exposure to illicit drug
smoke?
DAN MCCLAIN: So if can, Chair. And then I'll defer to Debra. I just want to make clear there's been a lot of
work done on this and to be as protective as we can for our operators. And there's also been a lot of work
done throughout the transit industry to try to understand what the effects of the illicit drug smoking is,
because Denver is not the only transit agency that experience it. And I'll defer to Debra on the arrangements
made with and ATU the MOW.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. Mr. Chair, if I may.
TROY WHITMORE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And thank you very much, Mr. McClain, for that, and Director Sloan. There's a myriad
of different elements that are involved, and I believe that Mr. McClain was addressing as it relates to lost
time and you were referencing our agreement with the collective bargaining unit. I think it would be best for
me to have Mr. Jensen speak to that specific plea.
But one thing's for certain, what we did state in a previous presentation, but it's up to the operator. We're
not going to question if one feels as if they're not able to continue in service. And the notion of lost time,
that means that they haven't been off for a prolonged period of time as we go forward. So you are correct
in your statement, Director Sloan, in reference to what the provisions that we have with the memorandum
of understanding with our union brethren. But I will yield the floor to Mr. Jensen that can provide some
greater context as it relates to the impact with service delivery. Thank you.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, thank you very much. Mr. Chair, if I may.
TROY WHITMORE: Please.
DAVE JENSEN: So there are two different things that we're talking about. The lost time, of course, is lost
work time for the employees. They go off sick and then they're off for a number of days. That's what we're
tracking in terms of lost time.

In terms of service delivery, that's not the number that we were looking at. We do track that number, and it
is potentially significant, to Ms. Johnson's point. If the employee is not able to operate the train, then we
have to pull the train from service. Typically, a supervisor will come get it. We'll bring it back to the yard.
And because of the nature of that call happening in a moment, we don't have extra operators. We don't
have extra trains out there. We end up losing service. So that is a significant portion of the service that we
lose is due to that very thing.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. Now, I understand. I appreciate it.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Sloan. Good question. Next in queue, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. My question was actually very similar to Director Sloan, so I am
glad she went first. I noticed that as well, and I had a more granular question regarding our SOPs. If an
operator reports that they feel they are unable to continue because they've been exposed to illicit smoke,
which might not be a specific medical incident, but certainly it can cause migraines and nausea and the
like.
What happens next? Can someone just walk us through that process? Because again, I'm hearing we have
all of these incidences, which I believe, of increased reports, and yet we're not losing work time. And if I
recall a few years ago, that was actually resulting in lost work time, time on the job. So what happens? Did
we change a procedure? Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. I see. Fred Worthen's hand up. I see Dave Jensen, I see Jack Kroll, but I
bet that's another matter.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Mr. Chair, if I may.
TROY WHITMORE: And there's Debra. Go right ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would like to have Mr. Worthen and Mr. Jensen speak to the modalities relative to
what it is, because safety is paramount. And Director Ruscha, I'm a little confused by your question relative
to what did we do to change, but perhaps my colleagues here have garnered a better understanding of the
question posed. So, Mr. Worthen, please feel free, and then Mr. Jensen, please chime in as well. Thank
you.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, [INAUDIBLE], and thank you for the question, Director. I think there's a little
bit of clarity that is needed.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I know I'm out of order, if I may. I'm happy to just rephrase my question, and that might
help to expedite the process.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So I have a concern that somehow, despite an increase in these incidences, we are
seeing a decrease in operators that are missing work. When, and I could be wrong, a few years ago, those
two were directly related. So I have a concern that there might have been a policy or procedure that has
changed in which our operators are less motivated to report when they are unable to safely operate a train.
Just from a statistical data perspective, that was an anomaly.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may. Yes. Thank you very much, Director Ruscha, for that clarity. And I
think if anything, as it relates to the question that you posed, it gets back to we have more people reporting
because they're acknowledging that we have these incidents. So it is allowing us to ensure that we can
better help manage the situation with our colleagues in law enforcement as we go full speed ahead and
also ensure that we have our partners from Allied Universal on vehicles.
This is enabling us to do this. So there could be reporting, as we have seen, whereby somebody says
someone's smoking something on the vehicle in which they should not be doing not directly being impacted
by those substances. But with that, I will yield the floor to Mr. Worthen to elaborate and then to Mr. Jensen.
Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. And thank you for the question, Director Ruscha. I want to
clarify a couple of things. First and foremost, when Dan made the comment earlier about that there were
no lost time associated with this, what he was actually saying is that most of our reports don't result in lost
time. However, Ms. Johnson is correct. We have begun tracking the incidents where drug and illicit smoke
is exposed to the operators.
When we first began this, people were reporting things, but they weren't reporting every aspect or all of the
instances that occur. When we started actively developing dashboards and working with law enforcement,
we really encouraged our operators to report even if they didn't become sick or feel like they needed relief
so that we could try to determine hotspots and concentrate our efforts on dealing with enforcement in those
particular areas.
However, when an operator does become ill and requests relief, then we will actually relieve them for duty.
They can receive pay for that day plus the following day. And then, of course, if they need extensive
treatment, they would go through our worker's compensation program from that point forward.
DAVE JENSEN: Mr Chair, if I may.
TROY WHITMORE: Do you have a follow up, Director Ruscha, before we switch to Mr. Jensen?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, just to clarify, so when you say relieved from duty, then how does the operator
get back to, say, [INAUDIBLE] or their vehicle? I'm trying to understand how does that work.
FRED WORTHEN: It depends on the circumstances itself and where they're at along the routes themselves.
If they're ill and they need to be relieved from duty and they're not able to actually get back to the operating
base themselves, we'll send a supervisor out to transport them back.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So they're able to get back to the operating base, back to their vehicle, so that they
can-FRED WORTHEN: Go and seek treatment or go home or seek treatment or whatever it is from there. Yes,
ma'am.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: Not much more that I can add that I don't think has already been addressed. I would say
maybe one more thing is that equal to or increase in reports seems to indicate that the operators are not

feeling inhibited to report. It's that the vast number of that, the percentage of those that actually become ill
from it looks like it's smaller. It's just the nature of the numbers that there's more reports actually that are
happening, which is a good sign for us that the employees are reporting what's happening to them.
TROY WHITMORE: Further questions? Go ahead. Go ahead, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I was looking for the unmute button, Mr. Chair. I apologize for not being speedy enough.
And now I've lost the page in the presentation. So the incidents are going up, but is the missed work time
from these specific incidents also going up? Maybe that's what I missed. Sometimes of course it's going to
happen, and we do want operators to report. But I'm trying to understand, are we seeing an increase in
reporting but not necessarily people coming off of the job?
TROY WHITMORE: I see Mr. McClain's hand is raised. Would you like to address that question, sir?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah, if I can. So in my presentation where I say lost time, that lost time relates to a
occupational injury that the doctor that they have sought medical attention and then the medical
professional has said that you are unable to perform your duties, therefore you need to have this much time
off.
What we're seeing here, and this goes a little bit to the MOU that was put together for the union, is that we
want you to be safe. If you think you've been exposed, call dispatch. We'll get someone out there. We'll
relieve you. We'll get you back to the base. That doesn't count on my lost time, because it isn't medical
related and it's not related to a medical professional setting for this individual to be off.
But what it is, is that we understand that we're not going to question if you're dizzy or nauseated or whatever.
And I think both Mr. Worthen and Mr. Jensen addressed that, and I think they've done a good job. And
that's the difference. That's that delta where it says just report only. That's why we have so many report
onlys, because they report it in case they need to go to the medical after.
There has been a pretty landmark study done out of Washington University, including TriMet, King County,
and Sound Transit on the effects. And they did a very high level industrial hygiene study on those effects
and the effects of the ventilation in the cab. A lot of it says that it doesn't affect-- they haven't found the
effects, but they still continue to learn more about how the air exchanges affect the operators. But for now,
there isn't a lot of science on this. So what we do is take the operators at their word, and that's what the
MOU was set up for, I think. I believe so.
TROY WHITMORE: Further input? OK, go ahead with the next question.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair, may just have permission to dialogue? I don't need long answers, just direct
ones if possible. This is literally one of the most important presentations that this committee hears all year
long. So I just want to clear. May I, please?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. I just want to make sure that whoever speaks on behalf of the staff identifies
themselves for the record.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks. And I will also do the same. This is Director Ruscha in case it was missed. So
Mr. McClain, so first of all, I want to be very clear. I have no objection to the agreement that we reached
with the ATU regarding these types of incidences, just in case that is being misunderstood by anyone in
the body or who could be listening later.

Second, I just wanted to make sure I understood. When you're talking about lost work time, you're not
talking about that first half or second day. You're talking about when someone needs worker's
compensation
DAN MCCLAIN: Mr. Chair, this is Dan McClain. And so for the purposes of my report, when it says lost
time, that means indemnity was paid. That means that lost wages was paid from our risk group to cover the
wages that the medical professionals said they should be off x days.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Which means somebody sought medical attention?
DAN MCCLAIN: Correct.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So the answer was yes. OK. I just want to-- I'm so sorry. I just want to make sure. I do
better with cross tabs than I do with PowerPoints and we don't get those. So I just have to check. I have
other questions on this presentation not related to this issue, but if there's someone else, I'm happy to yield.
TROY WHITMORE: I do not see any other hands raised. Are there any non-committee members with
questions or comments? I don't see any, so continued, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So I have a-- well, I suppose I have a question. One question, one
comment. Or maybe it's a request. So the first is I do recognize this is the last year. So we get these reports,
I presume, after we file our end of year with the PUC. That's my guess as to the timing. Well, I guess my
request would be can we please-- would RTD be so kind as to give us the same quarterly reports that you
transmit to the PUC?
Some of that information does make it into this presentation, some does not. They are publicly available
documents. And I personally, as a member of the body, don't want to feel like I'm responsible for tracking
them down in case we have a safety presentation and I missed one. I missed something. Because then
how do we vote yes? How do we ask the right questions?
And I recognize I'm frustrating a few of my fellow directors. You're free to ignore the memo when it comes.
But I do think, particularly as it relates to transparency in the discussions that have been happening in the
community and in the legislature, that would be appreciated. So that's my comment slash question slash
request. And I think that's probably one for our GM CEO to answer.
And then the other one, even though this was 2024 and not 2023, will we get an update on the other
derailment that occurred resulted in a train being stuck on the tracks for several days? When will we receive
that update as a body? Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may, please?
TROY WHITMORE: Proceed, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, Director Ruscha. Thank you for the question. A couple of
elements here that are critically important. We are providing this body with information relative to all the
data that we accumulate referencing safety and environmental compliance so you can have a full fledged
understanding, recognizing the compilation of this information and the data points in which we receive said
information working with DTO and DTP it takes some time to assimilate this information.

I believe that was shared with this body previously, recognizing that we do have a concessionary agreement
that runs three of our four commuter rail lines. We want to be intentional and deliberate as we provide that
information and want to ensure that it's a comprehensive picture going forward. I will confer with staff as it
relates to what we are doing collectively to ensure that you receive adequate updates for the betterment of
your understanding of what we're doing here at the organization.
Secondly, what I will share is this. As we move forward and recognizing that there are internal reviews that
we do for our overall safety adherence and we provide that information to the PUC, we do that on a cycle.
I am currently reviewing the winter ISR, which is an Internal Safety Review. That's not ready for prime
consumption relative to what it is for this body.
And so I will make a commitment to you that we will assess, and that's for all the board to take into
consideration. Separately, the PUC does provide reports, as they should as the state safety oversight
agency. So I think there may be some conflating of what it is that we do as staff and then what the role is
of the SSOA.
But with that being said, please know that we want to ensure that you all have adequate information. We
want to ensure that we're giving it to you in a holistic format. And we will strive to do that, recognizing that
there were some elements that prohibit us from doing this. And I, as the accountable executive, conferred
with our Chief Safety Officer and we wanted to ensure that we gave you a year in review.
So we had year over year comparison data as we look at the quarters and what we're doing. Because
previously, recognizing that the state safety oversight agency only oversees rail transit agencies, we did
not have that bus data. So we've incorporated that in as we've tried to rightly outfit our data compilation.
And in doing that, we will be on a better trajectory to provide that information once we have all systems in
place. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Further questions, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just a comment. There is no conflation on my end on who's on first relative to who
reports what, when, where, and why. And so what I was asking for in the quarterly reports that we submit
to the PUC for things that are under their auspices that is a matter of public record, if you know where to
look. And I only know where to look because I used to work on safety issues previously as a labor advocate
and lobbyist. Would you mind also after that is transmitted to the PUC copying the board? That was the
question. And if that is not something that the agency would like to do, if there's a member of the body who
would be curious on how you could receive that information, just ping me and I will fill you in.
And I hate to rehash the things that have happened previously, but I would be remiss if I did not note last
year when we had this same presentation, there had been the previous year, just a few months prior, an
incident on 19th and Stout that resulted in rail being condemned. And we know what happened from there.
And that was missing from this presentation. We're in this year.
And so I almost want to ask, is there something we don't know yet we're about to find out and maybe we
can't say it in this meeting? But I don't think it is unreasonable to ask for the same information, again, that
eventually-- when it becomes public, that we are copied so that we can effectively do our jobs and that we
don't get big surprises, whether it's in the media, a member of the public, or in a budget request.

And I'm sorry if it sounds harsh, but again, this is the most important report this body gets or one of the
most every year. And it is critical that we have the information that we need to make decisions and that we
also have the time to process and ask questions. Because that is also our role as an oversight body.
I know I sound like I'm lecturing, but for those of you who were present last night, and I know not everyone
could make it, for hours and hours and hours, community members, some of which whom are our strongest
critics and are fans, fought for the right of this board to stay an elected body. And they defended us for
hours and some took time off work. Some scrambled from doctor's appointments. Some rescheduled their
whole days because they said they had faith in this body.
They had expectations maybe we weren't meeting at all times, but they had faith in this body. And so as a
member of this body, who, yes, sometimes raises her hand because I didn't hear what was just said or
because I think it's my responsibility to ask, all I'm asking is that the agency help us meet community's
expectations and respect what has transpired in the last week and what happened last night in committee
when people said over and over, I have faith in this board. Thank you. I will yield.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. Thank you. Director Ruscha. Are there any other matters regarding safety or
points that were recently made from staff? If not, we will move to our final discussion item. OK, it doesn't
look like there are any more. So, Mr. Worthen, you are next up on the agenda to talk to us about facilities
and fleet transition plan update. And Fred is Assistant General Manager bus ops. The floor is yours, sir.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. I'll defer to Ms. Johnson for an introduction.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, Mr. Worthen. As this body knows, this organization intentionally
sought out a solicitation whereby we could have subject matter assistance relative to helping the
development of a facility fleet transition plan. And the operative word in that is facilities.
As you all may recall, upon recommendation that we received from staff, made a very tough decision in
reference to canceling a 0 emission bus procurement for 17 battery electric buses. One of the primary
issues that rested with that decision had to do with the lack of facilities that we had that could meet the
needs of transitioning to a 0 emission fleet.
With that, as we move forward, we have undertaken some work relative to trying to discern our playing field
and what might be optimal for our transportation network. I'd be remiss not to say that there have been
several different factors that are critical to this transition plan, recognizing that currently there are only two
original equipment manufacturers in the United States that meet the tenets of Build and Buy America,
whereas a couple of years ago there were 10.
Mr. Worthen, as well as myself, have been engaged with the industry on this front. I've had the opportunity
to participate in a task force that was convened by the American Public Transportation Association, as well
as the Federal Transit Administration, and had an opportunity to lean in and have a discussion with the
Build America Bureau and representation from the Biden Harris administration at the White House as we
look forward for a path as it relates to transitioning, recognizing the limitation with original equipment
manufacturers, and other aspects regarding supply chain and things of the like.
Recognizing all of that, it's critically important that we share with you where we are in the process. And
then, as you are aware, that we will be having a study session in the June time frame, specifically June 4,
to bring everybody up to speed on the work that has been done relative to actually developing a transition
plan for this organization. With that, I want to acknowledge Mr. Worthen and Charlie Stanfield, who have

been shepherding this critical project, along with [INAUDIBLE] from the facility side. And with that, I will
yield the floor to my colleagues to provide you with an update on the work that has been conducted since
the notice to proceed with our partners at WSP. Thank you very much, Mr. Worthen, and thank you very
much, Mr. Chair.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. CEO and General Manager Ms. Johnson. Is my presentation showing on
the screen?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: Not yet.
FRED WORTHEN: OK, let's see. Gotta love technology.
TROY WHITMORE: Maybe your computer is wanting to restart like mine did.
FRED WORTHEN: Share screen. All right.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Worthen, if you can put it in slideshow mode. Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: OK, if it will go into slideshow. There we go. All right. So thank you, Ms. Johnson, and
thank you, Chair Whitmore. Again, I'm Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations.
Tonight will provide you with an update on the work that is progressing forward with our facilities and fleet
transition plan work.
We'll start by discussing the project scope and schedule, followed by a project status, some information on
the various fuel technologies we are looking at, followed by bus modeling work that is underway, site visits
that have been conducted, and of course, finally talking about the June 2024 study session that is coming
before you shortly.
So with regard to the fleet and facilities transition plan, there are four major components within the work.
First and foremost, we are looking at our facilities. Although it is not listed first, it should be. We're assessing
our facility needs and infrastructure requirements to look at the various propulsion technologies we're
considering as part of the scope of work. We are also assessing our fleet and different technologies such
as battery electric buses, fuel cell electric buses, diesel hybrids, compressed natural gas, and various forms
of diesel vehicles.
We are also looking at the financial impacts of the needs of the fleet and facility, and this includes cost for
fleet and facility changes that are both capital and operational in need. And finally, we are looking at needs
of the workforce itself. Not only are we looking at the gaps of our training programs to determine what is
needed to help our workforce prepare for the new technologies, but we're also looking at the impacts that
technology will have on people power headcounts.
This slide can be a little overwhelming, so I'll try to break it down as best I can. Our first phase one is a
screening analysis step. And I equate this very similar to posting a job for hire. When you hire somebody
for a job, the first thing you do is develop knowledge, skills, and abilities and minimum qualifications for a
job. Then you put a job out for hire. People will apply. Applications are screened based upon the
qualifications. And then of course, you do background checks and then interviews are conducted, which
ultimately leads you to hiring somebody.

The screening analysis is very similar to going through the hiring process itself. We're looking at the various
aspects of our fleet, our facilities, what impacts our fleet and facility have on the environment, looking at
facilities, sighting reports, workforce and training components, and cost. And ultimately, that will lead
through to a fuels technology screening report. And that screening report will actually lead to the second
phase, which will ultimately lead into the development of a facilities transition blueprint and to an FTA fleet
transition plan.
The one thing that I really want to point out is the facilities component is really the most important and
complex component of this work. Selecting and procuring buses is pretty easy. We write the specs, we put
out a contract, and we buy them. But the amount of work that can go into modifying or upgrading a facility
to support any technology other than the existing diesel technology that we have in place can be extensive.
Most of our facilities are 40 years of age or older. They were built to support diesel technology. And then it
was complicated by the fact that we do not own our contract operated facilities. So we are going to need to
adopt a strategy to try to convert our contracted operated facilities to support whatever technologies are
selected as well.
Today, a significant amount of work has been completed. We're reviewing a draft fleet technology screening
report that has analyzed various fuel technologies primarily used within the transit industry. This work
includes a significant amount of modeling work for technologies under consideration, as well as examining
mitigation strategies to offset current technology limitations.
Our facilities and consulting groups have also compiled a team of experts in structural engineering,
electrical engineering, and experts in emissions reductions to evaluate our sites, which I will talk a bit later
in the presentation about. And they are also conducting siting assessments. They are looking at the
potentials for new operating bases. They are looking at the potential locations for places where we can do
on route charging. They are looking at both public and RTD owned facilities as part of that analysis.
We're also doing a workforce development analysis. This includes looking at our employee training
programs and conducting gap assessments of those programs, interviewing key staff to help have a better
understanding of what training needs are, and to also better understand what the impacts of the various
technologies will be on our people power and head counts. And of course, as I mentioned earlier, we are
also working on a financial analysis, looking at the inputs of the cost modeling for our fleet and our facilities
needs. This is both operating and capital in nature.
As previously mentioned, phase one work includes looking at different propulsion technologies in depth.
This included looking at fuel cell compressed natural gas, battery electric buses, clean and renewable diesel
alternatives, and hybrid clean diesel technologies.
At a high level, fuel cell vehicles use hydrogen to power the vehicle. A hydrogen fuel cell electric bus is
powered by two of Earth's most common basic components, oxygen and hydrogen. A fuel cell combines
hydrogen and oxygen to produce electricity, heat, and water that powers the vehicle. Fuel cell technologies
would require significant changes to our facilities and operations. In addition, hydrogen is currently
unavailable in Colorado. Both the capital and operating costs associated with hydrogen are significantly
higher than diesel at this time.
Compressed natural gas uses natural gas to power the vehicle. CNG technologies can reduce greenhouse
gases. However, again, implementing CNG technologies would require significant infrastructure changes
and the fuel costs are only marginally more expensive than diesel at this time.

Battery electric buses use onboard batteries and electric motors to power the buses. There are two basic
classifications of battery electric buses. There are long range and short range vehicles. Long range battery
electric buses are typically charged at the bus depot. They're expected to run up to about 150 miles on a
single charge. And it typically takes between four and six hours to fully charge a long range vehicle once
the battery is fully depleted.
Shorter range vehicles typically run up to or about 25 miles on a single charge. Shorter range electric
vehicles typically have charging infrastructure located along the routes where the vehicles are assigned
that enables what we refer to as on demand or on route charging. These types of vehicles typically recharge
batteries along their respective route at layover points.
Both short and long range classified battery electric vehicles have challenges with climate, topography,
auxiliary heating and air conditioning systems, and driver style that can significantly impact the range of an
electric vehicle. Additionally, over time, these technologies experience degradation, whereas the distance
the vehicle can travel is reduced. Battery electric buses also have significant infrastructure and capital cost.
As part of the plan, the team has also examined implementing renewable diesel and diesel hybrid
technologies in addition to the current clean diesel fleet. Renewable diesel undergoes hydrotreating,
thermal conversion, or bio to mass liquid production processes, making it chemically identical to ultra low
sulfur diesel. But it reduces greenhouse gas emissions as much as 50% to 80% as compared to
conventional diesel. Renewable diesels typically cost about $1 more per gallon than standard diesels and
would require little to no changes to our existing facilities or operations.
Diesel hybrid vehicles use a combination of electric motor and diesel engine propulsion to reduce diesel
consumption. Hybrid vehicles use regenerative braking to produce electricity while vehicle is in motion.
Typically, hybrid vehicles work off electricity when a vehicle is idling and during start and stop functions.
Once a vehicle reaches a certain speed, the vehicle typically switches from electric propulsion to diesel
propulsion.
Although diesel hybrids do not require significant changes to infrastructure, the capital and operating costs
associated with these technologies are more expensive to maintain. We currently operate clean diesels
that burn ultra low sulfur. These diesel fleets are used as our baseline to compare all other technologies to
within this report.
Battery electric bus modeling is complex. Our consultants are using a modeling tool that uses real life
battery electric bus information gathered from other transit systems and modifies inputs that are specific to
RTD and how our services operate. These specific inputs include the vehicle type, the block distance, and
a block as a block of work refers to how a vehicle is assigned to support daily operations from the time it
pulls in till the time it pulls out.
It includes temperature, block duration, slope and terrain, weight of the vehicle and passenger load, and
the number of stops the vehicle would make. These inputs yield a total amount of energy required to
complete a block, which is used to determine if there is enough battery capacity to complete the block. As
previously mentioned, the block of service comprises the work a bus is assigned to from pullout through
revenue service to pull in.
We began our initial modeling work with battery electric buses, as this is the most complex part of the
service modeling due to the various impacts on range this technology is susceptible to. Similar modeling
work is currently underway for other technologies such as fuel cell propulsion systems.

The facilities portion of work underway is the most important and complex. Most of our facilities are more
than 40 years old, and half of the fixed route operating depots are operated by contractors that are not
owned by RTD. To assess the condition of our facilities and changes needed to support the various
propulsion technologies under consideration, a team of consultants that are experts in electrical
engineering, structural engineering, and energy consumption visited our major operating bases and
facilities over a two week period.
I had the opportunity to actually engage in these visits, and I will tell you, it was very informative and
enlightening. The information collected will be vital to the final facilities blueprint. We'll provide an update
on this work in the upcoming June board study session.
At this point, work is continuing fast and furiously. Over 40 RTD staff members are supporting the project,
as well as numerous consulting resources. At this point, we are on track to complete the facilities and fleet
transition plan on schedule in December 2024. We'll provide more information at an upcoming study session
in June. Topics to be covered in the study session include case studies and information from other peer
agencies operating similar technologies, fuel and technology considerations, battery electric bus modeling
results, and technology mitigation strategies, implementation considerations, facilities first strategies, and
of course, next steps.
I thank you for your time and attention to this matter. At this point, I will be more than happy to answer any
questions you may have.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Mr. Worthen. We look forward to more information June 4. It'll be
upon us before we know it. Questions from the committee or other board members? All right, Director
Harwick. I see your hand is up. The floor is yours.
IAN HARWICK: I just have, I mean, obviously, I have a ton of questions, but I'm going to save most of them
for June. I guess my main question is at the end of this, when we get the report in December, what does
the next steps look like? Are we the ones that make this final decision? I'm assuming no. Debra's shaking
her head. So we have the report in hand, and then what? And all the other questions I'll save until June.
TROY WHITMORE: All right, go ahead, Debra.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may. Thank you very kindly. And thank you, Director Harwick. So what we're going
to do, the whole point of this transition plan and doing the modeling and trying to discern what might be
optimal for this agency is put forward recommendations. And we as staff will give some recommendations
to you. Being from a place whereby I've been part of a transition plan, we don't want to limit ourselves
because we don't know what tomorrow brings in reference to different technologies going full steam ahead.
And so as we embark upon this, we have to look at where we are with our fleet replacement and what might
be optimal. We do also want to mitigate having varied fleets to maintain-- I came from an agency where we
had four different types of fleets. And what I mean by that is the propulsion system where we had CNG and
we had battery electric and we had diesel and we had hybrid electric. And when you think about your
workforce and training them and then the infrastructure, that can be costly as well.
So this plan will help guide our steps as it relates to what it is that we may decide. And when I say we, that
will be to you all to decide, but we as staff having the technical expertise in that realm and being involved
at an industry level about what might be more pertinent. That's what we would give to this board for
consideration. Mr. Worthen, would you like to opine? Because I know you're on various committees in the

infancy of all of this or nascency, whatever word you like to use in reference to this technology. We are way
behind, but this gives us opportunity. So Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I really don't have a lot to add to this. I will say, though, that
this process has been very enlightening. We started from ground 0 with no preconceived notions with the
blank slate. We're trying to look at everything as holistically as possible and balance the cost and limitations
of the technology with our service needs itself to bring forth the best mix of technologies that has the least
impact on our agency as a whole itself and also consider that even if there are facilities and infrastructure
that we can afford to pay for, that's not going to happen overnight.
So this is going to have to happen in phases and increments over time where we're looking at not only the
fleet as it's transitioning, but how we're transitioning our capital and our facilities as well to meet the needs
of the report.
TROY WHITMORE: Good question, Director Harwick, and look forward to further discussion in early June.
All right. Next up, Director Lewis, your hand is up.
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm just curious, do we have current property values for all of
our bus barns?
FRED WORTHEN: I don't know. I can't answer the question about current property values. I can get back
with you on that question. [INAUDIBLE] manages our property. I don't know what we have available, but
we can take the question.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Worthen, if I may, so recognizing that when we look at insurance for our facilities
and things of the like, we do have some of that information that does fall within the realm of our real property.
And so we can assess and provide that information in a written format for the betterment of everyone as
we go forward.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you. The reason why I ask that question, it gives us flexibility if we do have to move
properties around to accommodate this new technology. So it'd be nice to know that our numbers are
updated as much as possible. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Any other clarifying questions or preview points for June 4? All right. It looks
like that we have completed that presentation. And thank you all for the hard work. We've covered quite a
bit of ground tonight.
So with that, we will move to other matters. And before I open the floor to other matters, I would like to note
during next week's executive committee meeting that that committee will review a recommended action to
update the bylaws to reflect an update to our committee's name to operations, safety, and security. And if
that item passes, it will go to the full board for consideration and approval on April 30. And should that pass,
our name will officially change before next month's committee meeting. So we look forward to the executive
committee's decision on that matter.
A couple of items that I wanted to bring up before others are invited to do so. We did our best to anticipate
the length of this meeting tonight, and we went a little longer than we anticipated. So I apologize for not
having a break. I know I'm needing one very soon and probably the rest of you are as well. So I apologize
on that front.

Secondly, I want to address the bit of loss of decorum during the Polege presentation and the problem that
we had with the microphone. I took the prerogative to interrupt another board member and other folks as
we were trying to correct the problem. And I certainly did not have the intent of cutting off anybody or to
discriminate against anybody with hearing needs. I can tell you that Ms. Polege's microphone system needs
improvement, and I do ask for work to be done on that. The first iteration was rough. The second iteration,
while improved, was not much better. And we finally got to a point where we could understand her.
My point was to try and take control of the situation as chairman and not to be a bully, not to be
discriminatory, and not to look overbearing. If I look that way, it was not intended. And for that, for the
decorum issue that was mostly my fault, I apologize. I apologize to this committee. I apologize to those that
were watching, to other members of the board who were here and are working so hard.
I can tell you folks that I do find it an honor to serve with you all. And no moment could explain my pride
more than the work that was done yesterday by many of my colleagues there and for others that have
worked with other folks that have been there to support us. So, again, I apologize for that situation. It was
not intended to go south, and it did.
Certainly, we have a wonderful Vice Chair that's very skilled and we saw a little bit of his skills tonight and
over the last couple of years. So if it comes to the point where you're not comfortable with my leadership
style, I will step aside and gladly let Director Bouquet take the reins, because he's tremendous. And there
are others that can do the same. So I apologize profusely for that situation. And that's not becoming to this
board or myself as a supposed leader, and I failed. I apologize.
All right. Other comments or questions for other matters before we adjourn? Director Ruscha, your hand is
up.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. As a person who was impacted by the lack of decorum earlier,
I do want to say that your apology is well accepted but also just thank you. I voted for you as chair for a
reason, and I hope that as much as I love our Vice Chair Bouquet, I hope you don't feel like you need to
pass the virtual gavel. So thank you for that. I think that was a moment of leadership. We could all do better.
And sometimes, as noted, we also get tired. So I just wanted to say that on the record and I really appreciate
that.
I also just did have-- and I should have brought-- I tried to ask this earlier, but it should have come under
other matters, so I do have an other matters piece to bring up, if that is OK if I can continue? Thank you,
sir.
So earlier, I referenced the derailment that happened in January. And we have not received a full briefing
as to what transpired, what happened, how do we prevent that, et cetera. And so perhaps General Manager
can address this. When will we get a report? Is something still under investigation? And of course, there
have been times where we have met in executive session as appropriate when we cannot disclose things
to the public. But it has been three months. I will stop here and allow, if the chair permits, our CEO to
answer. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Ms. Johnson, proceed if you would like.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, what I will say in this public forum is that there was an extension relative to what
it is we were doing with the investigation. And we are committed to keeping you all apprised, recognizing
the complications with said investigation. And so I'll leave it there. So thank you.

TROY WHITMORE: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm sorry. Are you saying that we will not have an update until
the entire investigation is complete and it's TBD? I just want to make sure that I understand. Just the lack
of communication or knowledge transfer is becoming concerning as we are now entering our third month
post this incident.
And I have a lot of questions that I'm not going to ask in committee, because I don't want to put folks on the
spot, and I certainly don't want to embarrass the agency or start rumors. But for me, I am concerned that
we do not know what actually transpired. And I would be extremely concerned if we have to wait months.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Mr. Chair, if I may, I would just say that it is the intent to provide an update. I do
not believe that this conversation is suited for this public forum, hence the abruptness of my response. What
I am sharing with you is that there was an extension and we will ensure, as we have done previously,
provide an update in the appropriate forum. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Is that all, Director Ruscha? OK, thank you. Board Chair Erik Davidson, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Whitmore. I appreciate it. I'll keep it very brief. I know we've
been here for a while. I would like to thank staff most of all for the patience in the presentation this evening.
There was a lot of tremendous helpful information here. And thank you to everybody for the patience.
I did just want to briefly, since Ms. Johnson, I believe you will not be at the April 30 meeting, I wanted to
just publicly acknowledge and thank you for your testimony before the House Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure. I did have an opportunity to review that. It was excellent, it was informative, and I thank
you very much for your service and dedication, not just to this agency, not just to the state, but also to this
country.
And likewise, I'd be remiss not to note Mr. Jensen, who sat very comfortably and patiently behind there,
and I know a lot of the preparation that must have gone into that. So it was very informative, very thoughtful.
I know that's a team effort. So thank you to all of those involved and certainly Ms. Johnson and Mr. Jensen
for your service to country. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you so much. I appreciate the comments. Any others? Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I am so sorry, sir. In everything else, this one got derailed, so to speak. Is Dr. Chief
Fitzgerald still on the call?
TROY WHITMORE: I don't believe so.
JOEL FITZGERALD: I am.
TROY WHITMORE: There he is.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, actually I meant to do this previously at just our last general board meeting, and
that also went long. And I just want to give a shout out. I don't know if you guys have noticed this. I think it
was in the news and in the employee bulletin. Just that the leadership that our-- and maybe the Chief could
speak to this. But just that the leadership that our staff and our PD has taken regarding Narcan and having
that on their person.

And he was very generous with his time a few weeks ago with me. We spoke about some security issues
and also I made inquiries about Narcan and do we have enough? Can we increase? Can we get this in
more hands? Narcan saves lives. I'm going to cry. Excuse me. Including the life of a loved one. And so I
just wanted to actually just give a shout out to our Chief in taking that time with me. And also that we were
just commended for our work here as an agency nationally as well.
And so I would just encourage my fellow board members to support the Chief and GM CEO if they ask, if
they need any more resources regarding the availability of Narcan training or any distribution. It does save
lives. Thank you so much.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Any other matters for tonight? Board members, committee members? I'm not
seeing any hands. Going once, going twice. OK, well, with that, the next meeting date is Wednesday, May
15, 2024.
The meeting is scheduled to have discussions on forthcoming September '24 service change already in
group 20-- excuse me, 33. 23 was a long time ago. 33 contract service. Additionally, we'll have a third
discussion item, which will be to receive an update on customer facing signage, which is great to hear,
across the RTD system. So hopefully all can make it on Wednesday, May 15.
With that, seeing no other discussion or comments, the meeting is adjourned at 8:40 PM Mountain Time.
Good night.

