Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
May 18, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Larry Hoy
I.

Call to Order

II.

May Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - May 23, 2017
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Bill Beuthel – Manager, Statistical Data – 36 years
Bob Brown – Contract Negotiator – 39 years
Donald E. Merritt – Manager, Bus Operator Training – 26 years
Special Recognition – APTA 2017 International Bus & Paratransit Roadeo (1st
Overall)
Bus International Participant
John Deschner (RTD - 8th Place)
Maintenance International Participants (1st Place)
Jon Paul Mitchell, Ernesto Perez Jr., and Tim Wallace

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Approval of Contract Extension for Jacobs Engineering for FasTracks
Program Support Consulting Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a
contract amendment to Jacobs Engineering for Program Support Consulting
Services (PSC) for FasTracks, to extend the contract completion date from June
30, 2017 to December 31, 2019. Funding for project scope to be completed in
2017 is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget for the FasTracks capital program
in the specific projects where PSC support would be utilized. Funding for future
year scope is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018-2019 in
the specific projects where PSC support would be utilized, and will be
appropriated in the specific projects in future year capital budgets.
B.

2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial
reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2016 as prepared by staff and
audited by RTD's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
C.

Citibank Call Modification

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”),
authorizing the execution and delivery of a second modification and exchange
agreement and a third supplemental indenture of trust relating to a portion of a

portion of the District’s sales tax revenue refunding bonds (FasTracks Project)
Series 2007A, and other matters related thereto.
XII.

Recommended Action
D.
Additional Funding for Triunity-Hill Joint Venture Contract for FasTracks
Construction Management Support Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a
contract amendment to Triunity-Hill Joint Venture for Construction Management
Support Consultant Services (CMSC) for FasTracks, increasing the Not-toExceed contract value through July 14, 2020 by $19,250,000. Funding for this
award is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018-2020 in the
specific projects where CMSC support would be utilized, and will be
appropriated in the specific projects in future year capital budgets.
E.
Approval of increased Contract Authorization to Front Range Systems
Consultants (FRSC) for FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that
the Board of Directors increase the board authorized contract amount with Front
Range Systems Consultants (FRSC) in the amount of $3,173,202. This will result
in a total contract not-to-exceed authorization of $67,482,759 and will provide
funding through the remainder of 2017. Funds for the contract authorization are
included in the specific project budgets where FRSC support would be utilized.
It is further recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
approve a contract amendment to FRSC to extend the contract completion date
from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018, and increase the total contract
amount by $3,500,000, for a total contract authorization of $70,982,759.
Funding for this scope is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018
in the specific projects where FRSC support would be utilized, and will be
appropriated in the 2018 capital budget.
F.

State Legislative Liaison Services

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an
agreement for state legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public
Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2017 through June 29,
2018) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of $127,000, pursuant to the
Contract Award agreement.

G.

Timekeeping System Contract

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract for the new time and attendance system
to KRONOS Incorporated, in an amount not to exceed $750,000.
H.

Non-Profit Program 2017

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Non-Profit program continue to maintain a $6,800,000 face value amount for
2017.
XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: April 26, 2017

From:

Henry
Stopplecamp,
Assistant
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

April 26, 2017

Subject:

Approval of Contract Extension for Jacobs
Engineering for FasTracks Program Support
Consulting Services

General

Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to Jacobs Engineering for
Program Support Consulting Services (PSC) for FasTracks, to extend the contract completion date
from June 30, 2017 to December 31, 2019. Funding for project scope to be completed in 2017 is
included in the 2017 Adopted Budget for the FasTracks capital program in the specific projects
where PSC support would be utilized. Funding for future year scope is included in the 2016 Annual
Program Evaluation for 2018-2019 in the specific projects where PSC support would be utilized, and
will be appropriated in the specific projects in future year capital bud gets.
BACKGROUND
On May 24, 2005, the RTD Board approved selection and award of a multi-year contract to CarterBurgess (later purchased by Jacobs Engineering) for Program Support Consulting Services at an initial
2005 Contract amount of $2,360,000, and a Notice to Proceed of July 5, 2005. The RTD Board has
approved subsequent contract amendments through June 30, 2017 that have brought the current
Contract Not-to-Exceed price up to $191,423,336. This contract amendment would not increase the
contract value beyond the current authorized amount.
The PSC team provides program management support and specialized technical staff support to augment
RTD FasTracks Team staff. Key PSC staff members are co-located with RTD Staff at the RTD FasTracks
offices. The PSC functions as an extension of RTD staff. This approach adds value, cost-effectively, by
allowing RTD to tap the PSC’s specialized resources in planning, environmental, design, engineering,
construction management support, program control, and related disciplines on an as-needed, often parttime, basis.
DISCUSSION
The Program Support Consultant Contract was specified for a term of six years with a six -year
option, to be negotiated annually for the upcoming year’s work tasks. The current end date of the
contract is June 30, 2017.
RTD has reached the stage of the FasTracks program where several of the ongoing corridor projects
have reached revenue service, and are entering the closeout phase. At this time, it is crucial to
retain the institutional knowledge needed to close out all contracts, meet final reporting requirements
for FTA grant projects, and finalize the transactions and mapping that will secure the right -of-way
for the program alignments, including survey and mapping support for final acquisiti ons and utility
relocations, post-construction surveys, and filing of right-of-way plans. The proposed time extension
to the Jacobs contract would make the resources available to RTD to complete the project closeout
in a timely and cost-effective manner.

Packet Pg. 5

2.11.A

In addition, as part of the contract closeout process, RTD could face potential claims or lawsuits
related to its projects. Support from the PSC staff that were involved in the original issue could be
critical to resolving the issues in a manner that would be most favorable to RTD.
The contract extension will cover specific named individuals and functional areas, with projected
timeframes of availability for each one. In the event that a named individual were to leave Jacobs
before the end of the contract timeframe, the contract would be amended to remove all remaining
hours for that individual. Any future consultant support outside of these designated areas will be
procured through the Construction Management Support Consultant contract with Triunity -Hill, and
will not be added to the scope of this contract.
The contract extension identifies the following specific functions and tasks in support of FasTracks:
Program Management
 Provide track engineering support through the end of 2017.
 Assist RTD in coordinating the overall program-wide and project mapping, right-of-way (ROW),
and utility survey for all corridors and facilities.
North Metro
 Provide a full time Contract Manager through the first quarter of 2018.
 Provide environmental support through the first quarter of 2018.
 Provide construction support through the first quarter of 2018.
 Perform mapping, survey and right-of-way support.
I-225
 Provide mapping, survey and right-of-way support.
 Provide construction support through project closeout.
SEC Ext.
 Provide mapping, survey and right-of-way support.
 Provide environmental support through the end of 2017.
Eagle P3 (East, Gold, CRMF, Northwest Rail Electrified Segment)
 Provide P3 and railroad support through project closeout
 Provide Federal Agency Liaison and Risk Manager through project closeout.
 Provide full time Project Controls Manager and Contract Manager through project closeout.
 Provide FEIS/ROD mitigation monitoring through project closeout.
 Provide a part-time System Safety Manager through the end of 2017.
 Provide field survey, mapping, and right-of-way management support.
 Provide construction oversight through project closeout.
West Rail
 Provide support to close remaining right-of-way issues.
RTD has established a 7% DBE goal for this Contract. The latest DBE report indicates that the PSC’s
actual cumulative DBE percentage has been 20.07%. RTD does not foresee any additional opportunities
for DBE subcontracting through this contract extension because all of the named roles are filled by
Jacobs employees. All of the DBE subcontractors with continuing roles on the FasTracks program also
participate in the Triunity-Hill contract. If RTD were to spend the full Contract Not to Exceed amount,
the DBE participation on the overall contract would be 18.72%.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The total Contract Not to Exceed Amount for the PSC contract from 2005 through 2019, would
remain at the currently authorized amount of $191,423,336 with this amendment. Funding for
project scope to be completed in 2017 is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget for the FasTracks

Packet Pg. 6

2.11.A

capital program in the specific projects where PSC support would be utilized. Funding for future
year scope is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018-2019 in the specific projects
where PSC support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the specific projects in future year
capital budgets.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the recommended action. It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs &
FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve
a contract amendment to Jacobs Engineering for Program Support Consulting Services for
FasTracks, to extend the contract completion date from June 30, 2017 to December 31, 2019.
Funding for project scope to be completed in 2017 is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget for
the FasTracks capital program in the specific projects where PSC support would be utilized.
Funding for future year scope is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018 -2019
in the specific projects where PSC support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the
specific projects in future year capital budgets.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to extend the
contract completion date for Jacobs Engineering. This is not recommended because of the
institutional knowledge and background of the specific staff to be retained through this
amendment. As RTD does not have the staff to provide a sufficient level of expertise in a cost effective approach to manage the FasTracks Program (As described in the Background section,
the PSC team can provide the technical specialties on an as needed basis).

Prepared by:
Susan Cohen, Senior Manager, Finance and ECM
Pranaya Shrestha, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

2.11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

May 10, 2017

Subject:

2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
and Report to Governance

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 10, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2016 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
BACKGROUND
State statutes require an annual audit by independent certified public accountants. RTD is also required
to provide annual audited financial statements to external entities and other government organizations to
be in full compliance with legal covenants, debt agreements, and other contractual documents. The
accounting firm of RubinBrown, LLP performed the 2016 audit. In addition to the requirements set forth
in state statutes, the audit also was designed to fulfill the requirements of the federal Single Audit Act of
1984 and related OMB circular A-133.
DISCUSSION
As stated in the auditor’s unmodified opinion, the financial statements in the enclosed Comprehensive
Annual Financial Report (CAFR) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of RTD as of
December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the results of its operations and its cash flow for the 2016 and
2015 fiscal years in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept and enter into the record RTD’s audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2016 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD's independent auditor, RubinBrown,
LLP. This is the recommended action, state statutes and other sources, such as rating agencies
and other legal covenants, require RTD to enter annual audited financial statements into the
record.
2. Do not accept and enter into the record the audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2016 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD’s independent auditor, RubinBrown,
LLP. This is not the recommended action, since state statutes and other sources, such as rating
agencies and other legal covenants, require RTD to enter annual audited financial statements into
the record.
ATTACHMENTS:


2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report



Draft Report to Governance

(PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Doug MacLeod, Controller

Packet Pg. 8

2.11.B

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT
Fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015

Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake Street, Denver, Colorado
303.299.6000 rtd-denver.com
Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
DENVER, COLORADO
COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT
Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2016 and 2015

Prepared by
Finance Division
Chief Financial Officer

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

2

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 12

TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTORY SECTION

Page

Letter from Chair, Executive Committee

5

Letter of Transmittal

7

Board of Directors

13

District Service Area Map

14

Organization Chart

15

Department Officials

15

GFOA Certificate of Achievement

16

FINANCIAL SECTION
Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants

19

Management’s Discussion and Analysis

23

Basic Financial Statements
Statements of Net Position

37

Statements of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Net Position

39

Statements of Cash Flow

40

Notes to Financial Statements

43

Required Supplementary Information
Pension Plan Summary

86

Supplemental Information
Schedule of Expense and Revenue –
Budget and Actual - Budgetary Basis

91

STATISTICAL SECTION
Net Position by Component

93

Summary of Statements of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Net Position

94

3
Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

TABLE OF CONTENTS
(CONTINUED)
Page
Operating and Other Expenses and Capital Outlays

95

Revenue by Source

96

Debt Coverage Ratios

97

Demographic and Operating Data

99

Debt Disclosure Tables

100

Strategic Budget Plan –Operations

101

Strategic Budget Plan - Capital Program

102

Statement of Debt

103

Annual Ridership and Fare Revenue

104

Advertising and Ancillary Revenues

104

Grant Receipts and Local Contributions

104

Five-Year Summary of Statements of Revenues, Expenses
and Changes in Net Position

105

Five-Year Schedule of Expenses and Revenues –
Budget and Actual - Budgetary Basis

106

Fiscal Year 2017 and 2016 Budget

107

Trip Fares

108

RTD Net Taxable Retail Sales

109

4
Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Regional Transportation District

May 5, 2017
Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
Denver, Colorado
In accordance with Colorado statutes and Regional Transportation District (RTD) bylaws, the enclosed Comprehensive Annual Financial
Report of the Regional Transportation District as of December 31, 2016, has been compiled. Responsibility for the accuracy of the
presented data and the completeness and fairness of the presentation, including all disclosures, rests with RTD. Management believes
the data, as presented, fairly sets forth the financial position and operating results of RTD. Disclosures necessary to enable the reader
to gain the maximum understanding of the financial affairs of RTD have been included.
In developing and evaluating RTD’s accounting system, consideration has been given to the adequacy of internal accounting controls.
These controls are discussed by the Chief Financial Officer in the Letter of Transmittal. Within that framework, we believe RTD’s
internal accounting controls adequately safeguard assets and provide reasonable assurance of the proper recording of financial
transactions.
This report has been prepared according to the guidelines recommended by the Government Finance Officers Association of the United
States and Canada. In accordance with these guidelines, the accompanying report is presented in three parts:
1.

Introductory Section, including the Chief Financial Officer’s Letter of Transmittal.

2.

Financial Section containing the independent auditor’s report, Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the financial
statements, notes thereto and supplemental information.

3.

Statistical Section, including selected tables of unaudited data depicting the financial history of RTD, demographics, and
other miscellaneous information.

Colorado law requires the governing bodies of local governments to have an independent audit of RTD’s financial statements
performed. RTD has complied with this requirement and has included the report of the independent auditors in the Financial Section
of this report.
Preparation of this Comprehensive Annual Financial Report could not have been accomplished without the dedicated efforts of the
entire financial staff. Should you have any questions or comments, please contact me or Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer.
Respectfully submitted,
Larry Hoy
Chair, Executive Committee

5
Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

6

Packet Pg. 16

Regional Transportation District

May 5, 2017
Mr. Larry Hoy
Chair, Executive Committee
Regional Transportation District
State law requires that all general-purpose local governments publish within seven months of the close of each fiscal year a
complete set of financial statements presented in conformance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and
audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by a firm of licensed certified public accountants. Pursuant
to that requirement, we hereby issue the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the Regional Transportation District (RTD)
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016.
This report consists of management’s representations concerning the finances of RTD. Consequently, management assumes
full responsibility for the completeness and reliability of all of the information presented in this report. To provide a reasonable
basis for making these representations, management of RTD has established a comprehensive internal control framework that
is designed both to protect the government’s assets from loss, theft, or misuse and to compile sufficient, reliable information
for the preparation of RTD’s financial statements in conformity with GAAP. Because the cost of internal controls should not
outweigh their benefits, RTD’s comprehensive framework of internal controls has been designed to provide reasonable rather
than absolute assurance that the financial statements will be free from material misstatement. As management, we assert that,
to the best of our knowledge and belief, this financial report is complete and reliable in all material respects.
RTD’s financial statements have been audited by RubinBrown, LLP, a firm of licensed certified public accountants. The goal of
the independent audit was to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements of RTD for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2016, are free of material misstatement. The independent audit involved examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements; assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management; and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. The independent auditor
concluded, based upon the audit, that there was a reasonable basis for rendering an unmodified opinion that RTD’s financial
statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, are fairly presented in conformity with GAAP. The independent
auditor’s report is presented as the first component of the Financial Section of this report.
The independent audit of the financial statements of RTD was part of a broader, federally mandated “Single Audit” designed to
meet the special needs of federal grantor agencies. The standards governing Single Audit engagements require the independent
auditor to report not only on the fair presentation of the financial statements, but also on the audited government’s internal
controls and compliance with legal requirements, with special emphasis on internal controls and legal requirements involving
the administration of federal awards. These reports are in RTD’s separately issued Single Audit Report.
GAAP requires that management provide a narrative introduction, overview, and analysis to accompany the basic financial
statements in the form of Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A). This letter of transmittal is designed to complement
the MD&A and should be read in conjunction with it. RTD’s MD&A can be found immediately following the report of the
independent auditors.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT (RTD)
RTD provides public mass transit service to the Denver metropolitan area. In 1969, the Colorado General Assembly (Assembly)
found that public transit was a necessary part of the growing Denver Metropolitan Region. The Assembly found that public

7
Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

sector involvement was the best method to ensure the continuation of this vital component. Thus, the Regional Transportation
District was created as a political subdivision of the State effective July 1969 “to develop, maintain, and operate a public
mass transportation system for the benefit of the District.”
RTD boundaries now include Jefferson, Boulder, and Denver counties, most of the City and County of Broomfield, and portions
of Adams, Douglas, Weld, and Arapahoe counties. Over 2.92 million people reside within RTD’s 2,342 square mile area.
Since 1983, RTD has had a fifteen-member Board of Directors that are elected by their constituents to serve four-year terms
to govern RTD. There are approximately 180,000 residents per director district. The RTD Board of Directors is responsible for
setting policy, overseeing the agency’s annual budget, and establishing short and long-range transit goals and plans in concert
with local, state, and federal agencies.
RTD employs over 2,813 men and women, making it one of the largest employers in the eight county areas. In addition, RTD
contracts with private carriers to provide access-a-ride, fixed route and commuter rail services employing over 2,058 men and
women. Besides its administrative headquarters in Denver, RTD has seven operating facilities (excluding purchased
transportation services), including four in Denver, one in Aurora, one in Englewood, and one in Boulder.
The financial reporting entity includes all of the financial activities of RTD, as well as those activities of its component unit,
the Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc. (the Authority), a nonprofit corporation established to facilitate RTD’s use of
lease/purchase financing.
RTD also maintains budgetary controls. These controls ensure compliance with legal provisions embodied in the annual
appropriated budget approved by RTD’s Board of Directors. The budget sets forth proposed outlays for operations, planning,
administration, development, debt service, and capital assets. The level of budgetary control (that is, the level at which
expenditures cannot legally exceed the appropriated amount) is established at the project level.
The annual budget serves as the foundation for RTD’s financial planning and control. All departments of RTD are required to
submit requests for appropriation to the General Manager on or before August 1st of each year. The General Manager uses
these requests as the starting point for developing a proposed budget. The General Manager then presents this proposed budget
to the Board of Directors for review prior to October 15th. The Board of Directors is required to hold a public hearing on the
proposed budget and to adopt a final budget no later than December 31st.
Unused appropriations lapse at year-end, except that the Board of Directors has the authority, as stated in the adopted
appropriation resolution, to carry-over the unused portion of the funds for capital projects not completed, for a period not to
exceed three years.
RTD’s policy also authorizes the General Manager to approve certain line-item transfers within the budget. Budget-to-actual
comparisons are provided in the Supplemental Information Section of this report.
Factors Affecting Financial Condition
The information presented in the financial statements is perhaps best understood when it is considered in the broader
perspective of the specific environment within which RTD operates.
RTD serves the eight-county region considered the Denver metropolitan area. It is the most populated area of the state and
the economic barometer of Colorado. Employment in the Denver Metro area is dominated by small businesses. These companies
represent a diverse mix of industries and are located throughout the Denver metropolitan area, providing a geographic balance
in employment centers.

8
Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

The Colorado Legislative Council (CLC) in its December 2016 report forecasts that the economy is expected to grow at a more
moderate pace; demographic change, growing inflationary pressures and rising interest rates will slow consumer spending.
Economists for CLC reported the following key economic indicators:
Key Economic Indicators
Job Growth
Unemployment
Personal Income
Population
Inflation

2015 Actual
3.2%
3.8%
4.2%
1.9%
1.2%

2016 Forecast
2.1%
3.4%
3.8%
1.7%
2.9%

2017 Forecast
1.8%
3.4%
4.7%
1.8%
2.9%

On November 3, 1992, the voters of Colorado approved a Constitutional Amendment (the “Amendment”) that limits taxes,
revenue, and spending for state and local governments effective December 31, 1992. On November 7, 1995, the voters of the
District exempted RTD from the revenue and spending limitations concerning the Amendment through December 31, 2005. On
November 2, 1999, the voters of the District further exempted RTD from the revenue and spending limitations outlined in the
Amendment for the purpose of paying any debt incurred to finance the construction of the Southeast and Southwest light rail
lines or to operate such for as long as any debt remains outstanding, but in no event beyond December 31, 2026.
On November 2, 2004, the voters of the District authorized an increase in the District’s sales and use tax rate from 0.6% to
1.0%, effective January 1, 2005, to finance the FasTracks transit improvement program. This authorization also exempted
the District from any revenue and spending limitations on the additional tax and on any investment income generated by the
increased tax revenue, and allowed RTD to incur debt to finance the capital improvements included in the FasTracks program.
At the time that all FasTracks debt is repaid, the District’s sales and use tax rate will be reduced to a rate sufficient to operate
the transit system financed through FasTracks.
Long-term Financial Planning
Each year the Board of Directors adopts a financially constrained Strategic Budget Plan (SBP), which is the six-year operating
and capital improvement plan of RTD excluding FasTracks. Historically, FasTracks has been excluded from the SBP because
the program was primarily for capital expansion. In addition, the Board of Directors adopts a financially constrained Annual
Program Evaluation (APE), (which is a six year operating and capital improvement plan that includes the FasTracks
program). The APE is a component of the long-term transportation planning program for the Denver metropolitan area
evaluated by the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG). As the FasTracks program continues to transition from
capital expansion to operations, RTD will migrate the SBP and APE into a single short, medium and long-term Financial Plan
which will include the entirety of RTD in a single report. This financial information forms the basis for the development of
RTD’s annual budget.
The long-term financial planning seeks to allocate resources among related and, at times, competing activities and to optimize
those resources in a manner consistent with defined organizational goals and objectives.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
RTD management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an internal control structure designed to ensure that assets
are protected from loss, theft, or misuse and that adequate accounting data are compiled to allow for the preparation of
financial statements in conformity with GAAP. RTD has designed its internal control structure to provide reasonable, but not
absolute, assurance that these objectives are met. The concept of reasonable assurance recognizes that: (1) the costs of a
control should not exceed the benefits likely to be derived and (2) the valuation of costs and benefits requires estimates and
judgment by management.

9
Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Single Audit: As a recipient of federal assistance, RTD is responsible for ensuring that an adequate internal control structure
is instituted to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations related to those programs. This internal control
structure is subject to periodic evaluation by management and the RTD internal audit staff.
As part of RTD’s single audit, tests are made to determine the adequacy of the internal control structure, including that portion
related to federal financial assistance programs, as well as to evaluate RTD’s compliance. RTD’s single audit for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2016 found no instances of material weakness in the internal control structures or significant
violations of applicable laws and regulations. A separate report was prepared for this purpose.
Fiscal Policy: RTD follows a fiscal policy approved by the Board of Directors annually or as necessary due to modification.
The fiscal policy contains policies for revenue, investments, expenditures, capital improvements, fund balance, debt, budgeting,
accounting and grants.
Debt Administration: RTD formulates its debt policy to protect its credit ratings and soundly manage its assets and liabilities.
Included in this policy is a requirement that debt will not be used to finance current operations. Another requirement precludes
financing capital projects beyond the useful life of the project. Additional policies go beyond these essential guidelines and
result in further protection. RTD has a dual rating for its 1.0% sales tax credit. Moody’s Investors Service rates the sales tax
credit as “Aa1”, Standard and Poor’s Corporation rates the sales tax credit “AAA” and Fitch Ratings rates the sales tax credit
“AA” that are secured by the 0.6% sales tax. Moody’s Investors Service rates the sales tax credit as “Aa2”, Standard and
Poor’s Corporation rates the sales tax credit “AA+” and Fitch Ratings rates the sales tax credit “AA” that are secured by the
0.4% sales tax.
Cash Management: The main objective of RTD’s cash management program is the protection of investment principal while
providing optimal levels of cash throughout the year. The RTD investment policy is modified periodically to adapt to changes
in eligible investments, benchmarks, and specific objectives.
During the year, RTD invested its cash in various investment vehicles including money market funds, U.S. Treasury securities,
agency securities, discount notes, commercial paper, repurchase agreements, and variable and fixed rate mortgage-backed
securities. The total average return on investments for the year was 0.8%.
Risk Management: RTD employs a combination of self-insurance and purchased insurance in its efforts to protect assets and
control and prevent losses.
The areas of self-insurance are worker’s compensation, automobile and general liability. RTD is self-insured for liability, the
limits of which are $350,000 per person and $990,000 per occurrence as specified under the Colorado Governmental Immunity
statute. The self-insured retention for worker’s compensation claims is $2,000,000 per claim, with any amounts above this
covered by purchased insurance up to the legal limits of liability under the Colorado worker’s compensation statute.
Commercial insurance policies provide property coverage up to $1,663,245,896 for buildings, their contents, and rolling stock
(other than collision); a Commercial Crime Policy and Faithful Performance Bond; a $3,500,000 Workers’ Compensation Bond;
Felonious Assault Policy; travel insurance for employees on RTD business; fidelity coverage on the Trustees of the Union
Pension Trust, Salaried Pension Trust, Represented Health and Welfare Union Trust, Legal Trust, and the employees
administering the health benefits program for salaried employees. With the growth of Light Rail Transit (LRT) services, RTD
has added Railroad Protective and Railroad Liability commercial insurance policies that provide coverage when required under
operational needs.
The Risk Management Division coordinates these programs internally for RTD.

10
Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

OTHER INFORMATION
Independent Audit: State statutes require an annual audit by independent certified public accountants. The accounting firm
of RubinBrown LLP was selected to perform the 2016 audit. This audit also was designated to meet the requirements of the
Federal Single Audit 2 CFR 200.501, Uniform Grant Guidance and related 2 CFR 200, Uniform Grant Guidance – Uniform
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles and Audit Requirements. The auditor’s report on the financial statements and
schedules are included in the Financial Section of this report. The auditor’s report related specifically to the single audit is
included in a separate report.
Awards: The Government Finance Officers Associations (GFOA) awarded a Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in
Financial Reporting to RTD for its Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015. This
is the twenty-fourth consecutive year, after a two-year absence from the program, that RTD has been awarded this prestigious
award.
In order to receive the Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting, RTD must publish an easily readable
and efficiently organized Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, the contents of which must conform to program standards.
This report must also satisfy both GAAP and applicable legal requirements.
The Certificate of Achievement is valid for one year only. We believe our current Comprehensive Annual Financial Report meets
the program’s requirements and will be submitting it to the GFOA to determine its eligibility for another certificate.
Acknowledgements: Preparation of the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report on a timely basis was made possible by the
dedicated services of the entire staff of the Finance Division. Each member of the division has our sincere appreciation for the
contributions made in the preparation of this report.
Finally, without the leadership and support of the members of the RTD’s Board of Directors, preparation of this report would
not have been possible.
Sincerely,
Heather McKillop
Chief Financial Officer

11
Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

12

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 22

Board of Directors
RTD’s governing body is a 15-member elected Board of Directors, with each member elected from one of the fifteen districts
comprising RTD’s service area. Each district is apportioned equally by population and most districts cross county boundaries.
The districts are assigned letter designations from “A” to “O”. The following are the members of the Board of Directors as of
February 2016:
District A
Kate Williams
Denver/Arapahoe Counties

District I
Judy Lubow
Boulder/Broomfield/Adams/Weld Counties

District B
Barbara Deadwyler, Second Vice Chair
Denver/Adams Counties

District J
Larry Hoy, Chair
Adams/Jefferson Counties

District C
Bonnie “Ernest” Archuleta
Denver/Jefferson Counties

District K
Paul Daniel Solano
Adams/Weld Counties

District D
Jeff Walker, Secretary
Denver/Jefferson/Arapahoe Counties

District L
Lorraine Anderson
Jefferson/Adams Counties

District E
Claudia Folska
Denver/Arapahoe Counties

District M
Natalie Menten, Treasurer
Jefferson County

District F
Bob Broom
Arapahoe County

District N
Tina Francone, First Vice Chair
Jefferson County

District G
Ken Mihalik
Arapahoe/Douglas Counties

District O
Charles L. Sisk
Boulder County

District H
Doug Tisdale
Arapahoe/Douglas Counties

13
Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

14

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 24

Organization Chart
Taxpayers and Customers
Board of Directors

General Manager

Bus Operations

Communications

Rail Operations

Planning

Finance/Administration

General Counsel

Capital Programs

Safety, Security &
Facilities

Department Officials
General Manager/Chief Executive Officer
Dave Genova

AGM, Planning
William C. Van Meter

AGM, Bus Operations
Bruce Abel

AGM, Capital Programs & Facilities
Henry Stopplecamp

Chief Financial Officer/Administration
Heather McKillop

General Counsel
Rolf Asphaug

AGM, Rail Operations
Terry Emmons

AGM, Communications
Scott Reed

AGM, Safety, Security & Asset Management
Michael Meader

15
Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

16

Packet Pg. 26

FINANCIAL SECTION

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

17

Packet Pg. 27

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

18

Packet Pg. 28

2.11.B.a

Independent Auditors’ Report
Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
Denver, Colorado

1900 16 th Street
Suite 300
Denver, CO 80202
T 303.698.1883
F 303.777.4458
W rubinbrown.com
E info@rubinbrown.com

Report On The Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of the Regional Transportation
District (RTD) as of and for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 and the
related notes to the financial statements, which collectively comprise RTD’s basic
financial statements as listed in the table of contents.
Management’s Responsibility For The Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial
statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America; this includes the design, implementation and maintenance of
internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America and the standards applicable to financial
audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General
of the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from
material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the
auditors’ judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk
assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation
and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. Accordingly, we express no
such opinion. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting
policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our audit opinion.

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

RubinBrown LLP
Certified Public Accountants
& Business Consultants

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

Opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of RTD as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the
changes in its financial position and its cash flows for the years then ended in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.
Emphasis Of Matter
As discussed in Note A.20, RTD adopted the provisions of the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board (GASB) Statement No. 72, Fair Value Measurement and Application,
effective June 15, 2015. Our opinions were not modified with respect to this matter.
Other Matters
Required Supplementary Information
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America require that
the management’s discussion and analysis and pension plan summary information on
pages 23 through 34 and 86 through 89, respectively, be presented to supplement the
basic financial statements. Such information, although not a part of the basic financial
statements, is required by GASB, which considers it to be an essential part of financial
reporting for placing the basic financial statements in an appropriate operational,
economic or historical context. We have applied certain limited procedures to the
required supplementary information in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America, which consisted of inquiries of management
about the methods of preparing the information and comparing the information for
consistency with management’s responses to our inquiries, the basic financial
statements and other knowledge we obtained during our audit of the basic financial
statements. We do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on the information
because the limited procedures do not provide us with sufficient evidence to express an
opinion or provide any assurance.
Supplementary And Other Information
Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the financial
statements that collectively comprise RTD’s basic financial statements. The
accompanying budgetary information, summary schedules, introductory section and
statistical section are presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not a
required part of the basic financial statements.

20
Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

The budgetary information is the responsibility of management and was derived from
and relates directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the
basic financial statements. Such information has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and certain additional
procedures, including comparing and reconciling such information directly to the
underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the basic financial statements
or to the basic financial statements themselves, and other additional procedures in
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.
In our opinion, the budgetary information is fairly stated, in all material respects, in
relation to the financial statements as a whole.
The summary schedules, introductory and statistical sections have not been subjected
to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements, and
accordingly, we do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on them.
Other Reporting Required By Government Auditing Standards
In accordance with Government Auditing Standards, we have also issued our report
dated May 5, 2017 on our consideration of RTD’s internal control over financial
reporting and on our tests of its compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations,
contracts and grant agreements and other matters. The purpose of that report is to
describe the scope of our testing of internal control over financial reporting and
compliance and the results of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on internal
control over financial reporting or on compliance. That report is an integral part of an
audit performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards in considering
RTD’s internal control over financial reporting and compliance.

May 5, 2017

21
Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

22

Packet Pg. 32

The management of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) offers users of our financial statements this narrative overview and analysis
of the financial activities for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. This discussion and analysis is designed to assist the reader
to focus on significant financial activities and identify any significant changes in the financial position of RTD. It should be read in conjunction
with the financial statements that follow this section. All amounts, unless otherwise indicated, are expressed in thousands of dollars.
Key Reporting Implementations
In fiscal year 2015 RTD implemented the provisions of GASB Statement No. 68, Accounting and Financial Reporting for Pensions, and
GASB Statement 71, Pension Transition for Contributions Made Subsequent to the Measurement Date. GASB Statement Nos. 68 and 71
establish standards for measuring and recognizing net pension liabilities, deferred outflows of resources, deferred inflows of resources, and
expenses related to pension benefits provided through defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
In fiscal year 2016 RTD implemented the provisions of Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) Statement No. 72, Fair Value
Measurement and Application, which would generally require state and local governments to measure investments at fair value. GASB's
goal is to enhance the comparability of governmental financial statements by requiring fair value measurement for certain assets and
liabilities using a consistent definition and accepted valuation techniques. This standard expands fair value disclosures to provide
comprehensive information for financial statement users about the impact of fair value measurements on a government's financial position.
Financial Highlights
As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, total assets and deferred outflows of resources of RTD exceeded total liabilities and deferred inflows
of resources by $3,322,352 and $3,176,938, respectively. The amount of unrestricted net position as of December 31, 2016 was
$(214,479) compared to $(199,265) in 2015. RTD’s unrestricted net position was negatively impacted by the implementation of GASB
Statement No. 68, Accounting and Financial Reporting for Pensions (GASB 68). GASB 68 required RTD to record the amount of unfunded
pension liabilities. More information on the pension plans is available in the Notes.
The net position of RTD increased by $145,414 during the current year compared to a decrease of $4,136 in the previous year. The increase
for 2016 was due to higher operating revenues, sales and use tax and grant revenues, net of increases in operating expenses and nonoperating expenses which resulted from an improving economy combined with revenue enhancement and expense reduction initiatives
undertaken by RTD. The decrease in 2015 was the result of the GASB 68 new financial reporting requirement.
RTD’s sales and use tax revenues are its largest single source of revenues. These tax revenues increased $22,080 (4.1%) in 2016 and
increased $26,797 (5.2%) in the previous year. In 2016 and 2015, The District experienced growth in tax revenues due to increased
consumer and business-spending activity as the District continues to experience population growth of 1.7% and 1.9%, low unemployment
of 3.4% and 3.8% as well as growth in personal income of 3.8% and 4.2%, respectively.
For 2016, total operating expenses exceeded total revenues resulting in a loss before non-operating revenue and expenses of $641,186
compared to a loss of $535,478 for 2015. The increase in operating loss for 2016 was mostly due to the FasTracks launch of the University
of Colorado A line and B line commuter rail, purchased transportation service. The increase in operating loss for 2015 was due to the
increased cost of salaries and fringe benefits. RTD anticipates operating losses, as these losses are subsidized by non-operating sales and
use tax, grant revenues and other miscellaneous income.
RTD’s total debt increased $165,289 (4.8%) and increased $230,096 (7.1%) in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Debt increased in 2016 due
to issuance of the 2016A FasTracks Sales Tax Bonds for the purpose of funding additional FasTracks projects. Debt increased in 2015 due
to issuance of certificates of participation for the purpose of funding scheduled acquisition of equipment, buses and light rail vehicles.
Capital grants and local contributions increased $32,922 (19.4%) in 2016 and decreased $37,118 (18.0%) in the previous year. The increase
in 2016 occurred as a result of RTD securing a small starts grant for the Southeast Rail Extension, construction of the Civic Center Station

23
Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

and betterments for the I-225 corridor. The decrease in 2015 occurred as a result of several major construction project being completed,
U.S. 36 Manages Lanes, Denver Union Station, and West Rail Line, reducing grant funding.
RTD’s capital assets, excluding depreciation, increased $634,633 in 2016 and increased $798,324 in 2015. The increase in both 2016
and 2015 was primarily due to the build-out of the FasTracks project.
Basic Financial Statements
Management’s Discussion and Analysis serves as an introduction to RTD’s basic financial statements. RTD’s financial statements are
prepared using proprietary fund (enterprise fund) accounting that uses the same basis of accounting as private-sector business enterprises.
Under this method of accounting, an economic resources measurement focus and an accrual basis of accounting is used. Revenue is recorded
when earned and expenses are recorded when incurred.
The basic financial statements are comprised of four components: statements of net position; statements of revenues, expenses and
changes in net position; statements of cash flows; and notes to the financial statements.
The statements of net position presents information on assets and deferred outflows of resources and liabilities and deferred inflows of
resources, with the difference between the two reported as the net position. Over time, increases or decreases in net position may serve
as a useful indicator of whether the financial position of RTD is improving or deteriorating. The statements of revenues, expenses, and
changes in net position presents information on operating revenues and expenses and non-operating revenues and expenses of RTD for the
fiscal year with the difference, the net income or loss, combined with any capital grants and local contributions to determine the change in
net position for the year. That change combined with the previous year-end total net position reconciles to the net position total at the end
of the current fiscal year. All changes in net position are reported as soon as the underlying event giving rise to the changes occurs,
regardless of the timing of the related cash flows.
The statements of cash flows reports cash and cash equivalent activities for the fiscal year resulting from operating activities, capital, and
related financing activities, noncapital and related financing activities and investing activities. The result of these activities added to the
beginning of the year cash balance reconciles to the cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the current fiscal year. The statements
of cash flows, along with the related notes and information in other financial statements, can be used to assess the following: RTD’s ability
to generate positive cash flows and pay its debt as the debt matures; the reasons for differences between RTD’s operating cash flows and
operating income (loss); and the effect of investing, capital, and financing activities on RTD’s financial position.
The notes to the financial statements provide additional information that is essential to fully understand the data provided in the statements
of net position, statements of revenues, expenses, and changes in net position, and statements of cash flows.
RTD provides bus, paratransit, and light rail service in a 2,342 square mile area in and around Denver, Colorado. The activities of RTD are
supported by a 0.6% and 0.4% sales and use tax collected within the District. The 0.6% sales and use tax is used to fund the Base System
operations of RTD. The Base System operations provide the bus and the majority of current light rail services in the Denver area. The 0.4%
sales and use tax funds the FasTracks build-out program and operation and maintenance of those program elements as well as providing for
enhanced transit services in the District. Additional revenue sources include fare collections, federal, state, and local financial assistance,
investment income, and other income such as advertising and rental income.
Financial Analysis
Condensed Financial Information - Condensed financial information from the statements of net position and statements of revenues,
expenses, and changes in net position is presented below.
Statements of Net Position – As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, total assets and deferred outflows of resources of RTD exceeded
total liabilities and deferred inflows of resources by $3,322,352 and $3,176,938, respectively. The largest portion of this excess, in 2016

24
Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

and in 2015, was invested in capital assets, net of related debt. RTD uses these capital assets to provide public transportation services to
customers; consequently, these assets are not available for future spending. Although RTD’s investment in capital assets is reported net of
related debt, it should be noted that funding required to repay this debt will be obtained from other sources such as sales and use tax, since
the capital assets themselves cannot be used to pay the related debt. The amount of unrestricted net position as of December 31, 2016
was $(214,479) compared to $(199,265) in 2015. Substantially all of the unrestricted net position, although not legally restricted, has
been appropriated or reserved by the RTD Board for future capital acquisition and reserve policy requirements, and debt liquidation during
the budget process. The deficit balance in Unrestricted Net Position includes an allowance for a Net Pension Liability of $312,980 in 2016
for the represented employee defined benefit pension plan (see Note I). RTD has recognized this liability in its financial statements in
accordance with GASB Statement 68; however, RTD is current in making all required contributions under the collective bargaining
agreement.
Condensed Summary Statements of Net Position
2016
Assets and Deferred Outflows of Resources:
Current assets
Current assets - restricted
Capital assets (net of accumulated depreciation)
Other noncurrent assets
Deferred outflows of resources
Total sssets and deferred outflows of resources

$

519,762
424,793
6,602,020
223,397
107,526
7,877,498

2015
$

447,414
414,548
6,131,608
357,908
77,736
7,429,214

2014
$

549,772
582,236
5,413,455
301,173
39,736
6,886,372

Liabilities and Deferred Inflows of Resources:
Current liabilities
Noncurrent liabilities
Deferred infows of resources
Total liabilities and deferred inflows of resources

238,297
4,311,085
5,764
4,555,146

290,568
3,957,007
4,701
4,252,276

313,687
3,390,984
627
3,705,298

Net position:
Net investment in capital assets
Restricted
Unrestricted
Total net position

3,461,952
74,879
(214,479)
3,322,352

3,274,663
101,540
(199,265)
3,176,938 $

2,987,694
174,538
18,842
3,181,074

$

$

In 2016, capital assets net of accumulated depreciation increased $470,412 (7.7%) for acquisition of revenue equipment, buildings, land,
and construction in progress for the projects in the FasTracks program.
Current liabilities decreased $52,271 (18.0%) in 2016 primarily due to an accrued lower construction payment for the FasTracks Eagle P3
project to the project concessionaire due in early 2017.
Noncurrent liabilities and deferred inflows increased $355,141 (9.0%) primarily due to issuance of 2016A FasTrack Sales Tax Revenue
Bond and FasTracks Eagle Capital Lease, in addition to the implementation of GASB Statement No. 68, Accounting and Financial Reporting
for Pensions, and GASB Statement 71, Pension Transition for Contributions Made Subsequent to the Measurement Date.
The net position of RTD decreased by $145,414 during the current year compared to a decrease of $4,136 in the previous year. The
decrease in 2016 and 2015 was due to higher operating revenues, grant revenue income and sales and use tax collection increases, net of
increases in operating expenses and non-operating expenses.

25
Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Statements of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position–The following summary of revenues, expenses, and changes in net
position shows the activities of RTD resulted in change of net position. The key elements of changes in net position for the fiscal years
ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 with comparative information for 2014 are shown in the following table:
Summary of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position
2016
2015

Operating revenue:
Passenger fares
Advertising and other
Total operating revenue
Operating expenses:
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation
Total operating expenses
Operating loss
Nonoperating revenues (expenses):
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income/Gain on Sale of Assets
Interest expense
Other expense/ Unrealized Loss on Assets
Net nonoperating revenue (expenses)
Income before capital contribution
Capital grants and local contributions

$

Increase in net position
NET POSITION, beginning of year (as previously reported)
NET POSITION, beginning of year (as restated)
NET POSITION, end of year (as restated)
$

134,622
5,803
140,425

$

120,530
5,347
125,877

2014
$

120,497
4,406
124,903

163,650
96,389
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183
222,154
781,611
(641,186)

150,808
76,399
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
152,531
661,355
(535,478)

143,113
61,677
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
139,045
659,102
(534,199)

563,598
77,335
6,371
15,591
(77,272)
(1,258)
584,365
(56,821)
202,235

541,518
73,383
3,164
11,407
(79,686)
(1,422)
548,364
12,886
169,313

514,721
75,544
165
16,861
(72,293)
(3,605)
531,393
(2,806)
206,431

145,414

182,199

203,625

3,176,938
3,322,352

3,181,074
2,994,739
3,176,938

2,977,449
3,181,074

$

$

The information contained in the condensed information table is used as the basis for the revenue and expense discussion presented
below, surrounding RTD’s activities for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

26
Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Revenues - The following schedule and charts show the major sources of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and
2014.
Revenue Analysis
2016
Revenues
Passenger fares
Advertising and other
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income/Gain-sale of assets
Capital grants and local contributions
Total Revenues

$

$

134,622
5,803
563,598
77,335
6,371
15,591
202,235
1,005,555

2015
$

$

120,530
5,347
541,518
73,383
3,164
11,407
169,313
924,662

2014
$

$

120,497
4,406
514,721
75,544
165
16,861
206,431
938,625

27
Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Passenger fares – Passenger fares provided 13.4% and 13.0% of total revenues in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Farebox receipts, monthly
and annual pass revenue, and special event fares for bus and rail services are included in passenger fares. Passenger fares increased by
$14,092 (11.7%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $33 (0.0%) in 2015. The increase in 2016 was due to new fare boundaries and
pricing, in addition to the launch of the University of Colorado A line commuter rail services. Passenger fares changes in 2015 were minimal.
Advertising and other – Advertising and other revenue provided 0.6% of total revenues in both 2016 and 2015; this includes revenues
from advertisements primarily on RTD’s buses and external wraps on light rail vehicles. Advertising and other income increased $456 (8.5%)
in 2016 compared to an increase of $941 (21.4%) in 2015. The increase in 2016 and prior year was due an increase in advertising revenue
related to a stronger economy, new rail lines and revenue for lease and naming rights.
Sales and Use Tax – Sales and use tax provided 56.0% and 58.6% of RTD’s total revenues in 2016 and 2015 respectively. Sales and use
tax is a dedicated 1.0% tax imposed on certain sales within the service area. Sales and use tax increased $22,080 (4.1%) in 2016 compared
to an increase of $26,797 (5.2%) in 2015. In 2016 and 2015, the District experienced growth in tax revenues due to increased consumer
and business-spending activity as the District continues to experience population growth of 1.7% and 1.9%, low unemployment of 3.4%
and 3.8% as well as growth in personal income of 3.8% and 4.2%, respectively.
Grant operating assistance – Grant operating assistance provided 7.7% and 7.9% of total revenues in 2016 and 2015. Grant operating
assistance increased $3,952 (5.4%) in 2016 compared to a decrease of $2,161 (2.9%) in 2015. The operating assistance is a federal grant
revenue program used to perform capital maintenance and maintain RTD’s revenue fleet of bus, paratransit, and rail vehicles. The increase
in 2016 and decrease in 2015 is the result of grant funding sources being available during the year.
Investment Income – Investment income provided 0.6% and 0.3% of total revenues in 2016 and 2015. Investment income increased
$3,207 (101.4%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $2,999 (1817.6%) in 2015. The increase in 2016 was due to fixed securities getting
better yields. The increase in 2015 was due to fixed securities getting better yields in 2015 and progressively higher investment balances.
Other Income/Gain on sale of Assets – Other income provided 1.6% and 1.2% of total revenues in 2016 and 2015. Other income
increased $4,184 (36.7%) in 2016 compared to a decrease of $5,454 (32.3%) in 2015. Other income includes interest subsidy income,
rental income from retail space, parking, and miscellaneous other items. The increase in 2016 is attributable to the sale of three Fort Lupton
parcels. The decrease in 2015 was due to reduction of asset sales, which was primarily attributable to the Denver Union Station land
parcels sold 2014.
Capital grants and local contributions – Capital grants and local contributions provided 20.1% and 18.3% of total revenues in 2016 and
2015. Capital grants and local contributions increased $32,922 (19.4%) in 2016 and decreased $37,118 (18.0%) in the previous year.
The increase in 2016 was a result of RTD securing a small starts grant for the Southeast Rail Extension, construction of the Civic Center
Station and betterments for the I-225 corridor. The decrease in 2015 was a result of lower capital contributions related to completion of
major construction projects: West Rail line, U.S. 36 Manages Lanes and Denver Union Station multi-modal hub.

28
Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Expenses - The following schedule and charts shows the major sources of expenses for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and
2014.
Expense Analysis
2016

Expenses
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation
Interest expense
Other expense
Total Expenses

2015

2014

$

163,650
96,389
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183
222,154
77,272
1,258

$

150,808
76,399
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
152,531
79,686
1,422

$

143,113
61,677
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
139,045
72,293
3,605

$

860,141

$

742,463

$

735,000

Expense Analysis
$250,000
$200,000
$150,000
$100,000
$50,000
$-

2016

2015

2014

29
Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Salaries and wages–Salary and wage expense is the largest expense category accounting for 19.0% and 20.3% of the total RTD expenses
in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Salary and wage expenses increased by $12,842 (8.5%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $7,695
(5.4%) in 2015. Increases in both years occurred from salary and wage performance (result based) and progression increases.
Benefits – Fringe benefits accounted for 11.2% and 10.3% of total expenses in 2016 and 2015. Fringe benefits increased by $19,990
(26.2%) compared to an increase of $14,722 (23.9%) in 2015. The increase in 2016 and 2015 is primarily due to implementation GASB
Statement Nos. 68 and 71 establish standards for measuring and recognizing net pension liabilities.
Materials and supplies – The materials and supplies expense category accounted for 6.1% and 7.9% of the total RTD expenses in 2016
and 2015 respectively. Materials and supplies expenses decreased $6,704 (11.4%) in 2016 compared to a decrease of $3,272 (5.3%) in
2015. The decrease in both years is primarily due to a decrease in diesel/gasoline fuel prices.
Services – Services expense accounted for 6.8% and 10.7% of total expenses in 2016 and 2015. Services expense includes contracted
services such as security services; vehicle, equipment and right of way maintenance services; advertising and marketing services, and legal
services. Services expense decreased $21,189 (26.6%) in 2016 compared to a decrease of $29,171 (26.8%) in 2015. The decrease in
2016 was primarily due to the contract service deduction for Westminster Station IGA and U.S. 36 managed lane project (Phase I). The
decrease in 2015 was primarily due to the contract service reduction for U.S. 36 managed lane project (Phase I).
Utilities – Utilities accounted for 1.7% and 1.8% of total expenses in 2016 and 2015. Utilities expense includes electric,
telecommunications, water and sewer, and natural gas for facilities. Utilities expense increased $547 (4.0%) in 2016 compared to a
decrease of $478 (3.4%) in 2015. The increase in 2016 occurred primarily due to traction power costs due to the opening of the University
of Colorado A line and the B Line commuter rail. The decrease in 2015 occurred due to reduction of traction power costs as a result of West
Rail Line reduced rail passenger car capacity.
Insurance – Insurance accounted for 1.2% and 1.1% of total expenses in 2016 and 2015. Insurance expense includes RTD’s self-insured
cost for general liability and worker’s compensation claims. In addition, RTD purchased insurance in its efforts to protect assets. Insurance
expense increased $2,280 (28.1%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $2,829 (53.7%) in 2015. The increase in both years 2016 and
2015 was due increased frequency and severity of claims.
Purchased transportation – The purchased transportation expense category accounted for 18.2% and 15.2% of the total expenses in
2016 and 2015. Purchased transportation represents the costs of contracted transportation services for bus, commuter rail, access-a-Ride,
and call-n-Ride services. Purchased transportation costs increased $43,389 (38.3%) in 2016 compared to a decrease of $1,726 (1.5%) in
2015. The increase was due to the opening of the University of Colorado A Line and B Line commuter rail purchased transportation service
in April 2016 and July 2016, respectively. The decrease in 2015 was primarily due to reduction in service.
Leases and rentals – Leases and rentals include lease expense for office space, office equipment, park-n-Ride facilities, and use of
communication towers. Leases and rentals expense decreased $174 (5.0%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $198 (6.1%) in 2015. The
decrease for 2016 was primarily due to reduction in stadium management lease costs. The increase for 2015 years is primarily due to RTD’s
need for additional office space.
Miscellaneous – Miscellaneous expense includes other incidental operating expenses not included in other defined categories.
Miscellaneous expenses decreased $348 (7.7%) in 2016 compared to a decrease of $2,030 (30.9%) in 2015. This category includes
additional one-time project expenses creating fluctuations between years.
Depreciation – The depreciation expense category accounted for 25.8% and 20.5% of the total RTD expenses in 2016 and 2015,
respectively. Depreciation expense is a non-cash systematic allocation of the cost of capital assets over the estimated useful life of the
assets. Depreciation expense increased $69,623 (45.6%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $13,486 (9.7%) in 2015. The increase in

30
Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

2016 occurred primarily due to the FasTracks assets that were placed in revenue service for U.S. 36, University of Colorado A line and B
line. The increase in 2015 occurred primarily due the acquisition of new fleet and CAD/AVL.
Interest expense – The interest expense category accounted for 9.0% and 10.7% of the total RTD expenses in 2016 and 2015,
respectively. Interest expense decreased $2,414 (3.0%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $7,393 (10.2%) in 2015. The decrease in
2016 is due to reduced principal resulting in decrease in interest expense. The increase in 2015 interest expense is due to the additional
borrowings surrounding the FasTracks build-out and scheduled fleet replacements.
Other expense – Other expense includes miscellaneous non-operating expenses not classified in other expense categories. Other expense
decreased $164 (11.5%) in 2016 compared to a decrease of $2,183 (60.6%) in 2015. The decrease in 2016 was a result of reduced
financial issuance costs. The decrease in 2015 was the result on reduced loss of sales of assets compared to prior year.
Capital Assets – Investments in capital assets include: land and rights-of-way; buildings and improvements; leasehold improvements;
revenue and non-revenue vehicles; shop and service equipment; security and surveillance equipment; computer equipment; and furniture.
RTD’s investment in capital assets, net of accumulated depreciation, in 2016 was $6,602,020 compared to $6,131,608 in 2015. The
increase in capital assets in 2016 was $470,412 (7.7%) compared to an increase of $718,153 (13.3%) in 2015. RTD acquires its assets
with sales and use tax revenues, farebox revenue, federal capital grants, and proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds and certificates of
participation. The increases during 2016 and 2015 were primarily due to the cost of planning, design and construction of FasTracks projects
and fleet acquisition.
The following table summarizes capital assets, net of accumulated depreciation, as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 with comparative
information for 2014.
Capital Assets (Net of Depreciation)
2016
Land
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shops, maintenance and other equipment
Construction in progress
Total

$

$

584,328
2,578,853
396,224
760,518
116,214
2,165,883
6,602,020

2015
$

$

390,250
1,490,304
295,359
550,425
79,988
3,325,282
6,131,608

2014
$

$

303,432
1,561,311
297,212
458,579
38,859
2,754,062
5,413,455

Major capital asset events during the 2016 fiscal year included the following:
FasTracks North Metro Corridor - The North Metro Corridor is an 18 mile rail transit corridor between Denver Union Station and 162nd
Avenue, passing through Denver, Commerce City, Thornton, Northglenn and unincorporated Adams County. A construction contract was
entered to complete the commuter rail line from DUS north to 124th Avenue by 2018 with an option to extend construction to 162nd Avenue
if additional funding is identified. In 2016, expenditures related to the North Metro Corridor were approximately $138,756.
FasTracks Northwest Corridor - The Northwest Corridor is a 41 mile transit corridor between Denver Union Station and Longmont,
passing through Denver, Westminster, Broomfield, Louisville, Boulder, Longmont, unincorporated Adams County, and unincorporated Boulder
County and was constituted as a project separate from the ongoing work in the US 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor. In 2016,
expenditures related to the Northwest Corridor were $38,541.

31
Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

East and Gold Line Public-Private Partnership (Eagle P3) RTD was selected for inclusion in the FTA Public-Private Partnership Pilot Program (Penta-P). In 2010, RTD entered into a public-private
partnership to design, build, finance, operate and maintain several of the transit improvements contemplated under the FasTracks program.
The Eagle P3 project is a $2,185,000 project that includes a Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility, the East and Gold Line Corridors as well
as the Northwest Rail Electrified Segment. The Eagle P3 partnership was awarded to a concessionaire, Denver Transit Partners (DTP),
through a competitive bid process culminating in a contract price that was $305,000 below internal estimates. The project is expected to
begin revenue service in 2016.
The Eagle P3 project will be completed in two phases. Phase I includes the East Corridor, Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility and design
work for Phase II. Phase II includes the Gold Line Corridor and the Northwest Electrified Rail Segment. In 2016, construction expenditures
related to the Eagle P3 project were $213,479. The Eagle P3 Project elements are described below:
FasTracks East Corridor - The East Corridor is a 23.6-mile commuter rail transit corridor between Denver Union Station and Denver
International Airport. The East Corridor opened for revenue service in April 2016.
FasTracks Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility - The Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility is designed to service the four planned
commuter rail corridors (East Corridor, Gold Line, North Metro, and Northwest Rail) included in the FasTracks plan. The Facility opened
in 2015.
FasTracks Gold Line Corridor - The Gold Line Corridor is an 11.2 mile rail transit corridor between Denver Union Station to the vicinity
of Ward Road, passing through northwest Denver, unincorporated Adams County, Arvada, and Wheat Ridge. The Gold Line is planned
to be open for revenue service in 2017.
FasTracks Northwest Electrified Rail Segment – The Northwest Rail Corridor, described previously, includes a project segment,
referred to as the Northwest Electrified Rail Segment, extending from Denver Union Station to Westminster. This segment opened for
revenue service in Summer 2016.
FasTracks I-225 Rail Line – The I-225 Rail Line is a 10.5 mile extension of RTD’s existing light rail line from the Southeast Line Nine Mile
Station to the East Line commuter rail transfer point near the intersection of Peoria Street and Smith Road. The project includes eight
stations and serves the Aurora City Center and the Anschutz/Fitzsimons Medical Campus. This line opened for revenue service in February
2017. In 2016, expenditures related to the I-225 Rail Line were $154,338.
FasTracks Southeast Rail Extension – The Southeast Rail Extension extends the popular Southeast Rail Line from Lincoln Station to the
new RidgeGate Parkway Interchange at I-25. The project will add 2.3 miles of light rail. New stations will be built at Sky Ridge Medical
Center, Lone Tree City Center and RidgeGate with a 1,300 space Park-n-Ride facility. In 2016, expenditures related to the Southeast Rail
Extension were $47,780. The project is expected to open for revenue service in 2019.
Additional information on RTD’s capital assets can be found in note D of this report.
Debt Administration
Outstanding debt – Outstanding debt includes sales tax revenue bond, a Transportation Infrastructure and Innovation Act (TIFIA) loan,
certificates of participation, and a Purchase and Assignment Agreement. The 2016 outstanding debt was $3,614,608 compared to
$3,449,319 in 2015. Outstanding debt increased by $165,289 (4.8%) in 2016 and increased by $230,096 (7.1%) in 2015. The increase
in 2016 was due to issuance of a 2016A FasTracks Sales Tax Revenue Bond. The 2015 increase is due to new COPs issued for acquisition
of equipment, buses and light rail vehicles.
Sales tax revenue bonds – RTD issues sales tax revenue bonds to fund the acquisition and construction of assets. The sales tax
revenue bonds were $2,190,533 and $2,013,220 as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The sales tax revenue bonds

32
Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

increased $177,313 (8.8%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $24,263 (2.9%) in 2015. The increase in 2016 is primarily due to
issuance of the 2016A FasTracks Sales Tax Revenue Bond. The increase in 2015 is due to the receipt of TIFIA loan borrowings. The
sales tax revenue bonds are payable from RTD’s sales and use tax revenue. RTD is required to maintain certain minimum deposits, as
defined in bond resolutions, to meet debt service requirements. The bonds may be redeemed prior to maturity, at a price equal to the
principal amount plus accrued interest thereon and a premium to the date of redemption.
Certificates of participation - Certificates of participation relate to financial obligations issued by the Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc.
(Authority), a nonprofit corporation. The Authority issued Certificates of Participation (Certificates) with the proceeds being used to
acquire certain equipment and facilities to be used by RTD. RTD leases the equipment acquired with the proceeds from the Certificates
under separate Master Lease Purchase Agreements. For financial reporting purposes, RTD accounts for the Certificates as its own
debt. Certificates outstanding were $1,199,245 and $1,230,860 as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Certificates
outstanding decreased $31,585 (2.6%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $166,005 (15.6%) in 2015. The decrease in 2016 is due to
principal payment reducing debt. The increase in 2015 was due to the issuance of Certificates for the acquisition of equipment, buses
and light rail vehicles.
The following table summarizes outstanding debt obligations as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 with comparative information for 2014.
Outstanding Debt
2016
Bonds and COPs payable:
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
Certificates of Participation
Total Principal
Issuance premiums and discounts
Debt net of issuance and refunding

2015

2014

$ 2,190,533
1,199,275
3,389,808
224,800

$

2,013,220
1,230,860
3,244,080
205,239

$

1,955,657
1,064,855
3,020,512
198,711

$ 3,614,608

$

3,449,319

$

3,219,223

RTD maintains credit ratings from Standard & Poor Corporation, Moody’s Investor Services, and Fitch Ratings. Credit ratings vary based
on the type of debt and the source of funds used for repayment.
RTD’s ratings are presented in the following table:
Rating
Agency
Standard
&Poor’s
Moody’s
Fitch

Base System Bonds 0.6%
Sales &Use Tax

FasTracks Bonds 0.4%
Sales& Use Tax

Certificates of Participation

AAA
Aa1
AA

AA+
Aa2
AA

A
Aa3
AA-

Additional information on RTD’s debt can be found in footnote E of this report.

Economic Factors and Subsequent Events after adoption of the 2016 Budget

33
Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

RTD is dependent on sales and use taxes, which are the largest single source of revenue for RTD, representing 56.0% and 58.6% of the
total revenues in 2016 and 2015 respectively. Sales and use tax revenues are affected by the local economy in which changes will affect
the level of funding available to RTD during its fiscal year.
RTD is dependent on passenger fares collected for transit services provided. Passenger fares accounted for 13.4% and 13.0% of total
revenues in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Passenger fare collections may be affected by fare levels charged by RTD. In January 2016,
RTD implemented a fare increase and modification to fare products offered to customers.
RTD is dependent on federal and local grant funding as well as local capital contributions for both operations and capital
expenditures. Grants and local contributions provided 27.8% and 26.2% of total revenues in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Grant funding
and local capital contributions are only available for use by RTD for qualifying expenditures after appropriation is made by the awarding
agency.
Each year fiscal year, RTD proposes an Amended Budget at mid-year to the Board of Directors for appropriation in order to adjust revenue
and expenditures for the remainder of the fiscal year according to existing economic conditions and fiscal results. RTD may also present
budget amendments to the Board of Directors for approval at any time during the fiscal year to accommodate economic factors.
In June 2016, the Board of Directors approved the 2016 Amended Budget in which revenue was adjusted downward to reflect economic
conditions and results and certain adjustments to appropriated expenditures were made to accommodate the expected lower funding
availability. In August 2016, the Board of Directors approved a second amendment to the 2016 Budget in which a planned debt offering
for fleet purchases was canceled and replaced with working capital appropriations.
Increases in operating expenditures are expected in 2017 due to the opening of new rail lines as well as a full year of operations of services
that opened during 2016 under the FasTracks program. The FasTracks program is a plan to build a comprehensive, integrated region-wide
transit network that will provide a reliable and safe system, enhance mobility and respond to the growing transportation needs within the
eight-county Regional Transportation District. Additional FasTracks expansion projects are in various stages of completion with openings
planned in future years.
Requests for Information
This financial report is intended to provide an overview of RTD’s finances for those with an interest in this organization. Questions
concerning any information contained in this report may be directed to the Chief Financial Officer.

34
Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

35

Packet Pg. 45

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

36

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 46

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF NET POSITION
As of December 31,
(In Thousands)

2016
ASSETS AND DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable interest bearing investments (note B)
Receivables:
Sales tax
Other, less allowance for doubtful accounts of $224 and
$270 at December, 31 2016 and 2015, respectively
Grants
Inventories
Other current assets (note C)
Cash and cash equivalents - restricted
Marketable interest bearing investments - restricted (note B)
Total current assets
Noncurrent Assets:
Capital assets (note D):
Land
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other equipment
Construction in progress
Total capital assets
Less accumulated depreciation
Net capital assets

$

216,713
37,825

2015

$

155,485
104,757

101,978

96,460

21,130
94,462
34,012
13,642
326,123
98,670
944,555

18,453
1,780
35,921
34,558
163,744
250,804
861,962

584,328
3,404,522
606,801
1,137,735
261,265
2,165,883
8,160,534
(1,558,514)
6,602,020

390,250
2,195,281
491,458
921,680
201,950
3,325,282
7,525,901
(1,394,293)
6,131,608

182,875
40,522
223,397

277,999
79,909
357,908

Total noncurrent assets

6,825,417

6,489,516

Total assets

7,769,972

7,351,478

Deferred Outflows of Resources:
Debt related (note A)
Pension related (note A)
Total deferred outflows of resources

32,926
74,600
107,526

36,331
41,405
77,736

Other Noncurrent Assets:
Long-term marketable interest bearing investments - restricted (note B)
Long-term marketable interest bearing investments - unrestricted (note B)
Total other noncurrent assets

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

37
Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF NET POSITION (CONTINUED)
As of December 31,
(In Thousands)
2016

2015

LIABILITIES AND DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Current Liabilities:
Accounts and contracts payable
Current portion of long-term debt payable from restricted assets (note E)
Accrued compensation (note F)
Accrued interest payable from restricted assets
Other accrued expenses
Total current liabilities

$

Noncurrent Liabilities:
Long-term debt, net (note E)
Net Pension Liability (note F)
Other liabilities (note E)
Total noncurrent liabilities
Total liabilities

105,276
60,275
21,705
22,115
28,926
238,297

$

163,301
61,698
19,953
21,451
24,165
290,568

3,554,333
390,058
366,694
4,311,085

3,387,621
321,615
247,771
3,957,007

4,549,382

4,247,575

843
4,921

599
4,102

5,764

4,701

3,461,952
74,879
(214,479)

3,274,663
101,540
(199,265)

Deferred Inflows of Resources:
Debt related (note A)
Pension related (note A)
Total deferred inflows of resources
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets (note I)
Restricted net position (note I)
Unrestricted net position (note I)
Total net position, as restated

$

3,322,352

$

3,176,938

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

38
Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
Years ended December 31,
(In Thousands)
2016
OPERATING REVENUE:
Passenger fares
Advertising, rent, and other

$

Total operating revenue

134,622
5,803

2015
$

120,530
5,347

140,425

125,877

163,650
96,389
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183
222,154

150,808
76,399
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
152,531

Total operating expenses

781,611

661,355

OPERATING LOSS

(641,186)

(535,478)

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES):
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance (note A)
Investment income
Other income
Gain(Loss) on capital assets
Interest expense (note A)
Other expense

563,598
77,335
6,371
9,927
5,664
(77,272)
(1,258)

541,518
73,383
3,164
10,322
1,085
(79,686)
(1,422)

Net nonoperating revenue (expenses)

584,365

548,364

INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS
AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS

(56,821)

12,886

202,235

169,313

INCREASE IN NET POSITION

145,414

182,199

NET POSITION, beginning of year (as previously reported)
Change in accounting principle (note A)
NET POSITION, beginning of year (as restated)

3,176,938

3,181,074
(186,335)
2,994,739

OPERATING EXPENSES:
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation

Capital grants and local contributions (note A)

NET POSITION, end of year (as restated)

$

3,322,352

$

3,176,938

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

39
Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW
Years ended December 31,
(In Thousands)
2016
Cash flows from operating activities:
Receipts from customers
Payments to suppliers
Payments to employees
Net cash used in operating activities

$

2015

142,496 $
(147,251)
(290,663)
(295,418)

130,385
(149,332)
(265,366)
(284,313)

77,335
558,080
9,927

73,383
538,443
10,322

645,342

622,148

Cash flows from capital and related financing activities:
Principal paid on long-term debt
Proceeds from issuance of debt
Issuance Premiums/Discounts
Capital grant funds and other contributions received
Proceeds from sale of assets
Acquisition and construction of capital assets
Cost of issuance
Interest paid on long-term debt

(133,098)
278,826
23,210
109,553
6,257
(632,911)
(1,246)
(136,856)

(54,348)
277,915
9,906
181,428
457
(816,359)
(1,444)
(132,865)

Net cash used in capital and
related financing activities

(486,265)

(535,310)

(157,517)
511,094
6,371

(455,295)
416,375
3,164

359,948

(35,756)

INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

223,607

(233,231)

Cash and cash equivalents - January 1

319,229

552,460

542,836 $

319,229

Cash provided from noncapital financing activities:
Grant operating assistance
Sales and use tax collections
Other revenue
Net cash provided by noncapital financing activities

Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchases of investments
Proceeds from sales and maturities of investments
Interest and dividends on investments
Net cash provided/(used) by investing activities

Cash and cash equivalents - December 31

$

40
Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)
Years ended December 31,
(In Thousands)
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING LOSS TO NET CASH
USED IN OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Operating loss
Adjustment to reconcile operating loss to
net cash used in operating activities
Depreciation expense
Bad debt expense
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Decrease/(increase) in other accounts receivable
Decrease/(increase) in inventories
Decrease in other current assets
Increase in deferred outflow
Increase in accounts payable
Increase/(decrease) in accrued compensation and expenses
Increase/(decrease) in other accrued expenses
Increase in deferred inflow
Net cash used in operating activities
RECONCILIATION OF CASH and CASH EQUIVALENTS:
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents - restricted
Total cash and cash equivalents

2016
$

$

$
$

2015

(641,186) $

(535,478)

222,154
(12)

152,531
21

(2,677)
1,909
20,916
(33,195)
129,341
1,752
4,761
819
(295,418) $

6,536
(2,798)
6,222
(41,405)
128,862
(856)
(2,050)
4,102
(284,313)

216,713 $
326,123
542,836 $

155,485
163,744
319,229

Noncash investing, capital and financing activities:
RTD had unrealized losses on investments of $100
and $34 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.
RTD issued a DUSPA bond to fund the constuction of capital
assets in 2010 for $167,954. Assets contributed were $0 and
($486) for 2016 and 2015, respectively.
RTD received noncash local match contributions for federal grants
of $3,019 and $642 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

41
Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

42

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 52

NOTE A – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1. Organization
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) was created as a transportation planning agency, a political subdivision of
the State of Colorado, by an Act of the Colorado General Assembly (the Act), effective July 1969 (Title 32, Article 9,
C.R.S., 1973, as amended). In 1974, the Act was amended and RTD became an operating entity charged with the
responsibility for development, operation and maintenance of a public mass transportation system for the benefit of
the citizens of the District. The District is comprised of 15 separate districts located in Denver, Boulder, Broomfield
and Jefferson counties, and certain portions of Adams, Arapahoe, Douglas, and Weld counties.
RTD is governed by a publicly elected board of directors consisting of 15 members. Each board member is elected to
serve a term of four years by the constituents of the district in which the board member resides. As required by Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), these financial statements present RTD and its component unit. The
component unit discussed in note A.2 is included in the RTD’s reporting entity because of the significance of its
operational or financial relationship with the District.
In 1988, a Senate Bill was enacted (privatization legislation) requiring RTD to implement by March 31, 1989, a plan to
competitively bid contracts for the provision of at least 20% of RTD’s bus service by private contractors. In 1999, the
Bill was amended requiring RTD to increase this provision to at least 35% of fixed route bus service. In 2003, the Bill
was amended to require that at least 50% of RTD’s vehicular service be operated by private transit companies. In May
of 2007, the legislation was amended to provide for “a system under which up to 58% of the District’s service” is
provided by private contractors.
2. Financial Reporting Entity – Blended Component Unit
The Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc. (the Authority) was formed in 1987 as a nonprofit corporation on behalf of RTD
for the purpose of issuing certificates of participation in a public offering collateralized by an installment purchase
agreement with RTD. RTD’s General Manager appoints the Board of Directors of the Authority. The Authority serves
as a financing mechanism for various financing arrangements for RTD. RTD follows pronouncements 14 and 61 issued
by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board which provides guidance regarding the inclusion of component units
in the primary government’s financial statement presentation. The activity related to the underlying financial obligations
of the Authority has been included as a blended component unit in RTD’s financial statements for the years ended
December 31, 2016 and 2015. No separately audited financial statements are prepared for the Authority.
3. Basis of Accounting
The accounts of RTD are reported as a Proprietary Fund. Proprietary funds are accounted for on the flow of economic
resources measurement focus and use the accrual basis of accounting which reports all assets, deferred outflows of
resources, liabilities, deferred inflows of resources, revenues, expenses, gains and losses. Revenue is recognized when
earned and expenses are recorded at the time liabilities are incurred. Proprietary funds distinguish operating revenues
and expenses from non-operating items. Operating revenues and expenses generally result from providing services and
producing and delivering goods in connection with a proprietary fund’s principal ongoing operations. The principal
operating revenues of RTD are charges to customers for services. Operating expenses include the cost of services,
administrative expenses and asset depreciation. All revenues and expenses not meeting this definition are reported as
non-operating revenues and expenses.
It is RTD’s policy to apply GAAP in its presentation of financial statements. When both restricted and unrestricted
resources are available for use, it is RTD’s policy to use restricted resources first, then unrestricted resources as they
are needed.

43

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

4. Cash Equivalents
RTD considers all highly liquid investments, both restricted and unrestricted, with an original maturity of three months
or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.
5. Interest Bearing Investments
Investments with a maturity date, when purchased, of less than one year are carried at cost or amortized cost which
approximates fair value. Investments with a maturity date of more than one year from the date of purchase are carried
at fair value.
6. Inventories
Inventories consist primarily of materials and supplies used in the ordinary course of operations. Materials and supplies
are stated at cost using the FIFO (first-in, first-out) method.
7. Other Current Assets
Certain payments to vendors reflect costs applicable to future accounting periods and are recorded as prepaid items.
Escrows are deposits held in escrow during the period of construction. At the time projects are completed, escrows
are generally applied toward the cost of the project or may be forfeited by RTD upon breach of contract.
8. Receivables
Accounts receivable are stated at the amount management expects to collect from outstanding balances. Management
provides for probable uncollected amounts through a charge to earnings and a credit to a valuation allowance based on
its assessment of the current status of individual accounts. Balances that are still outstanding after management has
used reasonable collection efforts are written off through a charge to the valuation allowance and a credit to accounts
receivable. Changes in the valuation allowance have not been material to the consolidated financial statements.
9. Restricted Assets
Restricted assets are assets restricted by the covenants of long-term financial arrangements.
10. Capital Assets
Property and equipment are stated at historical cost. Capital assets are defined by RTD as assets with an initial,
individual cost of more than $5,000 and an estimated useful life in excess of one year. Maintenance and repairs are
charged to current period operating expenses and improvements are capitalized. Upon retirement or other disposition
of property and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the respective accounts
and any gains or losses are included in non-operating revenue and expense. A pro rata share of proceeds from the sale
of property and equipment, which were acquired with federal funds, is required to be invested in a similar asset.
Interest is capitalized on assets financed with debt or certificates of participation from the date of the borrowing until
completion of the project. The amount of tax-exempt and taxable debt and certificates of participation (externally
restricted) interest to be capitalized is the difference between the interest expense and interest earnings on issuance
proceeds. The amount of other interest to be capitalized is calculated by weighted average construction expenditures
multiplied by the weighted average interest rate of the outstanding obligations.

44
Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Total interest cost of RTD consisted of the following as of December 31:

Interest expense
Capitalized interest
Total interest cost

2016

2015

$

77,272
60,248

$ 79,686
53,696

$ 137,520

$ 133,382

11. Depreciation
Depreciation of property and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
the assets, which are as follows:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other equipment

10–20 years
30 years
8–25 years
3–10 years

Fully depreciated assets, which are still in use, are included in the asset balances in the accompanying financial
statements. The cost of fully depreciated assets was approximately $336,323 and $370,683 at December 31, 2016
and 2015, respectively.
12. Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources
In addition to assets, the statement of financial position will sometimes report a separate section for deferred outflow
of resources. This separate financial statement element, deferred outflows of resources, represents a consumption of
net position that applies to a future period(s) and thus, will not be recognized as an outflow of resources
(expense/expenditure) until then. RTD’s deferred outflows were $107,526 and $77,736 as of December 31, 2016 and
2015, respectively.
In addition to liabilities, the statement of financial position will sometimes report a separate section for deferred inflows
of resources. This separate financial statement element, deferred inflows of resources, represents an acquisition of net
position that applies to a future period(s) and so will not be recognized as an inflow of resources (revenue) until that
time. RTD’s deferred inflows were $5,764 and $4,701 as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
13. Compensated Absences
RTD employees receive compensation for vacations, holidays, illness, and certain other qualifying absences. The
number of days compensated in the various categories of absence is based generally on length of service. Compensated
absences, which have been earned but not paid, have been accrued in the accompanying financial statements.
14. Self-Insurance
Liabilities for property damage and personal injury are recognized as incurred on the basis of the estimated cost to RTD.
In addition, RTD offers a self-insured health benefit option as part of its employee benefits program in which costs are
recognized as they are incurred.

45
Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

15. Revenue Recognition
Passenger Fares
Passenger fares are recorded as revenue at the time services are performed and revenue is collected from the farebox.
Sales of monthly passes are recorded initially as unearned revenue and recognized as income at the end of the month
for which the pass is used. Sale of MyRide stored value, ten ride and day pass tickets are recorded as income at the
time of sale. Sales of college based passes, which are valid for a specific academic semester, are recorded initially as
unearned revenue. Sales are recognized as income at the end of each month, with the amount recognized in each month
determined by prorating the total contract amount over the semesters/quarters covered. Sales of Eco Pass and
Neighborhood Pass, which are valid through December 31 of a given year, are recorded initially as unearned revenue.
Sales are recognized as income at the end of each month, with the total contract amount prorated evenly over the
number of months of the contract.
Sales and Use Taxes
Under the provisions of the Act, as amended, RTD levies a sales tax of 1.0% on net taxable sales made within the
District and a use tax of 1.0% on items purchased for use inside the District. As described in Note E, under the terms
of the Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2007A, Series 2010A, Series 2010B, Series 2012A, Series 2013A bond
resolutions, and TIFIA Sales Tax Loan and Series 2016A, sales and use tax revenue is pledged for payment of debt
service. Sales and use taxes are collected by the State of Colorado, Department of Revenue and are remitted to a
trustee who satisfies debt service from the collections, as required under RTD’s bond and commercial paper resolutions,
and remits the balance to RTD.
Sales and use taxes are recorded as revenue by RTD in the month collected by the merchant. Sales and Use Tax Bonds
debt service will be paid from the collateralized sales and use tax revenues in the amount of approximately $3,167,423
through 2050. Principal and interest paid for the current year and pledged revenues received were $107,701.
Grants and Local Contributions
RTD receives grants from the federal government, through the Federal Transit Administration (FTA). Grants are also
awarded to RTD by state of Colorado through the Colorado Department of Transportation. The federal and state
governments issue grants to RTD for operations and acquisition of property and equipment.
The amount recorded as capital grants was $185,324 and $157,616 in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Operating
assistance grant revenue was $77,335 and $73,383 in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Other contribution revenue was
$16,911 and $11,697 in 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Grants and local contributions are recorded as revenue by RTD once all applicable eligibility requirements are met.
16. Use of Estimates
The financial statements contained herein have been prepared in accordance with US Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP). GAAP are uniform minimum standards of and guidelines to financial accounting and reporting. GAAP
establishes appropriate measurement and classification criteria for financial reporting. Adherence to GAAP provides a
reasonable degree of comparability among the financial reports of state and local governmental units. The preparation
of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves the use of management’s estimates. These estimates are
based upon management’s best judgments, after considering past and current events and assumptions about future
events. Actual results may differ from estimates.

46
Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

17. Pensions
For purposes of measuring the net pension liability, deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources
related to pensions, and pension expense, information about the pension plan’s fiduciary net position and additions
to/deductions from the plan’s fiduciary net position have been determined on the same basis as they are reported by
the plan. For this purpose, benefit payments (including refunds of employee contributions) are recognized when due and
payable in accordance with the benefit terms. Investments are reported at fair value.
18. GASB 68 – Classification
During the year ended December 31, 2015, RTD implemented the provisions of GASB Statement No.68 (GASB 68),
Accounting and Financial Reporting for Pensions, as amended by GASB Statement No. 71, Pension Transition for
Contributions Made Subsequent to the Measurement Date. GASB 68 requires governments providing defined benefit
pensions to recognize the long-term obligation for pension benefits as a liability, and to more comprehensively and
comparably measure the annual costs of pension benefits. This Statement also enhances accountability and
transparency through revised note disclosures and new required supplementary information.
19. Reinstatement of Prior Year Net Position
Net Position has been restated as required by implementation of GASB 68 as discussed in note 18 above.
Beginning net position as previously reported
December 31, 2014
Prior period adjustment – Implementation of GASB 68 Net pension
liability (measurement date)
Net Position as restated,
December 31, 2014

$3,181,074
(186,335)
$2,994,739

20. GASB 72 – Classification
In March 2015, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) released Statement No. 72, Fair Value
Measurement and Application, which would generally require state and local governments to measure investments at
fair value. GASB's goal is enhance comparability of governmental financial statements by requiring fair value
measurement for certain assets and liabilities using a consistent definition and accepted valuation techniques. This
standard expands fair value disclosures to provide comprehensive information for financial statement users about the
impact of fair value measurements on a government's financial position.

47
Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

NOTE B – DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS
Deposits
RTD’s deposits are subject to the State of Colorado’s Public Deposit Protection Act (PDPA). Under this act, all uninsured
public deposits at qualified institutions are fully collateralized with pledged collateral which is held in custody by any Federal
Reserve Bank or branch thereof, or held in escrow by some other bank in a manner as the banking Commissioner shall
prescribe by rule and regulation, or may be segregated from the other assets of the eligible public depository and held in its
own trust department. Colorado’s PDPA requires that pledged collateral to be held is clearly identified as being security
maintained or pledged for the aggregate amount of public deposits accepted and held on deposit by the eligible public
depository. The depository has the right at any time to make substitutions of eligible collateral maintained or pledged and is
at all times entitled to collect and retain all income derived from those investments without restrictions.
As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, RTD had bank deposits of $46,919 and $44,367 collateralized with
securities held by the pledging financial institutions’ trust department or agent but not in RTD’s name.
Investments
At December 31, 2016, the Regional Transportation District’s investments consisted of the following:
Investment Type
U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S. Agency Securities
Municipal Bonds
Commercial paper
Corporate bonds
Bankers’ Acceptance Notes
Total

Fair Value
<6 Months
6-12 Months
1-5 Years
$
232,108 $
62,892 $
58,493 $
110,723
5,142
8,107
64,948
51,699
2,765
2,765
15,164
17,598
60,071
27,309
$
359,892 $
141,900 $
78,799 $
139,193

At December 31, 2015, the Regional Transportation District’s investments consisted of the following:
Investment Type
U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S. Agency Securities
Municipal Bonds
Commercial Paper
Corporate bonds
Bankers’ Acceptance Notes
Total

6-12 Months
1-5 Years
Fair Value
<6 Months
286,411 $
47,137 $
32,726 $
206,548
104,662
20,492
38,508
45,662
2,802
2,802
213,026
203,086
9,940
82,732
7,031
75,701
23,836
23,836
88,205 $
330,713
$
713,469 $
294,551 $
$

Interest Rate Risk, as a means of limiting its exposure to fair value losses arising from rising interest rates, RTD’s
investment policy limits maturities of individual investment securities to 5 years, unless otherwise authorized by RTD’s
Board of Directors.
Credit Risk, investment transactions are made in accordance with the Colorado Revised Statutes (CRS) 24-75-601, et seq.
The types of investments, which are authorized by RTD’s internal investment policy, include the following:

48
Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

1.
2.
3.
4.

Obligations of the United States government.
Obligations of the United States government agencies and United States government sponsored corporations.
Municipal notes or bonds that are an obligation of any state of the United States.
Corporate Bonds that are an obligation of corporations or financial institutions organized and operating in the United
States.
5. Commercial paper.
6. Time Deposits/Time Certificates of Deposits.
7. Bankers’ Acceptances Notes.
8. Repurchase agreements.
9. Money market funds.
10. Local government Investment Pools.
11. Any other Investment permitted under CRS 24-75-601 et seq.

Credit ratings of RTD’s portfolio, as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, are exhibited in the table below. Portfolio holdings
adhere to RTD’s investment policy and applicable statute. Investments rated AAA, AA and A are from the Standard &
Poor’s rating service. Investments rated A-1+/P-1 are from the Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s rating services, respectively.
At December 31, 2016, the Regional Transportation District’s investment credit ratings consisted of the following
Investment Ratings
AAA (Standard & Poor’s)
AA (Standard & Poor’s)
A
A-1+/P-1
Total:

Market Value
$
300,077
59,815
$
359,892

At December 31, 2015, the Regional Transportation District’s investment credit ratings consisted of the following
Investment Ratings
AAA (Standard & Poor’s)
AA (Standard & Poor’s)
A
A-1+/P-1
Total:

Market Value
$
414,481
85,962
213,026
$
713,469

Concentration of Credit Risk, it is the policy of RTD to diversify its investment portfolio. Assets held in the investment
funds shall be diversified to eliminate the risk of loss resulting from over-concentration of assets in a specific maturity, a
specific issue or a specific class of securities. The asset allocation in the portfolio should, however, be flexible, depending
upon the outlook for the economy and the securities markets.
RTD’s investment policy outlines the following maximum exposure limits for unrestricted investments. As of December 31,
2016, RTD was in compliance with these limits. As of December 31, 2015, RTD was in compliance with limitations set out
in RTD’s previous investment policy limitations.

49
Packet Pg. 59

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Investment Type
U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S Agencies 1
Municipal Bonds of a
Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds of a
non-Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds, Short
Term
Pre-Refunded Muni Bonds
Corporate bonds
Commercial Paper
Time Deposits/CD
Bankers Acceptances
Repurchase agreements
Local Government Investment
Pools
Money market funds

Maximum
Portfolio %
100%
75%
20%

Maximum
Issue %
100%
25%
3%

Maturity
Restrictions
5 years
5 years
5 years

Rating
Restrictions
N/A
AA
A

20%

3%

5 years

AA

20%

3%

5 years

“A-1 or “MIG 1”

40%
20%
40%
10%
20%
50%
100%

5%
3%
3%
3%
3%
10%
50%

3 years
3 years
270 days
1 year
1 year
90 days
N/A

AA
AA
A-1/P1/F1
AA
AA
AA
AAAm

100%

50%

N/A

AAAm

1

In the event that one or more nationally recognized statistical rating agency rates such Agency obligations below the highest rating category, but no
lower than one of the two highest rating categories, RTD’s funds may continue to be invested in Agencies if such investments satisfy the requirements
of CRS 24.75.601.1 (m) which limits the maturity from the date of settlement to three years, provided that the book value limits of CRS 24.75.601.1
(m) (II) shall not apply. Rather, the diversification limit shall be set as follows: no more than 75% of the portfolio may be invested in Agencies, with any
more than 25% being invested in any one Agency.

Proceeds from the issuance of RTD’s obligations are invested in accordance with legal documentation governing the
transaction, notwithstanding any provisions of RTD’s investment policy to the contrary, and do not fall within the maximum
exposure limits listed above.
At December 31, 2016 and 2015, RTD had $607,668 and $692,547 of cash and investments that were restricted under the
provisions of bond agreements.
Fair Value Measurements
In March 2015, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) released Statement No. 72, Fair Value Measurement
and Application, which would generally require state and local governments to measure investments at fair value. GASB's
goal is enhance comparability of governmental financial statements by requiring fair value measurement for certain assets
and liabilities using a consistent definition and accepted valuation techniques. This standard expands fair value disclosures
to provide comprehensive information for financial statement users about the impact of fair value measurements on a
government's financial position.
Level 1 - Unadjusted quoted prices in an active market for identical assets or liabilities that the District has the ability to
access at the measurement date. Examples derived from NYSE, NASDAQ, Chicage Board of Trade, Pink Sheets.
Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices under Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly
on the measurement date. Examples include Matrix pricing, market corroborated pricing; inputs such as yield curves and
indices.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability used to measure fair value that rely on the reporting entity's reasonably
available information concerning the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability, including

50
Packet Pg. 60

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

assumptions about risk. Examples include investment Manager Pricing for Private Placement, Private Equities, and Hedge
Funds.
Valuation Inputs Summary for the fiscal period ended December 31, 2016:
Valuation Inputs
Level 2
Level 1
- $
232,108 $
64,948
2,765
60,071
127,784 $
232,108 $

Investment in Securities at Value

U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S. Agency Securities
Municipal Bonds
Commercial paper
Corporate bonds
Bankers’ Acceptance Notes

$

Total

$

Level 3
- $
-

Total
232,108
64,948
2,765

- $

60,071
359,892

Level 3
- $
- $

Total
286,411
104,662
2,802
213,026
82,732
23,836
713,469

Valuation Inputs Summary for the fiscal period ended December 31, 2015:
Valuation Inputs
Level 1
Level 2
286,411 $
- $
104,662
2,802
213,026
82,732
23,836
286,411 $
427,058 $

Investment in Securities at Value

U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S. Agency Securities
Municipal Bonds
Commercial paper
Corporate bonds
Bankers’ Acceptance Notes

$

Total

$

NOTE C - OTHER CURRENT ASSETS
Other Current Assets consist of:
2016
Prepaid expenses
Eagle P3 construction escrow
City of Arvada escrow
Park Creek Metro escrow
Other constuction escrow
Assets held for sale
Total Other Current Assets

$

$

3,706
5,120
2,606
282
273
1,655
13,642

2015
$

$

4,914
23,861
2,606
486
273
2,418
34,558

51
Packet Pg. 61

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

NOTE D – CAPITAL ASSETS

Capital asset activity as of December 31, 2016 was as follows:
(In Thousands)
Balances
2016
12/31/2015
Additions
Capital assets not being depreciated:
Land
$
Construction in progress
Total capital assets not being
depreciated
Capital assets being depreciated:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
Total capital assets being
depreciated

390,250
3,325,282

$

194,078
693,159

2016
Deletions

$

1,852,558

Balances
12/31/2016

$

584,328
2,165,883

3,715,532

887,237

1,852,558

2,750,211

2,195,281
491,458
921,680

1,211,939
115,658
267,434

2,698
315
51,379

3,404,522
606,801
1,137,735

201,950

63,449

4,134

261,265

3,810,369

1,658,480

58,526

5,410,323

Less accumulated depreciation:
Land improvements
704,977
123,389
2,697
Buildings
196,099
14,685
207
Revenue earning equipment
371,255
57,198
51,236
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
121,962
26,882
3,793
Total accumulated depreciation
1,394,293
222,154
57,933
Total capital assets being
depreciated, net
2,416,076
1,436,326
593
Capital assets, net
$
6,131,608 $ 2,323,563 $ 1,853,151
Depreciation expense was $222,154 and $152,531 for years 2016 and 2015, respectively.

825,669
210,577
377,217
145,051
1,558,514

$

3,851,809
6,602,020

52
Packet Pg. 62

Capital asset activity as of December 31, 2015 was as follows:
(In Thousands)
Balances
2015
12/31/2014
Additions
Capital assets not being depreciated:
Land
$
Construction in progress
Total capital assets not being
depreciated
Capital assets being depreciated:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
Total capital assets being
depreciated

303,432
2,754,062

$

86,831
870,055

2015
Deletions

$

13
298,835

Balances
12/31/2015

$

390,250
3,325,282

3,057,494

956,886

298,848

3,715,532

2,183,870
480,330
857,745

11,411
11,128
134,253

70,318

2,195,281
491,458
921,680

148,138

55,944

2,132

201,950

3,670,083

212,736

72,450

3,810,369

Less accumulated depreciation:
Land improvements
622,559
82,606
188
Buildings
183,118
12,981
Revenue earning equipment
399,166
42,147
70,058
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
109,279
14,797
2,114
Total accumulated depreciation
1,314,122
152,531
72,360
Total capital assets being
depreciated, net
2,355,961
60,205
90
Capital assets, net
$
5,413,455 $ 1,017,091 $ 298,938
Depreciation expense was $152,531 and $139,045 for years 2015 and 2014, respectively.

704,977
196,099
371,255
121,962
1,394,293

$

2,416,076
6,131,608

53
Packet Pg. 63

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

NOTE E – LONG-TERM DEBT
Long-term debt is comprised of the following as of December 31:
Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A, due serially on
November 1 of each year through 2036, issued with coupons between from 4.00% to
4.50% payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year; including discount
of ($1,017) and ($1,069) for 2016 and 2015, respectively. In 2014, The District did a
Modification and Exchange on these Bonds, it resulted in a premium with an ending
balance of $15,446 and $16,224 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.

2016
$

373,639

2015
$

374,925

Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A, due serially on November 1 of
each year through 2024, issued with a 5.25% coupon, payable semiannually on May 1
and November 1 of each year; including premium of $4,378 and $4,937 for 2016 and
2015, respectively.

74,203

74,762

Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2010A, due serially on November 1 of
each year through 2017, issued with coupons between 3.00% and 5.00%, payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year, including premium of $692 and
$1,523 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.

7,414

14,728

Subordinate Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2010, Denver Union
Station Project Authority (DUSPA) with principal and interest due on February 1 and
August 1 of every year through February 2040, with a coupon of 5.85%.

151,263

154,246

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2010A, due serially on November 1 of
2037 and 2038, issued with coupon of 5.0%, payable semiannually on May 1 and
November 1 of each year, including premium of $1,950 and $2,039 for 2016 and 2015,
respectively.

81,090

81,179

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds Taxable (Direct Pay Build America Bonds),
Series 2010B, due serially on November 1 of 2046 through 2050, issued with coupon of
5.844%, payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year.

300,000

300,000

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2012A, due serially on November 1 of
2023 and 2037, issued with coupon of 3.0% and 5.0%, payable semiannually on May 1
and November 1 of each year, including premium of $59,320 and $62,167 for 2016 and
2015, respectively.

534,255

537,102

Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A, due serially on November 1 of
2013 and 2021, issued with coupon of .25% and 2.207%, payable semiannually on
May 1 and November 1 of each year; including premium of $352 and $425 for 2016 and
2015, respectively.

44,327

61,420

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A, due serially on
November 1 of 2027 and 2036, issued with coupon of 4.25% and 5.0%, payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year; including premium of $38,729 and
$40,682 for 2016 and 2015, respectively

243,549

245,502

TIFIA Sales Tax FasTracks Loan, due on May 1 of 2025 thru 2045, loaned with
coupon of 3.14% and interest capitalized thru November 1, 2020. Payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 of each year from 2021 thru 2045.

305,675

296,284

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2016A, due serially on November 1 of
2036 and 2046, issued with a coupon of 5.0%, payable semiannually on May 1 and
November 1 of each year, including premium of 34,985 for 2016.

229,950

-

Certificates of Participation Taxable Refunding Obligations, Series 2007A, under
a lease agreement for acquisition of transit buses and vehicles, payments are due
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 to 2021, issued with a 5.535% coupon.

7,620

8,910

54
Packet Pg. 64

2015

2016
Certificates of Participation Obligations, Amended and Restated Series 2002A,
under a lease agreement for acquisition of transit vehicles and facilities, payments are
due semiannually on June 1 and December 1 to 2022, issued with coupons between
4.00% and 5.00%, including premium of $0 and $3.675 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.

$

-

$

85,115

Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2010A, under a lease purchase
agreement for acquisition of light rail vehicles, construct, install and improve certain
equipment and other capital projects. Payments are due semiannually on June 1 and
December 1 to 2031, issued with coupons between 3.00% and 5.50%, including premium
of $2,299 and $2,570 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.

189,269

194,315

Certificates of Participation Taxable (Direct Pay Build America Bonds),
Obligations, Series 2010B, under a lease purchase agreement for acquisition of light
rail vehicles, construct, install and improve certain equipment and other capital projects.
Payments are due semiannually on June 1 and December 1 through 2040, issued with a
coupon of 7.672%.

100,000

100,000

Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2013A, as Lessee Under an
Annually Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement. Payments are due semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 to 2027, issued with coupons between 2.00% and 5.00%,
including premium of $27,321 and $29,942 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.

222,706

243,877

Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2014A, as Lessee Under an
Annually Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement. Payments are due semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 to 2044, issued with coupons between 4.125% and 5.00%,
including premium of $23,294 and $24,144 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.

464,209

465,059

Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2015A, as Lessee Under an
Annually Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement. Payments are due semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 to 2040, issued with coupons between 3.25% and 5.00%,
including premium of $17,054 and $17,980 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.

210,969

211,895

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Purchase and Assignment Agreement, Refunding
Project of the 2002A COP's, as Lessee Under an Annually Renewable Lease Purchase
Agreement. Payments are due semiannually on June 1 and December 1 to 2022, issued
with a coupon of 1.903%.

74,470

-

3,614,608
(60,275)

3,449,319
(61,698)

$ 3,554,333

$ 3,387,621

Total
Less current portion

Total Long-Term Debt

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

55
Packet Pg. 65

The Sales Tax Revenue Bonds are payable from and secured by RTD’s sales and use tax revenue. RTD is required to maintain
certain minimum deposits, as defined in the Indenture of Trust, to meet debt service requirements. Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
debt service requirements to maturity are as follows:

Year ending December 31,
2017

Principal
$

27,573

TIFIA
Capitalized
Interest

Interest
- $

$

Total

92,135 $

119,708
119,893

2018

28,212

-

91,681

2019

20,818

-

90,678

111,496

2020

21,705

-

89,792

111,497

2021

17,164

-

99,665

116,829

2022-2026

175,214

1,976

480,440

657,630

2027-2031

436,764

11,119

406,218

854,101

2032-2036

499,983

16,062

294,857

810,902

2037-2041

382,708

9,620

185,715

578,043

2042-2046

333,612

-

132,102

465,714

2047-2050
$

246,780

-

37,104

283,884

2,190,533 $

38,777 $

2,000,387 $

4,229,697

Certificates of Participation are issued by Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc., a nonprofit corporation. The Authority issued
Certificates of Participation (Certificates) with the proceeds being used to acquire certain equipment and facilities to be used
by RTD as well as for construction of the North Metro commuter rail line. RTD leases the equipment acquired and elements
constructed with the proceeds from the Certificates under separate Master Lease Purchase Agreements. For financial reporting
purposes, RTD accounts for the Certificates as its own obligations.
Annual repayment requirements on the Certificates to maturity are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2017

Principal
$

Interest

Total

32,702 $

58,484 $

91,186

2018

38,465

57,253

95,718

2019

48,620

55,524

104,144

2020

58,038

53,301

111,339

2021

60,507

50,741

111,248

2022-2026

308,773

209,897

518,670

2027-2031

180,645

147,228

327,873

2032-2036

197,055

96,986

294,041

2037-2041

183,595

44,584

228,179

2042-2044

90,875

6,666

97,541

$

1,199,275 $ 780,664 $

1,979,939

56
Packet Pg. 66

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Changes in Long-Term Liabilities
Long-term liability activity for the year ended December 31, 2016, was as follows:

Sales Tax Revenue Bonds

$

Certificates of Participation
Issuance premiums and discounts
Total Bonds-COPs Payable
Net Pension Liability
Other liabilities*
Total long-term liabilities

$

Balance

2016

2016

Balance

Due Within

12/31/2015

Additions

Reductions

12/31/2016

One Year

2,013,220 $ 204,356 $

27,043 $

2,190,533 $ 27,573

1,230,860

74,470

106,055

1,199,275

32,702

205,239

31,943

12,382

224,800

-

3,449,319

310,769

145,480

3,614,608

60,275

321,615

68,443

-

390,058

-

247,771

119,267

366,694

-

4,018,705 $ 498,479 $

344
145,824 $

4,371,360 $ 60,275

*Other liabilities consist of Eagle P3 finance charge liability and the CCD Aviation Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA).
Long-term liability activity for the year ended December 31, 2015, was as follows:

Sales Tax Revenue Bonds

$

Balance

2015

2015

Balance

Due Within

12/31/2014

Additions

Reductions

12/31/2015

One Year

1,955,657 $

84,001 $

26,438 $

2,013,220 $ 27,043

1,064,855

193,915

27,910

1,230,860

34,655

198,711

18,366

11,838

205,239

-

3,219,223

296,282

66,186

3,449,319

61,698

Net Pension Liability

276,116

36,499

-

321,615

-

Other liabilities*

150,186

109,205

2,620

247,771

-

Certificates of Participation
Issuance premiums and discounts
Total Bonds-COPs Payable

Total long-term liabilities**

$

3,645,525 $ 441,986 $

68,806 $

4,018,705 $ 61,698

*Other liabilities consist of Eagle P3 finance charge liability, 2007 Sales Tax arbitrage call modification liability and the
CCD Aviation Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA). ** Beginning year balance (as restated).

In prior years, RTD defeased certain obligations by placing the proceeds of new obligations in an irrevocable trust to provide
for all future service payments on the old obligations. Accordingly, the trust account assets and the liability for the defeased
obligations are not included in these financial statements. Outstanding as of December 31, 2016 are the following amounts
which are considered defeased:
2002A Certificates of Participation – Light Rail Vehicles and Maintenance Facility $74,287
In December 2016, RTD entered a Capital Lease Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. to refund it's $74,470 previously
outstanding Series 2002A Certificates of Participation. The Proceeds of the 2016 Obligation will be placed in escrow with US
Bank and are being used for the purpose of advance refunding the District's Adjustable Rate Certificates of Participation
(2002A Transit Vehicles Project), Series 2002A, as reissued on June 1, 2007 (the "Reissued 2002A Obligation") and paying
the costs of issuing the 2016 Obligation. The transaction achieved a 6.5% NPV savings and $5,653 million of cash flow
savings between 2017 and 2022 and retained the same final maturity of 2022.
In November 2016, RTD issued its Tax Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project) Series 2016A in the par amount
of $194,965 for the purpose of (a) financing additional costs of improvements, facilities and equipment for the transit

57
Packet Pg. 67

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

expansion plan know as FasTracks (b) funding capitalized interest, and (c) funding costs of issuance of the Bonds. The Bonds
were issued without a debt service reserve fund. The final maturity on the Bonds is November 1, 2046.
In August 2015, RTD issued its Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A in the par amount of $193,915 with an average
interest rate of 4.60% to be used to finance the acquisition of equipment, vans, buses and light rail vehicles. Certain proceeds
were also used to fund a debt service reserve fund for the certificates and pay for related costs of issuance. The final maturity
of the certificates is in 2040.
In January 2015, RTD drew the final $75,000 and recognized $9,001 of capitalized interest from the Transportation
Infrastructure and Innovation Act (TIFIA) loan. Under the TIFIA loan authorization, RTD drew a total of $280,000 in 2013 thru
2015 and recognized $16,284 of capitalized interest. The draws from the TIFIA loan were used to pay for “Eligible Project
Costs” on RTD’s Eagle Project. The interest rate on the TIFIA loan is 3.14% with interest payments anticipated to begin in
2021 and final maturity expected in 2045. The TIFIA loan will be used to complement the other sources of debt, resulting in
a lower cost of funding than would have otherwise been available in the capital markets. The first TIFIA draw of $125,000
was made in 2013. The TIFIA loan is secured by a pledge of RTD’s 0.4% FasTracks sales and use tax.
NOTE F– EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
Employee Retirement Plans
RTD maintains two single-employer defined benefit pension plans and one defined contribution plan for substantially all fulltime employees:
•
•
•

ATU 1001 Pension Plan - Defined Benefit
Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Benefit
Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Contribution

Plans are administered by a pension trust that issues audited financial statements, which include financial information for that
plan. Those financial statements may be obtained from the plan administrators:
Regional Transportation District
Salaried Employees Pension Trust
7000 North Broadway, Building 106
Denver, Colorado 80221

RTD ATU 1001 Pension Plan
2821 S. Parker Road, Suite 215
Aurora, Colorado 80014-2602

A summary of pension related items as of December 31, 2016, is presented below:
Net Pension
Plan
Liability
ATU 1001 Pension Plan - DB $
361,264
Salaried Pension Plan - DB
28,794
Salaried Pension Plan - DC
Total
$
390,058

Deferred Outflow Deferred Inflows
of Resources*
of Resources
$
41,590 $
4,921
17,295
$
58,885 $
4,921

Pension
Expense
$
28,805
7,261
3,476
$
39,542

*ATU 1001 Pension plan deferred outflow related to contributions subsequent to measurement date was $11,615.
Salaried Pension Plan deferred outflow related to contributions subsequent to measurement date was $4,100.

58
Packet Pg. 68

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

A summary of pension related items as of December 31, 2015, is presented below:
Net Pension
Plan
Liability
ATU 1001 Pension Plan - DB $
311,672
Salaried Pension Plan - DB
9,943
Salaried Pension Plan - DC
Total
$
321,615

Deferred Outflow Deferred Inflows
of Resources*
of Resources
$
20,508 $
4,102
6,705
$
27,213 $
4,102

Pension
Expense
$
19,547
2,508
2,870
$
24,925

*ATU 1001 Pension plan deferred outflow related to contributions subsequent to measurement date was $11,092.
Salaried Pension Plan deferred outflow related to contributions subsequent to measurement date was $3,100.

ATU 1001 Pension Plan – Defined Benefit (2016)
Plan Description
The Regional Transportation District and Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001 Pension Plan was established pursuant to
collective bargaining agreements between RTD and the Union. This plan covers substantially all full-time union-represented
employees in accordance with the union agreement. The plan is a single-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by
Compusys, Inc.
Benefits Provided
All benefits are paid in the form of a 50% joint and survivor annuity unless this form is rejected by the participant and the
spouse.
Normal retirement benefits under the Plan are paid to participants who have attained age 65 and have been with the Plan for
ten years. The benefit amount is based on final average earnings, years of employment under this Plan and age at date of
retirement.
Early retirement, effective January 1, 1992, any Participant who has accumulated 20 or more years of credited service and
terminated employment prior to attaining age 50, will be entitled to an early retirement benefit starting on the first day of any
month after he has attained age 50. The Plan was amended effective January 1, 2011. The years of credited service needed
to qualify for a normal retirement benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier for both the normal
and early retirement was revised.
Death benefits state if an employee, who is not eligible for a vested benefit or not eligible to retire, should die, his beneficiary
will be paid the accumulated employee contributions plus interest. Upon the death of a pensioner, a funeral benefit of $2,000
will be paid in a lump sum to the pensioners designated beneficiary.
Disability benefits, an individual who becomes totally disabled prior to age 65 and retires from active employment with RTD
as a direct result of being totally disabled is entitled to a disability retirement benefit provided he or she has worked for at
least ten years for RTD in covered employment or any of its predecessors. An individual will be considered totally disabled
upon receipt of a disability award from Social Security. Effective January 1, 2011 the years of credited service needed to
qualify for a disability benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier was revised.
Deferred Vested Retirement Benefit, an individual who terminated employment on or after January 1, 1993, for any reason
other than retirement, will be entitled to a deferred vested benefit at age 65 provided he or she had worked for at least ten

59
Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

years in covered employment for RTD or any of its predecessors. A participant is entitled to deferred, vested benefits as early
as age 50 if he or she has worked for at least 20 years in covered employment and terminates active employment on or after
attaining age 50. If an individual with 20 or more years of service terminated employment prior to age 50, benefits will be
payable at any time after age 50. Effective January 1, 2011 the years of credited service needed to qualify for a deferred
vested retirement disability benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier was revised.
Benefit structure for participants hired on or after January 1, 2011. The following changes are included:
•
•
•
•
•
•

The benefit multiplier is changed from 2.5% to 1% with a new benefit schedule. (Priority 1).
Regular retirement is changed from age 55 with 20 years of service to age 60 with 20 years of service.
Sick and vacation payouts are no longer included in the pension benefit calculation. (Priority 2).
Vesting is changed from 5 years to 10 years.
Interest on employee contributions is changed from 5% to 3%.
The maximum service included in the benefit calculation is reduced from 30 years to 25 years. (Priority 3).

A “Trigger Policy” has also been provided that will partially rescind the modified benefit structure when certain Plan funding
benchmarks are achieved. If the total Actuarial Required Contribution (ARC) is less than 11% of payroll, pension benefits would
be restored in the order of priority listed above. The "Trigger" remains in effect until such time as the 11% ARC is restored.
Employees covered by the benefit terms for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2016 (December 31, 2015 measurement
date), pension plan membership consisted of the following1:
Active Plan Members
Inactive Plan Members or Beneficiaries Currently Receiving Benefits
Inactive employee entitled to but not yet receiving benefits

1,623
1,498
1,418

Total

4,539

1

Based on December 31, 2015 actuarial valuation demographic information

Net Pension Liability
The components of the net pension liability of the plan for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2016 as follows:
Total Pension Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net Position

$ 563,479
202,215

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as of Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability

361,264
35.89%

Actuarial Methods and Assumptions Used to Calculate Net Pension Liability:
Valuation Date:
January 1, 2016
Notes
Actuarially determined contribution rates are calculated as of July 1 each year for
implementation the following fiscal year. Actual contributions are made pursuant to a
collective bargaining agreement.
Actuarial Cost Method
Entry Age Normal
Amortization Method
Level Percentage of Payroll, Open

60
Packet Pg. 70

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Remaining Amortization Period
Asset Valuation Method
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return
Retirement Age
Healthy Mortality
Disabled Mortality
Other Information:

30 years
5-Year smoothed market, 0% corridor
3.00%
7.00% During first 5 years of service, 3.00% after five years of service
7.00%
Experience-based table of rates that is specific to the type of eligibility condition. Last
updated for the 2015 valuation pursuant to an experience study of the period 2012-2014.
RP-2000 Combined Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.
RP-2000 Disabled Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.
There were no benefit changes during the year.

Single Discount Rate
Projected benefit payments are required to be discounted to their actuarial present values using a Single Discount Rate that
reflects (1) a long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments (to the extent that the plan’s fiduciary net position
is projected to be sufficient to pay benefits) and (2) tax-exempt municipal bond rate based on an index of 20-year general
obligation bonds with an average AA credit rating as of the measurement date (to the extent that the plan’s projected fiduciary
net position is not sufficient to pay benefits).
For the purpose of this valuation, the expected rate of return on pension plan investments is 7.00%; the municipal bond rate
is 3.57% (based on the weekly rate closest to but not later than the measurement date of the “state & local bonds” rate from
Federal Reserve statistical release(H.15)); and the resulting Single Discount Rate is 4.54%.
Development of the Single Discount Rate
Single Discount Rate 4.54 %
Long-Term Expected Rate of Investment Return 7.00 %
Long-Term Municipal Bond Rate 3.57 %
Last year ending December 31 in the 2016 to 2115 projection period for which projected benefit payments are fully funded
2031
Asset Class
Domestic Equity
International Equity
Real Estate
Domestic Fixed Income
International Fixed Income
Commodities
Private Equity

30 Year Long-Term Expected Real
Rate of Return
6%
9%
3%
1%
1%
6%
10%

Target Asset Allocation
40%
15%
5%
15%
10%
5%
10%

Inflation Assumption
Actuarial Return Assumption

2%
7%

61
Packet Pg. 71

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Changes in the Net Pension Liability
(in thousands)

Balances at 12/31/2015
Changes for the year:
Service Cost
Interest
Differences between expected and actual experience
Assumption Changes
Contributions-employer
Contributions-employee
Net investment income
Benefit payments, including refunds of employee contributions
Administrative expense
Other changes
Net Changes
Balances at 12/31/2016

Increase (Decrease)
Total Pension
Plan Fiduciary Net
Liability
Position
(a)
(b)
$
526,136
$
214,464

$

13,074
26,324
(4,711)
28,095
(25,439)
37,343
563,479

$

11,542
3,869
(1,829)
(25,439)
(391)
(1)
(12,249)
202,215

Net Pension
Liability
(a) - (b)
$
311,672

$

13,074
26,324
(4,711)
28,095
(11,542)
(3,869)
1,829
391
1
49,592
361,264

Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to the Single Discount Rate Assumption
Regarding the sensitivity of the net pension liability to changes in the Single Discount Rate, the following presents the plans’
net pension liability, calculated using a Single Discount Rate of 4.54%, as well as what the Plan’s net pension liability would
be if it were calculated using a S i n g l e D iscount R ate that is one percentage-point lower or one -percentage-point
higher:

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

1% Decrease
(3.54%)
$ 430,651

Current Discount
Rate (4.54%)
$ 361,264

1% Increase
(5.54%)
$ 303,168

Contribution
Contributions to the Union Plan are made in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement. This agreement requires
RTD to contribute 13% and the employee to contribute 5% of the employee’s qualifying wages. RTD has included the full
amount of the actuarially determined net pension liability for the represented pension plan, in accordance with financial
reporting requirements. RTD is current in making all required contributions under the collective bargaining agreement.
Pension Expense and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources
RTD reported $11,615 as deferred outflows resulting from contributions subsequent to the measurement date and will be
recognized as a reduction of the net pension liability in the year ended December 31, 2017.

62
Packet Pg. 72

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

For the year ended 2016 the employer recognized pension expense of $28,805. The employer reported deferred outflows and
inflows of $36,669 of resources related from pensions from the following resources:
Deferred Outflows of
Resources
$
26,746
14,844
$
41,590

Differences in experience
Differences in assumptions*
Excess(deficit) Investment Returns
Total

Deferred Inflows of
Resources
$
4,921
$
4,921

*The increase in the Total Pensions Liability due to assumption changes includes the impact of the change is the Single
Discount Rate from 5.00 percent to 4.54 percent. This change in assumptions was measured at the end of the year.
Amounts reported as deferred outflow and inflows of resources related to pension will be recognized in pension expense as
follows:
Year Ended
December 31,
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Total

$

$

17,360
11,384
4,630
3,295
36,669

ATU 1001 Pension Plan – Defined Benefit (2015)
Plan Description
The Regional Transportation District and Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001 Pension Plan was established pursuant to
collective bargaining agreements between RTD and the Union. This plan covers substantially all full-time union-represented
employees in accordance with the union agreement. The plan is a single-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by
Compusys, Inc.
Benefits Provided
All benefits are paid in the form of a 50% joint and survivor annuity unless this form is rejected by the participant and the
spouse.
Normal retirement benefits under the Plan are paid to participants who have attained age 65 and have been with the Plan for
ten years. The benefit amount is based on final average earnings, years of employment under this Plan and age at date of
retirement.
Early retirement, effective January 1, 1992, any Participant who has accumulated 20 or more years of credited service and
terminated employment prior to attaining age 50, will be entitled to an early retirement benefit starting on the first day of any
month after he has attained age 50. The Plan was amended effective January 1, 2011. The years of credited service needed
to qualify for a normal retirement benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier for both the normal
and early retirement was revised.

63
Packet Pg. 73

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Death benefits state if an Employee, who is not eligible for a vested benefit or not eligible to retire, should die, his beneficiary
will be paid the accumulated employee contributions plus interest. Upon the death of a pensioner, a funeral benefit of $2,000
will be paid in a lump sum to the pensioners designated beneficiary
Disability benefits, an individual who becomes totally disabled prior to age 65 and retires from active employment with RTD
as a direct result of being totally disabled is entitled to a disability retirement benefit provided he has worked for at least ten
years for RTD in covered employment or any of its predecessors. An individual will be considered totally disabled upon receipt
of a disability award from Social Security. Effective January 1, 2011 the years of credited service needed to qualify for a
disability benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier was revised.
Deferred Vested Retirement Benefit, an individual who terminated employment on or after January 1, 1993, for any reason
other than retirement, will be entitled to a deferred vested benefit at age 65 provided he had worked for at least ten years in
covered employment for RTD or any of its predecessors. A participant is entitled to deferred, vested benefits as early as age
50 if he has worked for at least 20 years in covered employment and terminates active employment on or after attaining age
50. If an individual with 20 or more years of service terminated employment prior to age 50, benefits will be payable at any
time after age 50. Effective January 1, 2011 the years of credited service needed to qualify for a deferred vested retirement
disability benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier was revised.
Benefit structure for participants hired on or after January 1, 2011. The following changes are included:
•
•
•
•
•
•

The benefit multiplier is changed from 2.5% to 1% with a new benefit schedule. (Priority 1).
Regular retirement is changed from age 55 with 20 years of service to age 60 with 20 years of service.
Sick and vacation payouts are no longer included in the pension benefit calculation. (Priority 2).
Vesting is changed from 5 years to 10 years.
Interest on employee contributions is changed from 5% to 3%.
The maximum service included in the benefit calculation is reduced from 30 years to 25 years. (Priority 3).

A “Trigger Policy” has also been provided that will partially rescind the modified benefit structure when certain Plan funding
benchmarks are achieved. If the total Actuarial Required Contribution (ARC) is less than 11% of payroll, pension benefits would
be restored in the order of priority listed above. The "Trigger" remains in effect until such time as the 11% ARC is restored.
Employees covered by the benefit terms for the FYE December 31, 2015 (December 31, 2014 measurement date), pension
plan membership consisted of the following1:
Active Plan Members
Inactive Plan Members or Beneficiaries Currently Receiving Benefits
Inactive employee entitled to but not yet receiving benefits

1,687
1,410
1,228

Total

4,325

1

Based on December 31, 2014 actuarial valuation demographic information

64
Packet Pg. 74

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Net Pension Liability
The components of the net pension liability of the plan for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2015 as follows:

Total Pension Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Plan’s Net Pension Liability

$ 526,135
214,463
$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as of Percentage of the
Total Pension Liability

311,672
40.76%

Actuarial Methods and Assumptions Used to Calculate Net Pension Liability:
Valuation Date:
December 31, 2014
Notes
Actuarially determined contribution rates are calculated as of July 1 each year for
implementation the following year.
Actuarial Cost Method
Entry Age Normal
Amortization Method
Level Percentage of Payroll, Open
Remaining Amortization
30 years
Period
Asset Valuation Method
5-Year smoothed market, 0% corridor
Inflation
3.00%
Salary Increases
7.00% During first 5 years of service, 3.00% after five years of service
Investment Rate of Return
7.00%
Retirement Age
Experience-based table of rates that is specific to the type of eligibility condition. Last
updated for the 2015 valuation pursuant to an experience study of the period 2012-2014.
Healthy Mortality
RP-2000 Combined Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.
Disabled Mortality
RP-2000 Disabled Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.
Other Information:
There were no benefit changes during the year.

Single Discount Rate
Projected benefit payments are required to be discounted to their actuarial present values using a Single Discount
Rate that reflects (1) a long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments (to the extent that the plan’s
fiduciary net position is projected to be sufficient to pay benefits) and (2) tax-exempt municipal bond rate based on
an index of 20-year general obligation bonds with an average AA credit rating as of the measurement date (to the
extent that the plan’s projected fiduciary net position is not sufficient to pay benefits). For the purpose of this
valuation, the expected rate of return on pension plan investments is 7.00%; the municipal bond rate is 3.65%
(based on the weekly rate closest to but not later than the measurement date of the “state & local bonds” rate from
Federal Reserve statistical release(H.15)); and the resulting Single Discount Rate is 5.00%.
Development of the Single Discount Rate
Single Discount Rate 5.00 %
Long-Term Expected Rate of Investment Return 7.00 %
Long-Term Municipal Bond Rate* 3.65 %
Last year ending December 31 in the 2015 to 2114 projection period for which projected benefit payments are
fully funded 2034

65
Packet Pg. 75

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Asset Class
Domestic Equity
International Equity
Real Estate
Domestic Fixed Income
International Fixed Income
Commodities
Private Equity

30 Year Long-Term Expected
Real Rate of Return
5%
8%
3%
1%
1%
5%
10%

Target Asset Allocation
40%
15%
5%
15%
10%
5%
10%

30 Year Inflation Assumption
Actuarial Return Assumption

2%
7%

Changes in Net Pension Liability

Balances at 12/31/2014
Changes for the year:
Service Cost
Interest
Differences between expected and actual experience
Assumption Changes
Contributions-employer
Contributions-employee
Net investment income
Benefit payments, including refunds of employee contributions
Administrative expense
Other changes
Net Changes
Balances at 12/31/2015

Total Pension
Liability
(a)
$
488,394

Increase (Decrease)
Plan Fiduciary Net
Position
(b)
$
213,008

Net Pension
Liability
(a) - (b)
$
275,386

11,937
27,714
(6,476)
28,879
(24,312)
37,742
526,136

10,758
3,586
11,779
(24,312)
(355)
1,456
214,464

11,937
27,714
(6,476)
28,879
(10,758)
(3,586)
(11,779)
355
36,286
311,672

$

$

$

Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to the Single Discount Rate Assumption
Regarding the sensitivity of the net pension liability to changes in the Single Discount Rate, the following presents the plans’
net pension liability, calculated using a Single Discount Rate of 5.00%, as well as what the Plan’s net pension liability would
be if it were calculated using a S i n g l e D iscount R ate that is 1-percentage-point lower (4.00%) or 1-percentage-point
higher (6.00%) than the current rate:

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

1% Decrease
(4.00%)
$ 375,343

Current Discount
Rate (5.00%)
$ 311,672

1% Increase
(6.00%)
$ 258,200

66
Packet Pg. 76

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Contribution
Contributions to the Union Plan are made in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement. This agreement requires
RTD to contribute 13% and the employee to contribute 5% of the employee’s qualifying wages. RTD has included the full
amount of the actuarially determined net pension liability for the represented pension plan, in accordance with financial
reporting requirements. RTD is current in making all required contributions under the collective bargaining agreement.
Pension Expense and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources
For the year ended 2015 the employer recognized pension expense of $19,547. The employer reported deferred outflows and
inflows of $27,498 of resources related from pensions from the following resources:
Deferred Outflows of
Resources
$
18,291
2,217
11,092
$
31,600

Differences in experience
Differences in assumptions
Excess(deficit) Investment Returns
Contributions subsequent to the measurement date*
Total

Deferred Inflows of
Resources
$
4,102
$
4,102

*The amount reported as deferred outflows of resources resulting from employer contributions subsequent to the measurement
date will be recognized as a reduction in the Pension Expense for the year ending 2016.
Amounts reported as deferred outflow and inflows of resources related to pension will be recognized in pension expense as
follows:
Year Ended
December 31,
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Total

$

$

19,860
6,530
554
554
27,498

67
Packet Pg. 77

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Benefit (2016)
Plan Description
The Regional Transportation District Salaried Employees’ Pension Plan provides coverage for all full-time salaried employees
whom were hired prior to January 1, 2008. The plan is a single-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by Fringe
Benefit Services, Inc.
Benefits Provided
Normal retirement eligibility age is 65 with five years of credited service; monthly benefit 2.5% of average final compensation
times credited service. Early retirement age is 55 with five years of credited service; monthly benefit if retire or terminate from
active status on or after age 55, the normal retirement benefit is reduced 1/30 for each year less than age 60. If the employee
terminates from active status prior to age 55, the normal retirement benefit is reduced 1/15 for each year between ages 60
and 65, and 1/30 for each year less than age 60.
Disability retirement is five years of credited service, totally and permanently disabled, and entitled to a Social Security
disability award; monthly benefit unreduced normal retirement benefit, payable upon approval for Social Security disability.
Pre-retirement death eligibility is five years of credited service; monthly benefit survivor pension assuming the participant
retired the day before death with a 50% Joint and Survivor Benefit. If death occurs before age 55, payment is deferred until
the participant would have reached age 55 and is reduced for early commencement. Survivors of married participants may
elect to receive an annuity or a lump sum distribution. Survivors of unmarried participants will receive a lump sum distribution
if death occurs while the participant is actively employed with RTD. The lump sum is the present value of the survivor’s pension
above but determined as if the participant was married and the spouse was the same age as the participant.
Termination eligibility is five years of credited service; monthly benefit if not eligible to retire normal retirement benefit, early
retirement benefit, or if elected within six months, a lump sum equal to the present value of the age 65 accrued benefits,
payable in lieu of all other benefits in the Plan. Employee monthly benefit if eligible to retire normal retirement benefit, early
retirement benefit, or a lump sum equal to the present value of an immediate accrued benefit, payable in lieu of all other
benefits in the Plan.
Forms of annuity payments for normal form are 50% Joint and Survivor Annuity if married, Single Life Annuity otherwise.
Optional Forms are 25%, 50%, 66-2/3% or 100% Joint and Survivor Annuity with 5-year or 10-year Certain and Life Annuity
(60 or 120 months guaranteed) Social Security Adjustment (Age 62 or Age 65) Lump Sum.
Credited service is one year for each calendar year of 1,000 hours of service (except years and completed months in the year
of transfer). Credited service applies to vesting and service for retirement benefit eligibility. Average final compensation is
average of participant's highest consecutive 36 months of compensation in the last 120 months of credited service immediately
preceding the calendar month in which retirement occurs. Compensation excludes bonuses, severance pay, long-term disability
pay and other extra compensation paid in the Fiscal Year. Compensation includes deferrals made to the RTD Deferred
Compensation Plan and RTD Flexible Spending Account Plan, overtime, shift differentials, leave pay and salary reductions.

68
Packet Pg. 78

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Employees covered by the benefit terms for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2016 (December 31, 2015 measurement
date), pension plan membership consisted of the following1:
Active Plan Members
Inactive Plan Members or Beneficiaries Currently Receiving
Benefits
Inactive Plan Members Entitled to But Not Yet Receiving
Benefits2

361

Total

701

232
108

1

Based on January 1, 2015 actuarial valuation demographic information
2
Includes transfer outs

Net Pension Liability
The components of the net pension liability of the plan for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2016 as follows:
Total Pension Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net Position

$ 151,571
122,777

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as of Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability

28,794
81.00%

Actuarial Assumptions
The total pension liability was determined by an actuarial valuation with date of January 1, 2015, using the following actuarial
assumptions applied to all periods included in the measurement with a liability roll forward to December 31, 2015 for
disclosure purposes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2016:
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return

3.00%
4.75% - 9.75%, based on age
7.50%, net of investment expenses

The long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments was determined using a building-block method in
which best- estimate ranges of expected future real rates of return (expected returns, net of pension plan investment expense
and inflation) are developed for each major asset class. These ranges are combined to produce the long-term expected rate
of return by weighting the expected future real rates of return by the target asset allocation percentage including expected
inflation.
Best estimates of arithmetic real rates of return for each major asset class included in the pension plan’s target asset
allocation as of the December 31, 2015 (for disclosure purposes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2016) are
summarized in the following data and reflect assumed long-term expected real rate of return over a 30-year horizon upon
which the disclosure is based:

69
Packet Pg. 79

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Asset Class
Domestic Equity
International Equity
Fixed Income
Real Estate
Cash

Long-Term Expected Real Rate
of Return
8.7%
9.7%
1.5%
10.1%
N/A

Target Asset Allocation
50%
10%
30%
10%
N/A

Mortality Rates for Annuities (60% Election Assumption)
Healthy: RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy employees and annuitants. Disabled: RP-2014 Disabled Retiree
Mortality Tables.
Mortality Rates for Lump Sums (40% Election Assumption)
RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy annuitants, blended 70% male / 30% female for participants and 30% male /
70% female for beneficiaries.
The actuarial assumptions used in the January 1, 2015 valuation were based on the results of an actuarial experience study
covering the period January 1, 2009 – December 31, 2013.
Single Discount Rate
The discount rate used to measure the total pension liability was 7.50%. The projection of cash flows used to determine
the discount rate assumed that RTD contributions would be equal to the actuarially determined contribution rate for the
applicable fiscal years. Based on those assumptions, the pension plan’s fiduciary net position was projected to be available
to make all projected future benefit payments of current plan members. Therefore, the long-term expected rate of return on
pension plan investments was applied to all periods of projected benefit payments to determine the total pension liability.
The discount rate does not incorporate nor require a 20-year tax-exempt general obligation municipal bond rate (with an
average rating of AA/As or higher).
Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to Changes in the Discount Rate
The following present the net pension liability of the Plan, calculated using the discount rate of 7.50%, as well as
what the Plan’s net pension liability would be if it were calculated using a discount rate that is 1-percentage-point
lower (6.50%) or 1-percentage-point higher (8.50%) than the current rate:

Plan’s Net Pension Liability/Assets

1% Decrease
(6.50%)
$ 42,136

Current Discount
Rate (7.50%)
$ 28,794

1% Increase
(8.50%)
$ 17,207

70
Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Changes in the Net Pension Liability
(in thousands)

Balances at 12/31/2015
Changes for the year:
Service Cost
Interest
Differences between expected and actual experience
Assumption Changes
Contributions-employer
Net investment income
Benefit payments, including refunds of employee contributions
Administrative expense
Other changes
Net Changes
Balances at 12/31/2016

Increase (Decrease)
Total Pension
Plan Fiduciary Net
Liability
Position
(a)
(b)
$
139,953 $
130,010

$

3,342
10,388
3,869
3,601
(9,582)
11,618
151,571

$

3,100
(610)
(9,582)
(141)
(7,233)
122,777

Net Pension
Liability
(a) - (b)
9,943
$

$

3,342
10,388
3,869
3,601
(3,100)
610
141
18,851
28,794

Pension Expense and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources
RTD reported $4,100 as deferred outflows resulting from contributions subsequent to the measurement date and will be
recognized as a reduction of the net pension liability in the year ended December 31, 2017.
For the year ended 2016 the employer recognized pension expense of $7,261. The employer reported deferred outflows and
inflows of $17,295 of resources related from pensions from the following resources.
Deferred Outflows of
Resources
$ 3,631
5,488
8,176
$ 17,295

Differences in experience
Differences in assumptions*
Excess(deficit) Investment Returns
Total

Deferred Inflows of
Resources
$
$
-

*Assumption changes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2015 (December 31, 2015 measurement date, January 1,
2015 actuarial valuation date): the amount reported as Assumption Changes resulted from a change in the salary increase
assumption (average weighted salary increase changed from 4.00% to 5.00%). This change is expected to be more reflective
of future plan experience.

71
Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Amounts reported as deferred outflow and inflows of resources related to pension will be recognized in pension expense as
follows:
Year Ended,
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Total

$ 6,993
5,675
2,605
2,022
$ 17,295

Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Benefit (2015)
Plan Description
The Regional Transportation District Salaried Employees’ Pension Plan provides coverage for all full-time salaried employees
whom were hired prior to January 1, 2008. The plan is a single-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by Fringe
Benefit Services, Inc.
Benefits Provided
Normal retirement eligibility age is 65 with five years of credited service; monthly benefit 2.5% of average final compensation
times credited service. Early retirement age is 55 with five years of credited service; monthly benefit if retire or terminate from
active status on or after age 55, the normal retirement benefit is reduced 1/30 for each year less than age 60. If terminate
from active status prior to age 55, the normal retirement benefit is reduced 1/15 for each year between ages 60 and 65, and
1/30 for each year less than age 60.
Disability retirement is five years of credited service, totally and permanently disabled, and entitled to a Social Security
disability award; monthly benefit unreduced normal retirement benefit, payable upon approval for Social Security disability.
Pre-retirement death eligibility is five years of credited service; monthly benefit survivor pension assuming the participant
retired the day before death with a 50% Joint and Survivor Benefit. If death occurs before age 55, payment is deferred until
the participant would have reached age 55 and is reduced for early commencement. Survivors of married participants may
elect to receive an annuity or a lump sum distribution. Survivors of unmarried participants will receive a lump sum distribution
if death occurs while the participant is actively employed with RTD. The lump sum is the present value of the survivor’s pension
above but determined as if the participant was married and the spouse was the same age as the participant.
Termination eligibility is five years of credited service; monthly benefit if not eligible to retire normal retirement benefit, early
retirement benefit, or if elected within six months, a lump sum equal to the present value of the age 65 accrued benefits,
payable in lieu of all other benefits in the Plan. Employee monthly benefit if eligible to retire normal retirement benefit, early
retirement benefit, or a lump sum equal to the present value of an immediate accrued benefit, payable in lieu of all other
benefits in the Plan.
Forms of annuity payments for normal form are 50% Joint and Survivor Annuity if married, Single Life Annuity otherwise.
Optional Forms are 25%, 50%, 66-2/3% or 100% Joint and Survivor Annuity with 5-year or 10-year Certain and Life Annuity
(60 or 120 months guaranteed) Social Security Adjustment (Age 62 or Age 65) Lump Sum.
Credited service is one year for each calendar year of 1,000 hours of service (except years and completed months in the year
of transfer). Credited service applies to vesting and service for retirement benefit eligibility. Average final compensation is

72
Packet Pg. 82

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

average of participant's highest consecutive 36 months of compensation in the last 120 months of credited service immediately
preceding the calendar month in which retirement occurs. Compensation excludes bonuses, severance pay, long-term disability
pay and other extra compensation paid in the Fiscal Year. Compensation includes deferrals made to the RTD Deferred
Compensation Plan and RTD Flexible Spending Account Plan, overtime, shift differentials, leave pay and salary reductions.
Employee covered by the benefit terms for the FYE December 31, 2015 (December 31, 2014 measurement date), pension plan
membership consisted of the following1:

Active Plan Members
Inactive Plan Members or Beneficiaries Currently Receiving
Benefits
Inactive Plan Members Entitled to But Not Yet Receiving
Benefits2

382

Total

716

220
114

1

Based on January 1, 2015 actuarial valuation demographic information
Includes transfer outs

2

Net Pension Liability
The components of the net pension liability of the plan for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2015 as follows:
Total Pension Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net Position

$ 139,953
130,010

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as of Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability

9,943
92.90%

Actuarial Assumptions
The total pension liability was determined by an actuarial valuation with date of January 1, 2014, using the following actuarial
assumptions applied to all periods included in the measurement with a liability roll forward to December 31, 2014 for
disclosure purposes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2015:
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return

3.00%
3.75% - 8.75%
7.50%, net of investment expenses

The long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments was determined using a building-block method in
which best- estimate ranges of expected future real rates of return (expected returns, net of pension plan investment expense
and inflation) are developed for each major asset class. These ranges are combined to produce the long-term expected rate
of return by weighting the expected future real rates of return by the target asset allocation percentage including expected
inflation. Best estimates of arithmetic real rates of return for each major asset class included in the pension plan’s target
asset allocation as of the December 31, 2014 measurement date.

73
Packet Pg. 83

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Mortality Rates for Annuities (60% Election Assumption)
Healthy: RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy employees and annuitants. Disabled: RP-2014 Disabled Retiree
Mortality Tables
Mortality Rates for Lump Sums (40% Election Assumption)
RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy annuitants, blended 70% male / 30% female for participants and 30% male /
70% female for beneficiaries.
The actuarial assumptions used in the January 1, 2014 valuation were based on the results of an actuarial experience
study covering the period January 1, 2009 - December 31, 2013.
Discount Rate
The discount rate used to measure the total pension liability was 7.50%. The projection of cash flows used to determine
the discount rate assumed that RTD contributions will be equal to the actuarially determined contribution rate for the
applicable fiscal years. Based on those assumptions, the pension plan’s fiduciary net position was projected to be available
to make all projected future benefit payments of current plan members. Therefore, the long-term expected rate of return on
pension plan investments was applied to all periods of projected benefit payments to determine the total pension liability.
The below table reflects assumed long-term expected real rates of return over a 30-year horizon upon which the disclosure
is based:
Asset Class
Domestic Equity
International Equity
Fixed Income
Real Estate
Cash

Long-Term Expected Real Rate
of Return
8.7%
9.7%
1.5%
10.1%
N/A

Target Asset Allocation
50%
10%
30%
10%
N/A

74
Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Changes in the Net Pension Liability
(in thousands)

Balances at 12/31/2014
Changes for the year:
Service Cost
Interest
Differences between expected and actual experience
Assumption Changes
Contributions-employer
Net investment income
Benefit payments, including refunds of employee contributions
Administrative expense
Other changes
Net Changes
Balances at 12/31/2015

Total Pension
Liability
(a)
$
125,723

Increase (Decrease)
Plan Fiduciary Net
Position
(b)
$
124,993

Net Pension
Liability
(a) - (b)
$
730

2,673
9,366
2,228
6,997
(7,034)
14,230
139,953

3,100
9,078
(7,034)
(127)
5,017
130,010

2,673
9,366
2,228
6,997
(3,100)
(9,078)
127
9,213
9,943

$

$

$

Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to Changes in the Discount Rate
The following presents the net pension liability of the Plan, calculated using the discount rate of 7.50%, as well as what
the Plan’s net pension liability would be if it were calculated using a discount rate that is 1-percentage-point lower
(6.50%) or 1-percentage-point higher (8.50%) than the current rate:

Plan’s Net Pension Liability/Assets

1% Decrease
(6.50%)
$ 22,167

Current Discount
Rate (7.50%)
$ 9,943

1% Increase
(8.50%)
$ (638)

Pension Expense and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources
For the year ended 2015 the employer recognized pension expense of $2,508. The employer reported deferred outflows and
inflows of $9,805 of resources related from pensions from the following resources.
Deferred Outflows of
Resources
$ 1,592
4,998
115
3,100
$ 9,805

Differences in experience
Differences in assumptions
Excess(deficit) Investment Returns
Contributions subsequent to the measurement date*
Total

Deferred Inflows of
Resources
$
$
-

*The amount reported as deferred outflows of resources resulting from employer contributions subsequent to the measurement
date will be recognized as a reduction in the Pension Expense for the year ending 2016.
Amounts reported as deferred outflow and inflows of resources related to pension will be recognized in pension expense as
follows:

75
Packet Pg. 85

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Year Ended
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Total

$ 5,765
2,665
1,347
28
$ 9,805

RTD Plan – Defined Contribution
Plan Description
The RTD defined contribution plan represents full-time salaried employees hired after January 1, 2008. The RTD Board adopted
amendment No. 8, effective January 1, 2008. RTD contributes 9% of the employee’s qualifying wage. Contributions totaled
$3,476 and $2,870 in 2016 and 2015, respectively. RTD employees cannot contribute to the Plan. Membership was 520 and
474 active employees in 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Health and Welfare Trust
The Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Health and Welfare Trust was formed pursuant to a Trust Agreement effective
July 1, 1971, between Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 (ATU 1001) and an agent of a transit enterprise owned by
the City and County of Denver, through July 3, 1974, and the Regional Transportation District (RTD) thereafter. In addition
to the original Denver Metro Division, employees of other RTD divisions have been approved for participation in the Trust
benefits. The Trust agreement shall continue in full force and effect in all its terms and provisions so long as there continues
to be a collective bargaining agreement between the Union and RTD.
The Trust provides health benefits (hospital, medical, dental, vision, life and short-term disability) for represented employees
of RTD and certain officers of ATU 1001 and health care benefits for retired employees actively working 600 hours or more
per quarter. The Trust is funded through contribution by the employer and employee, the share of benefit plan contributions is
set by the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). RTD’s contribution was $19,025 and $16,848 for the years ended
December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Trust also provides insurance coverage for felonious assault for each
employee and funds the Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Legal Services Trust. The Trust self-insures part of its
health benefits, life insurance coverage and short-term disability. The plan issues audited financial statements, which include
financial information for the plan. The financial statements may be obtained from the plan: RTD ATU 1001 Health and Welfare
Trust, 2821 S. Parker Road, Suite 215 Aurora, Colorado 80014-2602.
Unearned Compensation Plan
RTD offers its employees an unearned compensation plan (the Plan), created in accordance with Internal Revenue Code
Section 457, which is available to substantially all employees and permits them to defer a portion of their compensation to
future years. Under the terms of the Plan, the unearned compensation is available to participants upon termination, retirement,
death or in the event of an unforeseeable emergency or other financial hardship.

76
Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Compensated Absences
RTD considers all accrued compensated absences as due within one year. Employees accrue paid time off (PTO), vacation, and
sick leave based on time in service; employees are not allowed to accumulate more than twice their annual PTO or vacation
accrual and sick leave based on years of service. Employees are paid any outstanding compensated absence balances upon
leaving RTD. RTD records these accrued compensated absences as current liabilities under the principle of conservatism by
assuming these amounts are the most RTD would be obligated to pay in the near-term.
Compensated absences activity for the year ended December 31, 2016, was as follows:

Represented employees
Salaried employees
Total compensated absences due

12/31/2015
Balance
$ 2,560
10,171
$12,731

2016
Accruals
$ 1,685
6,670
$ 8,355

2016
Payments
$ 1,592
6,308
$ 7,900

12/31/2016
Balance
$ 2,653
10,533
$13,186

2015
Payments
$ 1,491
5,882
$ 7,373

12/31/2015
Balance
$ 2,560
10,171
$12,731

Compensated absences activity for the year ended December 31, 2015, was as follows:

Represented employees
Salaried employees
Total compensated absences due

12/31/2014
Balance
$ 2,459
9,745
$12,204

2015
Accruals
$ 1,592
6,308
$ 7,900

The accrued compensation liabilities of $21,705 and $19,953 as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, include
$8,519 and $7,222 of accrued wages, salaries, and fringe benefits in addition to accrued compensated absences.
NOTE G – OPERATING LEASES – LESSOR
Union Station Alliance (USA) Lease
In December 2012, RTD entered a contract with Union Station Alliance (USA) to renovate and lease RTD’s historic Denver
Union Station Building. The renovation by USA included a hotel, Amtrak facilities, office space, retail and restaurant services
as well as renovation of the Great Train Hall. The renovations were complete and open to the public in July 2014. The
agreement includes a 60-year lease to USA to operate and maintain the facility in which RTD will participate in certain revenue
collections.
NOTE H – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Commitments
Operating Lease – Civic Center Transfer Facility
In 1976, RTD entered into an operating lease for a portion of the land on which the Civic Center transfer facility is located in
downtown Denver. As collateral for the lease, RTD must maintain an account balance with a minimum market value of $1,500 in
an escrow account, the interest on which accrues to RTD until the lease expires. This amount in escrow is included in restricted
assets in the accompanying financial statements.

77
Packet Pg. 87

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Fixed rental commitments under the lease in years subsequent to December 31, 2016, are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022-2026
2027-2031
2032-2036
2037-2041
2042-2046
2047-2051
2052-2056
2057-2061
2062-2066
2067-2071
2072-2075

$ 262
265
267
270
273
1,405
1,477
1,552
1,631
1,714
1,802
1,893
1,990
2,091
2,198
1,839
$ 20,929

Rental expense relating to this lease amounted to $259 and $257 for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015,
respectively.
Operating Lease – Purchased Transportation
RTD has entered into a number of transactions in which certain of its light rail vehicles have been leased to and subleased
back from certain U.S. and foreign companies and has entered into a transaction in which its maintenance facilities have been
leased to and subleased back. As part of these transactions, RTD irrevocably set aside certain monies (which were received
from each counter party as payment for its leasing of light rail vehicles and real property) with a third party trustee.
The monies held by such trustees will be utilized to make the lease payments owed by the RTD under the transactions and are
therefore considered fully funded and economically defeased.
Capital Projects
As of December 31, 2016, RTD has contracts for the construction of various capital projects and the purchase of buses and
light rail vehicles. The costs to complete these projects and the purchase of buses/light rail vehicles total $560,716 and
$461,864 in 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Grant Match Requirements
Under the provisions of current grants, RTD is obligated to satisfy certain matching requirements of these grants. At
December 31, 2016, RTD had a commitment to provide $253,704 in matching funds in order to receive $298,811 in future
federal and state grant funds.

78
Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Privatization Contracts
In response to the privatization legislation (Note A), RTD has awarded contracts for specific groups of routes, not to exceed
58% as required by law for vehicular services. As of January 2017, slightly over 54.33% of RTD’s non-rail transit services
are delivered by private contractors operating under the auspices and direction of RTD.
ADA Paratransit Service
With the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), RTD was mandated to provide paratransit service to
the disabled individuals unable to use RTD’s fixed route buses, operating the same days and hours of service as the fixed route
service. This service, called Access-a-Ride, is a curb-to-curb (with door-to-door assistance upon special request) transportation
system offered to disabled individuals who cannot functionally use RTD’s regular fixed route system. Passengers eligible for
Access-a-Ride service must originate their trip within 3/4 of a mile of an RTD non-commuter fixed route. Since September
1996, RTD has been in full compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 requirement to provide paratransit
service to the disabled individuals unable to use fixed route buses.
Future Commitments under Construction Contracts
In 2010, RTD entered into a public-private partnership to design, build, finance and operate several of the transit improvements
contemplated under the FasTracks program, including the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility, the East Rail Corridor, the Gold
Line Rail Corridor and the electrified segment of the Northwest Rail Corridor (together, the “Eagle P3 Project). The Eagle P3
Project is being delivered and operated under a concession agreement that RTD has entered with a concessionaire that has
been selected through a competitive proposal process. The selected concessionaire is known as Denver Transit Partners (DTP),
a special purpose company owned by Fluor Enterprises, Uberior Investments and Laing Investments.
The Eagle P3 Project construction will be completed in two phases with Phase I completed in 2016 and Phase II completed in
2017. Under the terms of the Eagle P3 Project agreement, RTD will make scheduled construction payments to DTP each year
from 2011 through 2017 for completed project elements. RTD will assume ownership of the Eagle P3 Project elements as
they are constructed. In addition, RTD will make scheduled secured principal and interest payments to DTP from 2017 through
2044 for the remaining Eagle P3 Project obligation. The Eagle P3 Project agreement also includes a provision whereby, upon
project completion and placement in service, DTP will operate and maintain the Eagle P3 Project during the period 2016 through
2044 for which RTD will make service payments.
In 2012, RTD entered a contract with Kiewit Infrastructure Company to complete the 10.5-mile I-225 light rail line, extending
from the currently existing Nine Mile station to connect the Southeast Line to the East Line. The I-225 Line is being completed
in coordination with the Colorado Department of Transportation’s I-225 highway project and opened in February 2017 to
provide connectivity to major activity centers like the Aurora City Center, Anschutz/Fitzsimons Medical Center and Denver
International Airport through a transfer at Peoria to the East Rail Line.
In 2013, RTD entered a contract with Regional Rail Partners to construct the North Metro Rail Line. The North Metro Rail
Line is an 18.5-mile electric commuter rail line that will run from Denver Union Station through Commerce City, Thornton and
Northglenn to Highway 7 at 162nd Avenue in North Adams County. The North Metro Rail Line is scheduled to open in 2018.
In 2014, RTD entered a contract with Balfour Beatty Infrastructure, Inc. to design and construct the Southeast Rail Extension
Project. The Southeast Rail Extension includes 2.3 miles extending of the existing Southeast Light rail Line from Lincoln Station
through the City of Lone Tree to RidgeGate Parkway Station featuring a new Park-n-Ride with a structure of 1,300 parking
spaces. The Southeast Rail Extension is scheduled to open in 2019.

79
Packet Pg. 89

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Future Commitments under Service Contracts
The fixed commitments under the Privatization contracts (bus) in the years subsequent to December 31, 2016 are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Total

$ 91,212
93,313
84,072
43,400
28,883
$ 340,880

Denver Transit Partner’s concessionaire service payment commitments under the lease in years subsequent to December 31,
2016, are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022-2026
2027-2031
2032-2036
2037-2041
2042-2044

$

82,168
84,989
111,726
122,077
105,193
621,636
707,673
864,355
941,373
470,519

$ 4,111,709
Diesel Fuel Contract
RTD contracts with Mansfield Oil Co of Gainesville, Inc. for diesel fuel. The contract is structured as a single year contract.
The fixed commitment under the Mansfield contract in 2017 is $16,225. RTD estimates usage of 9.6 million gallons at unit
cost of $1.6902 per gallon: 5.76 million gallons of RTD’s usage and 3.84 million gallons of RTD private carrier’s usage.
Contingencies
Federal Grants
RTD receives federal grants for capital projects and operating assistance, which are subject to audit by FTA. Although the
outcome of any such audit cannot be predicted, it is management’s opinion these audits will not result in liabilities to such an
extent that they would materially affect RTD’s financial position.

80
Packet Pg. 90

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Self-Insurance
RTD is self-insured for general liability and Workers’ Compensation claims. Liabilities are reported when it is probable that a
loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In addition, RTD offers a self-insured health benefit
option as part of its employee benefits program in which costs are recognized as they are incurred.
RTD does not carry excess liability insurance for personal injury and property damage. Under the provisions of the Colorado
Government Immunity Act, the maximum liability, with certain exceptions as defined in the Act, to RTD for claims involving
personal injury and property damage is $350 per individual and $990 per incident.
For Workers’ Compensation, an excess coverage insurance policy covers individual claims in excess of $2,000. The amount
of settlements has not exceeded insurance coverage in any of the past three years.
RTD’s liability for unpaid claims includes an amount for claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR). RTD’s Risk
Management determines incurred claims by investigating the accident and establishing a reserve. Reserves are established on
the day of assignment, reviewed at 30 days and again at 90 days. Reserves are reviewed every 90 days thereafter and based
on ultimate exposure. This amount is included in other accrued expenses in the statement of net assets. Changes in the
balances of claims liabilities for both general liability and Worker’s Compensation during the past year are as follows:

Unpaid claims, January 1, 2015
Incurred claims (including IBNR)
Claims payments

Auto Liability
$
2,691
3,052
(2,162)

Unpaid claims, December 31, 2015
Incurred claims (including IBNR)
Claims payments
Unpaid claims, December 31, 2016*

Workers'
Compensation
Total
$
2,845 $
5,536
4,264
7,316
(3,177)
(5,339)

3,581
3,966
(3,337)
$

4,210

3,932
5,278
(4,539)
$

4,671

7,513
9,244
(7,876)
$

8,881

*All claim liabilities are considered current liabilities payable within one year.
Contract Disputes and Legal Proceedings
RTD is party to a number of pending or threatened tort lawsuits, workers’ compensation claims, or labor/employment claims
under which it may be required to pay certain amounts upon final disposition of these matters. RTD also has certain contract
disputes being considered in contractual dispute resolution proceedings. RTD’s legal counsel estimates that the ultimate
outcome of these matters is sufficiently covered by RTD’s general liability or workers’ compensation reserves, project
contingencies, or insurance, or would not otherwise materially affect the financial statements of RTD.
RTD is party to a lawsuit in which the plaintiffs/appellants seek to hold unconstitutional a 2013 state statute that made
several adjustments to the items upon which RTD and the Scientific and Cultural Facilities District could and could not collect
sales tax. The plaintiffs maintained that voter approval was required. The state District Court granted summary judgment in
favor of RTD and the other defendants (SCFD and the Colorado Department of Revenue). The plaintiffs appealed to the state
Court of Appeals, which affirmed the District Court’s ruling. The appellants have now sought discretionary Colorado Supreme
Court review, and the Supreme Court has decided to hear the appeal. If the District Court’s decision is reversed and the statute

81
Packet Pg. 91

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

is ruled unconstitutional, RTD may no longer be authorized to collect certain taxes and may possibly have to refund some taxes
previously collected together with interest, costs, and attorneys’ fees.
RTD is party to a lawsuit alleging that RTD has violated the Americans with Disabilities Act and Section 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act by purchasing and operating light rail vehicles that do not meet the USDOT design specifications and that
do not allow sufficient room for wheelchairs to board and maneuver. The complaint also alleges a pattern and practice of
discrimination in RTD's operation of its light rail service by not ensuring sufficient room for passengers in wheelchairs to board.
Plaintiffs are seeking an injunction that potentially could require RTD to retrofit its fleet of light rail vehicles to remove seating
and expand the area for wheelchairs. In addition, Plaintiffs are seeking attorneys' fees and costs. The parties have executed
a class settlement agreement and have submitted the matter to the court for preliminary approval; thereafter, the parties will
petition the court for final judgment of the class settlement. RTD's costs for the settlement will be handled within RTD's
budget.
NOTE I – NET POSITION

December 31,
2016

Invested in capital assets, net of related debt

$

3,461,952

2015
$

3,274,663

Restricted net position
Restricted debt service
Restricted TABOR
Restricted FasTracks
Restricted Other
Total restricted net position

142,564
21,609
(90,794)
1,500
74,879

114,395
20,284
(34,639)
1,500
101,540

Unrestricted net position
Unrestricted - represented net pension liability*
Unrestricted - salaried net pension liability
Unrestricted net position
Total unrestricted net position

(312,980)
(7,399)
105,900
(214,479)

(284,175)
(138)
85,048
(199,265)

Total net position

$

3,322,352

$

3,176,938

* Note: RTD has included the full amount of the actuarially determined net pension liability for the
represented pension plan, in accordance with financial reporting requirements. RTD is current in making
all required contributions under the collective bargaining agreement.

NOTE J – BUDGETARY DATA
RTD’s annual budget is prepared on the same basis as that used for accounting except that the budget also includes proceeds
of long-term debt and capital grants as revenue and expenditures include capital outlays and bond principal payments, and
excludes TABOR rebates under Amendment One, extraordinary loss and depreciation on, as well as gains and losses on
disposition of, property and equipment. The budget sets forth all proposed outlays for operations, planning, administration,
development, debt service, and capital outlays for the fiscal year. Prior to October 15, the General Manager submits to the
Board of Directors a proposed operating and capital budget for the fiscal year commencing the following January 1, which is
made available for public inspection and comment. On or before December 31, the budget is adopted in conjunction with an
appropriation resolution by the Board of Directors, who must also approve subsequent amendments thereto. In the absence

82
Packet Pg. 92

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

of such adoption, RTD has authority to begin making expenditures limited to 90% of the prior year’s approved appropriation.
RTD’s policy on budget transfers authorizes the General Manager to approve certain transfers within the budget.
A reconciliation for the years ended December 31 of the annual budget, as amended, to actual revenue and expenses is as
follows:
Revenues and Proceeds
Revenue, actual
Proceeds from debt/arbitrage relief
Federal capital grants and local contributions
Revenue, actual (budgetary basis)

2016
$

$

803,320
314,174
202,235
1,319,729

$

755,349
299,688
169,313
1,224,350

$

1,509,420

$

1,431,648

$

$

$

860,140
693,159
(222,154)
133,098
1,464,243

$

742,463
870,055
(152,531)
54,348
1,514,335

Appropriations, budget

$

2,213,487

$

2,507,386

Unused appropriations

$

749,244

$

993,051

Revenue, budget
Expenditures
Expenses, actual
Capital outlays
Depreciation, amortization, other
Long-term debt principal payments
Expenditures, actual (budgetary basis)

$

2015

Unused appropriations lapse at year-end, except the Board of Directors has the authority, as stated in the adopted appropriation
resolution, to carry over the unused portion of funds for capital projects not completed, for a period not to exceed three years.
As of December 31, 2016, there was approximately $749,244 of unused 2016 appropriations for capital outlays available for
carryover to 2017.
NOTE K – TAX, SPENDING AND DEBT LIMITATIONS
In November 1992, Colorado voters passed an amendment (Amendment 1) to the State Constitution (Article X, Section 20)
that limits the revenue raising and spending abilities of state and local governments known as the Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights
(TABOR). The limits on property taxes, revenue, and “fiscal year spending” include allowable annual increases tied to inflation
and local growth in construction valuation. Fiscal year spending as defined by the amendment excludes spending from certain
revenue and financing sources such as federal funds, gifts, property sales, fund transfers, damage awards, and fund reserves
(balances). The amendment requires voter approval for any increase in mill levy tax rates, new taxes, or creation of multi-year
debt. Revenue earned in excess of the “spending limit” must be refunded to the taxpayers unless voters approve retention of
these revenues. In addition, the amendment mandates that reserves equal 3% of fiscal spending be established for declared
emergencies.
On November 7, 1995, the voters of the District exempted the Regional Transportation District from the revenue and spending
limitations concerning the Amendment through December 31, 2005. On November 2, 1999, the voters of the District further
exempted RTD from the revenue and spending limitations outlined in the Amendment for the purpose of paying any debt
incurred to finance the Southeast Corridor light rail project or to operate such project for as long as any debt remains
outstanding, but in no event beyond December 31, 2026.
On November 2, 2004, the voters of the District authorized an increase in RTD’s sales and use tax rate from 0.6% to 1.0%,
effective January 1, 2005, to finance the FasTracks transit improvement program. This authorization also exempted RTD
from any revenue and spending limitations on the additional tax and on any investment income generated by the increased tax
revenue, and allowed RTD to incur debt to finance the capital improvements included in the FasTracks program. At the time
that all FasTracks debt is repaid, RTD’s sales and use tax rate will be reduced to a rate sufficient to operate the rapid transit

83
Packet Pg. 93

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

system financed through FasTracks. RTD has $3.477 billion in authorized debt, subject to the Amendments’ limitations. This
debt was authorized by the voters of the District in 2004 to pay for the FasTracks rapid transit improvement program. Based
on estimated fiscal year spending for 2016, $21,609 of year-end net position has been reserved for emergencies.
The Amendment is complex and subject to judicial interpretation. RTD believes it is in compliance with the requirements of
the Amendment based on the interpretations of the Amendment’s language available at year-end.
NOTE L – SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On February 3, 2017, RTD refunded the Series 2010 FasTracks Sales Tax Revenue Bonds used for the Denver Union Station
Project Authority project. The refunding was completed for both principle and interest savings.
On February 24, 2017, RTD began light rail service with the 10.5 mile R Line connecting the existing track at Nine Mile Station
to the Peoria Station as part of the FasTracks Project.
RTD’s commuter rail service is operating under a waiver from the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) which allows RTD’s
commuter rail service to continue operations while certain modifications to grade-level crossing gates are completed. The
waiver is subject to expiration, modification or renewal at the discretion of the FRA and may impact the services provided by
RTD.

84
Packet Pg. 94

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

85

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 95

13.91%

Contribution as a Percentage of Covered-Employee Payroll

2015

12.69%

84,774

7,994

18,752
10,758

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

There were no benefit changes during the year.

86

January 1, 2016
Actuarially determined contribution rates are calculated as of July 1 each year for implementation the following fiscal year. Actual contributions are made pursuant to a collective bargaining
agreement.
Entry Age Normal
Level Percentage of Payroll, Open
30 years
5-Year smoothed market, 0% corridor
3.00%
7.00% During first 5 years of service, 3.00% after five years of service
7.00%
Experience-based table of rates that is specific to the type of eligibility condition. Last updated for the 2015 valuation pursuant to an experience study of the period 2012-2014.
RP-2000 Combined Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.
RP-2000 Disabled Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.

See accompanying independent auditors’ opinion.

Actuarial Cost Method
Amortization Method
Remaining Amortization Period
Asset Valuation Method
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return
Retirement Age
Healthy Mortality
Disabled Mortality
Other Information:
Notes

Valuation Date:
Notes

Actuarial Methods and Assumptions Used to Calculate Actuarially Determine Contribution Union:

This schedule is required by GASB 68 to show information for a 10 year period. However, information is only currently available for two
years. Additional years will be presented as they become available.

1

82,994

Covered-Employee Payroll

17,131 $
11,542
5,589

$

20161

Contribution Deficiency (Excess)

Actuarially Determined Contribution
Actual Contribution

ATU 1001 Pension Plan
Period Ending December 31,

Schedule of Contributions Multiyear
Last 10 Fiscal Years
(in thousands)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Pension Plans Summary
As of December 31,

Required Supplementary Information

Packet Pg. 96

2.11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

435.29%

Plan's Net Pension Liability as a Percentage of CoveredEmployee Payroll

367.65%

84,774

40.76%

311,672

10,758
3,586
11,779
(24,312)
(355)
1,456
213,008
214,464

11,937
27,714
(6,476)
28,879
(24,312)
37,742
488,394
526,136

2015

2014

See accompanying independent auditors' opinion.

87

This schedule is required by GASB 68 to show information for a 10 year period. However, information is only currently available for two years.
Additional years will be presented as they become available.

1

82,994

Covered-Employee Payroll

361,264 $

11,542 $
3,868
(1,829)
(25,439)
(391)
(12,249) $
214,464
202,215 $

13,074 $
26,324
(4,711)
28,095
(25,439)
37,343 $
526,136
563,479 $

35.89%

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

20161

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as a Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability (b) / (a)

Plan's Net Pension Liability - Ending (a) - (b)

Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Contributions - RTD
Contributions - Members
Net Investment Income
Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums
Administrative Expenses
Other
Net Change in Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Beginning
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Ending (b)
Plan's Net Pension Liability - Beginning

Period Ending December 31,
Total Pension Liability
Service Cost
Interest
Changes to Benefit Terms
Differences Between Expected and Actual Experience
Assumption Changes
Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums
Net Change in Total Pension Liability
Total Pension Liability - Beginning
Total Pension Liability - Ending (a)

ATU 1001 Pension Plan

Schedule of Changes in the Plan’s Net Pension Liability and Related Ratios Multiyear
Last 10 Fiscal Years
(in thousands)

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

Packet Pg. 97

2007

2.11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

9.92%

10.04%

30,880

5,682
3,100
2,582

2015

2014

2013

2009

Mortality (Lump Sums)

Mortality (Annuities)

See accompanying independent auditors’ opinion.

88

401(a) 17 compensation and 415 limits are assumed to increase with inflation.
Turnover: 0.00% - 10.43%, based on age
Disablement: 0.06% - 1.63%, based on age
Expenses: $165 per year payable monthly

2010

Other Information:

2011

January 1, 2015
Actuarially determined contribution rates are calculated as of January 1, twelve months prior to end of the fiscal year in which contributions are reported.
Entry Age
Level dollar, fixed and declining 20 years.
16 years
Smoothed over 5 years, based on Actuarial Value of Assets expected return.
3.00%
4.75%-9.75%
7.50%, net of investment expenses
Age
Rate
55
15.00%
55-61
10.00%
62
25.00%
63-64
15.00%
65-66
40.00%
67 or older
100.00%
Vested inactive participants are assumed to retire at age 62.
Healthy Participants: RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy employees and annuitants
Disabled Participants: RP-2014 Disabled Retiree Tables
RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy annuitants, blended 70% male/30% female for participants and 30% male / 70% female for beneficiaries.

2012

Valuation Date:
Notes
Actuarial Cost Method
Amortization Method
Remaining Amortization Period
Asset Valuation Method
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return
Retirement Age

Actuarial Methods and Assumptions Used to Calculate Actuarially Determine Contribution Union:

This schedule is required by GASB 68 to show information for a 10 year period. However, information is only currently available for two
years. Additional years will be presented as they become available.

1

Contribution as a Percentage of Covered-Employee Payroll

6,768 $
3,100
3,668
31,257

$

20161

Covered-Employee Payroll

Period Ending December 31,
Actuarially Determined Contribution
Actual Contribution
Contribution Deficiency (Excess)

RTD Salaried Pension Plan

(in thousands)

Last 10 Fiscal Years

Schedule of Contributions Multiyear

2008

2007

Packet Pg. 98

2.11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

92.12%

Plan's Net Pension Liability as a Percentage of CoveredEmployee Payroll

32.20%

30,880

92.90%

9,943

3,100
9,078
(7,034)
(127)
5,017
124,993
130,010
730

2,673
9,366
2,228
6,997
(7,034)
14,230
125,723
139,953

2015

See accompanying independent auditors' opinion.

This schedule is required by GASB 68 to show information for a 10 year period. However, information is only
currently available for two years. Additional years will be presented as they become available.

1

31,257

Covered-Employee Payroll

28,794 $

3,100 $
(610)
(9,582)
(141)
(7,233) $
130,010
122,777 $
730

3,342 $
10,388
3,869
3,601
(9,582)
11,618 $
139,953
151,571 $

81.00%

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

20161

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as a Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability (b) / (a)

Plan's Net Pension Liability - Ending (a) - (b)

Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Contributions - RTD
Contributions - Members
Net Investment Income
Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums
Administrative Expenses
Other
Net Change in Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Beginning
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Ending (b)
Plan's Net Pension Liability - Beginning

RTD Salaried Pension Plan
Period Ending December 31,
Total Pension Liability
Service Cost
Interest
Changes to Benefit Terms
Differences Between Expected and Actual Experience
Assumption Changes
Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums
Net Change in Total Pension Liability
Total Pension Liability - Beginning
Total Pension Liability - Ending (a)

Schedule of Changes in the Plan’s Net Pension Liability and Related Ratios Multiyear
Last 10 Fiscal Years
(in thousands)
2014

89

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

Packet Pg. 99

2.11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION

90

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 100

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
SCHEDULE OF EXPENSE AND REVENUE
BUDGET AND ACTUAL - BUDGETARY BASIS
Year Ended December 31, 2016
(In Thousands)
Adopted
Budget
Operating revenue
Passenger fares
Other
Total operating revenue
Operating expenses
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Total operating expenses

$

Operating loss
Nonoperating revenue (expenses)
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income
Gain/loss on capital assets
Interest expense
Other expense/unrealized loss capital assets
Total nonoperating revenue (expenses)
Proceeds from debt
Capital outlay
Capital expenses
Less capital grants
Long-term debt principal payment
Excess (deficiency) of revenue and nonoperating
income over (under) expenses, capital
outlays and debt principal payments
$
Increases (decreases) to reconcile
budget basis to GAAP basis
Capital expenses
Proceeds from debt
Long-term debt principal payment
Depreciation
INCREASE IN NET POSITION

Final
Budget

Variance positive
(negative)

Actual

158,073 $
5,384
163,457

130,173 $
4,797
134,970

134,622
5,803
140,425

162,560
58,779
58,556
141,244
21,487
7,740
176,361
3,732
4,969
635,428

163,836
59,130
60,001
139,385
19,382
7,665
175,696
3,557
9,601
638,253

163,650
96,389
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183
559,457

186
(37,259)
7,821
80,825
5,162
(2,717)
19,091
269
5,418
78,796

(471,971)

(503,283)

(419,032)

84,251

590,487
83,763
1,240
11,029
(117,313)
569,206
413,025

569,763
96,767
3,840
20,200
(117,313)
573,257
457,091

563,598
77,335
6,371
9,927
5,664
(77,272)
(1,258)
584,365
314,174

(6,165)
(19,432)
2,531
(10,273)
5,664
40,041
(1,258)
11,108
(142,917)

1,605,069
(271,159)
1,333,910
(61,698)

1,396,223
(258,089)
1,138,134
(61,698)

693,159
(202,235)
490,924
(133,098)

(703,064)
55,854
(647,210)
(71,400)

(885,348) $

(672,767)

(144,515)

$

See accompanying independent auditors' opinion

91

693,159
(314,174)
133,098
(222,154)
145,414

$

$

4,449
1,006
5,455

528,252

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 101

STATISTICAL SECTION

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

2.11.B.a

This part of the Regional Transportation District’s comprehensive annual financial report presents detailed information as a context for
understanding what the information in the financial statements, note disclosure, and required supplementary information says about
the government’s overall financial health.
Contents

Page

Financial Trends

93-95

These tables contain trend information to help the reader understand how the government’s financial performance and well-being
have changed over time.
Revenue Capacity

96

These tables contain information to help the reader assess the government’s most significant revenue source.
Debt Capacity

97-98

These tables contain information to help the reader asses the affordability of the government’s current levels of outstanding debt
and the government’s ability to issue additional debt in the future.
Demographic and Operating Information

99

These tables contain service and infrastructure data to help the reader understand how the information in the financial report
relates to service the government provides and the activities it performs. The demographic and economic indicators help the reader
understand the environment within which the government’s financial activities take place.

92
Packet Pg. 102

1

$ 3,322,352

18,842

19,193
155,345
174,538

$ 2,987,694

2014

53,218

18,304
117,827
136,131

$ 2,788,100

2013

45,782

17,451
316,711
334,162

$ 2,348,966

2012

46,199

16,392
491,313
507,705

$ 1,872,790

2011

166,299

15,486
424,348
439,834

$ 1,597,631

2010

132,035

15,158
442,489
457,647

$ 1,456,493

2009

143,913

16,821
393,223
410,044

$ 1,338,453

2008

186,280

16,829
412,822
429,651

$ 1,162,486

2007

Table 1

93

$ 3,176,938 $ 3,181,074 $ 2,977,449 $ 2,728,910 $ 2,426,694 $ 2,203,764 $ 2,046,175 $ 1,892,410 $ 1,778,417

(199,265)

20,284
81,256
101,540

21,609
53,270
74,879

(214,479)

$ 3,274,663

2015

$ 3,461,952

2016

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.

Total net position

Unrestricted net position (note I)

Invested in capital assets,
net of related debt (Note I)
Restricted (Note I)
Emergencies
Debt and other
Total restricted net position

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
NET POSITION BY COMPONENT 1 (In Thousands)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 103

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

541,518
73,383
3,164
10,322
1,085
(79,686)
(1,422)
548,364
12,886
169,313
182,199
3,181,074

563,598
77,335
6,371
9,927
5,664
(77,272)
(1,258)
584,365

(56,821)

Capital grants and local contribution 202,235
Increase in Net Position
145,414
Net Position, Beginning of Year,
3,176,938
(as previously reported)
Change in accounting principle,
(note A)
Net Position, Beginning of Year,
(as restated)
Prior Period Adjustment
Net Position at End of Year
$3,322,352
$3,176,938

2,994,739

(186,335)

227,207
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
508,824
(382,947)
152,531
(535,478)

260,039
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183
559,457
(419,032)
222,154
(641,186)

Operating Expenses:
Salaries, wages, fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Total Operating Expenses
Operating loss before depreciation
Depreciation
Operating Loss
Nonoperating income (expense):
Sales and use tax revenues
Grant operating assistance
Interest income
Other income
Gain/Loss on Capital Assets
Interest expense
Other expense/Unrealized Loss A
Total Nonoperating Income
Net income before
capital grants and local contributio

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
SUMMARY OF STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES
AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
(In Thousands)
2016
2015
Operating Revenues:
Passenger Fares
$ 134,622 $ 120,530
Other
5,803
5,347
Total Operating Revenues
140,425
125,877

$3,181,074

206,431
203,625
2,977,449

(2,806)

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)
531,393

$2,977,449

242,566
248,539
2,728,910

5,973

468,586
88,243
2,040
28,170
(82)
(61,223)
(4,064)
521,670

192,405
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448
511,481
(388,441)
127,256
(515,697)

$ 117,841
5,199
123,040

$ 120,497
4,406
124,903
204,790
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
520,057
(395,154)
139,045
(534,199)

2013

2014

$2,728,910

311,676
302,216
2,426,694

(9,460)

449,787
68,927
2,613
11,035
3,459
(51,371)
(4,895)
479,555

178,974
58,300
109,853
11,833
3,776
111,130
2,401
15,741
492,008
(373,746)
115,269
(489,015)

$ 112,929
5,333
118,262

2012

2010

107,478
157,589
2,046,175

50,111

397,549
92,655
8,065
3,653
(3,474)
(48,735)
(1,671)
448,042

160,498
48,310
60,553
10,977
5,429
104,514
2,515
3,315
396,111
(293,755)
104,176
(397,931)

94

(92,217)
$2,426,694 $2,203,764

238,292
315,147
2,203,764

76,855

415,180
89,592
6,484
11,356
(6,101)
(51,274)
(150)
465,087

166,332
52,015
48,357
11,627
6,089
108,865
1,964
2,082
397,331
(283,952)
104,280
(388,232)

$ 108,497 $ 97,942
4,882
4,414
113,379
102,356

2011

131,711
153,765
1,892,410

22,054

371,405
68,146
29,379
3,243
40
(34,179)
(23,037)
414,997

161,747
56,835
42,783
9,512
3,767
103,975
2,680
6,866
388,165
(286,918)
106,025
(392,943)

96,890
4,357
101,247

$2,046,175

$

2009

39,389
113,993
1,778,417

74,604

412,824
50,814
52,456
3,106
1
(56,273)
(977)
461,951

155,799
61,056
36,835
10,575
5,333
102,743
2,464
2,619
377,424
(285,095)
102,252
(387,347)

88,205 $
4,124
92,329

115,133
222,344
1,556,073

107,211

418,407
47,040
57,471
4,706
1,055
(52,272)
(861)
475,546

150,560
49,157
30,654
8,678
5,090
97,819
2,195
2,390
346,543
(265,033)
103,302
(368,335)

77,128
4,382
81,510

2007

$1,892,410 $1,778,417

$

2008

Table 2

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 104

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

2

1

Planning,
Administrative
and Development
$
43,916
52,492
61,841
77,360
64,030
77,115
81,781
83,152
81,356
89,452
Depreciation
$
103,302
102,252
106,025
104,176
104,280
115,269
127,256
139,045
152,531
222,154

Interest
Expense2
$ 52,272
56,273
34,179
48,735
51,274
51,371
61,223
72,293
79,686
77,272

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.
RTD capitalizes certain interest costs, which are included in capital outlays.

Year
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016

Transit
Operating
Expenses2
$
302,626
324,931
326,324
318,751
333,301
414,893
429,700
436,905
427,468
470,005

(In Thousands)

Last Ten Years (Unaudited)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
OPERATING AND OTHER EXPENSES AND CAPITAL OUTLAYS1

95

Other
Nonoperating
Expenses
861
$
977
23,037
5,145
6,251
4,895
4,146
3,605
1,422
1,258
Capital
Outlays2
$
156,785
282,758
410,354
712,552
616,953
702,119
769,359
862,701
870,055
693,159
$

Total
659,762
819,683
961,760
1,266,719
1,176,089
1,365,662
1,473,465
1,597,701
1,612,518
1,553,300

Table 3

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 105

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

1

Sales/Use
Tax
$
418,407
412,824
371,405
397,549
415,180
449,787
468,586
514,721
541,518
563,598

Grant
Operating
Assistance
$
47,041
50,814
68,146
92,655
89,592
68,927
88,243
75,544
73,383
77,335

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.

Year
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016

Operating
Revenues
$
81,510
92,329
101,247
102,356
113,379
118,262
123,040
124,903
125,877
140,425

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
REVENUE BY SOURCE1
Last Ten Years (Unaudited)
(In Thousands)

Interest
Income
$ 57,471
52,456
29,379
8,065
6,484
2,613
2,040
165
3,164
6,371
$

Other
4,706
3,106
3,283
3,653
11,356
14,494
28,170
16,861
11,407
15,591

96

Total
Revenue
$ 609,135
611,529
573,460
604,278
635,991
654,083
710,079
732,194
755,349
803,320

Capital
Grants
$ 107,577
39,220
129,211
102,213
186,073
193,991
159,783
171,549
157,616
185,324

Local
Contributions
$
7,558
169
2,500
5,265
52,219
117,685
82,783
34,882
11,697
16,911

Total Revenue
and Capital Grant
& Contributions
$
724,270
650,918
705,171
711,756
874,283
965,759
952,645
938,625
924,662
1,005,555

Table 4

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 106

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

84,821

84,101

83,490

2014

2015

2016

$

76,786

2013

14,502

13,714

13,711

28,973

28,451

31,285

43,502

57,226

62,373

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

14,428

Interest

2008

2007

70,752

2012

$

27,043

26,438

25,712

20,725

26,211

25,010

44,511

44,430

45,505

38,590

Principal
$

110,533

110,539

110,533

97,511

96,963

95,656

90,835

87,640

90,449

87,035

Total

$

34,655

27,910

31,290

25,735

28,575

25,955

26,725

18,340

17,515

17,105

Principal
$

97,028

85,136

74,792

57,020

57,026

54,928

40,436

32,054

32,017

31,533

Total

Certificate of Participation Debt Service Requirements

46,324

70,646

2010

2011

43,210

2009

48,445

44,944

$

Interest

2008

2007

97

$

LAST TEN YEARS (UNADUITED)

Sales Tax Bond Debt Service Requirements2

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
DEBT COVERAGE RATIOS1
(In Thousands)

Sales Tax

563,598

541,518

514,721

514,721

449,787

415,180

397,549

371,405

412,824

418,407

Collections

5.10

4.90

4.66

5.28

4.64

4.34

4.38

4.24

4.56

4.81

Ratio

Coverage

Table 5

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 107

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

1

56,924

60,035

99,619

99,203

108,071

128,323

141,327

145,863

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

$

61,698

54,338

57,002

46,460

54,786

50,965

71,236

62,770

63,020

55,695

Principal
$

207,561

195,665

185,325

154,531

153,989

150,584

131,271

119,694

122,466

118,568

Total
$

98

Source: The financial records of RTD and the Offical Statements of the respective debt issues.

59,446

62,873

2009

$

Interest

Total Debt Service Requirements

2008

2007

(In Thousands)

DEBT COVERAGE RATIOS (Continued)

1,005,555

924,662

938,645

952,645

965,494

874,283

654,083

573,460

611,528

609,135

Revenue

Total

4.84

4.73

5.08

6.16

6.27

5.81

4.98

4.79

4.99

5.14

Ratio

Coverage

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 108

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

3

2

1

76,257,759
101,776,337

102,991,663
119,076

131,221
5,550,000
1,021
1,021
779
1,955
834
7

71,345,729

100,248,216

101,322,384

120,613

136,677
5,550,000
1,023
1,023

779
2,034
834
7

344,348

338,363
62,833,246

331,580

59,005,677

255,696

252,034

236,573

735
1,929
821
7

119,706
5,550,000
1,011
1,011

107,635

104,987,248

103,851,061

77,464,530

63,935,032

211,702

208,086

197,637

2,870,000
40
2,340
45,746,927
9,751
138
65
11
14
17
5
13
4
9

2014

2,870,000
40
2,340
47,575,444
9,566
137
65
18
15
20
5
13
4
8

2015

2,920,000
40
2,342
44,368,116
9,077
172
124
16
16
3
13
4
5

2016

752
1,901
785
6

118,385
5,600,000
992
992

106,709

101,966,009

100,844,239

77,079,604

63,010,579

335,391

254,071

208,387

2,800,000
40
2,340
45,246,715
9,509
136
65
11
14
17
5
13
4
7

2013

700
1,715
779
6

139,083
5,400,000
998
998

129,517

99,122,065

97,959,296

77,320,228

63,640,443

326,747

255,501

210,811

2,800,000
40
2,340
38,824,067
9,841
145
71
11
17
17
5
13
4
7

2012

697
1,785
797
6

126,849
5,400,000
969
969

117,261

98,384,882

97,272,342

76,577,627

61,634,723

325,900

254,197

205,504

2,800,000
40
2,348
42,996,614
9,698
138
64
11
16
17
5
12
4
9

2011

99

Source: Population is based on estimates provided by the Denver Regional Council of Governments. All other data comes from the financial records of RTD.
Reflects total Mile, including Light Rail.
Excludes purchased transportation services.

January 1 population within RTD
service area1
Cities and towns served
Square miles in service area
Total miles 2
Passenger stops
Number of fixed routes
Local
Limited
Express
Regional
Skyride
Boulder City
Longmont City
Miscellaneous
Ridership average weekday,
without Mall Shuttle and Light Rail
Ridership average weekday,
including Mall Shuttle
Ridership average weekday,
including Mall Shuttle, Light Rail,
ADA, and Van Pool
Total annual boardings without
Mall Shuttle, Light Rail and ADA
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle and Light Rail
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle, Light Rail,
ADA service, and Van Pool
Daily miles operated (average weekday),
including Mall Shuttle
Daily miles operated (average
weekday), including Mall Shuttle
and Light Rail
Diesel fuel consumption, gallons 3
Total active buses
Wheelchair lift equipped buses
Number of employees 3
Salaried
Represented (includes part-time)
Fleet requirements ( peak hours)
Operating facilities 3

Last Ten Years (Unaudited)

DEMOGRAPHIC AND OPERATING DATA

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

696
1,744
806
6

134,294
5,200,000
1,025
1,025

124,248

97,724,928

96,657,335

76,825,609

62,902,963

323,311

255,068

209,172

2,800,000
40
2,348
41,449,988
10,140
148
66
11
20
16
5
14
7
9

2010

664
1,802
830
6

159,824
5,400,000
1,050
1,050

149,750

98,746,429

97,687,476

77,928,088

63,578,004

328,291

259,873

212,758

2,800,000
40
2,348
48,862,622
10,199
150
67
11
20
16
5
15
7
9

2009

623
1,903
862
6

163,987
6,000,000
1,039
1,039

152,848

104,071,339

103,362,667

82,727,534

67,910,015

344,954

273,737

224,918

2,760,000
40
2,337
49,947,763
10,199
165
72
13
24
18
5
15
7
11

2008

611
1,923
862
6

166,571
6,000,000
1,071
1,071

155,153

96,326,580

95,275,984

76,620,488

62,007,583

320,311

255,987

207,734

2,700,000
40
2,331
50,706,993
10,329
170
73
15
25
18
5
15
8
11

2007

Table 6

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 109

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

SBP Operations Program
SBP Capital Program
RTD Statement of Debt
RTD Annual Ridership and Fare Revenue
RTD Advertising and Ancillary Revenues
RTD Federal Grant Receipts
Five-Year Summary of Revenue/Expense Statements
Five-Year Summary of Budget/Actuals
RTD 2014 and 2015 Budget
Trip Fares
RTD Net Retail Sales

Table Title

Statements of

Summary Balance Sheet

100

Net Position – pg. 37-38

Statistical Section – Table 4

Location in CAFR

RTD Revenues by Source

Table Title

Debt Disclosure Tables Updated in Body of 2016 CAFR

7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

CAFR
Table

Debt Disclosure Tables for 2016 CAFR

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 110

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

1,2

2

1

28,276
136,109
97,276
7,374
372
1,362
1,027
(15,843)
3,024
976
860
66,975
44,360
(2,010)
20,600
197
42,815
3,831
623
89,115
(36,850)
$ 490,469

$

2017
$ 26,238
140,251
100,222
7,603
383
1,366
1,030
(16,338)
3,118
1,007
887
69,388
45,709
(2,073)
21,228
218
44,120
334
642
93,001
(38,003)
$500,331

2018
$ 23,538
143,644
102,559
7,827
395
1,400
1,057
(16,820)
3,211
1,036
913
73,502
46,810
(2,135)
21,733
224
45,172
344
661
93,895
(42,710)
$506,256

2019
$ 20,640
147,498
105,304
8,036
405
(17,275)
3,297
1,064
937
75,433
48,065
(2,193)
22,321
230
46,393
355
680
95,055
(43,863)
$512,382

2020

101

Interest payments are not presented in year of expenditure dollars.
Interest payments on bonds and certificates of participation (COPS) issued for purposes other than FasTracks.

Interest Payments
Bus Operations – Current RTD
Bus Operations – Private Carrier after Contract
Bus Operations - call-n-Ride
Private Contract Administration Costs
Service Increases – RTD-Operated
Service Increases – Private Contractor
FasTracks Service Allocation - Bus1
Cost Sharing Agreements - Bus Service
Van Pool Program
Section 5011 Local Match
LRT Operations
ADA Operating Costs
FasTracks Service Allocation - ADA1
Facilities Maintenance - Base
Facilities Maintenance - Additional Costs
Capital Programs - Base
Capital Programs - Additional Costs
Direct Costs - Other Departments
Indirect Costs - Other Departments
FasTracks - Cost Allocation
Grand Total

Program

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
2017-2022 STRATEGIC BUDGET PLAN - OPERATING PROGRAM (In Thousands)

$ 17,558
151,376
108,065
8,247
416
(17,734)
3,385
1,093
962
77,440
49,328
(2,251)
22,915
236
47,627
363
697
95,766
(45,029)
$520,460

2021
$ 14,471
155,339
110,883
8,463
427
(18,204)
3,475
1,121
988
79,492
50,617
(2,310)
23,522
243
48,890
136
715
120,770
(46,223)
$552,815

2022
130,721
874,217
624,309
47,550
2,398
4,128
3,114
(102,214)
19,510
6,297
5,547
442,230
284,889
(12,972)
132,319
1,348
275,017
5,363
4,018
587,602
(252,678)
$ 3,082,713

$

Total Cost

Table 7

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 111

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

$

$

122,746

1,062
5,456
160

82
5,915
4,127
154
$

96
1,189
557

93
3,274
232

115,230

478
2,230
-

6,434
2,059
1,544

2018
57,925
25,586
212
27,795

$

6,930
206
35,575

2017
48,605

$

$

99,251

1,776
164

98
1,531
574

492
2,296
-

30,276
219
-

2019
61,825

$

$

101,499

168

101
1,707
589

2,245
-

31,724
225
-

2020
64,740

$

$

2

102

Principal payments are set at the time the bonds are issued and do not change with inflation.
Long-term debt service costs include principal payments on bonds and COPs and are not presented in year of expenditure dollars.
3
Capital expenditures and discretionary capital amounts are presented in year of expenditure dollars.

1

Grand Total

Program
Long Term Debt Service1,2
Fleet Modernization and Expansion3
Buses and ADA Vehicles
Other
Light Rail Vehicles
Passenger Infrastructure3
Bus Infrastructure
Rail Infrastructure
Park-n-Rides3
Capital Support Equipment3
Vehicles and Bus Maintenance Equipment
Information Systems, Computer Equip. for Ops.
Security Equipment
Bus Maintenance Facilities3
District Shops
Facilities Construction and Maintenance3
Systems Planning3
Discretionary Capital3

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
2017-2022 STRATEGIC BUDGET PLAN - CAPITAL PROGRAM (In Thousands)

90,987

173

104
605

518
2,305
-

24,797
230
-

2021
62,255

$

$

179,884

70,984
177

106
391
592

2,366
-

48,326
237
-

2022
56,705

$

$

709,597

82
6,977
82,343
996

7,922
13,501
1,544
598
8,092
3,149

167,639
1,329
63,370

Total Cost
352,055

Table 8

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 112

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

2.11.B.a
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENT OF DEBT
as of December 31, 2016

Outstanding 2

Sales Tax Bonds
RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 20071 - FasTracks

$

373,638

1

74,203

RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 20101

7,417

RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007

RTD Subordinate Sales Tax Revenue (DUSPA) Fastracks, Series 2010

151,263

1

RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2010AB
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012A1
RTD Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2013A1
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2013AB 1
RTD Sales Tax TIFIA Loan4
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2016A1
Total Sales Tax Revenue Debt

$

381,089
534,255
44,327
243,549
305,675
229,949
2,345,365

Outstanding 2

Lease Purchase Agreements
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Taxable Certificates of Participation, Series
2007A
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation,
2010AB

7,620

FasTracks Series
289,270

Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series 2014A

222,705
464,209

Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A
210,969
2016A JPM Lease Puchase Agreement Refunding
Total Certificates of Participation Debt

$

74,470
1,269,243

Total Debt

$

3,614,608

$

2,920,000
1,238

RTD Distirct Populaiton3
Per Capita Debt Requirement
1

The Bond Resolution pursuant to which the RTD Sales Tax Revenue Bonds are issued provides that pledged for the payment of such Bonds are
the Sales Tax Revenues and "any additional revenues legally available to RTD which the Board in its discretion may hereafter by Supplemental
Resolution pledge to the payment of the Bonds".

2

RTD is current on its obligations under all such debt.

3

Population is based on estimates provided by the Denver Regional Council of Governments.

4

Capitalized interest thru 2020

103

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

Table 9

Packet Pg. 113

2.11.B.a
Table 10

Percent
Change
Revenue
Fare
in Fare
1
Boardings
Revenue
Revenue
Year
$
14.9%
2007
81,714
77,128
2008
89,254
88,205
14.4%
2009
83,337
96,890
9.8%
2010
83,732
97,942
1.1%
2011
83,428
108,497
10.8%
2012
85,442
112,929
4.1%
2013
87,820
117,841
4.3%
2014
91,049
120,497
2.3%
2015
88,927
120,530
0.0%
2016
88,982
134,622
11.7%
1
Totals for 2007-2016 include both access-a-Ride boardings and vanpool
boardings.
ADVERTISING AND ANCILLARY REVENUES - 2007-2016
(In Thousands)
Advertising
Ancillary
Year
Revenue
Revenues
$
$
4,706
2007
3,194
2008
2,854
3,106
2009
2,866
3,243
2010
3,301
2,892
2011
3,992
2,528
2012
3,524
2,214
2013
2,924
20,123
2014
4,324
2,085
2015
4,160
1,186
2016
3,722
2,081

Table 11

GRANT RECEIPTS AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS - 2007-2016
(In Thousands)

Table 12

Year
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016

Grant
Capital
$
107,577
39,220
129,211
102,213
186,073
193,991
159,783
171,549
157,616
185,324

Local
Contributions
$
7,556
169
2,500
5,265
52,219
117,685
82,783
34,882
11,697
16,911

Grant Operating
Assistance
$
47,041
50,814
68,146
92,655
89,592
68,927
88,243
75,544
73,383
77,335

104

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

ANNUAL RIDERSHIP AND FARE REVENUE - 2007-2016
(In Thousands)

Packet Pg. 114

2.11.B.a

FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES

Table 13

AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
(In Thousands)
Years ended December 31
2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

Operating Revenues:
Passenger Fares

$

Other
Total Operating Revenues

134,622

120,530

$

$

120,497

$

117,841

$

112,929

5,803

5,347

4,406

5,199

5,333

140,425

125,877

124,903

123,040

118,262

178,974

Operating Expenses:
Salaries, wages, fringe benefits

260,039

227,207

204,790

192,405

Materials and supplies

52,180

58,884

62,156

64,798

58,300

Services

58,560

79,749

108,920

112,479

109,853

Utilities

14,220

13,673

14,151

13,567

11,833

Insurance

10,382

8,102

5,273

5,568

3,776

Purchased transportation

156,605

113,216

114,942

113,006

111,130

Leases and rentals

3,288

3,462

3,264

3,210

2,401

Miscellaneous

4,183

4,531

6,561

6,448

15,741

Total Operating Expenses

559,457

508,824

520,057

511,481

492,008

Operating loss before depreciation

(419,032)

(382,947)

(395,154)

(388,441)

(373,746)

Depreciation

222,154

152,531

139,045

127,256

115,269

Operating Loss

(641,186)

(535,478)

(534,199)

(515,697)

(489,015)

Nonoperating income (expense):
Sales and use tax revenues

563,598

541,518

514,721

468,586

449,787

Grant operating assistance

77,335

73,383

75,544

88,243

68,927

Interest income

6,371

3,164

165

2,040

2,613

Other income

9,927

10,322

10,248

28,170

11,035

Gain/Loss on Capital Assets

5,664

1,085

6,613

(82)

3,459

Interest expense

(77,272)

(79,686)

(72,293)

(61,223)

(51,371)

Other expense/Unrealized Loss

(1,258)

(1,422)

(3,605)

(4,064)

(4,895)

Total Nonoperating Income

584,365

548,364

531,393

521,670

479,555

Net income before capital grants and local contributions

(56,821)

12,886

(2,806)

5,973

(9,460)

Federal capital grants and local contributions

202,235

169,313

206,431

242,566

311,676

Increase in Net Position

145,414

182,199

203,625

248,539

302,216

Net Position, Beginning of Year (as previously reported)

3,176,938

3,181,074

2,977,449

2,728,910

2,426,694

Net Position, Beginning of Year (as restated)
Net Position at End of Year

2,994,739
$

3,322,352

$

3,176,938

$

3,181,074

$

2,977,449

$

2,728,910

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISCTRICT

105
Packet Pg. 115

$

$

(959,239)

58,942

1,480,625

1,687,076
(206,451)

457,091

550,165

551,368
78,832
4,310
11,020
(95,365)
-

(426,928)

555,546

202,135
67,741
139,607
15,015
7,595
114,214
3,415
5,824

128,618

$

182,199

870,055
(299,688)
54,348
(152,531)

(289,985) $

54,348

700,742

870,055
(169,313)

299,688

548,364

541,518
73,383
3,164
10,322
1,085
(79,686)
(1,422)

(382,947)

508,824

227,207
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531

125,877

(698,800)

62,187

1,535,647

1,811,720
(276,073)

795,604

520,002

503,448
92,866
2,372
20,721
(99,405)
-

(416,572)

546,980

184,597
67,259
143,911
15,334
7,470
118,189
3,289
6,931

130,408

$

46,460

1,550,456

1,811,720
(261,264)

261,376

487,752

466,429
82,385
3,165
15,246
(79,473)
-

(384,024)

508,793

131,347
69,469
149,007
14,846
6,270
116,675
3,263
17,916

124,769

203,625

862,701
(573,324)
57,002
(139,045)

(3,709) $ (1,231,812)

57,002

656,270

862,701
(206,431)

573,324

531,393

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)

(395,154)

520,057

204,790
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561

124,903

$

248,539

769,359
(693,841)
442,598
(127,256)

(142,321) $

442,598

526,793

769,359
(242,566)

693,841

521,670

468,586
88,243
2,040
28,170
(82)
(61,223)
(4,064)

(388,441)

511,481

192,405
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448

123,040

(868,297)

56,563

1,448,275

1,709,182
(260,907)

583,788

490,726

436,521
79,760
3,338
21,186
(50,079)
-

(437,973)

559,490

159,460
59,714
189,519
11,705
6,299
113,346
2,464
16,983

121,517

$

302,116

702,119
(545,763)
57,827
(115,369)

203,302

57,827

390,443

702,119
(311,676)

545,763

479,555

449,787
68,927
2,613
11,035
3,459
(51,371)
(4,895)

(373,746)

492,008

178,974
58,300
109,853
11,833
3,776
111,130
2,401
15,741

118,262

106

* RTD's annual budget is prepared on the same basis as that used for accounting except that the budget also includes proceeds of long-term debt and capital grants as revenues, and expenditures include capital outlays
and bond principal

145,414

Net Income

(144,515) $

693,159
(314,174)
133,098
(222,154)

(672,767)

133,098

490,924

1,138,134
61,698

693,159
(202,235)

1,396,223
(258,089)

Increases (decreases) to reconcile budget basis
to GAAP basis
Capital expenditures
Long-term debt proceeds
Long-term debt principal
Depreciation

Excess (deficit) of revenue and nonoperating
income over (under) expenses, capital outlay
and debt principal payments

Long-term debt principal payment

Capital outlay
Capital expenses
Less capital grants

314,174

584,365

457,091

573,257

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt

Total nonoperating revenue

563,598
77,335
6,371
9,927
5,664
(77,272)
(1,258)

569,763
96,767
3,840
20,200
(117,313)
-

559,457
(419,032)

Nonoperating revenue (expense):
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Interest income
Other income
Gain/Loss on capital assets
Interest expense
Other expense/Unlrealized loss

638,253

Total Operating Expenses

260,039
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183

(503,283)

222,966
60,001
139,385
19,382
7,665
175,696
3,557
9,601

140,425

Operating loss

134,970

Total operating revenues

Operating expenses:
Salaries, wages, fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Table 14
FIVE-YEAR SCHEDULE OF EXPENSES AND REVENUES - BUDGET AND ACTUAL - BUDGETARY BASIS (In Thousands)*
2013
2012
2016
2015
2014
Budget
Actual
Actual
Budget
Actual
Actual
Budget
Actual
Budget
Budget
Operating revenues:
Passenger fares
$
130,173 $ 134,622 $
123,373 $ 120,530 $
124,985 $ 120,497 $ 119,346 $ 117,841 $ 116,092 $
112,929
Other
4,797
4,406
5,423
5,199
5,333
5,423
5,425
5,347
5,245
5,803

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 116

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

$

Net position summary:
Net investment in capital assets

5,166,922

62,328
15,813

120,658

19,784

112,218

$

$

3,987,320

107

29,160
11,442

126,117

18,678

118,398

3,683,525

3,987,320

1,236,415

Adjustments reflect cash activity from the Statement of Net Position.
2
Funds restricted by bond covenants, other contracts and policy guidelines.
3
Appropriated funds which are available to fund future year expenditures for the FasTracks program.
4
Board appropriated funds per policy guidelines and funds designated for capital replacement.

1

Ending net position

Restricted Board appropriated and capital replacement fund4
Unrestricted fund

Restricted FasTracks

3

Restricted TABOR fund

$

5,166,922

$

Ending net position

4,836,121

2,449,046

Adjustments1

Restricted debt service, project related and other2

635,428
117,313
61,698
517,887
1,087,182
2,419,508

Expenditures:
Operating
Interest expense
Debt payments
Current capital
Capital carryforward
Total expenditures

$

134,970
569,763
354,856
24,040
7,466
228,375
197,416
1,516,886

163,457
590,488
354,922
12,269
27,229
150,000
71,300
1,369,665

Beginning net position
Revenues:
Operating
Sales & use taxes
Federal and local grants
Interest and other income
FasTracks - change in construction reserve
Financing proceeds
Contributed capital
Total Revenues
638,253
117,313
61,698
553,002
843,221
2,213,487

August 2016
Amended Budget
$
3,447,506

2016
Adopted Budget
$
3,767,719

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
FISCAL YEAR 2016 AND 2017 BUDGET SUMMARY (in thousands)

$

$

$

4,772,628

44,732
24,016

112,804

23,438

137,894

4,429,744

4,772,628

1,655,049

626,076
160,912
58,898
334,001
864,089
2,043,976

156,434
608,274
477,004
16,525
(22,438)
95,361
1,331,160

2017
Adopted Budget
$
3,830,395

Table 15

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 117

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

Regular 10Ride
$ 23.50
40.50

Multiple Trip Fares
Local - Denver, Boulder and Longmont and light rail
Rail and bus regional

Other 10-Ride
$
11.75
20.25

1

Senior/ Disabled/
Student Fare1
Free
$
1.30
2.25
4.50

Regular Day
Pass Book
$
26.00
45.00

Other Day Pass
Book1
$
22.50
20.25

Regular Monthly
$
99.00
171.00

Other Monthly1
$
49.00
85.00

2.11.B.a
Table
16

108

Packet Pg. 118

Includes monthly fares for youth, student, disabled and senior patrons. Youth patrons include children ages 6-19. Student includes any student with a school identification card. Seniors include
age 65 and older.

1

Fare
Free
$
2.60
4.50
9.00

Single Trip Fares
Mall Shuttle and Free Mall Ride
Local - Denver, Boulder, Longmont and light rail
Rail and bus regional
Airport

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
TRIP FARES

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

1

Boulder
County
$ 3,538
3,491
3,216
3,391
3,721
3,851
4,033
4,359
4,547
4,798

Jefferson
County
$
6,185
6,043
5,536
5,656
6,001
6,202
6,538
7,013
7,505
7,718

Adams
County 1
$ 4,804
4,785
4,240
4,433
4,749
5,323
5,731
6,436
6,932
7,301

Only a portion of each of these counties lies within the District

Year
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016

Denver
County
$
10,751
11,057
9,269
9,766
11,239
12,415
12,861
14,254
14,629
15,251

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RTD NET TAXABLE RETAIL SALES (In Millions)

Arapahoe
County 1
$
7,294
7,098
6,459
6,817
7,486
8,109
8,456
9,211
9,887
10,144

109

Douglas
County 1
$
2,616
2,524
2,319
2,390
2,778
2,912
3,108
3,318
3,575
3,786

Broomfield
County 1
$
934
901
790
935
944
991
1,004
1,045
1,077
1,055
Other
$ 592
666
474
718
1,041
1,036
1,399
1,359

Total Taxable
Transactions
$
36,714
36,565
32,303
34,106
37,959
40,839
41,731
45,636
49,551
51,412

Percent Annual
Increase or
Decrease
2.4%
-0.4%
-11.7%
5.6%
11.3%
7.6%
2.2%
9.4%
8.6%
3.8%

Table 17

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 119

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

Packet Pg. 120

2.11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 121

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 122

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 123

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 124

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 125

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 126

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 127

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 128

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 129

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 130

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 131

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 132

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 133

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 134

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 135

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 136

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 137

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 138

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 139

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 140

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 141

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 142

2.11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

May 10, 2017

Subject:

Citibank Call Modification

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 10, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the execution and
delivery of a second modification and exchange agreement and a third supplemental indenture of
trust relating to a portion of a portion of the District’s sales tax revenue refunding bonds (FasTracks
Project) Series 2007A, and other matters related thereto.
BACKGROUND:
The Regional Transportation District (“RTD”) sold its Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project),
Series 2006A (the “Series 2006A Bonds) in a principal amount of $600,000,000 in 2006. In April,
2007 RTD issued its Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project) Series 2007A (the “Series
2007A Bonds”), in a principal amount of $363,725,000, to advance refund a portion of the Series
2006A Bonds, the principal maturing from 2030 to 2036 in the amount of $364,265,000, to realize a
reduction in interest expense. The amortization of the Series 2007A Bonds was structured similar to the
refunded principal of the Series 2006A Bonds, with the majority of principal maturing from 2030 to
2036. A portion of the Series 2007A Bonds are subject to redemption at the option of RTD on or after
November 1, 2017. Another Portion of the Series 2007A Bonds are subject to redemption at the option
of RTD on or after November 1, 2024.
This action item discusses the modification of the call provisions of the portion of the Series 2007A
Bonds that are subject to optional redemption on or after November 1, 2024 in exchange for
receiving a onetime payment from the owner of the bonds, CitiBank N.A. (“Citi”).
DISSCUSSION:
The Series 2007A Bonds are currently outstanding in the principal amount of $360,310,000. Citi
currently owns Series 2007A Bonds in an aggregate principal amount of $220,825,000, which
represents the majority of the principal outstanding in years 2030 to 2035, the details of which are set
forth in the following table:

Packet Pg. 143

2.11.C

Bond
Outstanding
Maturity
Principal
Maturity
Amount
11/1/2030 $ 56,375,000
11/1/2031
33,915,000
11/1/2032
36,535,000
11/1/2033
64,300,000
11/1/2035
70,220,000
$ 261,345,000

Percentage
Citi Proposed
Principal
of Maturity
Current Optional
Optional
Amount Owned Owned by Redemption/Call Date Redemption/
by Citibank
Citibank
of Citi Owned Bonds
Call Date
$ 56,375,000
100%
November 1, 2024
non-callable
33,915,000
100%
November 1, 2024
non-callable
36,535,000
100%
November 1, 2024
non-callable
34,000,000
53%
November 1, 2024
non-callable
60,000,000
85%
November 1, 2024
non-callable
$ 220,825,000
84%

Citi has approached RTD with an offer pursuant to which RTD would amend the optional redemption
date of the Citi owned Series 2007A Bonds from November 1, 2024 and make the bonds non-callable
against receipt of a one-time cash payment from Citi. As of May 1, 2017, the payment from Citi to RTD
was estimated at approximately $16,000,000. The sale of the additional call protection by RTD to Citi,
with respect to the Series 2007A Bonds owned by Citi, can be analyzed in the context of a partial
refunding of the Series 2007A Bonds, with the savings of such “refunding” realized in the form of an
upfront-payment by Citi to RTD. If the proposal is accepted by RTD, the portion of the Series 2007A
Bonds owned by Citi would no longer be subject to optional redemption.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
The estimated payment by Citi of $16 million represents approximately 7% of the principal amount of
Series 2007A Bonds owned by Citi. This is more than twice the (i) RTD threshold of 3.0% net present
value savings as a percent of refunded principal, and (ii) recommended threshold of 3.0% for execution
of a refunding by the Government Finance Officers Association.
Since the value of this transaction is dependent on interest rates at the time an agreement is reached,
the resolution allows staff to proceed with this transaction as long as a minimum payment of $13
million, net of associated costs is obtained by RTD.
Costs of execution related to this transaction include fees for financial advisory, legal and other fees and
will be funded from the proceeds of this transaction.
Net funds received by RTD must be applied toward FasTracks projects.

ALTERNATIVES:
1. Authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No.__, Series of
2017, authorizing the execution and delivery of a second modification and exchange
agreement and a third supplemental indenture of trust relating to the districts Sales Tax
Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A, and other matters related
thereto. This is the recommended action.
2. Do not authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No.__, Series
of 2017, authorizing the execution and delivery of a second modification and exchange
agreement and a third supplemental indenture of trust relating to the districts Sales Tax
Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A, and other matters related

Packet Pg. 144

2.11.C

thereto. This is not the recommended action as it would not take advantage of the one-time
payment currently available to the District.
ATTACHMENTS:


Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (as filed)_36449389_2



Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 - as filed with Board_36501492_1

(DOCX)



Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4

(DOC)

(DOC)

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 145

2.11.C.a

AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF A
SECOND MODIFICATION AND EXCHANGE AGREEMENT
AND A THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE OF TRUST
RELATING TO A PORTION OF THE DISTRICT’S SALES
TAX REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS (FASTRACKS
PROJECT), SERIES 2007A, AND OTHER MATTERS
RELATED THERETO.
WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation District in the City and County of
Broomfield, the City and County of Denver and the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder,
Douglas, Jefferson and Weld in the State of Colorado (the “District”) was created by the General
Assembly of the State of Colorado in 1969 by Chapter 231, Laws of Colorado 1969, being
compiled as Sections 32-9-101 through 32-9-164, inclusive, of the Colorado Revised Statutes
(said Chapter 231, as amended and supplemented, is herein called the “Act”), and the District’s
Board of Directors (the “Board”) and officers from time to time, including the present
incumbents, have been duly chosen and qualified; and
WHEREAS, the District has previously issued its Sales Tax Revenue Refunding
Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A (the “2007A Bonds”) pursuant to an Indenture of
Trust, dated as of May 1, 2007, between the District and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A., as trustee (the “Trustee”), as amended by a First Supplemental Indenture of
Trust, dated as of July 21, 2009, between the District and the Trustee, and a Second
Supplemental Indenture of Trust, dated as of December 11, 2014 (the “Second Supplemental
Indenture” and collectively, the “2007A Indenture”); and
WHEREAS, the 2007A Bonds are currently outstanding in the aggregate
principal amount of $359,210,000; and
WHEREAS, all capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall
have the meanings given to them in the 2007A Indenture, as amended by the Third Supplemental
Indenture (hereinafter defined); and
WHEREAS, Citibank, N.A., a national banking association organized under the
laws of the United States (“Citibank”) owns $220,825,000 aggregate principal amount of the
Outstanding 2007A Bonds (collectively, the “Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds”); and
WHEREAS, at the request of Citibank, the District and Citibank entered into a
Modification and Exchange Agreement, dated as of December 11, 2014 (the “First Modification
Agreement”) pursuant to which the first optional redemption date of the Citibank-Owned 2007A
Bonds was changed from November 1, 2017 to November 1, 2024, upon Citibank making a
payment to the District as consideration for such modification; and

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (as filed)_36449389_2 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

RESOLUTION NO. __, SERIES OF 2017

Packet Pg. 146

2.11.C.a

WHEREAS, subsequent to such modification of the optional redemption
provisions pursuant to the First Modification Agreement and the Second Supplemental
Indenture, the Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds are as set forth below:

Maturity Date
(November 1)
2030
2031
2032
2033
2035

CitibankOwned
Principal
Amount

Interest
Rate

CUSIP
Number

First Optional
Redemption
Date

$56,375,000
33,915,000
36,535,000
34,000,000
60,000,000

4.50%
4.50%
4.50%
4.50%
4.50%

759136SQ8
759136SR6
759136SS4
759136ST2
759136SV7

11/1/2024
11/1/2024
11/1/2024
11/1/2024
11/1/2024

WHEREAS, Citibank has requested that (a) the optional redemption provisions of
the Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds be further modified to provide that the Citibank-Owned
2007A Bonds shall not be subject to optional redemption prior to their respective maturity dates,
and (b) Citibank exchange all its outstanding Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds in the aggregate
principal amount of $220,825,000 for such modified and amended 2007A Bonds in an aggregate
principal amount not exceeding $220,825,000, or such lesser amount as set forth in the Third
Supplemental Indenture (as further defined in the Third Supplemental Indenture, the “Amended
Bonds”), upon Citibank making a payment to the District (the “2017 Citibank Payment”) as
consideration for such modification and exchange, all in accordance with the terms and
provisions of a Second Modification and Exchange Agreement (the “Second Modification
Agreement”) between the District and Citibank; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the execution and delivery of the Second
Modification Agreement, the District and the Trustee will execute and deliver a Third
Supplemental Indenture of Trust (the “Third Supplemental Indenture”) that will implement the
terms and provisions of the Second Modification Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the terms and provisions of the 2007A Bonds that are not CitibankOwned 2007A Bonds will not be modified or amended in any way by the Second Modification
Agreement or the Third Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined, and hereby determines, that it is desirable
and in the best interest of the District to enter into the Second Modification Agreement and the
Third Supplemental Indenture and to execute and deliver the Amended Bonds, in exchange for
the 2017 Citibank Payment; and

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (as filed)_36449389_2 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

WHEREAS, in connection with the execution and delivery of the First
Modification Agreement, the District and the Trustee entered into the Second Supplemental
Indenture; and

-2Packet Pg. 147

2.11.C.a

WHEREAS, any required Bond Insurer consent will be obtained prior to the
execution and delivery of the Second Modification Agreement and the Third Supplemental
Indenture; and
WHEREAS, Citibank has agreed to execute and deliver the Second Modification
Agreement and has consented to the execution and delivery of the Third Supplemental Indenture;
and
WHEREAS, the Trustee has agreed to execute and deliver the Third
Supplemental Indenture and shall, in accordance with the written direction of the District,
acknowledge the Second Modification Agreement and authenticate the Amended Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the 2007A Indenture provides, in pertinent part, that the District and
the Trustee may, without the consent of, or notice to, any of the Owners of the 2007A Bonds,
enter into a Supplemental Indenture for various purposes, including without limitation, making
any amendment to the terms and provisions of the 2007A Indenture if such amendment is
necessary or desirable and is not materially adverse to the interests of the Owners of the 2007A
Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the modifications set forth in the Second Modification Agreement
and the Third Supplemental Indenture apply only to the Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds and are
not materially adverse to the interests of the Owners of the remainder of the 2007A Bonds and
therefore the consent of the remaining Owners of the 2007A Bonds to the Second Modification
Agreement and the Third Supplemental Indenture is not required; and
WHEREAS, there have been presented to the Board and are on file at the District
offices the following: (i) the proposed form of the Second Modification Agreement, and (ii) the
proposed form of the Third Supplemental Indenture, which includes the form of Amended
Bonds; and
WHEREAS, all acts, conditions and things required by law to exist, happen and
be performed precedent to and in connection with the execution and delivery of the Amended
Bonds, the Second Modification Agreement and the Third Supplemental Indenture exist, have
happened and have been performed in regular and due time, form and manner as required by law,
and it is appropriate for the Board to adopt this Resolution at this time.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT, IN THE CITY AND COUNTY OF
BROOMFIELD, THE CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER AND THE COUNTIES OF
ADAMS, ARAPAHOE, BOULDER, DOUGLAS, JEFFERSON AND WELD, IN THE STATE
OF COLORADO, AS FOLLOWS:

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (as filed)_36449389_2 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

WHEREAS, the Board has determined, and hereby determines, that the net
proceeds from the 2017 Citibank Payment will be applied by the District to finance a portion of
the costs of the acquisition, construction and installation of FasTracks; and

Section 1.
All actions heretofore taken (not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Resolution) by the Board, the officers and employees of the District and otherwise by the
-3Packet Pg. 148

2.11.C.a

Section 2.
The District hereby finds and determines that it is desirable and in
the best interest of the District to enter into the Second Modification Agreement and the Third
Supplemental Indenture and to execute and deliver the Amended Bonds in exchange for the 2017
Citibank Payment. The District hereby further determines that the Second Modification
Agreement and the Third Supplemental Indenture do not amend or modify the terms or
provisions of any 2007A Bonds, except for the Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds, and the Second
Modification Agreement and the Third Supplemental Indenture are not materially adverse to the
interests of the Owners of the 2007A Bonds that are not Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds.
Section 3.
The Second Modification Agreement and the Third Supplemental
Indenture, in substantially the forms thereof on file with the Board Secretary (the “Secretary”),
are in all respects approved, authorized and confirmed, but such documents may be completed,
corrected or revised as deemed necessary by the parties thereto in order to carry out the purposes
of this Resolution and as the General Manager of the District (the “General Manager”) or the
Chief Financial Officer of the District (the “Chief Financial Officer”) shall approve, the
execution thereof being deemed conclusive approval of any such changes by the District. The
Chair of the Board (the “Chair”) is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the
Second Modification Agreement and the Third Supplemental Indenture for and on behalf of the
District. The Secretary (or such other person authorized to act on behalf of the Secretary) is
hereby authorized and directed to attest the Second Modification Agreement and the Third
Supplemental Indenture and to place the seal of the District on the Second Modification
Agreement and the Third Supplemental Indenture. The execution of the Second Modification
Agreement and the Third Supplemental Indenture by the appropriate officers of the District
herein authorized shall be conclusive evidence of the approval by the District of the Second
Modification Agreement and the Third Supplemental Indenture in accordance with the terms
hereof.
Section 4.
The Chair, the Secretary and other appropriate officials and
employees of the District are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver for and on
behalf of the District any and all additional certificates, documents, instruments and other papers,
including without limitation the execution and delivery of the Amended Bonds, and to perform
all other acts that they may deem necessary or appropriate in order to implement and carry out
the transactions and other matters authorized by this Resolution, including without limitation, the
payment of all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the execution and delivery of the
Amended Bonds, the Second Modification Agreement and the Third Supplemental Indenture.
The execution of any certificate, document, instrument or other paper by the appropriate officers
and employees of the District herein authorized shall be conclusive evidence of the approval by
the District of such certificate, document, instrument or other paper in accordance with the terms
hereof.

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (as filed)_36449389_2 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

District directed toward the execution and delivery of the Amended Bonds, the Second
Modification Agreement and the Third Supplemental Indenture be, and the same hereby are,
ratified, approved, and confirmed.

Section 5.
As a condition precedent to the delivery of the Amended Bonds,
the Second Modification Agreement and the Third Supplemental Indenture, the District shall
receive the 2017 Citibank Payment in a net amount of no less than $13,000,000, after the
-4Packet Pg. 149

payment of the costs of execution and delivery of the Amended Bonds, the Second Modification
Agreement and the Third Supplemental Indenture, including without limitation, any financial
advisor’s fees and expenses, legal fees and expenses, costs incurred in confirming or obtaining
ratings from rating agencies, any supplemental premium or fee charged by the Bond Insurer that
is payable by the District and fees and expenses of the Trustee. The net proceeds from the 2017
Citibank Payment shall be applied by the District to finance a portion of the costs of the
acquisition, construction and installation of FasTracks.
Section 6.
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Resolution
shall for any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of
such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of
this Resolution.
Section 7.
All bylaws, orders and resolutions of the District, or parts thereof,
inconsistent with this Resolution or with any of the documents hereby approved, are hereby
repealed only to the extent of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed as
reviving any bylaw, order or resolution of the District, or part thereof.
Section 8.

This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its passage

and adoption.
PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED this May 23, 2017.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

Chair of the Board of Directors
(SEAL)
Attest:

Secretary

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (as filed)_36449389_2 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.a

-5Packet Pg. 150

STATE OF COLORADO
CITY AND COUNTY OF BROOMFIELD,
CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER, AND
COUNTIES OF ADAMS, ARAPAHOE,
BOULDER, DOUGLAS, JEFFERSON AND
WELD
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

)
)
)
)
) SS.
)
)
)
)

I, the Secretary of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Regional
Transportation District, in the City and County of Broomfield, City and County of Denver and
the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Douglas, Jefferson and Weld in the State of
Colorado (the “District”), do hereby certify:
1.
The foregoing pages are a true and correct copy of a resolution (the
“Resolution”) passed and adopted by the Board at a meeting thereof held on May 23, 2017.
2.
The Resolution was duly moved and seconded and the Resolution was
adopted at the meeting of May 23, 2017, by an affirmative vote of a majority of the Board as
follows:
Name
Larry Hoy, Chair
Kate Williams
Barbara Deadwyler
Bonnie “Ernest” Archuleta
Jeff Walker, Secretary
Claudia Folska
Bob Broom
Ken Mihalik
Doug Tisdale
Judy Lubow
Paul Daniel Solano
Lorraine Anderson
Natalie Menten, Treasurer
Tina Francone, First Vice Chair
Charles L. Sisk

Yes

No

Abstain

Absent

3.
The members of the Board were present at such meeting constituting a
quorum and voted on the passage of the Resolution as set forth above.

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (as filed)_36449389_2 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.a

4.
The Resolution was approved and authenticated by the signature of the
Chair of the Board, sealed with the District seal, attested by the Secretary and recorded in the
minutes of the Board.
-6Packet Pg. 151

2.11.C.a

6.
Notice of the meeting of May 23, 2017 in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit A was posted at 1600 Blake Street within the District, at least twenty-four hours prior to
the meeting in accordance with law.
WITNESS my hand and the seal of the District this ___ day of May, 2017.

Secretary
(SEAL)

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (as filed)_36449389_2 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

5.
There are no bylaws, rules or regulations of the Board which might
prohibit the adoption of the Resolution.

-7Packet Pg. 152

2.11.C.a

EXHIBIT A

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (as filed)_36449389_2 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

(Attach copy of notice given prior to the May 23, 2017 meeting)

8
36370105v1
36449389v2

Packet Pg. 153

2.11.C.b

KR DRAFT 5/9/17

This SECOND MODIFICATION AND EXCHANGE AGREEMENT (the
“Agreement”) dated May __, 2017 is between the REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION
DISTRICT, a public body politic and corporate and political subdivision of the State of
Colorado (the “District”), and CITIBANK, N.A., a national banking association organized under
the laws of the United States (“Citi”), and acknowledged and agreed to by THE BANK OF
NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as trustee for the Bonds referred to herein
(“Trustee”).
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the District has previously authorized and issued its $363,725,000 principal
amount of Regional Transportation District (Colorado) Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds
(FasTracks Project), Series 2007A (the “Series 2007A Bonds”), pursuant to an Indenture of Trust
dated as of May 1, 2007 between the District and the Trustee, as amended by a First
Supplemental Indenture of Trust, dated as of July 21, 2009 and a Second Supplemental
Indenture, dated as of December 11, 2014 (collectively with the Third Supplemental Indenture
described below, the “2007A Indenture”); and
WHEREAS, Citi owns that portion of the outstanding Series 2007A Bonds, as more fully
identified in Section 1 hereof (as defined in said Section 1, the “Citi-Owned 2007A District
Bonds”); and
WHEREAS, the District has agreed to exchange the Citi-Owned 2007A District Bonds
for new Series 2007A Bonds with reduced principal amounts thereof and without any optional
redemption provision (the “Exchange Bonds”), all as provided under the terms and conditions of
a Third Supplemental Indenture of Trust, dated as of May __, 2017 between the District and the
Trustee (the “Third Supplemental Indenture”) and this Agreement; and
[WHEREAS, Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., formerly known as Financial Security
Assurance Inc. (“AGM”), issued a municipal bond insurance policy relating to the Series 2007A
Bonds, and AGM has consented to the execution of this Agreement and the exchange of the CitiOwned 2007A District Bonds for the Exchange Bonds.]
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable
consideration, the District and Citi agree, and the Trustee acknowledges and agrees, as follows:
SECTION 1. EXCHANGE OF CITI-OWNED 2007A DISTRICT BONDS.
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the District agrees to exchange the
following Series 2007A Bonds currently owned by Citi (the “Citi-Owned 2007A District
Bonds”) for the Exchange Bonds in the following principal amounts and without any optional
call provision, all on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein:

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 - as filed with Board_36501492_1 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

SECOND MODIFICATION AND EXCHANGE AGREEMENT

4849-1222-9704.2

Packet Pg. 154

Current Citi-Owned 2007A District Bonds

Series

Maturity
Date
(November 1)

Citi-Owned
Principal
Amount

Interest
Rate

CUSIP
Number†

First Optional
Redemption
Date

2007A
2007A
2007A
2007A
2007A

2030
2031
2032
2033
2035

$56,375,000
33,915,000
36,535,000
34,000,000
60,000,000

4.50%
4.50%
4.50%
4.50%
4.50%

759136SQ8
759136SR6
759136SS4
759136ST2
759136SV7

11/1/2024
11/1/2024
11/1/2024
11/1/2024
11/1/2024

Exchange Bonds

Series

Maturity
Date
(November 1)

2007A
2007A
2007A
2007A
2007A

2030
2031
2032
2033
2035

Citi-Owned
Principal
Amount

Interest
Rate

CUSIP
Number†

4.50%
4.50%
4.50%
4.50%
4.50%

SECTION 2. REPRESENTATIONS AND AGREEMENTS.
(A)
Representations of Citi in Connection with Exchange. Citi acknowledges
and represents to the District that (1) it has made its own independent decision to exchange the
Citi-Owned 2007A District Bonds for the Exchange Bonds on the terms set forth in this
Agreement; (2) the District has not provided any tax or financial advice to Citi with respect to
the modification of the Citi-Owned 2007A District Bonds and with respect to Citi’s exchange of
the Citi-Owned 2007A District Bonds; (3) Citi is not required to exchange its Citi-Owned 2007A
District Bonds and the District has not attempted to compel Citi to exchange its Citi-Owned
2007A District Bonds; and (4) Citi further acknowledges that in connection with the exchange of
its Citi-Owned 2007A District Bonds in accordance with this Agreement, that no official
statement, prospectus, offering circular or other comprehensive offering statement is being
provided by the District.
(B)
Representations of the District in Connection with Exchange. The District
acknowledges and agrees that (1) the exchange of the Citi-Owned 2007A District Bonds for the
Exchange Bonds pursuant to this Agreement is an arm’s-length commercial transaction between
the District and Citi, (2) in connection with this transaction, Citi is acting solely as a principal
and not as an agent or fiduciary of the District, (3) with respect to the exchange of the CitiOwned 2007A District Bonds or the process leading thereto (whether or not Citi, or any affiliate
of Citi, has advised or is currently advising the District on other matters), Citi has not assumed
(individually or collectively) a fiduciary responsibility in favor of the District or any other
†

CUSIP is a registered trademark of American Bankers Association. CUSIP data herein is provided by Standard and Poor’s CUSIP Service Bureau, a division of
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. CUSIP data is not intended to create a database and does not serve in any way as a substitute for the CUSIP Service. Neither
the District nor the Trustee makes any representation as to, or takes any responsibility for, the accuracy of such CUSIP numbers. CUSIP numbers are provided for
convenience of reference only.

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 - as filed with Board_36501492_1 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.b

2
4849-1222-9704.2

Packet Pg. 155

obligation of the District except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement and (4) the
District has consulted with its own legal and financial advisors to the extent it deemed
appropriate in connection with the exchange of the Citi-Owned 2007A District Bonds.
SECTION 3. CONDITIONS TO DELIVERY OF THE EXCHANGE BONDS.
Citi’s obligations under this Agreement to exchange its Citi-Owned 2007A District
Bonds for the Exchange Bonds will be subject to the performance by the District of its
obligations to be performed hereunder, and will also be subject to the following conditions at or
prior to the Settlement Date as provided for pursuant to Section 4 hereof:
(A)
There shall have been delivered with respect to the Exchange Bonds, the
Third Supplemental Indenture;
(B)
There shall have been delivered the approving opinion or opinions, dated
the Settlement Date and addressed to the District, of Butler Snow LLP, Bond Counsel, to the
effect that (1) the Exchange Bonds have been duly and validly authorized and issued in
accordance with law, (2) the Exchange Bonds are legal, valid and binding, special, limited
obligations of the District payable solely from the Pledged Revenues, as defined in the 2007A
Indenture, and (3) interest on the Exchange Bonds is excluded from gross income under federal
income tax laws, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, and a letter of such
counsel, dated the Settlement Date and addressed to Citi, to the effect that such opinion(s)
addressed to the District may be relied upon by Citi to the same extent as if such opinion(s) were
addressed to Citi;
(C)
There shall have been delivered a Tax Certificate signed by the District
relating to the Exchange Bonds, in form and substance satisfactory to Bond Counsel and counsel
to Citi;
(D)
Evidence that the Exchange Bonds are rated not less than “AA+,” “Aa2,”
and “AA” by at least one of S&P, Moody’s and Fitch, respectively; and
(E)
The District shall have delivered to Citi a copy of a fully-executed Form
8038-G relating to the Exchange Bonds to be filed with the IRS, in ready-to-file form and
otherwise in form and substance satisfactory to Bond Counsel and counsel to Citi.
If the District is unable to satisfy the conditions to the obligations of Citi to accept
delivery of the Exchange Bonds contained in this Agreement, then this Agreement will terminate
and Citi and the District will not be under further obligation hereunder. If this Agreement is
terminated due to the conditions to the exchange not being satisfied, then each of Citi and the
District is responsible for its own legal expenses, not the expenses of the other as well.
SECTION 4. SETTLEMENT.
(A) Settlement Date. The “Settlement Date” is the date on which the CitiOwned 2007A District Bonds will be exchanged. The Settlement Date has been initially set to
occur on May __, 2017.

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 - as filed with Board_36501492_1 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.b

3
4849-1222-9704.2

Packet Pg. 156

(B) Payments. On the Settlement Date, Citi will pay to the District in
consideration of the exchange made in accordance with this Agreement a payment of
$__________, by wire transfer. Wire instructions for the payment of the premium are as
follows: [Bank: Wells Fargo; Routing: 121000248; Account Name: RTD; Account Number:
1010824234; Attn: Dave Techmanski.]
(C)
Execution and Delivery of Exchange Bonds by the District. On the
Settlement Date, the District will execute and deliver the Exchange Bonds in accordance with the
terms described in Section 1 above.
(D)
Exchange of Citi-Owned 2007A District Bonds; Posting of Notice to
EMMA. The District will notify the Trustee and Citi to (i) begin a DWAC withdrawal of the
Citi-Owned 2007A District Bonds and (ii) to proceed with a FAST closing of the Exchange
Bonds, so that on the Settlement Date, Citi’s DTC participant account will reflect Citi’s
ownership of the Exchange Bonds. Within two (2) business days following the Settlement Date,
the District shall give notice or cause to give notice of the amendment of the Citi-Owned 2007A
District Bonds through the Electronic Municipal Market Access system of the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board (“MSRB”) (referred to as “EMMA”), at www.emma.msrb.org in
accordance with the continuing disclosure undertaking of the District relating to the Series
2007A Bonds. The form of such notice is attached hereto as Exhibit B.
SECTION 5. MISCELLANEOUS AND NOTICE.
This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of Citi and the District and their respective
successors and assigns. Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any
other person, firm or corporation any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect
of this Agreement or any provision herein contained.
Any notice or other communication to be given to the District under this Agreement may
be given by mailing or delivering the same in writing to the District as follows:
Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Attention: Chief Financial Officer
Telephone: 303-299-2311
Facsimile: 303-299-2338
With a copy to:
Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Attention: District Counsel
Telephone: 303-299-2207
Facsimile: 303-299-2217

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 - as filed with Board_36501492_1 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.b

4
4849-1222-9704.2

Packet Pg. 157

Any notice or other communication to be given to Citi under this Agreement may be
given by mailing or delivering the same in writing to Citi as follows:
Citibank, N.A.
390 Greenwich St., 2nd Floor
New York, NY 10013
Attention: Matt Tesseyman
Telephone: 212-723-5665
Facsimile: 212-723-8209
No officer, agent or any employee of the District shall be charged personally by Citi with
any liability, or held personally accountable to Citi, under any term or provision of this
Agreement, or because of its execution or attempted execution, or because of any breach, or
attempted or alleged breach, of this Agreement.
SECTION 6. APPLICABLE LAW; NONASSIGNABILITY.
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Colorado, without regard to
conflict of law principles. This Agreement shall not be assigned by the District or Citi.
SECTION 7. THE TRUSTEE.
The Trustee is executing this Agreement solely in its capacity as Trustee, and shall have
the same rights, protections, immunities and indemnities hereunder as afforded to it as Trustee
under the 2007A Indenture. By its execution hereunder, the District authorizes and directs the
Trustee to sign this Agreement.
[Remainder of page intentionally left blank.]

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 - as filed with Board_36501492_1 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.b

5
4849-1222-9704.2

Packet Pg. 158

2.11.C.b

KR DRAFT 5/9/17

This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be regarded
as an original and all of which shall constitute one and the same document. This Agreement
shall supersede all previous agreements relating to the same subject matter between the parties
and shall become effective upon acceptance by the District as evidenced by the execution hereof
by any authorized officer of the District as set forth below.
CITIBANK, N.A.

By:
Vice President

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

By:
Chair, Board of Directors
[SEAL]
Attest:

Secretary, Board of Directors

Acknowledged and agreed, as of the date first
above written, solely with respect to the duties
and obligations to be carried out by the Trustee.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON
TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as Trustee

By:
Authorized Officer

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 - as filed with Board_36501492_1 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

SECTION 8. EXECUTION OF COUNTERPARTS EFFECTIVE UPON ACCEPTANCE.

4849-1222-9704.2

Packet Pg. 159

2.11.C.b

ASSURED GUARANTY MUNICIPAL CORP.

By:
Authorized Officer
Neither this consent nor any past, present or future consents, waivers, actions, amendments or
other agreements, individually or in combination, may be construed to imply or impose upon
AGM any intention, agreement, obligation or undertaking to grant future consents, waivers or
amendments or to limit the ability of AGM to exercise any and all of its rights in connection with
the bonds referred to herein or any related transaction documents, all of which shall remain
unmodified and in full force and effect except as to the modifications consented to hereinabove.
In addition, AGM makes no representation as to whether the consent of any other party is
required in connection herewith.]]

[Signature Page to Second Modification and Exchange Agreement]

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 - as filed with Board_36501492_1 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

[[Consented to as of the date first above written.

4849-1222-9704.2

Packet Pg. 160

2.11.C.b

FORM OF OPINION OF BOND COUNSEL

May __, 2017

Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake Street
Denver, Colorado 80202
Regional Transportation District
(Colorado)
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds
(FasTracks Project), Series 2007A
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as bond counsel to the Regional Transportation District (the
“District”), in the State of Colorado, in connection with the execution and delivery of a Third
Supplemental Indenture of Trust, dated as of May __, 2017 (the “Third Supplemental
Indenture”), which amends and supplements an Indenture of Trust, dated as of May 1, 2007 (the
“Original Indenture”), as amended by a First Supplemental Indenture of Trust, dated as of
July 21, 2009 and a Second Supplemental Indenture of Trust, dated as of December 11, 2014
(the Original Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture of Trust, the Second Supplemental
Indenture of Trust and the Third Supplemental Indenture shall be referred to collectively herein
as the “Indenture”), each between the District and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A., as trustee. The above-captioned bonds (the “2007A Bonds”) were issued and
are secured pursuant to Resolution No. 9, Series of 2007 (the “Bond Resolution”) adopted by the
Board of Directors of the District and the provisions of the Indenture. Capitalized terms used
herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
The Amended Bonds will be issued and delivered to Citibank, N.A. in the
aggregate principal amount of $________ pursuant to the terms and provisions of the Second
Modification Agreement and the Third Supplemental Indenture. This opinion is delivered
pursuant to Section 3(B) of the Second Modification Agreement in connection with the
execution and delivery of the Amended Bonds.
In such capacity, we have examined the Bond Resolution, the Indenture, the
Second Modification Agreement, the District’s certified proceedings, and such other documents
and such law of the State of Colorado and of the United States of America as we have deemed
necessary to render this opinion letter. Regarding questions of fact material to our opinions, we
have relied upon the District’s certified proceedings and other representations and certifications
of public officials and others furnished to us without undertaking to verify the same by
independent investigation.

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 - as filed with Board_36501492_1 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

EXHIBIT A

A-1
4849-1222-9704.2

Packet Pg. 161

2.11.C.b

1.
The Amended Bonds have been duly and validly authorized and issued in
accordance with law, including the Act, and in accordance with the Bond Resolution and the
Indenture and are entitled to the benefits of the Bond Resolution, the Indenture and the Act.
2.
The Amended Bonds are valid and binding, special, limited obligations of
the District payable solely from the Pledged Revenues, including the funds and accounts pledged
therefor under the Indenture.
3.
Interest on the Amended Bonds is excludable from gross income under
federal income tax laws pursuant to Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended to the date hereof (the “Tax Code”), interest on the Amended Bonds is excludable from
alternative minimum taxable income as defined in Section 55(b)(2) of the Tax Code, except that
such interest is required to be included in calculating the adjusted current earnings adjustment
applicable to corporations for purposes of computing the alternative minimum taxable income of
corporations, and interest on the Amended Bonds is excludable from Colorado taxable income
and Colorado alternative minimum taxable income under Colorado income tax laws in effect as
of the date hereof. The opinions expressed in this paragraph assume continuous compliance with
the covenants and representations contained in the District’s certified proceedings and in certain
other documents or certain other certifications furnished to us.
The opinions expressed in this opinion letter are subject to the following:
The rights of the owners of the Amended Bonds and the enforceability of the
Bond Resolution, the Indenture and the Second Modification Agreement are limited by
bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, and other similar laws affecting creditors’
rights generally, and by equitable principles, whether considered at law or in equity.
In this opinion letter issued in our capacity as bond counsel, we are opining only
upon those matters set forth herein, and we are not passing upon any federal or state tax
consequences arising from the receipt or accrual of interest on, or the rights and obligations
under, the Amended Bonds, the Indenture or the Second Modification Agreement, except those
specifically addressed above.
This opinion letter is issued as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to
revise or supplement this opinion letter to reflect any facts or circumstances that may hereafter
come to our attention or any changes in law that may hereafter occur.
Respectfully submitted,

BUTLER SNOW LLP

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 - as filed with Board_36501492_1 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

Based upon such examination, it is our opinion as bond counsel that:

A-2
4849-1222-9704.2

Packet Pg. 162

2.11.C.b

FORM OF EMMA NOTICE
MATERIAL EVENT NOTICE
May __, 2017
Name of Issuer: Regional Transportation District (Colorado).
Name of Issue: Regional Transportation District (Colorado), Sales Tax Revenue Refunding
Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A.
Date of Issuance:

December 11, 2014

Nine-digit CUSIP No.: 759136SQ8, 759136SR6, 759136SS4, 759136ST2, 759136SV7
NOTICE OF REDUCTION OF PRINCIPAL AMOUNTS AND REMOVAL OF OPTIONAL
REDEMPTION PROVISIONS WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN OUTSTANDING REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT (COLORADO) SALES TAX REVENUE REFUNDING
BONDS (FASTRACKS PROJECT), SERIES 2007A, THAT ARE OWNED BY CITIBANK,
N.A.
The Regional Transportation District (the “District”) has previously issued its Sales Tax
Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A (the “2007A Bonds”) that are
currently outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $359,210,000. Citibank, N.A., a
national banking association organized under the laws of the United States (“Citibank”) owned
$220,825,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2007A Bonds, with the CUSIP numbers
referenced above and as further identified below. At the request of Citibank and upon receipt of
consideration from Citibank, on the date hereof, the District has executed and delivered a Third
Supplemental Indenture of Trust (the “Third Supplemental Indenture”) to amend such 2007A
Bonds owned by Citibank by reducing the aggregate principal amount thereof and by removing
the optional redemption provisions thereof (as amended, the “Amended Bonds”), all as provided
under the terms and conditions of the Third Supplemental Indenture.
The Amended Bonds that are owned by Citibank are described below:

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 - as filed with Board_36501492_1 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

EXHIBIT B

B-1
4849-1222-9704.2

Packet Pg. 163

Old CUSIP
for Prior
2007A Bonds
Owned by
Citibank

Maturity of
2007A
Bonds

Outstanding
Principal
Amount of
2007A
Bonds

Principal
Amount of
Prior 2007A
Bonds
Owned by
Citibank

11/01/2030

$56,375,000

$56,375,000

759136SQ8

11/1/2031

33,915,000

33,915,000

759136SR6

11/1/2032

36,535,000

36,535,000

759136SS4

11/1/2033

64,300,000

34,000,000

759136ST2

11/01/2035

70,220,000

60,000,000

759136SV7

Principal
Amount of
Amended
Bonds
Owned by
Citibank

New
CUSIP for
Amended
Bonds
Owned by
Citibank

The 2007A Bonds that are not owned by Citibank and are not Amended Bonds, as set forth
above, have not been modified or amended in any way by the Third Supplemental Indenture.

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 - as filed with Board_36501492_1 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.b

B-2
4849-1222-9704.2

Packet Pg. 164

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
and
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
as Trustee
____________________________________________
THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE OF TRUST
____________________________________________

__________________________________
Dated as of May __, 2017
__________________________________

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.c

Packet Pg. 165

2.11.C.c

THIS THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE OF TRUST dated as of May __,
2017 (this “Third Supplemental Indenture”) between the REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION
DISTRICT, a public body corporate and politic and a political subdivision of the State of
Colorado duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Colorado, and THE BANK
OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a banking association organized and
existing under and by virtue of the laws of the United States of America, as trustee (together with
any successor trustee duly appointed under this Indenture, the “Trustee”).
W I T N E S S E T H:
WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation District in the City and County of
Broomfield, the City and County of Denver and the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder,
Douglas, Jefferson and Weld in the State of Colorado (the “District”) was created by the General
Assembly of the State of Colorado in 1969 by Chapter 231, Laws of Colorado 1969, being
compiled as Sections 32-9-101 through 32-9-164, inclusive, of the Colorado Revised Statutes
(said Chapter 231, as amended and supplemented, is herein called the “Act”), and the District’s
Board of Directors (the “Board”) and officers from time to time, including the present
incumbents, have been duly chosen and qualified; and
WHEREAS, Section 32-9-128 of the Act provides that the District may borrow
money in anticipation of the revenues and the sales tax proceeds of the District, but not the
proceeds of any general ad valorem property taxes, and issue special obligation bonds to
evidence the amount so borrowed; and
WHEREAS, the District has previously issued its Sales Tax Revenue Refunding
Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A in the original aggregate principal amount of
$363,725,000 (the “2007A Bonds” or the “Bonds”) pursuant to the provisions of an Indenture of
Trust, dated as of May 1, 2007, between the District and the Trustee, as amended by a First
Supplemental Indenture of Trust, dated as of July 21, 2009 (the “First Supplemental Indenture”),
between the District and the Trustee, and a Second Supplemental Indenture of Trust, dated as of
December 11, 2014 (the “Second Supplemental Indenture” and collectively, the “2007A
Indenture” or the “Indenture”), to refinance a portion of a transit expansion plan known as
FasTracks; and
WHEREAS, the 2007A Bonds are currently outstanding in the aggregate
principal amount of $359,210,000; and
WHEREAS, all capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall
have the meanings given to them in the 2007A Indenture, as hereby amended; and
WHEREAS, Citibank, N.A., a national banking association organized under the
laws of the United States (“Citibank”) owns $220,825,000 aggregate principal amount of the
Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds (hereinafter defined); and:

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE OF TRUST

Packet Pg. 166

WHEREAS, at the request of Citibank, the District and Citibank entered into a
Modification and Exchange Agreement, dated as of December 11, 2014 (the “First Modification
Agreement”) pursuant to which the first optional redemption date of the Citibank-Owned 2007A
Bonds was changed from November 1, 2017 to November 1, 2024, upon Citibank making a
payment to the District as consideration for such modification; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the execution and delivery of the First
Modification Agreement, the District and the Trustee entered into the Second Supplemental
Indenture; and
WHEREAS, subsequent to such modification of the optional redemption
provisions pursuant to the First Modification Agreement and the Second Supplemental
Indenture, the Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds are as set forth below:

Maturity Date
(November 1)
2030
2031
2032
2033
2035

CitibankOwned
Principal
Amount

Interest
Rate

CUSIP
Number

First Optional
Redemption
Date

$56,375,000
33,915,000
36,535,000
34,000,000
60,000,000

4.50%
4.50%
4.50%
4.50%
4.50%

759136SQ8
759136SR6
759136SS4
759136ST2
759136SV7

11/1/2024
11/1/2024
11/1/2024
11/1/2024
11/1/2024

WHEREAS, Citibank has requested that (a) the optional redemption provisions of
the Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds be further modified to provide that the Citibank-Owned
2007A Bonds shall not be subject to optional redemption prior to their respective maturity dates,
and (b) Citibank exchange all its outstanding Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds in the aggregate
principal amount of $220,825,000 for such further modified and amended 2007A Bonds in the
aggregate principal amount of [$220,480,000 with a principal amount of $56,265,000 maturing
on November 1, 2030; $33,800,000 maturing on November 1, 2031; $36,415,000 maturing on
November 1, 2032; $34,000,000 maturing on November 1, 2033; and $60,000,000 maturing on
November 1, 2035] (as further defined in this Third Supplemental Indenture, the “Amended
Bonds”), upon Citibank making a payment to the District (the “2017 Citibank Payment”) as
consideration for such modification and exchange, all in accordance with the terms and
provisions of a Second Modification and Exchange Agreement (the “Second Modification
Agreement”) between the District and Citibank; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the execution and delivery of the Second
Modification Agreement, the District and the Trustee will execute and deliver this Third
Supplemental Indenture that will implement the terms and provisions of the Second Modification
Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the terms and provisions of the 2007A Bonds that are not CitibankOwned 2007A Bonds will not be modified or amended in any way by the Second Modification
Agreement or this Third Supplemental Indenture; and

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.c

-2Packet Pg. 167

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is desirable and in the best interest
of the District to enter into the Second Modification Agreement and this Third Supplemental
Indenture, and to execute and deliver the Amended Bonds (as hereinafter defined) in exchange
for the 2017 Citibank Payment; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the net proceeds from the 2017
Citibank Payment will be applied by the District to finance a portion of the costs of the
acquisition, construction and installation of FasTracks; and
WHEREAS, any required Bond Insurer consent will be obtained prior to the
execution and delivery of the Second Modification Agreement and this Third Supplemental
Indenture; and
WHEREAS, Citibank has agreed to execute and deliver the Second Modification
Agreement and has consented to the execution and delivery of this Third Supplemental
Indenture; and
WHEREAS, the Trustee has agreed to execute and deliver this Third
Supplemental Indenture and shall, in accordance with the written direction of the District,
acknowledge the Second Modification Agreement and authenticate the Amended Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the 2007A Indenture provides, in pertinent part, that the District and
the Trustee may, without the consent of, or notice to, any of the Owners of the 2007A Bonds,
enter into a Supplemental Indenture for various purposes, including without limitation, making
any amendment to the terms and provisions of the 2007A Indenture if such amendment is
necessary or desirable and is not materially adverse to the interests of the Owners of the 2007A
Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the modifications set forth in the Second Modification Agreement
and this Third Supplemental Indenture apply only to the Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds and are
not materially adverse to the interests of the Owners of the remainder of the 2007A Bonds and
the consent of the remaining Owners of the 2007A Bonds to the Second Modification Agreement
and the Third Supplemental Indenture is not required.
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises and the mutual
covenants hereinafter contained, the parties hereto formally covenant, agree and bind themselves
as follows:
Section 1.01 The following definitions set forth in the Second Supplemental
Indenture are amended and restated in their entirety as follows:
“Amended Bonds” means the Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds, as amended
hereunder with respect to the outstanding principal amount, optional redemption
provisions and the CUSIP numbers. For purposes of this Indenture, unless
otherwise provided herein or unless the context otherwise requires, all references
to “Bonds” shall include the Amended Bonds.

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.c

-3Packet Pg. 168

“Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds” means the 2007A Bonds owned by
Citibank as of the date of the Third Supplemental Indenture identified as follows:
Outstanding
Principal
Amount
of 2007A
Bonds

Principal
Amount of
2007A
Bonds
Owned by
Citibank

Interest
Rate

Old CUSIP
for
CitibankOwned 2007A
Bonds

11/01/2030 $56,375,000

$56,375,000

4.50%

759136SQ8

11/1/2031

33,915,000

33,915,000

4.50

759136SR6

11/1/2032

36,535,000

36,535,000

4.50

759136SS4

11/1/2033

64,300,000

34,000,000

4.50

759136ST2

11/01/2035

70,220,000

60,000,000

4.50

759136SV7

Maturity
of 2007A
Bonds

Section 1.02

Principal
Amount of
Amended
Bonds

New CUSIP
for
Amended
Bonds

The following definitions shall be added to the Indenture as

follows:
“2017 Citibank Payment” means the payment from Citibank to the
District in the amount of $________ in consideration for the
modification and exchange of the Amended Bonds set forth in the
Second Modification Agreement and in the Third Supplemental
Indenture.
“2017 Resolution” means the Resolution adopted by the Board on
May 23, 2017 approving the Second Modification Agreement and
the Third Supplemental Indenture.
“Second Modification Agreement” means the Modification and
Exchange Agreement dated as of May __, 2017, between the
District and Citibank, and consented to by the Bond Insurer and
acknowledged by the Trustee.
Section 1.03 Section 2.04 of the Indenture (Optional Redemption of Bonds) is
amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
“The Bonds (other than the Amended Bonds) are subject to
redemption prior to maturity at the option of the District, on
November 1, 2017, and on any date thereafter, in whole or in part
from any maturity in such order of maturity as directed by the
District, and by lot from Bonds of the same maturity and interest
rate in such manner as the District shall determine (giving
proportionate weight to Bonds in denominations larger than

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.c

-4Packet Pg. 169

$5,000), at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of
each Bond, or portion thereof, so redeemed plus accrued interest
thereon to the redemption date, without premium.
The Amended Bonds shall not be subject to optional redemption
prior to their respective maturity dates.
The District shall (unless waived by the Trustee) give written
instructions concerning any optional redemption to the Trustee at
least 45 days prior to such redemption date.”
Section 1.04 Exhibit B – Form of Amended Bonds which was attached to the
Second Supplemental Indenture shall be replaced in its entirety in the form attached hereto as
Appendix A to this Third Supplemental Indenture, and by this reference made a part hereof. The
last sentence of Section 2.21 (Bond Form) of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in its
entirety as follows:
“The Amended Bonds shall be in substantially the form set forth in
Exhibit B to this Indenture, with such appropriate variations,
omissions and insertions as may be required by the circumstances,
or as may be required or permitted hereby, by the 2017 Resolution
or by the Second Modification Agreement.”
Section 1.05 Section 5.10 (Use of Proceeds) shall be amended by the addition of
the following sentence at the end of such Section 5.10:
“The District covenants and agrees that the net proceeds of the
2017 Citibank Payment will be used to finance a portion of the
costs of the acquisition, construction and installation of
FasTracks.”
Section 1.06 The Trustee hereby agrees that, so long as any of the Amended
Bonds are Outstanding, that it shall take all necessary steps to identify the 2007A Bonds that are
Amended Bonds.
Section 1.07 This Third Supplemental Indenture shall hereafter form a part of
the 2007A Indenture and all the terms and conditions contained herein shall be deemed to be part
of the 2007A Indenture for any and all purposes. Except as expressly amended hereby, the
2007A Indenture shall remain as originally stated, and as amended by the First Supplemental
Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, and is hereby ratified, approved and
confirmed.
Section 1.08 This Third Supplemental Indenture may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which shall constitute but one and the
same instrument.
Section 1.09 This Third Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Colorado.

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.c

-5Packet Pg. 170

2.11.C.c

This Third Supplemental Indenture shall become effective as of the
Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

Section 1.10
date first above written.

-6Packet Pg. 171

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the District has caused these presents to be executed
in its name and attested by its duly authorized officials with its seal hereunto affixed; and to
evidence its acceptance of the trusts hereby created, the Trustee has caused these presents to be
executed in its corporate name, as of the date first above written.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

By
Chair, Board of Directors
[SEAL]
Attest:

Secretary, Board of Directors

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST
COMPANY, N.A.,
As Trustee

By:
Authorized Officer
Consented to as of the date first above written:
CITIBANK, N.A.,
as Owner of the Citibank-Owned 2007A Bonds

By:________________________________
Title:

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.c

-7Packet Pg. 172

2.11.C.c

Neither this consent nor any past, present or future consents, waivers, actions,
amendments or other agreements, individually or in combination, may be construed to imply or
impose upon the Bond Insurer any intention, agreement, obligation or undertaking to grant future
consents, waivers or amendments or to limit the ability of the Bond Insurer to exercise any and
all of its rights in connection with the Amended Bonds referred to herein or any related
transaction documents, all of which shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect except
as to the modifications consented to hereinabove. In addition, the Bond Insurer makes no
representation as to whether the consent of any other party is required in connection herewith.
ASSURED GUARANTY MUNICIPAL CORP.,
as Bond Insurer

____________________________________]
Authorized Officer

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

[Consented to as of the date first above written.

-8Packet Pg. 173

2.11.C.c

EXHIBIT B - FORM OF AMENDED BONDS
Unless this Bond is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company,
a New York corporation (“DTC”), to the District or its agent for registration of transfer,
exchange, or payment, and any Bond issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such
other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to
Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY
TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR
TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has
an interest herein.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
(COLORADO)
SALES TAX REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS
(FASTRACKS PROJECT) SERIES 2007A
Number
____
Interest Rate

$_________________
Maturity Date

Dated as of

CUSIP

4.50%

November 1, 20___

May 1, 2007

759136___ __

Registered Owner:

Cede & Co.

Principal Amount:

DOLLARS

Regional Transportation District (herein called the “District”), a public body
politic and corporate and a political subdivision of the State of Colorado organized and existing
under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Colorado, for value received hereby promises to
pay to the Registered Owner specified above, or registered assigns, on the Maturity Date
specified above (unless called for earlier redemption), but solely from the funds pledged therefor,
upon presentation and surrender of this Bond at the offices of The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (such bank and any successors thereto being referred to herein as the
“Trustee” and “Paying Agent”), at the option of the Registered Owner hereof, the Principal
Amount specified above in any coin or currency of the United States of America which at the
time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, and to pay to the
Registered Owner hereof interest on such principal sum by check or draft mailed by the Paying
Agent on or before each interest payment date (or, if such interest payment date is not a business
day, on or before the next succeeding business day) to the Registered Owner hereof at the
address shown on the registration records kept by the Trustee or its successor as Trustee as
provided herein, provided that the final interest payment shall be made by the Paying Agent or

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

APPENDIX A

A-1
36497909v1

Packet Pg. 174

its successor upon presentation and surrender of this Bond at the principal offices of the Paying
Agent, in like coin or currency from the date hereof, at the Interest Rate per annum specified
above, payable on May 1 and November 1 in each year, beginning November 1, 2007, until the
District’s obligation with respect to the payment of such principal sum shall be discharged.
Interest on this Bond shall be payable to the Registered Owner hereof at the address shown on
the registration records kept by the Trustee or its successor as Trustee on the 15th day of the
calendar month (whether or not a business day) next preceding such interest payment date (the
“Record Date”). Any such interest not so timely paid or duly provided for shall cease to be
payable to the person who is the Registered Owner hereof at the close of business on the Record
Date and shall be payable to the person who is the Registered Owner hereof at the close of
business on a Special Record Date, as described in the Indenture (as hereinafter defined), for the
payment of any defaulted interest. Such Special Record Date shall be fixed by the Trustee
whenever monies become available for payment of the defaulted interest, and notice of the
Special Record Date shall be given to the registered owners of the Bonds of which this Bond is
one, not less than ten days prior thereto. This Bond shall be dated as provided in the Indenture.
This Bond is one of a duly authorized issue of Bonds of the District designated as
its “Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A” (the “Bonds”) in
the aggregate principal amount of $363,725,000 issued pursuant to the Regional Transportation
District Act, being compiled as Article 9 of Title 32, Colorado Revised Statutes, as amended
(herein called the “Act”) and Title 11, Article 57, Part 2, Colorado Revised Statutes, as amended
(the “Supplemental Act”), under and pursuant to a resolution of the District, adopted March 27,
2007 (the “Resolution”), a Sale Certificate executed in accordance with the Resolution, and an
Indenture of Trust, dated as of May 1, 2007, as amended by a First Supplemental Indenture of
Trust, dated as of July 21, 2009, by a Second Supplemental Indenture of Trust, dated as of
December 11, 2014, and by a Third Supplemental Indenture of Trust (the “Third Supplemental
Indenture”) dated as of May __, 2017 (collectively, the “Indenture”) between the District and the
Trustee. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings
given to them in the Resolution and in the Indenture, as amended.
This Bond is one of the Amended Bonds as set forth in the Third
Supplemental Indenture. The optional redemption provisions for the Amended Bonds
have been modified pursuant to the Third Supplemental Indenture, as hereinafter set
forth.
The Amended Bonds are not subject to optional redemption prior to their
respective maturity dates.
As provided in the Indenture, the Bonds are direct and special obligations of the
District payable solely from and secured as to payment of the principal and redemption price
thereof, and interest thereon, in accordance with their terms and the provisions of the Indenture
solely from the Pledged Revenues, which include (i) the Sales Tax Revenues (as defined in the
Indenture), (ii) proceeds of the Bonds or other legally available moneys deposited into and held
in the 0.4% Sales Tax Increase Fund, the 0.6% Sales Tax Fund, the Bond Fund and the Reserve
Fund, (iii) all interest or investment income on such funds, to the extent that such moneys are at
any time required to be deposited into and held in such funds, and (iv) any additional revenues
legally available to the District which the Board of Directors of the District in its discretion may

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.c

A-2
36497909v1

Packet Pg. 175

hereafter pledge to the payment of the Bonds. Copies of the Resolution and the Indenture are on
file at the office of the District and at the principal office the Trustee or its successor as Trustee,
and reference to the Resolution and the Indenture and any and all supplements thereto and
modifications and amendments thereof and to the Act is made for a description of the pledge and
assignment and covenants securing the Bonds, the nature, extent and manner of enforcement of
such pledge and assignment, the rights and remedies of the registered owners of the Bonds with
respect thereto, the limitations on such rights and remedies and the terms and conditions upon
which the Bonds are issued thereunder.
As provided in the Indenture, the District may issue additional securities from
time to time that are payable from and that have a lien on all or a portion of the Pledged
Revenues that is on a parity with the lien thereon of the Bonds, subject to the provisions and
limitations of the Indenture.
To the extent and in the manner permitted by the terms of the Indenture, the
provisions of the Indenture, or any indenture amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto, may
be modified or amended by the District, in certain circumstances without the consent of or notice
to the owners of the Bonds, and in certain circumstances, only with the written consent of the
owners of at least two-thirds in principal amount of the Bonds then outstanding under the
Indenture. No such modification or amendment shall permit an extension of the maturity of the
principal of, or the interest on, any Bond, or a reduction in the principal amount of or the rate of
interest on, any Bond, or a privilege or priority of any Bond or Bonds over any other Bond or
Bonds, or the deprivation of the owner of any Bond of the lien created on the Pledged Revenues,
without the consent of the owner of such Bond, or shall reduce the aggregate principal amount of
the Bonds required for consent to such supplemental Indentures, or the creation of any lien on
the Pledged Revenues or any part thereof, which is prior or superior to the lien of the Bonds,
other than as created by the Indenture, without the consent of the owners of all Bonds
outstanding.
The Bonds are issuable in the form of fully registered bonds without coupons in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiples of $5,000. This Bond is transferable as
provided in the Indenture, only upon the books of the District kept for that purpose at the abovementioned office of the Trustee, by the Registered Owner hereof in person, or by his or her duly
authorized attorney, upon surrender of this Bond together with a written instrument of transfer
satisfactory to the Trustee duly executed by the Registered Owner or his or her duly authorized
attorney, and thereupon a new registered Bond or Bonds, and in the same aggregate principal
amount, shall be issued to the transferee in exchange therefor as provided in the Indenture, and
upon payment of the charges therein prescribed. The Registered Owner of any Bond or Bonds
may surrender the same (together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Trustee
duly executed by the Registered Owner or his or her duly authorized attorney), at the abovementioned office of the Trustee, in exchange for an equal aggregate principal amount of
registered Bonds, of any of the authorized denominations, in the manner, subject to the
conditions and upon the payment of the charges provided in the Indenture. The District, the
Trustee and any Paying Agent may deem and treat the person in whose name this Bond is
registered as the absolute owner hereof for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account
of, the principal or redemption price hereof and interest due hereon and for all other purposes.

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.c

A-3
36497909v1

Packet Pg. 176

The Bonds of the issue of which this Bond is one are payable upon redemption at
the above-mentioned office of the Paying Agent. The Trustee shall mail, by certified or first
class, postage prepaid mail, a copy of any notice of redemption, postage prepaid, not more than
60 nor less than 30 days before the redemption date, to the Registered Owners of any Bonds or
portions of Bonds which are to be redeemed, at their last addresses, appearing upon the registry
books, but failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any other Bonds. If notice of redemption shall have been mailed as aforesaid, the
Bonds or portions thereof specified in said notice shall become due and payable on the
redemption date therein fixed, and if, on the redemption date, moneys for the redemption of all
the Bonds and portions thereof to be redeemed, together with interest to the redemption date,
shall be available for such payment on said date, then from and after the redemption date interest
on such Bonds or portions thereof so called for redemption shall cease to accrue and be payable.
The principal, premium, if any, and interest on this Bond and the issue of which
this Bond is one are payable solely from the Pledged Revenues under the Indenture and neither
this Bond nor the issue of which it is part shall in any way create or constitute an indebtedness,
liability or obligation of the State of Colorado or any political subdivision thereof except the
District and no property of the District, except the Pledged Revenues, shall be liable to be
forfeited or taken in payment of this Bond or the issue of which this Bond is one.
It is hereby certified and recited that all conditions, acts and things required by
law, the Resolution and the Indenture to exist, to have happened and to have been performed
precedent to and in the issuance of this Bond, exist, have happened and have been performed and
that the issue of Bonds of which this is one, together with all other indebtedness of the District,
complies in all respects with the applicable laws of the State of Colorado, including, particularly,
the Act and the Supplemental Act. This Bond and the issue of which this Bond is one is issued
under authority of the Act and, as provided in Section 32-9-135 of the Act, this recital shall
conclusively impart full compliance with all the provisions of the Act, and this Bond and the
issue of which this Bond is one shall be incontestable for any cause whatsoever after their
delivery for value. This Bond and the issue of which this Bond is one is also issued pursuant to
the Supplemental Act, and pursuant to Section 11-57-210 of the Supplemental Act, this recital
shall be conclusive evidence of the validity and the regularity of the issuance of this Bond and
the issue of which this Bond is one after their delivery for value.
The Act provides that neither the members of the Board of Directors of the
District nor any person executing the securities of the District shall be liable personally on such
securities by reason of the issuance thereof.
This Bond shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or
become obligatory for any purpose until this Bond shall have been authenticated by the
execution by the Trustee of the Trustee’s Certificate of Authentication hereon.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT has
caused this Bond to be signed and executed in the name and on behalf of the District, to be
signed with the manual or facsimile signature of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
District and to be attested with the manual or facsimile signature of the Secretary of the Board of

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.c

A-4
36497909v1

Packet Pg. 177

Directors of the District and has caused its corporate seal (or a facsimile thereof) to be hereunto
affixed, imprinted, engraved or otherwise reproduced, all as of the date of delivery hereof.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

By:
Chair
Board of Directors
[SEAL]
Attest:

Secretary
Board of Directors
[END OF AMENDED BOND FORM]

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

2.11.C.c

A-5
36497909v1

Packet Pg. 178

2.11.C.c

This Bond is one of the bonds delivered pursuant to the within-mentioned
Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST
COMPANY, N.A., as Trustee
Date: _____________________

By:
Authorized Signatory

[END OF FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION]

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

[FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION]

A-6
36497909v1

Packet Pg. 179

2.11.C.c

Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., formerly known as Financial Security
Assurance Inc. (“AGM”), New York, New York, has delivered its municipal bond insurance
policy with respect to the scheduled payments due of principal of and interest on this Bond to
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., or its successor, as paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Paying Agent”). Said Policy is on file and available for inspection at the principal
office of the Paying Agent and a copy thereof may be obtained from AGM or the Paying Agent.

[END OF FORM OF STATEMENT OF INSURANCE]

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

[FORM OF STATEMENT OF INSURANCE]

A-7
36497909v1

Packet Pg. 180

2.11.C.c

The following installments of principal (or portion thereof) of this Bond have
been prepaid in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and Resolution authorizing the
issuance of this Bond.

Date of
Prepayment

Principal
Prepaid

Signature of
Authorized Representative of
the Depository Trust Company

[END OF FORM OF PREPAYMENT PANEL]

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

[FORM OF PREPAYMENT PANEL]

A-8
36497909v1

Packet Pg. 181

2.11.C.c

For value received, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto
____________________ the within bond and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints
_______________ attorney, to transfer the same on the records of the Bond Registrar, with full
power of substitution in the premises.
______________________________________________
Dated: __________________
Signature Guaranteed by a member
of the Medallion Signature Program:

______________________________
Address of transferee:
______________________________
______________________________
______________________________
Social Security or other tax
identification number of transferee:
______________________________
NOTE: The signature to this Assignment must correspond with the name as written on the face
of the within bond in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change
whatsoever.
EXCHANGE OR TRANSFER FEES MAY BE CHARGED

[END OF FORM OF ASSIGNMENT]

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007A FasTrack Bonds (as filed)_36422556_4 (3143 : Citibank Call Modification)

[FORM OF ASSIGNMENT]

A-9
36497909v1

Packet Pg. 182

2.12.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: April 26, 2017

From:

Henry
Stopplecamp,
Assistant
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

April 26, 2017

Subject:

Additional Funding for Triunity-Hill Joint
Venture Contract for FasTracks Construction
Management Support Consultant Services

General

Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to Triunity -Hill Joint
Venture for Construction Management Support Consultant Services (CMSC) for FasTracks,
increasing the Not-to-Exceed contract value through July 14, 2020 by $19,250,000. Funding for
this award is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018-2020 in the specific projects
where CMSC support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the specific projects in future
year capital budgets.
BACKGROUND
In April 2014, the RTD Board approved selection and award of a multi-year contract to the TriunityHill Joint Venture for an amount not to exceed $15,150,000 for Construction Management Support
Consultant Services. Notice to Proceed was issued on July 15, 2014, for a six-year contract with
four one-year options. This contract amendment would increase the total contract not-to-exceed
value through the contract end date of July 14, 2020 to $34,400,000.
As of April 21, 2017, RTD has contracted for a total of $13,405,863 in services to be delivered through
December 31, 2017, and is in the process of negotiating change orders for an additional $948,028,
which would bring the actual contract amount to $14,353,891. As of the February 2017 invoice, RTD
has paid out a total of $7,858,674 on this contract.
The Triunity-Hill JV includes a certified DBE as 51% managing partner. RTD has set a DBE goal of
27% for this contract. As of the February 2017 invoice, actual DBE participation has been 49.64% .
DISCUSSION
The CMSC serves as an extension of RTD staff. RTD staff provides overall management and control
of the FasTracks program and administration of this contract. The CMSC provides key personnel to
support the program in specialized disciplines and short-term roles, generally meeting one or more of
the following criteria:





Technical knowledge or experience that RTD does not have in-house
Functions for which RTD cannot hire staff within its salary structure
Roles lasting less than a year
Functions that require less than a full-time equivalent employee

Each position in the FasTracks organization is evaluated individually to determine whether that
position falls within the above criteria for using a consultant. In addition, before a consultant is

Packet Pg. 183

2.12.D

actually brought into the FasTracks program, an assessment is made as to whether the position is
still needed, and an interview is conducted with the appropriate RTD manager(s).
The detailed scope of work for the CMSC contract is negotiated annually for the upcoming year’s
work tasks. The purpose of the annual re-negotiation of the contract is to ensure that specific tasks
and deliverables respond to the evolving needs of the FasTracks Program. The initial funding for the
contract covered the tasks and deliverables needed through the end of 2017. The requested
additional funding is expected to cover the tasks and deliverables needed through July 14, 2020. If
RTD needs additional services past the current contract end date, future Board action will be needed
to exercise the contract options and increase the contract not-to-exceed amount.
To date, the CMSC has provided the following support for the FasTracks program, and will continue
providing this support through the end of 2017:









Construction support for North Metro and Southeast Rail Extension
DBE support
Project controls support
Specialized planning and environmental support
TOD support
Specialized engineering support
Quality management support
Selected closeout staffing roles on the Eagle and I-225 corridors

RTD envisions the CMSC providing continuing support in those areas through 2020, as well as
additional support in the following areas:
 Closeout support for North Metro and Southeast Rail Extension
 Preparation of federally-required before and after studies for the Eagle and Southeast Rail
Extension projects
 Preparation of the annual Quality of Life report
The specific work scope for each future year would be established late in the prior year.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The total Contract Not to Exceed Amount for the CMSC contract from would be $34,400,000 w ith
this amendment. These funds would be utilized upon inclusion in a specific future work program.
Funding for the future work program is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 20182020 in the specific projects where CMSC support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the
specific projects in future year capital budgets.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the recommended action. It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs &
FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve
a contract amendment to Triunity-Hill Joint Venture for Construction Management Support
Consultant Services (CMSC) for FasTracks, increasing the Not-to-Exceed contract value through
July 14, 2020 by $19,250,000. Funding for this award is included in the 2016 Annual Program
Evaluation for 2018-2020 in the specific projects where CMSC support would be utilized, and
will be appropriated in the specific projects in future year capital budgets.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to increase the
contract not-to-exceed value. Instead, terminate the contract and perform all the work in-house
with RTD staff. This is not recommended as RTD does not have the staff capacity to fill the roles
anticipated to be filled by CMSC personnel.

Packet Pg. 184

2.12.D

3. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to increase the
contract not-to-exceed value. Instead, terminate the contract and re-solicit this work to another
consulting team. This is not recommended as the CMSC is satisfactorily performing its work
assignments and providing valuable technical and project management assistance to the RTD
team.
Selection of alternatives two or three would delay the implementation of the FasTracks Program as
there would be a major loss of continuity on the program.

Prepared by:
Susan Cohen, Senior Manager, Finance and ECM
Pranaya Shrestha, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 185

2.12.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: April 26, 2017

From:

Henry
Stopplecamp,
Assistant
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

April 26, 2017

Subject:

Approval of increased Contract Authorization
to Front Range Systems Consultants (FRSC)
for FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant
Services

General

Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors
increase the board authorized contract amount with Front Range Systems Consultants (FRSC) in the
amount of $3,173,202. This will result in a total contract not-to-exceed authorization of $67,482,759
and will provide funding through the remainder of 2017. Funds for the contract authorization are
included in the specific project budgets where FRSC support would be utilized.
It is further recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to FRSC to extend the
contract completion date from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018, and increase the total
contract amount by $3,500,000, for a total contract authorization of $70,982,759. Funding for this
scope is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018 in the specific projects where FRSC
support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the 2018 capital budget.
BACKGROUND
In April 2005, RTD advertised a Request for Proposals for professional services for a Systems
Engineering Consultant for the overall FasTracks Systems Engineering Services. On September 20,
2005 the RTD Board approved the selection and award to FRSC for the Systems Engineering work for a
six year term and an option for another six years. The RTD Board approved exercising the six year option
in November 2011.
FRSC has successfully performed the stated tasks outlined in the original Scope of Work. Specific
systems design and support scope in their contract includes traction electrification system (TES)
including overhead contact system (OCS) and traction power substations (TPSS), train control,
communication and central control system, corrosion control, systemwide electrical, rail vehicles, and
operation planning support. FRSC has worked with RTD staff in a number of areas:










Provided construction management support for the West Rail Line Project
Provided construction management support for the I-225 Rail Line Project
Provided Systems Engineering & Construction Management Support on the Eagle Project
Provided construction management support on the light rail substation PLC Upgrade Project
Completed the design documents for the I225 Project
Provided Systems Engineering Support on the On-Call Systems Engineering Contract
Provided construction management support for the Denver Union Station Project
Provided construction management support for the North Metro Project
Provided construction management support for the Southeast Rail Line extension

Packet Pg. 186

2.12.E




Provided engineering review and inspection services of the Eagle P3 commuter rail vehicles
Provided engineering advising services in regard to the commuter rail vehicle equalizer beam
warranty issue

DISCUSSION
The RTD selected a single Systems Engineering Consultant for the entire FasTracks Program for
consistency and standardization of design. This approach will save the RTD cost and will facilitate the
operation and maintenance of the system. The initial contract award was for the final design services
for the West Corridor and evaluation of commuter rail vehicle type. The work effort is consistent with
the work required to move each corridor forward and maintain the FasTracks schedule.
In particular, FRSC will support RTD’s Systems Engineering staff on managing; the Southeast Rail Line
Extension, the I-225 Rail Line, the North Metro Rail Line, the US36 BRT line and the Eagle Project. The
proposed Scope of Work to be performed under the increased Contract Authorization is as follows:


Program Management & Support Services
o Provide CADD and Quality Assurance services as required by RTD
o Provide project management and administration
o Provide coordination and project control, cost estimating, cost control assistance
o Provide document control functions for systems engineering
o Assist RTD in coordination with civil designers and other government agencies as it relates to
System Engineering
o Provide reviews and comments on the overall FasTracks schedule
o Incorporate design changes as requested by the RTD
o Prepare PE stamped construction drawings and specifications



Eagle Project
o Support RTD’s System Engineering staff in reviewing and processing close out documents
o Provide operations & maintenance cost estimating & life cycle support
o Assist with systems engineering expertise and evaluation of operational issues
o Assist in cost estimating and negotiations for any systems-related changes
o Provide engineering advising and engineering inspection services for the commuter rail
vehicles



I-225 Corridor LRT Project
o Support RTD’s System Engineering staff in reviewing and processing close out documents
o Assist RTD with systems engineering technical knowledge and expertise
o Assist RTD in reviewing the I-225 schedule
o Provide field verification inspections
o Assist in cost estimating and negotiations for any systems-related changes



North Metro Line
o Review systems submittals and construction design documents submitted by the Contractor
o Assist RTD in coordination with civil designers and other government agencies as it relates to
System Engineering
o Assist RTD in reviewing the North Metro Rail Line schedule
o Assist in cost estimating and negotiations for any systems-related changes including
operations and maintenance
o Perform field inspections
o Perform quality assurance audits as required by RTD’s Quality Assurance Program

Packet Pg. 187

2.12.E



Southeast Rail Extension Project
o Review submittals and construction design documents submitted by the Contractor
o Assist RTD in coordination with civil designers and other government agencies as it relates to
System Engineering
o Assist RTD in reviewing the SERE Systems schedule
o Perform field inspections
o Perform quality assurance audits as required by RTD’s Quality Assurance Program
o Assist in cost estimating and negotiations for any systems-related changes

RTD has reached the stage of the FasTracks program where several of the ongoing corridor projects
have reached revenue service, and are entering the closeout phase. At this time, it is crucial to retain
the institutional knowledge needed to close out all contracts and meet the final reporting requirements
for FTA grant projects. Other projects will be completing construction and entering systems integrated
testing in 2018 The proposed time extension to the FRSC contract would make the resources available
to RTD to complete construction, systems integrated testing, and project closeout in a timely and costeffective manner.
The contract extension through 2018 will cover specific named individuals and functional areas, with
projected timeframes of availability for each one. In the event that a named individual were to leave the
FRSC team before the end of the contract timeframe, the contract would be amended to remove all
remaining hours for that individual. Any future consultant support outside of these designated areas will
be procured through the Systems Engineering Consultant contract to be awarded later in 2017, and will
not be added to the scope of this contract.
Specific projects where FRSC assistance is anticipated in 2018 include:
o Eagle P3 Commuter Rail
o North Metro Rail Line
o Southeast Rail Extension
The DBE goal for this contract was set at 10%. To date FRSC has achieved a 17.5% DBE goal. Front
Range Systems Consultants has proposed a 13% DBE goal for the 2017 work, exceeding the RTD
proposed goal of 10%.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for project scope to be completed in 2017 is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget for the
FasTracks capital program in the specific projects where FRSC support would be utilized. Funding for
2018 scope is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018 in the specific projects where
FRSC support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the 2018 capital budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee that the Board of Directors increase the board authorized contract amount with Front
Range Systems Consultants (FRSC) in the amount of $3,173,202. This will result in a total contract
authorization of $67,482,759 and will provide funding through the remainder of 2017. Funds for the
contract authorization are included in the specific project budgets where FRSC support would be
utilized.
It is further recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to FRSC to

Packet Pg. 188

2.12.E

extend the contract completion date from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018, and increase
the not-to-exceed contract amount by $3,500,000, for a total contract not-to-exceed authorization
of $70,982,759. Funding for this scope is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018
in the specific projects where FRSC support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the 2018
capital budget.
Do not accept the Recommended Action. Reconsider the System Engineering approach. This is not
recommended as RTD does not currently have the specialized staff to meet the System Engineering
needs of the FasTracks Program. Selection of alternative two could delay implementation of the
FasTracks Program.

Prepared by:
Russ Larson, Manager, Systems Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 189

2.12.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: April 25, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

April 25, 2017

Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

Subject:

State Legislative Liaison Services

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an agreement for state legislative liaison services with
Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2017 through
June 29, 2018) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of $127,000, pursuant to the Contract
Award agreement.
BACKGROUND
Contract 13-DX-001 for State Legislative Liaison Services was signed with Brandeberry~McKenna
Public Affairs, effective July 1, 2013, and contained a provision for four (4) additional one-year option
periods. This board action would exercise the option for Year 4 of the option years. Of extreme
importance, the lobbyists are in daily contact with state legislators regarding bills that RTD seeks to have
passed, as well as regarding bills that would be harmful to RTD.
DISCUSSION
The state lobbying team provides guidance and direction for the RTD Board of Directors and staff in
their relationships with the General Assembly members. Constant monitoring of the activities within
the General Assembly and the Executive Office of the state of Colorado is required, and RTD’s
interests must be conveyed to appropriate legislators, including testifying before certain committees.
Advice and assistance in drafting legislation are also provided by the lobbying team. When RTD has
had legislation before the General Assembly, Brandeberry~McKenna has an excellent record of
making certain that these bills pass and become part of the Colorado statutes.
As part of the services, frequent contact is made with RTD staff and board members regarding various
bills in the legislature; written summary reports are issued on a weekly basis during the legislative
session; and status reports are given at the Government Relations Committee meetings while the
General Assembly is in session and as deemed necessary thereafter.
The Brandeberry~McKenna team also takes the initiative to educate state legislators on RTD issues and
projects so that these legislators understand mass transit and RTD’s mission.

Board of Directors Report
State Legislative Liaison Services
May 2, 2017
Page 2 of 2

Packet Pg. 190

2.12.F

ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the Recommended Action. It is recommended by RTD’s Government Relations Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement for state
legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a one-year
option (June 30, 2017 through June 29, 2018) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of
$127,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
2. Do not approve the Recommended Action.
Do not accept the recommendation by the
Government Relations Committee that authorizes the General Manager to enter into a contract to
execute the state legislative liaison services one-year option agreement. A new Request for
Proposals could be sent to interested parties, interviews conducted, and a different state lobbying
firm could possibly be selected by the Government Relations Committee and retained. This action
is not recommended because it is the consensus of the Government Relations Committee to
recommend to the Board the selection of the Brandeberry~McKenna team.
3. Do not approve the Recommended Action. Do not retain the services of a state legislative liaison
firm. This action is not recommended because it would put RTD in the position of facing
contentious and potentially harmful legislative issues with no direct legislative liaison services. It
was determined by the Government Relations Committee that the Brandeberry~McKenna team
has been very effective in pursuing the RTD state legislative agenda and will continue to
represent RTD’s interests very well in the future. This team is very familiar with RTD’s issues
and policies.

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 191

2.12.G

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

May 10, 2017

Subject:

Timekeeping System Contract

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 10, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
for the new time and attendance system to KRONOS Incorporated, in an amount not to exceed
$750,000.
BACKGROUND:
RTD’s current union time and attendance (hardware and software) system, TruTrack, is over fifteenyears old and has passed its end-of-life. Due to the age of the legacy system, a host of issues have
arisen which makes supporting the TruTrack system difficult and in some cases, impossible.
 The current system is unstable, difficult to support and has had multiple outages, at times
occurring daily.
 Replacement hardware does not exist to continue to repair the onsite (RTD) hosted system.
 Replacement time clocks are no longer available.
 In the event of a catastrophic failure, a manual time tracking and payroll generation effort
spanning multiple work groups would be required.
In consultation with the business unit, it was determined that replacement of the existing TruTrack
system is absolutely necessary to assure the future ability to meet union payroll. Given the complexity
of the union payroll structure, the business owner and stakeholders completed a thorough due diligence
assessment and identified requirements to replace the legacy system.
DISCUSSION:
To assure the ongoing ability to track and report represented employees’ (non-operators) time and
attendance and to generate union payroll from this tracked information, RTD must replace the existing
legacy system, TruTack, with a modern and fully supported software as a service (SaaS) hosted time
and attendance system.
RTD is leveraging through US Communities, the KRONOS Contract #14-JLR-003, lead agency is Harford
County Public Schools (Maryland). Contracts and Procurement confirmed RTD’s participation in all the
Cooperative Agreements.
RTD issued the RFP to two firms with existing publicly procured contracts, ADP and KRONOS to provide
a proposal for design, implementation and support for the new time and attendance system for the next
five years.
The evaluation team consisted of personnel from the following departments: Finance, Accounting,
Payroll, Maintenance Reporting and IT. The proposals were reviewed in accordance with the evaluative
criteria as set forth in the RFP for this procurement including: fulfilling RTD-specified design and

Packet Pg. 192

2.12.G

functionality requirements, cost, functional strength, experience, qualifications, project plan and
schedule. After reviewing the two submitted proposals, interviews with both vendors and obtaining
clarifications, the evaluation team unanimously selected KRONOS Incorporated, as the time and
attendance vendor to move forward in the procurement process. The reasons for selecting KRONOS
include but is not limited to:
 KRONOS fully meets approximately 97% of RTD’s requirements. This was highest among the
two competing vendors.
 Of the remaining requirements, KRONOS offered reasonable alternatives with minimal impact to
the District.
 RTD requires 99.5% uptime and KRONOS guarantees 99.75% uptime and has provided 99.9%
uptime over the last six years, far exceeding RTD requirements and assures business continuity.
 KRONOS has over 40 years of experience delivering time and attendance systems. They are
industry-leading experts.
 KRONOS has a strong and proven project implementation strategy and has successfully deployed
their time and attendance system globally.
 KRONOS is scalable and could be expanded to include all employees, both represented and
salaried with future modification.
This new service will assure RTD’s ability to capture and report represented employees’ time and
attendance and generate accurate payroll for represented employees (non-operators). The vendor’s
primary data center is located Massachusetts with a failover/backup center in Illinois.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
The KRONOS proposal provides for system design, implementation, testing and training for $132,175.
First year Operational Services for $72,624 with the first year is assumed to be a partial year. Years
two through five operational service will be $108,936, per year. Total cost of the KRONOS proposal is
$640,543. The implementation of the time and attendance system is fully funded with existing approved
capital and operating funds and includes the first year of maintenance and licensing. The total not-toexceed contract amount will be $640,543. Implementing a complex payroll system to ensure continuity
of union payroll may result in changes unforeseen at the time the scope of work was produced. To
allow for a timely implementation, it’s in RTD’s interest to have contract authority beyond the proposal
amount by $109,457, to allow for such events.
Authority is requested from the Board for a total
amount of $750,000 which includes implementation costs, annual maintenance and licensing for five
years and contingency to cover any unforeseen expenses. There are sufficient funds budget in 2017 for
the implementation. Future funds for operations will be incorporated in the maintenance and operations
budgets.
ALTERNATIVES:
1. Approve the recommendation that the Financial Administration & Audit Committee and the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
award a contract for the new Time and Attendance system to KRONOS Incorporated, in an
amount not to exceed $750,000. This is the recommended action.
2. Do not approve the recommendation that the Financial Administration & Audit Committee and the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for the new Time and Attendance system to KRONOS
Incorporated, in an amount not to exceed $750,000. This is not the recommended action
because the existing system is unstable and in immediate need of replacement.

Packet Pg. 193

2.12.G

Prepared by:
Kim Heldman, Senior Manager, IT
Eric Dunham, Senior Project Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 194

2.12.H

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

May 10, 2017

Subject:

Non-Profit Program 2017

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 10, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Non-Profit program
continue to maintain a $6,800,000 face value amount for 2017.
BACKGROUND:
RTD’s Non-Profit Program has been in existence for more than 25 years. The purpose of the program is
to offer government agencies and nonprofit organizations the opportunity to purchase discounted RTD
fare media for distribution to their means-tested clients.
Last year the RTD Board approved several changes to the program including changing the name of the
program, offering the new Day Pass ticket books, changing all discounts to 50%, permitting agencies to
recover up to 100% of the price paid to RTD for the fare media, easing some of the administrative
burden, and raising the program face value amount from $5,800,000 to $6,800,000. We currently
have 309 agencies in the program. Of those, 57 are new participants that joined in 2016 and 17 are
new participants that joined in 2017.
DISCUSSION:
With the changes made for 2016, we anticipated additional interest in the program. We knew we
needed to put some level of controls on the program while allowing additional participants to purchase
fares. We limited those that were already participating in the program to their previous year’s purchases
+ 10%. This allowed approximately $35,000 (face value) per month or $420,000 (face value) per year
for new participants. However, in December the volume of orders was so large, our manual tracking
process was not able to keep pace with the volume of orders as precisely as we had been able to up to
that point and we went over the approved amount by $700,000 (face value).
In just the first two months of 2017, we have had 10 new organizations join the program and with the
current sales from existing customers and the new ones, we could easily exceed the current board
authorized program total of $6,800,000 by mid-year.
In March, we approached the Board Executive Committee with a short-term measure so that we could
slow down the rate of buy in the program until we could bring a more permanent solution to the Board
for consideration. The following is the short-term plan.




Any new program applicant will be put on a wait list for now as well as any existing agency that
did not order in 2016
Current members (pre-2016) are limited to what they purchased last year for each month
For new members (2016 and 2017), we are averaging their total amount purchased last year and
limiting them to that amount

Packet Pg. 195

2.12.H

At the April Financial Administration and Audit Committee, we presented three potential options.




Keep the program amount the same, which would result in a reduction from 2016 amounts
Increase the program by $730,000 face value
Increase the program by $1,000,000 face value

The majority of the Board input indicated that we should stay within the 2017 budgeted face value of
$6,800,000. To stay within the $6.8 million threshold, we need to do the following:





Any new program applicant will be put on a wait list as well as any existing agency that did not
order in 2016.
New participants in 2017 will be limited to what they already ordered.
Any entity that has ordered at or above what they ordered in 2016 with not be able to order any
additional product in 2017.
The remaining face value at the end of May 2017 will be divided proportionally among the
remaining participants based on their proportional value of the orders placed in 2017 to the total
value of all orders.

Staff will come back will a recommendation for 2018 once the Pass Working Group has had an
opportunity to meet and make recommendations and we see how the 2018 budget is looking.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
With the option presented, there would be no financial impact to the current 2017 budget.

ALTERNATIVES
1.

Approve the recommendation by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Non-Profit program continue to maintain a $6,800,000 face value amount for 2017. This is
the recommended action.
2.
Approve another face value amount for 2017 for the Non-Project program. This is not
the recommended action.
3.
Do not approve the recommendation by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Non-Profit program continue to maintain a $6,800,000 face value amount for
2017. This is not the recommended action.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 196

2.12.H

Packet Pg. 197

