1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
May 18, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Larry Hoy
Attendee Name
Larry Hoy
Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler
Jeff Walker
Natalie Menten

Title
Chair
First Vice Chair
Second Vice Chair
Secretary
Treasurer

Status
Present
Absent
Remote
Present
Present

Arrived

Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Hoy, 2nd Vice Chair
Deadwyler (via phone), Secretary
Walker, Treasurer Menten

Committee members absent

1st Vice Chair Francone

Others present:

General Manager Genova,
Executive Manager Barbara
McManus, Board Office
Administrator John McKay

Director Menten arrived late.
II.

May Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Hoy briefly reviewed the May 23, 2017 Board Meeting agenda. He asked
about the retiree awards, and Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board
Office, said that only one retiree had committed to attend the meeting.

General Manager Genova mentioned that he had spoken to Director Lubow about
her questions regarding agenda items dealing with service contracts, specifically the
contract with Jacobs Engineering. He suggested that Director Lubow may want to
pull off the Jacobs contract agenda item from Unanimous Consent and place it on
the list of Recommended Actions, which would allow her to question how much of
the contracts went toward projects taking longer than originally scheduled.
Chair Hoy said he was fine with removing the item from Unanimous Consent and
asked whether Director Lubow’s question could be better answered offline.
General Manager Genova stated that Director Lubow wanted the rest of the Board
to hear the dollar amount estimate that Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General
Manager of Capital Programs, had put together.
Chair Hoy said he had concerns over the wording from staff on the recommended
action regarding the non-profit program. He said the recommendation was worded
such that a yes vote would result in a workable action but a no vote would
terminate the nonprofit program.
General Manager Genova said that was not the intent.
Chair Hoy acknowledged the intent of the vote but asked how the vote would work
if the Board intended to do one thing but the recommended action language stated
something different. He read the recommended action language aloud.
General Manager Genova said that the funding for the program already existed in
the budget for 2017.
Chair Hoy said that the Board could change the budget and does so frequently.
General Manager Genova clarified that a yes vote would continue the program as it
currently existed, with the recently approved restrictions, and that a no vote would
roll back those restrictions. He said the Board would have to approve an
amendment to change the recommended action language.
Chair Hoy asked whether he was being overly cautions or if others interpreted the
recommended action language in the same way.
General Manager Genova agreed with Chair Hoy’s interpretation of the possible
outcome of a no vote.

Chair Hoy suggested moving forward with the agenda and having staff amend the
language.
Director Deadwyler said she interpreted a no vote as meaning the program needed
to be changed and that the Board would have an opportunity to do that.
Chair Hoy said that staff was asking to go forward with the program at the current
funding level and to put the restrictions in place.
Director Deadwyler said she did not like the idea of being unable to change the
program because the recommended action was merely a courtesy that staff had
extended to the Board to tell them what they had already decided to do.
Chair Hoy reiterated that the effect of the recommended action is to keep program
funding at $6.8 million and continue the restrictions previously agreed to.
General Manager Genova concurred with Chair Hoy’s interpretation.
Director Deadwyler suggested that the Board should revisit the entire non-profit
program to be able to help constituents without bankrupting the agency.
Chair Hoy agreed that a probe would be needed but stated the vote before the
Board is a stopgap for 2017, without which the program would run out of money.
Director Menten reiterated that the language of the recommended action would
need to be changed to highlight the increases in 2016 and, due to budget
constraints, the program would be maintained at the increased level of $6.8 million.
She stated that alternative action #3 in the Board Report would be the effect of a
no vote.
Director Deadwyler stated again that the entire program needs to be revisited but
said that keeping the funding at $6.8 million while that review takes place would be
fine.
General Manager Genova stated that the plan Director Deadwyler proposed was
what the recommended action would accomplish. He said staff would look more
closely at the issue and come back to the Board.
Director Menten said that the pass program working group is not looking at
nonprofit program.

Chair Hoy said that the two programs are separate items.
General Manager Genova said the two plans were separate but related and that
there are stakeholders who are interested in both. She said that it is in the Board’s
discretion to operate the programs however they want. He noted that
recommendations from the pass program study may affect the non-profit program.
Chair Hoy said that he had a problem with ticket recipients receiving a 50%
discount on top of another 50% discount.
General Manager Genova said that staff had considered removing the second
discount as part of the recommended action but refrained from doing so because of
the potential for pushback.
Chair Hoy reminded the Executive Committee that certain people are getting on the
bus for $.65. He said there would be a spirited discussion on the issue on the
following Tuesday. He asked whether the Directors in attendance agreed on the
new language for the recommended action, and they concurred. He said the
recommended action could not be tabled to a specific date because delaying would
drain more money from the program.
General Manager Genova said that the restrictions to the program were in place and
that the recommended action merely clarifies the Board’s policy.
Director Walker clarified that the motion language for the recommended action
would be changed to incorporate the bulleted restrictions itemized in the Board
Report.
General Manager said that staff would put together a replacement action in order to
add clarity.
Chair Hoy said that procedurally the motion would be read as it appeared in the
Financial Administration and Audit committee (FA&A), and then a substitute motion
would be made.
Director Menten asked to make the motion main since the action came out of
FA&A. She inquired when the language for the substitute motion would be sent
out.
General Manager Genova said the language could be sent out the following day.

Director Menten said it would be good to send the substitute motion language to
the Directors before the Board Meeting.
Ms. McManus said that distributing the motion language on the night of the Board
Meeting would cause confusion and offered to send the language out via email.
Director Menten said that Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant
General Manager of Finance and Administration, had mentioned the timekeeping
contract item from the previous FA&A meeting had been presented to the Board for
the fourth time. She said that she only remembered seeing the recommended action
twice.
General Manager said that in his recollection the agency had only looked at
changing timekeeping vendors twice. He said the agency had originally planned to
keep the original vendor but that plan did work out. He said the agency went out
with another type of procurement in order to change to a different vendor.
Ms. McManus said that staff had presented an update to the Board and that
perhaps what Ms. McKillop had meant was that information regarding timekeeping
vendors had been discussed with the Board on four separate occasions.
Motion:
Director Menten made the motion to approve moving
the May 23rd, 2017 Board agenda to the full Board.
Director Walker seconded the motion.
Vote on
Motion:

III.

The motion passed with 4 in favor (Hoy,Deadwyler,
Walker, Menten), 0 opposed, and 1 absent (Francone).

Other Matters
General Manager Genova stated that he would be attending a technical meeting
with the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Regional Office via videoconference
that day and another meeting at FRA headquarters in Washington the following
Monday.
Director Menten indicated that General Manager Genova would be able to report to
the Board on his discussions at the May 23 Board Meeting. She asked the date of
the next General Manager’s Quarterly Update.

General Manager Genova said the event had not yet been scheduled but would
check with Nate Currey, Senior Manager of Public Relations and Public Information,
on the timing.
Director Menten asked whether the video recording capability was functional in
conference rooms R, T, & D.
General Manager Genova said that the video functionality is moving ahead and that
much of the hardware has been installed.
Ms. McManus said that the components were attached to the network temporarily
and that an additional component would still be installed.
Director Deadwyler asked when the Board could see the video recordings.
Ms. McManus said no one could see anything yet because the video recording was
still in the testing phase. She indicated that additional testing would take place the
following Monday and hoped to do a formal test during the upcoming Executive
Committee meeting. She said that staff was working on the closed captioning and
transcript components of the video project. She said that the video project hinged
on the proper operation of a video encoder and how that encoder integrated with
the Board’s agenda and minutes software, all of which would be tested on the
following Monday.
Director Menten questioned whether the work would take another month.
Ms. McManus said the rollout would depend on how well the testing goes and on
certain aspects such as sound and video integration and training of outside
vendors. She said that she did not know when the system would be ready but
hoped to have an end product before the next Executive Committee.
Director Deadwyler asked to know the total cost.
Ms. McManus said she would put that information together.
Director Walker announced that he had been asked to sit on the APTA nominating
committee, which selects the organization’s governing board.
Chair Hoy asked whether the nominating committee would be meeting at its own
conference.

Director Walker said that the committee would meet at the APTA Board Member
and Board Support Conference. He said that he would not be able to attend the
Board Meeting on July 25, 2017, because he would be attending Leadership APTA
in Vancouver, British Columbia, starting on July 26, 2017.
General Manager Genova said that RTD would be submitting Lacy Bell as the
agency’s applicant.
IV.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 12:34 p.m.

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - May 23, 2017
II.

Pledge of Allegiance

XI.

Unanimous Consent

A.
Approval of Contract Extension for Jacobs Engineering for FasTracks Program
Support Consulting Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract
amendment to Jacobs Engineering for Program Support Consulting Services (PSC) for
FasTracks, to extend the contract completion date from June 30, 2017 to December
31, 2019. Funding for project scope to be completed in 2017 is included in the 2017
Adopted Budget for the FasTracks capital program in the specific projects where PSC
support would be utilized. Funding for future year scope is included in the 2016
Annual Program Evaluation for 2018-2019 in the specific projects where PSC support
would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the specific projects in future year capital
budgets.
B.

2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to
the year ended December 31, 2016 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD's
independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
C.

Citibank Call Modification

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
execution and delivery of a second modification and exchange agreement and a third
supplemental indenture of trust relating to a portion of a portion of the District’s sales tax
revenue refunding bonds (FasTracks Project) Series 2007A, and other matters related
thereto.

XII.

Recommended Action

D.
Additional Funding for Triunity-Hill Joint Venture Contract for FasTracks
Construction Management Support Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract
amendment to Triunity-Hill Joint Venture for Construction Management Support
Consultant Services (CMSC) for FasTracks, increasing the Not-to-Exceed contract value
through July 14, 2020 by $19,250,000. Funding for this award is included in the
2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018-2020 in the specific projects where CMSC
support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the specific projects in future
year capital budgets.
E.
Approval of increased Contract Authorization to Front Range Systems Consultants
(FRSC) for FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors increase the board authorized contract amount with Front Range
Systems Consultants (FRSC) in the amount of $3,173,202. This will result in a total
contract not-to-exceed authorization of $67,482,759 and will provide funding through the
remainder of 2017. Funds for the contract authorization are included in the specific project
budgets where FRSC support would be utilized.
It is further recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract
amendment to FRSC to extend the contract completion date from December 31, 2017 to
December 31, 2018, and increase the total contract amount by $3,500,000, for a total
contract authorization of $70,982,759. Funding for this scope is included in the 2016
Annual Program Evaluation for 2018 in the specific projects where FRSC support would be
utilized, and will be appropriated in the 2018 capital budget.
F.

State Legislative Liaison Services

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an agreement for state
legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a
one-year option (June 30, 2017 through June 29, 2018) to extend Contract No. 13-DX001, at a cost of $127,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
G.

Timekeeping System Contract

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for the new time and attendance system to KRONOS
Incorporated, in an amount not to exceed $750,000.

H.

Non-Profit Program 2017

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the NonProfit program continue to maintain a $6,800,000 face value amount for 2017.

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

