January 14, 2020
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
KEN MIHALIK: The Financial Administration and Audit Committee, it is now-- and I'll just ask
that someone on the phone maybe go on mute. Feedback. All right. That sounds better. Thank you.
It is 10 after 7:00 on January 14th, and I will call this meeting to order. This evening, we have-excuse me-- three recommended actions.
The first one is as follows. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the attached resolution number blank the resolution
authorizing the recalculated base rental schedule related to the partial refinancing of the 2010
leased property. This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals-- core
goal number three, strong financial management. Is there a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Moved.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you Directors Tisdale and Williams. And Ms. McKillop, I'll let you-- I'll
allow you to elaborate on this.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you Mr. Chair. This is Heather McKillop. We appreciate that
robust motion and seconding. So we're off to a good start tonight. And I'm going to turn this over
to Brenden Morgan just to do a very quick recap, because it might be a little confusing what we're
asking to do. So a recap of why we have this motion and this resolution in front of you. So Brenden,
if you wouldn't mind.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yeah. Thank you, Heather. Good evening. I'm Brenden Morgan, Senior
Manager of Debt Investments. So this resolution has to do with the refunding of the 2010
certificates of participation that the Board authorized back in September or October of 2019. Staff
has moved ahead and gone through a pricing for this transaction, where we've locked in significant
savings. It's approximately $17 million on a net present value basis, or 22% net present value
savings. And to put that in perspective, the RTD policy requires a minimum savings of 3%, and
we achieved 22% through this transaction. So very good results. We're very happy with that.
This resolution essentially approves the new recalculated base rental payments for these 2010 a
certificates of participation, which are also tied to our 2010 b certificates of participation, which
are not being refinanced, but they share the same common lease underneath the same-- each of
those securities. So this resolution contains the base rental schedule, showing the future base rental
payments related to these securities, and the savings is reflected in these numbers. And that's really
all the Board is being asked to approve today.

KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Any questions for Mr. Morgan? Seeing none, we will go ahead
and vote. And for those on the phone, I'll get your vote here in just a second. Director Tisdale, you
were the mover. Director Williams, the second. Director Catlin, if you're still with us, how would
you vote on this?
PEGGY CATLIN: I vote in favor. Thank you, Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska. Director Folska, if you're there, were you going to
plan to vote on this? All right. We'll count that as an absence. Ms. McManus, I think we've got a
quorum, can you go ahead? OK. Thanks. And so with Director Catlin's yes, we have 12 yes's, no
no's, and this passes. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Chair?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Chair? Director Buzek here votes yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you for letting me know that you are joining virtually. So we have
13 yes's. Thank you. And no no's. This passes. We will move on to the-- thank you, Mr. Morgan.
On to the second of tonight's recommended actions. It is recommended by the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors approve a budget transfer
of $6,910,000 from the Fast Tracks Operating Reserve to the North Metro Operations Standup
Budget to allow for the carry forward of standup expense funds that were budgeted but not spent
in 2019.
The funds to be transferred will be allocated to the stand up budget as follows. And there is a chart
with the various criteria that total the $6,910,000. The operating reserve will be replenished in the
2020 admitted budget with the funds that were not spent on North Metro standup expense in 2019.
And this recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals-- core goal number
three, strong financial management, task goal number five, to increase ridership. Is there a motion?
BOB BROOM: So moved
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Third.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Broom and Tisdale. And Heather, you got some additional
people with you?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, I have my support team. But I will just cover the highlights. And
then we'll be glad to take questions, depending on what questions there might be, we have various
people to be able to answer that. So the purpose of this action is to do two things-- one, roll forward

the funds that were anticipated to be unexpended-- and now, we're more aware of the exact amount
of the under expenditure in 2019 for the North Metro project for standup and operations. At the
time that we do normally roll forwards in September, that's including the 2020 budget, we had not
identified these funds as needing to be rolled forward. We did not know how much of them would
be expended and not expended. And so we're doing it at this time.
The second piece of it is actually reallocating some of the funds between line items. So overall,
the total budget that the Board has appropriated for the standup in operations for 2019 and 2020
will not be exceeded. We'll still be within those limits. But we have identified areas where there
were savings and areas where we had higher expenditures.
So what this action does is do both things-- it carries forward the funds into 2020 that were
remaining in 2019, and it also reallocate some of the funding to the line items where they need to
be for us to be able to accomplish the final standup and go into operations in 2020.
It does exceed the General Manager's limits, so that's why it's been brought to you both from a
standpoint of being over the total and then within the reallocation in this operations budget that
would normally come to the Board if it exceeds the GM's goals, or the GM's dollar thresholds,
which it does.
I just want to reiterate that, one, we are not exceeding the total budget, so we are still within the
budget that the Board has set aside and appropriated in the past in '19 and '20. Some of this is a
timing issue. The other thing I want to mention is I had a question why it went into-- it’s coming
out of the fast tracks reserve right now, even though it's being rolled forward. And that's, again, a
timing issue.
We're closing the books right now. What happens is any unspent funds will go back into the fast
tracks reserve, and we'll be taking these funds out of there so it'll be a net zero sum. But just
because of the timing, the money needs to go through the final closure process, be returned to the
fast tracks contingency, and then we're taking it out of there. And that's why it'll be adjusted in the
2020 amended budget. So you'll see this again being reconciled there.
So with that, I'd be glad to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: With that explanation, is there any additional questions? Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hey, Heather, thank you for that explanation. It's actually really helpful. I
have a few questions. In this language, which says, standup expense funds that were budgeted but
not spent in 2019-- are you saying that they were budgeted for the items that are outlined within
this recommended action? Or they were simply budgeted within our budget?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: They were budgeted for specific standup items in North Metro. And
those are being rolled forward for either some of those exact same items, or we've had to tweak
between line items, because we spent less than one area and we're planning on spending slightly
more on another. But it's all related to North Metro standup. That's where it was budgeted.

SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And you can tell me if this is appropriate, because it actually goes
between two of the recommended actions. On packet page 20-- and this is on the printed form, so
I can look in here and tell you where that actually falls-- but it says here-- I'm sorry. Let me find
this. Contractor services for operator training, contractor services for train dispatching, contractor
services for maintenance training-- and I am curious, is that different than the TCS that is in our
other--?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, it's not. The second item we had to do second, because we need you
to approve the first item for there to be money in place for us, you to approve the second item.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So they're intertwined. But the first action carries the money forward. If
you don't carry the money forward, there won't be money to execute the second request.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Understood. OK. That's very helpful. And that's what-- I'm sorry. Trying to
make sense of all of this. So it says-- I'm sorry about this. Oh, it talked about the training, the
dispatching, and the maintenance training, and there was a difference between-- this is what
happens when you read this over the weekend and then you forget to revisit it before you come
back to a Board meeting. No, no. I think it said $1.4 million in expenses for the items that you've
listed here. And I understand that you-- wait. I'm sorry. I'm trying to make sense of this. I'm trying
to understand what are the training numbers based on for us to get to that value? Does that make
sense?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm going to ask Susan if she can answer that question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you.
SUSAN COHEN: This is Susan Cohen, Senior Manager of Finance. Point of clarification-- the 1.4
note that-- the list of items below is actually the combined outstanding commitments that were
already entered into assuming that they would be paid in 2019 plus the additional 1.4, which has
not been entered into at this point. The estimates in there for operator training and train dispatching
came from the memo.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So what she's trying to say is the additional money in there is additional.
We already had money set aside for that training, et cetera in the 2020 budget and already
encumbered in the 2019 budget. So the additional is for that differential that we're asking for in
the TCS contract.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That makes sense. Is there-- and maybe we get to it in the second
recommended action, but is there a certain amount of hours that we are anticipating that we would
be contracting for training? And that's how we're getting to that value?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm going to pass that down. And that would be that Dave Jensen, Mark
question.

DAVE JENSEN: Right. So this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. And I will pass that on- I brought Mark Clendennen in with me, who is General Superintendent for the N Line.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Don't pass it too far, because there's-- we're running out of-DAVE JENSEN: Well, he can pass it back up.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'll go back this way instead of out there.
MARK CLENDENNEN: Good evening. My name is Mark Clendennen I'm General
Superintendent for Commuter Rail. The estimate that we had done was carried out to April, the
end of April, for the TCS contract. And that's where we based the hours off of. We're anticipating
hiring staff before then and having the TCS contract come to an end right before the April 30 date.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. My guess is that it's much more than we anticipated when you would
come-- is it a huge difference? I guess I'm just trying to-- trying to gauge how much more.
MARK CLENDENNEN: It was a conservative number that we came up with, just to be on the
safe side, so that we didn't have to come back to the board.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That's what I wanted to understand. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Treasurer Lewis may have just asked this, and I'm not clear. I wanted to ask
if-- on this item, it says contractor services for staff augmentation. Is that for actual operators? Is
that to fill the complement of operators we need or is that other staff?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. So for-- well, you go ahead.
MARK CLENDENNEN: This is Mark Clendennen, General Superintendent for Commuter Rail.
It is for other services. We have a contract with HNTV that comes out to provide additional support
with FR8 documents that we're needing to produce for the FR8 as a part of the new start.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So it's not to fill the complement of operators we think we'll need? You
still feel confident that we'll make that?
MARK CLENDENNEN: Yes, I do feel confident that we'll make that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And then, Director Guissinger picked up something that I missed in the
prior session. Are we losing some people from light rail to this rail? And if so, why would that be?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: 3. 3 I think is what AGM Jensen said that we've had move over from
light rail to apply for the commuter rail positions.
SHELLEY COOK: Do we know why they view that as the better slot?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: No mandating?
SHELLEY COOK: Because we'll have a full complement in-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. And well, another thing is they may be lower seniority in light rail,
they rise to the top of the seniority in commuter rail because it's brand new.
SHELLEY COOK: It's kind of worrisome, though, if we're going to rob Peter to pay Paul.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: If I could speak to that. We anticipated some of that happening because
of the union rules that we offered up to internal employees first. So we anticipated that in our
recruiting efforts. And we had to go through the process of opening up internally. The timing
wasn't great because of the issues that we're having with light rail. But we knew that would be part
of the process and part of our recruitment strategy, where we'd need to deal with that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thanks.
DAVE JENSEN: And this is Dave Jensen, if I could add to that in just a little bit. From our
perspective, they're all RTD employees, and so we want people to be in a place that they'll be most
satisfied, secured in their employment. So we do anticipate that sort of thing. But because we've
already posted for internals, we've got a pretty good idea of right now, of how many we would
potentially lose. And right now, we're not overly concerned with that.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Folska, if you're still with us, do you have any
questions or comments? Director Catlin. You're next.
PEGGY CATLIN: No. I don't have any. Thank you very much. They've been answered.
KEN MIHALIK: Thanks. And Director Buzek, any questions or comments?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Well, let's move to vote. Director Broom, you were the mover. Director
Tisdale, you were the second. And Director Buzek, how would you vote on this?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: And Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.

KEN MIHALIK: And Director Folska if you're still there? All right. So we'll do 13 yes's. One
abstention being Director Lewis. So this passes. And we will move on to the-- for those on the
phone, the conversation was about this, the intertwining of that previous recommended action and
then this third one as it relates to the North-- oh, no. Not at all. It's a good segue into this third
recommended action, because as Ms. McKillop stated, this one was dependent on the previous
one. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors-- and for those on the phone, if you wouldn't mind muting your phones. Thanks, I'll
start over.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to amend the contract
with Transportation Certification Services, TCS, for operator training and train dispatch services
to increase the contract, not to exceed amount by $1,208,000 for a total not to exceed contract
amount of $1,840,125. Funding for 2020 work orders to be issued under this contract will be
provided through a budget transfer to carry forward unspent 2019 expense funding. This
recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals-- task goal number five, to
increase ridership. Is there a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Tisdale and Whitmore. If there is any additional
explanation on this-HEATHER MCKILLOP: I think we covered a lot of it before. But the key is these people are
providing assistance in our training our current operator class that's going through right now.
They'll be assisting us with our instructor training, which we are hiring those instructors now, and
they will be trained. And in the future, we will have those permanent instructors doing the training.
And then we'll also be leading our dispatch instructing at this point in time, too. So we are asking
for approval of that, utilizing the funds. Again, not an increase in the budget but utilizing the funds
that we're carrying forward from last year.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'll start my list of questions is-- first of all, this is a sole source
contract. So that would mean, as I recall, nobody else is offering-HEATHER MCKILLOP: That's my understanding. It was a full service contract. Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: It seems surprising. Is that-- can that be confirmed?
MARK CLENDENNEN: This is Mark Clendennen, and yes, it is a sole source contract. It was
with TCS, a company that DTO had used as a part of their startup, so they were familiar with the
territory, they were familiar with the rules. We have a set standard of operating rules that we are

adhering to, same as DTO, and so it made sense to just stay with that same company to expedite
the process.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then what is-- remind me the total amount of operators that we'll
be having operate, run the trains on the North N line?
MARK CLENDENNEN: It is 28.
NATALIE MENTEN: And so, I looked at the job board recently and saw that we were hiring-- it
looked like at first glance, just first glance-- one trainer for OCS, one trainer for operators. And
that alarmed me, because I'm thinking, why would we hire full-time employees to do this? But I
think they're secondary-- a big part of their position, actually, was they're supervisors?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: You want me to answer this? So we're hiring three senior instructors.
And yes, it's a combination of supervisors and trainers. But it is significantly less expensive for us
to have in-house trainers that know our system than it is to hire a company like TCS on an ongoing
basis.
NATALIE MENTEN: So that goes back to how many employees we got? How often do 28
employees need to be trained?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, they can answer that better, but there's very specific requirements
in FRA on their refresher training. Just like we have permanent, full-time instructors on both bus
and rail. Whether or not we're fully staffed or not, we would continue to have those instructors,
because they have to refresher training. They have to do training on the FRA regulations. And
they're also supervising other employees in this case.
NATALIE MENTEN: And it's very uncommon, very rare, in the industry to have somebody who
is a cross trainer-- light rail and commuter.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'll let them answer that, but I've been told that's almost impossible
because of the certifications that you have to do between FRA and light rail. But I'll let Dave
answer that question.
DAVE JENSEN: So what I would-- this is Dave Jensen, AGM Rail Operations. What I would add
to the conversation, I think, too, is that there really is only one trainer for the transportation
department. So the OCS, that's the overhead catenary system, the skill sets are completely
different. So that would be like-- they need to be-- they've got to have high voltage electricity
knowledge and be able to teach people how to work on that. Far different from somebody operating
a train. Far different from somebody working on the track.
So that's why there's different trainers for the different areas. It's just completely different, as far
as the training goes. And I'll let Mr. Clendennen maybe elaborate a little bit, too. But the scope of
their work will go beyond just training in a classroom. So there's the initial hire still, that will be
ongoing. There'll be recertifications, which will be annually. And then there's a lot of the rules and
regulations that we've got to make sure that we've got documented, that we're processing to the

regulatory agencies like FRA. So there's sufficient work for one individual in each one of those
departments.
NATALIE MENTEN: So let me make sure I'm clear. When I said cross training, that would mean
that somebody who is used to dealing with the operators would train light rail operators and also
have the ability to train commuter operators. Somebody who deals with OCS would deal with light
rail training and also commuter.
So they would be in the same-- it'd be-- how would I put it? Somebody who knows how to work
on a standard tranny (transmission) and an automatic tranny (transmission) or diesel engine and a
gasoline engine are very similar but may be slightly different. That's why I'm wondering if we are
over stocking employees with these training new hires that we've put in.
DAVE JENSEN: Right. I understand. And again, I'll defer to Mr. Clendennen if I missed
something. But on light rail, there's different requirements just to be on the right of way. So one's
a FRA regulated railroad and one is not. So you would have to be both. On the light rail side right
now, their training staff is already maxed out. So for us to use them any beyond what they're
already doing becomes a stretch. And then we start sacrificing on the light rail side of what training
is required there. Whether or not it's conceivable for somebody to be cross trained, I suppose that
people could have certain level of expertise in training and expertise in electricity and current and
the railroad factors. But I don't know of anybody that's doing that.
DAVE GENOVA: If I could add a little bit. This is Dave Genova. So systems are completely
different from light rail to commuter rail. So for example, the OCS-- the overhead catenary system
and the power and the substations completely different network. On light rail, it's a direct current
system, 650 to 750 volts. Commuter rail is 25,000 volt AC.
Again, completely different network, completely different substations. And an infrastructure,
means completely different infrastructure. Same for the vehicles. So light rail vehicles very
different than commuter rail vehicle. They have very different systems, especially on the commuter
side, with positive train control. It's really an art and a skill to be able to develop that ability to be
able to do the training for operators on that. And it's a completely different operating environment.
So while, you know, we might be able to do some of that down the road, it's really beneficial to
have very specific areas of expertise. So that we make sure that, not only retraining people
appropriately so they're operating equipment safely, not just the trains, but when they're out there
working on the infrastructure. Very different set of standard operating procedures for operating in
a DC environment versus a high voltage AC environment. So some of the differences.
And then the other thing I'll point out is that we're completely maxed out on light rail resources to
be able to train operators now. In fact, you know, we could use additional resources, not just in
terms of people, but equipment and space and things to do more training of light rail. So there's
really not an economy of scale to be gained at all.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you. I've been waiting a couple of weeks to ask those
questions. So thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I have a couple of questions that I was hoping you
guys could clarify for me. One of them has to do with-- oh, yes. You know, we're adding quite a
bit of funding. And I was wondering, did that have anything to do with the time delay, or would
the same amount of money been asked for earlier if it wasn't this delay?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So first of all, we're not adding money. We're just transferring the
unused money from 2019 to 2020. And yes, there is some of that attributable to the fact that we
did not get that money spent in 2019 like we anticipated, because we didn't hire operators as
quickly and other things. Because we didn't want them sitting around and doing nothing if they
can't operate the line going forward. And there's a lot more examples about that. But-- so some of
that is attributable to that we just were unable spend the money in the frame we thought we would
in 2019. Therefore, we're going to need to spend that in 2020 to finalize getting ready to open that
line this year.
JUDY LUBOW: But it was not more than what was expected to be--?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. It just wasn't spent '19, so now we're going to spend it in '20.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. And the one other question that I had concerned something stated about
timing in the memo, which said the original contract was for one year and it was started in May of
2019. And so I guess it would go to May of 2020. But then, somewhere in the memo, it says the
contract will now be extended to April 2020. And so I was wondering if there's just a typo about
that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Let me look at that, because I don't think the original contract was for a
year. I guess it says was awarded for one year and a contract not to exceed-- so the biggest issue
is not the timing, as it is the dollar amount. So we originally expected-- those guys expected a long
time ago in 2019 to be able to get those people trained and open the line when we are originally
going to open it in 2019. When that didn't occur, we needed to add additional dollars to that to be
able to do that. In addition, we also needed to add dollars for dispatching, which I don't think was
originally anticipated. And those type of things. So I'll ask Mark to add anything to that.
MARK CLENDENNEN: And that is correct. This is Mark Clendennen, the dispatching was a part
of it originally, but we had anticipated hiring the staff prior to the end of the year and that just
didn't happen. We were more focused on the operators at that point, getting them trained. And so
we had to back off on the dispatching piece. And so we're just looking to extend that over into the
current year.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Can I also just refer you to packet page 13 at the top, where it talks about-the second sentence, this action would extend the contract through April 2020. It's just confusing
that it was a one year contract from May '19 to May '20, and now it's being extended to April '20.
It's like, huh?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. I understand. I'll have to check on that to see if we had a typo in
that original contract amount.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lubow. You mentioned just recently the dispatch training.
Do you happen to know the split as far as the training resources, how that's split between the
operators? I missed it. If it's in here, I missed it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, for this action, it's a total asking for additional funding of
$1,208,000. $600,000 for the training and $608,000 for dispatch.
KEN MIHALIK: Right. OK. It is right there. I see that. OK. Going to the phone, Director Catlin,
any questions or comments?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, thank you, Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. We will go to vote. Director Tisdale, you were the mover. Director
Whitmore, you were the second. And Director Catlin, how will you be voting on this?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm voting yes. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. With those, it's 13 yes's, one abstention. And that's Director Lewis.
And this does pass. Thank you all. We will move on to a handful of updates this evening, starting
with something that had been presented previously, or at least provided previously. And this is
the-- what was I'll say a very commendable attempt to-- or not attempt, successful exercise in
capturing revenue and expenditures throughout the district. And I don't want to minimize this at
all, but I do know there's a lot of explanation here that you guys have given previously. So if there's
something that you really want to focus on, please do.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I was just going to have Susan-- sorry, this is Heather McKillop. I was
just to have Susan focus on a few things that we've had some questions come up on. So I just
wanted her to clarify that. And then we'd be glad to take any questions. I know you've seen this
before, but we wanted to make sure you were well aware, since this document's floating around
out in the public domain. We still have it in draft form, because we were waiting for feedback.
We've gotten a little bit of feedback that we might tweak a few things. But we haven't received
significant feedback to completely redo the report and the way we did the assumptions.

So we wanted to just give you another opportunity, since it was in a memo format, to ask questions.
So I'm just going to ask Susan to cover some things that have come up in questions over the last
month. And then we'll open it up for questions that might come up here. Well, just go.
SUSAN COHEN: This is Susan Cohen, Senior Manager of Finance. As Heather mentioned, you've
seen this before. It was developed in response to requests from Speaker Becker. And as Heather
mentioned, it's based on assumptions, because we do not actually track our costs by county, and
most of our routes actually operate across multiple counties. And the allocations that you see are
based on the 2018 Service Performance Report. So they are for the service that we had in
operations in 2018.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Otherwise known as "The Becker Report."
SUSAN COHEN: And so an important consideration as far as looking at this, even though service
and service and funding may be provided in a county, they're consumed by residents of other
counties. Our sales tax is collected at point of sale, and so someone who's shopping in a different- someone who's shopping in-- lives in Denver and is shopping in Aurora is paying sales tax in a
different county from where he or she lives. We also mentioned most of our service crosses county
boundaries, and an individual trip may cross several counties. And on top of that, people on our
service aren't necessarily residents of the district.
As mentioned, this information is 2018, and it's based on the service that we provided in 2018.
Allocations between counties are going to shift as time goes on, depending on where we put service
changes. And we're going to see some very significant changes in 2019 and 2020 with the opening
that we-- openings that we had in 2019, of the G Line and EFR extension, and in 2020 with the N
line. Also mentioned, that our network is designed with Denver as a hub, which results in a larger
share of our expenditures being allocated to City County of Denver.
And overall, our operating revenues, which are primarily fare revenues, cover a fairly low
percentage of our operating costs. Operations anywhere in our districts are heavily subsidized by
the taxpayers, whether they are in the form of sales and use tax or in the form of federal grants.
So-HEATHER MCKILLOP: I don't think we have to go through them all.
SUSAN COHEN: And as you mentioned, since we don't actually collect our fares at the county
level, we had to develop allocations for fare revenues, serviced buy-ups, and cost reimbursements,
which are a fairly small. Small line item of our operating revenues actually could be allocated back
at the county level, because those are primarily-- those can be identified by who's funding them.
We get sales and use tax reports at the county level from the Colorado Department of Revenue.
We also get Federal formula grants that are based on the urbanized areas, and we were able to
allocate those based on how we applied them, which was to operating cost. We also had some
other smaller revenues that were not allocated by county, because we don't have a level of detail
to do that. On cost, the operating and maintenance costs that we've allocated are the ones from the
Service Performance Report, and those include depreciation on capital assets used to provide

service. So that's essentially spreading the upfront cost of acquiring the assets that you need over
the life of the asset for when it's actually used. We allocated at the root level based on the Service
Performance Report.
Costs that we did not allocate by county, once again, are areas where we read didn't have the level
of detail for an allocation, primarily interest expense and expense used on basically managing
FasTracks. We also-- we did allocate to FasTracks based on the specific routes that are operated
on FasTracks. And we also allocated the portion of the FasTracks bus service that basically the
FasTracks plan bus service cost by county in proportion to the cost of the service.
So results, the first table is actually the total allocation. That is after we apply sales, and use tax,
and grant revenue. The second one, which is operations only, which in operating revenue is, we
said, was primarily fare revenue. It's the revenue that's actually generated from the allocations,
from the operation of the system. And if you look at all the-- it's essentially an operating loss by
county. Our fare revenues don't cover our costs anywhere, and we are, as mentioned, heavily reliant
on sales and use tax and on grants, to a lesser extent. Questions?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And then I would just say we've committed to doing this on an annual
basis. It'll probably be sometime around the July time frame, because we need the Family of
Services Report to come out each year, because we want to tie it back to that report. Because that's
where we get the bulk of our information to make these allocations. So as we had committed
previously, we're going to speed up the Family of Services Report coming out by not using audited
financial information, and producing those reports much earlier in the year.
We had that conversation. It was a Director Menten request, and I think we mentioned that at a
previous meeting. So we want to tie everything back to that Family of Services. So I'm thinking
around the July time frame is when we'll be able to do this report. It is done manually, because we
do not have those allocations built into our systems because we don't track things by county. But
we'll be glad to take questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for the update on that. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Did you reach any conclusions from this report? Or is this all just meaningless
numbers.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well that is a loaded-- who said that earlier? That is a loaded question.
BOB BROOM: I think you should ask whoever receives this report whether it satisfies whatever
need that they have. Rather than just saying, well, we're going to produce it again. Because if it's
not helpful to anybody, then it doesn't make any sense to do it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So it is interesting. It supports what we already knew, that the bulk of
our services, people stops, and where people use the service is in the Denver-- City and County of
Denver. So that's how our system is designed. That's what the results are.

I think it does speak to the fact that there are areas that get less services for the amount of money
that is put in by their quote unquote "taxpayers," such as Arapahoe County, and there are other
areas that get more. And I know one of the concerns is the North doesn't get as much. What this
does is dispels that myth to some extent, and will continue to dispel that as the North Line and the
G Line shows up, because Adams County and those areas will show a higher amount of getting
subsidized by others.
So I think from that standpoint, on a very, very high level, it can dispel some myths. On individual
route by route basis, it's not as meaningful for us. We have not gotten feedback from the Speaker
as to how she felt about the report other than she thanked us for going through the effort of doing
what. She was proposing a bill, which we were asked to review in the context of what we had put
together, and we did provide feedback to her on that. I can't talk about the specifics, because that
bill is still confidential, but that did allow us to provide that feedback.
But we have not-- I'm assuming she's been a bit busy lately getting ready for the session. So we
haven't heard back from her. But if it's meaningful for the Legislature, then we're willing to do it.
Like I said, it did prove some interesting things that people had thought differently about. But
overall, it supports the Denver-- most of the rides that occur. Most of the boardings and the
alightings happen in the City and County of Denver.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Dr. Broom. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: So when we see this report next summer, do you envision that, with time
and this brain damage that you all have been through, that we will have a better report, meaning-I don't know-- that there's more value to its time needs with your staff? And if not, I guess maybe
our Governmental Affairs folks need to talk to the Speaker about-- we've got plenty of things to
do. And if it's valuable, great. Or if it can be improved, or perhaps even made a bit more automated,
great. But if not, I kind of hate to see the time that it has consumed, much to the esteemed Director
to my right just mentioned.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I appreciate that feedback. I think that the changes, as I mentioned, we
expect to see like an Adams County being more subsidized after you see the North open and the
G Line reflected, but it's not going to be significant. We're not talking like huge swings, like
everything's going to move to Adams County from Denver. That's never-- so you're going to see a
very similar trend to what we're showing you today.
We don't expect large variations in these numbers at all, especially once we open all the lines. So
after the report comes out, and we open 2020, and we do the report after that, unless we start
opening huge amounts of lines or shifting service significantly-- we even talked about that in the
SOP that we expect to have done at the end-- even that, if we shift service, would not result in
significant changes at all to this report. So I think the exercise the first time was valuable to see
what it looks like and have that discussion. I don't think you're going to see variations too much
degree even after we open the lines. There will be a variation, but it won't be significant once the
lines are open.

TROY WHITMORE: Mr. Chair, if I may, I'm sure that I had constituents that were banging on the
drum to have this, and I appreciate having this is a tool. But more importantly, I appreciate your
time during a frantic year spent on this for you, and your compatriots, and several others, I'm sure.
Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you. Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Heather, I think it's interesting. I think if there were one or
two lines added to it that said, perhaps by county, the percent of the overall population. Then you
would have a comparison there and/or a percent of our riders.
So I don't know. In Weld County, I see a lot of zeros. But what percentage of our riders are in
Weld County?
SUSAN COHEN: Not very many.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, so-AUDIENCE: There's seven voters.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, hey. So I think that if just-- I would like to see that on a comparative
basis, because I think it would mitigate the effect of these numbers somewhat. So just-- I don't
want you to jump up now, run upstairs, and get those figures, and come back down here.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, that wouldn't be difficult. In fact, I think in my conversation with
Director Cook she had looked at them on-- I think it was Director Cook that had-- hadn't you
looked at them on a per capita basis? Yeah, you told me.
So she had done that exercise on a per capita basis. So it wouldn't be difficult. All we'd have to do
is get the population in each county.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I just think that if we're presenting it to people that it would give them
some relevance to it, because it's some context out. So anyhow, thank you. Bye.
KEN MIHALIK: Just to add onto that-- just to add onto that section, you'd have to look at the
percentage of the county that's in RTD.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Tisdale, you are next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I had a similar thought relative to using
population, but also even as to the numbers. Sometimes for the hard of thinking, it's convenient to
include the percentages relative to what the percentages are for each of these numbers going across.
And I was looking, specifically, in greater detail, back at page 29, the narrative presentation and
the two tables there, which provide some greater details than the PowerPoint.

But again, just some of those numbers, because sometimes there are people who, no matter how
obvious it may appear, benefit from some breakdown, such as percentages.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, we can add that. That's not-KEN MIHALIK: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: --difficult at all.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, whoever put this together I want to thank, because I think it is helpful. And
after next year's, or should I say later this-- the 2020 report, I would imagine those relationships
would hold for some time.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, we expect them to. And just thank my staff here, but also Service
Planning. They worked very hard on getting it broken down in the way we needed it to. So thank
them.
KEN MIHALIK: Do you know when the final is going to be available?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I think after we make these few changes. We wanted to have this
conversation here to make sure we weren't missing anything. I was hoping to get some feedback
from the Speaker, and then we would finalize it, make any adjustments, and then finalize and put
it out as a finalized report. And then that's the template we'll use for the future. So hopefully,
shortly.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, I'll hold off disseminating it, but I do get these related types of questions
every so often.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'll do it as quickly as we can, yeah.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, no, just whenever you had it originally scheduled to. So we'll be fine.
Director Buzek, I'll go with you on the phone.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a comment in that it'll be interesting for the
constituents and stakeholders in the North to learn that the service and balance in the North has
been viewed as RTD as a myth for quite some time. That's all I have. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chairman Mihalik. I looked at these numbers, and I thought there
are any number of "yes, buts" that somebody could put into this equation. And I want to applaud
staff for making a first cut and for qualifying a lot of those numbers. But the fact of the matter is
there are so many other things that can be factored in.
For example, in Director Mihalik and my area, we have people outside of our district who come
in and spend, either in our district or even go down into Downtown Denver. So the sales tax, as

you suggest, just crosses so many boundaries. And I think my fear-- I think this is really good
information. And I'm glad it's going to be consistent, and your methodology is sound.
But people are going to extract a number as suits their circumstance or their argument. And so I
just want us to be aware that that may happen. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And this is Heather McKillop. I just want to-- that's why we try to put
in those caveats about where sales tax is collected. And it's also true about ridership. Some of our
outlying areas draw a lot of people from outside the district for ridership too. So it's not foolproof,
but at least it's a-- we thought as good of a representation as we could do with the data we have
available.
KEN MIHALIK: I'm sure the-PEGGY CATLIN: If I might respond to that?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: I completely agree, Heather, and I think you guys did a remarkable job. And I
think your assumptions going into this are very valid and very well-documented. So, thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I'm sure the 2020 will have improvements that haven't even been
contemplated yet, so different assumptions.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And you're raising the bar for us there.
KEN MIHALIK: We will continue on to the 2019 All Employee Engagement Survey presentation.
Mr. Van Meter, the floor is yours.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Chair, Board. This is Bill Van Meter, assistant general manager
of Planning. Joining me this evening is Dave Zimmerman, RTD's project manager for the
Employee Engagement Survey that we conducted in fall 2019. He's part of our Continuous
Improvement and Innovation Team.
And Megan Younkin from People Element, and she is the lead and our primary point of contact
with the contractor who actually implemented the Employee Engagement Surveys. So we want to
run through the results of that survey from this fall, October 21 through November 8. And for the
purposes of doing that, I will quit speaking, and I will let the experts sitting next to me take over.
MEGAN YOUNKIN: Thank you. Thanks for your time this evening. This is Megan Younkin,
director of consulting for People Element. I will be going over both how we collected the feedback
and then some of the data involved that we collected. And if you could jot down any questions that
you have, and I will try to answer as many as I can after we've gone through that feedback.

So in order to collect feedback from the employee population, we first have to have a strong survey.
So we start with a survey model that's been tested and validated across several years, and then we
customize that model to include questions that are relevant for the population. So we work very
hard to create a survey that is very relevant for the population.
And then we provided several different options for collecting that feedback from populations that
are easy to contact and not so easy to contact. So we had several different options for people to
provide their confidential feedback in this employee survey. And what we ended up with was,
overall for the organization, 41% participation.
That varied widely between the full-time salaried populations of 71% participation to 21% for the
union population-- to be expected based on the way that we have to contact the populations. This
is far and above what we would have needed for 99% confidence in this data. So I don't have any
concerns about the number of data that we have to be able to say that this is strong data for us to
be making decisions off of.
Confidentiality is always maintained. We, as a third party, can guarantee confidentiality in this
process by never turning around and telling anyone at RTD who said what, basically, unless we
maintain the threshold that we've told respondents that we will maintain. And we have, and we
will.
So for context-- and I know that you've probably seen this already. But for context, we've analyzed
through hundreds of thousands of employee responses that we've gone to surveys like this to
determine, how do people respond to a survey like this? So what we have here are bands of
favorability for an engagement survey, like the one that RTD has gone through. And basically, we
have the bottom 10% of responses where that favorability lies, the top 10% on the top, and then
the rest are broken into quartiles.
So what does this tell us? This tells us how human beings tend to respond to an engagement survey,
and then how that compares to what the overall RTD favorability is. So the 58% favorability, that
means out of the entire population who responded, 58% of the population responded with either
scores of agree or strongly agree favorable scores. So we use this as a baseline to determine where
we are right now and where we want to go.
We have several data points available to us based on the feedback that we've gotten. For example,
we can see how favorability might be different than that overall based on what location people are
responding from. So we have anywhere from 67% favorable overall to 42% favorable. So there's
a range of people's perceptions, people's feelings, about their work experiences when you go from
location to location. So that's good information for us to know how people are feeling and what
they're experiencing based on where they are in the organization.
Specifically, we know not only how people are feeling based on their location, but what specific
areas of the work experience are they feeling favorable, positive about, and not so favorable, not
so positive about right now. So up in the top in the blue, that's where overall people are feeling
very positive, very favorable, about these experiences within their work environment. And then
down in the orange, that's where we have not so favorable responses.

So we have that percentage of favorability over on the right, as well as the average or mean score
on a one to five scale. So there's a lot of information going on here, as well as over on the left-hand
side where you see some of the asterisks. That tells us that that was either a top favorable or top
unfavorable response for both the union and non-union population. So as you can see, especially
in where people are feeling not so favorable, there's consistency there between the union and the
non-union populations.
In this survey, we have the ability not only to look at where are people feeling favorable and not
so favorable, where are experiences positive and not so positive, but also how does that contribute
to someone's level of engagement within an organization. There's a difference between satisfaction
and engagement. Satisfaction is, I like this. I don't like this.
I can be this highly satisfied and highly dissatisfied within the span of a week or sometimes even
a day, but my engagement is more about that root kind of loyalty, advocacy. Am I easily persuaded
away from what I do on a day to day basis? So we also have the ability to measure and respond to
the level of engagement in the organization, because we've put questions in the survey specifically
to measure that level of engagement. And these are those six questions that we utilize to measure
the level of engagement within the organization.
So when we utilize those questions to measure engagement, this is what the picture looks like right
now. We've got four different bands of engagement that we utilize at People Element. We've got
21% of the population actively engaged. They're probably your best recruiters, because they're out
there telling other people that they should come on board here.
They're giving you 110%. You can ask them to go above and beyond, and they probably will.
Whereas, the engaged contributor, their responses to those six questions, still high, but not as high.
They're still giving you 100%.
We've got 27% of the population in our opportunity group, which is pretty aptly named, because
we do have the opportunity, based on the way they respond, to either get them more engaged or
for them to fall into disengagement if we do nothing or if we don't do the things that are driving
engagement in the organization. And then we also have 31% of the population who are actively
disengaged. Of course, there's a range here when we talk about what does disengagement mean.
That can mean anything from, "I show up, I do what's exactly written on my job description, and
don't ask me to do anything else," all the way to the ultimate act of disengagement, which is leaving
an organization or staying and being toxic in an organization. So we've got almost a third of that
population who we surveyed who are disengaged currently right now.
The difference between the bands of engagement is a little bit different when we look at union and
full-time and part-time non-union populations, but it's not that different of a picture. So that's what
we're seeing right here, is the difference in those engagement bands between the union and a nonunion population, both part-time and full-time on that side. How does that compare? This is a
benchmark of engagement compared to all of the other organizations we've done engagement
surveys similar to the RTD survey in 2019. And the picture's a little bit different.

The benchmark for engagement is more at 36% actively engaged, 21% engaged. So you can see
that difference there, as well as the difference in the disengaged population. So this should not be
looked at as a dire situation, but as a situation where there's things to be done. There's hope that
we can move the needle on this.
So what? We have this level of engagement. We have people responding this way to the survey.
What does that mean for us? What do we do about it?
So we have many smart people at our organization who have run all of this data through correlation
analyses to tell us what is driving engagement at this organization. So that's what we have here,
and we call that our "key drivers" of engagement. And these are the four items from the
engagement survey that are the most highly correlated to people's engagement at RTD.
So focusing on these areas is the way that we can impact, that we can most strongly impact,
engagement within the organization. So looking at these, and also looking at some of the feedback
that we got-- not necessarily just engagement from the other survey items that we have-- these are
the focus areas that I recommend as far as moving the needle in a positive way when it comes to
engagement at RTD. It's about employees feeling valued and heard. It's about company processes
being effective. It's about employee confidence in RTD's future, and it's about effective
communication between work groups.
So taking action on these items, moving the needle on these items, statistically speaking and in my
experience speaking, those are the things that we're going to see move the needle in a positive way
when it comes to engagement. And why do we care about engagement? Because engagement is
very directly tied to things like absenteeism, retention, customer satisfaction. There's a lot of really
heavy things that engagement is pretty directly tied to.
So these are the recommended focus areas based on the feedback. Next steps? There's already been
communication gone out about thanking people for their participation. And there will be a meeting
to discuss what's going to happen next with the senior leadership team tomorrow. Anything you
would like to add, either of you? That was a lot of information in a little bit of time.
KEN MIHALIK: No, that was-- you explained that very well. Thank you for that. Director
Williams, you're first.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I have a couple of notes that I made on this. On the very
first overview on participation page, 41% is OK.
Did the union help us with this survey? Did they support it? Did they encourage their members to
participate in it? Did we ask them to do that?
DAVID ZIMMERMAN: Hi. This is David Zimmerman from Continuous Improvement and
Innovation. Yes, they did support the survey.

Michael Ford worked with Julio in the union at the time. They put out a memo to folks. We got
that out to all their mailboxes, and it was encouraging in supporting their participation in the
survey.
KATE WILLIAMS: Then how come 71% of the salaried people completed it and only 29% of the
union people completed it?
DAVID ZIMMERMAN: The 29% is not far off of the participation rates we had when the survey
was done in 2015. It's a hard population of people to reach, as Megan mentioned. We had quite a
group of people go out across a three-week window of time to all the different locations, all the
different shifts, trying to catch operators and stuff when they were in and working.
And one of the challenges with them too is that a lot of them don't have email. So we had to take
laptops to them, and have the survey, and be there with them while they were taking the surveys.
So that was kind of what led to that participation rate.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have a couple more. Can I-- is this posted on our website, this information,
or is it going to be put up on our website?
DAVID ZIMMERMAN: Yes, it is. It's on the Hub. We have a specific section of the Hub dedicated
to this.
The communications from Dave Genova are out there. We have the results of the survey posted
there as well. And we have a link for people to provide comments to as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: So in my understanding, I have to log in to get anything that's on the Hub. I
don't think that's public information.
BILL VAN METER: May I-- this is-KATE WILLIAMS: I'm asking about our public-facing-BILL VAN METER: Yeah, to clarify, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. I do not believe we
have posted it in a linkable format on our public site. Although, it is certainly a matter of record
and available on our public website, as it is to anyone, for example, as part of this support package.
Our main audiences are internal. And we have made sure that all employees understand and know
that their feedback has been heard and that we are moving forward in preparing responses and
working collaboratively with them to address these issues.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm just kind of interested in having-- overall favorability is 58%. That's not
great, but it's not bad. And I think that we want to point out some of the things that are in here that
we in fact are interested in our employees. That our engagement is at these percentages, and I think
we want to say those things not just internally, but to our stakeholders and those people to whom
we answer.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, General Manager?

DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And we can certainly do that. I think we wanted an
opportunity to have the conversation with the Board first.
And then, if I may, on the questions around the union's participation, we also actually worked with
them on the development of the questions. And they were in agreement with the questions that we
did put together for the survey.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you very much for that. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And as was mentioned, the senior leadership team has some additional analysis
to do on this as well, so to figure out what the next steps are. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Thank you for everyone's work on this. I appreciate
it.
I have some comments that I did want to talk over. Because I'm kind of-- I've got a one-track mind,
and I'm fixated on retention. I think that we've got a difficult situation fulfilling our responsibilities
to the public, and what we need to do is keep operators.
So I am most interested in that. Although, it's not that I'm not interested that people in Blake Street
are happy or not. I am, but right now I'm interested in the operators.
And I was just wondering-- these have good ideas kind of generically about process improvements,
but I have interest in questions like, would you stay if you had more bathrooms? And that's not the
level of what went on here. And I'm wondering, are we also asking those questions, and getting
those answers, and figuring out how we're moving forward with our retention issues and not just
the more philosophical, generic things that were discussed here? Which are important, but I think
we've got a real issue. We have to deal-- some things in the short run as well as the things that
you're talking about. So perhaps somebody can respond.
DAVE GENOVA: Let me, Mr. Chair, if I may. So this is an all employee-- it's obviously different
kinds of tools you're talking about. This is a broad brush stroke to look at engagement across the
entire organization.
We have other mechanisms in which we're communicating with employees and in gaining more
detailed, granular kinds of things out of specific work groups. So for example, we have some focus
groups and some communication groups going on that is predominantly work being done by
Michael Ford, and some of his team members, along with other folks that are looking at these more
granular kinds of questions that you suggest. So it's kind of a different area. But we also plan on
doing significant engagement with employees, not just providing the information about here's what
you said, but also engaging them in the process of, what are your thoughts, and what would you
do to improve in these areas? So we are going to solicit their engagement and feedback in those
areas as well as we go about developing a strategy and a plan to make improvements.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I don't know if anybody else wanted to respond, because I've got a
comment, an additional comment. Michael, did you want to weigh in?

MICHAEL FORD: In terms of just the communication, we've got several different committees
that are going on right now-- the communications group that really kind of reignited the PIDs. The
PIDs are the screens that are at all the different locations to get information to hear what people
have to say. We also have folks throughout the organization now contributing information. So it's
helping people understand anything that might be of importance to them by department, just
helping breaking down barriers. So that's one form of communication.
We also have another group. It's called Gateway, and it's about getting people connected to
information to help their quality of life in terms of an operator. So getting your benefits, getting
other types of information that might be important to you-- how to navigate here in the area of
where you work. There's a lot of things that are being put together and queued up for this first
quarter of next year. So we've got that going on as well.
We have this fact-finding, where we're talking about how we can be more consistent about our
approaches to employees-- how to break down barriers, how to be consistent, how to address
issues. We're also doing and proposing some training right now with supervisors in the employee
relationship-- how we can be better at what we do, how we can engage people differently, giving
them more context of information rather than maybe some of the older standards of how we talk
to people. So really working on those type of issues too. So all these things are really about
communication, cultural change, if you kind of look at the essence of all of that. There's a few
other things that we're working on as well.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I was wondering, because I know the public and our stakeholders are
very interested in seeing change. Because we just don't want these lost routes that we've been
having. It's very destructive. Is there something that we can write and tell people, "here's everything
that we're doing"?
MICHAEL FORD: Well, as Dave mentioned, we also have been going out-- focus groups, talking
to people. This is not just us getting communication to people. It's a two-way communication-hearing what people have to say, making changes, making adjustments, understanding where their
working conditions are. What do they need? We have a contract.
You talking about bathrooms. We really improved the bathroom situation so we can give people
the rest and the breaks that they need. We've really taken-- when Jesse sits here and talks about the
service plan, it's making sure we're in compliance with the CBA, so we are doing what we say we
are going to do through the contract.
So there's a lot of quality of life issues that we've been working on. I think that was a big focus on
the negotiations that happened a couple of years ago. It was about improving quality of life and
making sure that people felt valued, and heard, and listened to. And there was a lot of work that I
know that Heather and Mike were really involved in making that happen.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I would just urge us to get that out to the public, because I think
they're kind of hungry to know what we're doing to make sure this stuff doesn't continue.

MICHAEL FORD: Sure. And I think there's a lot more information and communication we can
get out. But I just want to be very clear, that these things are actually happening right now, and
we're working through them. There's much more to come.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I am wondering if there was a difference made between-- in the
leadership, how one feels about leadership-- between SLT supervisors, et cetera, and the Board or
if we're all just lumped in together as leaders?
MEGAN YOUNKIN: There was a distinction made as far as what we mean when we ask questions
about senior leadership, and it was very specifically the senior leadership team and not the Board.
So when people were asked for their perceptions about leadership, it was made very clear who we
were talking about.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Were there any questions about the Board?
DAVID ZIMMERMAN: This is Dave Zimmerman. Yes, there was one question about the Board,
and it was just about people's awareness about the purpose of the Board.
DAVE GENOVA: Somewhat around, do you understand the role of the Board? And I don't
remember what the response was.
JEFF WALKER: It's kind of a softball question, because I get a lot stronger sense from the people
that I get to talk to about what they think of the Board. So it seems like there's a lot of-- it seems
to me from looking at this information that the employees seem to be very comfortable in the work
that they do in their immediate surroundings, but the communication, I guess, is a problem. And
that's-- I think that everywhere I've worked that's been a problem-- communication from the top
down, bottom up, et cetera-- people feeling like they have a voice or feeling like they're getting
information when they need it. Or even if they don't need it, just to know that they're appreciated
enough to get information about what's going on at the policy level. So I understand that would be
a concern if I were in that position, that I would want to address that.
One thing that I've noticed is that there are external factors that influence our decisions when we
take surveys. So even though the survey could be about the job, the specific job, there are still
pressures outside, like the rent, illness, mother-in-law, brother-in-law coming to town-- something
like that that might influence that respondent's feeling at that moment. There is no way to address
that, because those things will go on 24/7, 365.

But also remember that those do influence-- so like right now, when folks are paying 400 bucks a
foot for a house or three bucks a foot for an apartment, those things bear on how people respond
and what they're feeling at the time. So even if the comments are negative about the job, they might
not be about the job. They might be about everything that goes in, and this job has to support all
these other pressures.
But thanks for this information. I'll be interested to see what SLT comes back with after it has
another go around with this information. And that is it. Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: You are welcome. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Just a quick question about the slide that says, "Interpreting Current Population
Scores." It's on packet page 34. Could you go over that again?
I wasn't clear about what that is saying versus like where it says, "Strengths and Opportunities,"
where opportunities is the-- I'm used to like that used in the SWAT context. So what is this? And
who are we comparing to and all that sort of thing?
MEGAN YOUNKIN: This is Megan Younkin from People Element. The "Interpreting Current
Population Scores" is provided for context to know how do people respond to a survey that's
similar to the RTD survey. So this is comparing against engagement feedback across the country
across industries. But basically, we're looking at human behavior and how our biases interact with
the way that we answer survey questions.
So this is provided to know that, when we take all of the hundreds of thousands of people who
have responded to an engagement survey, to know that the bottom 10% of responses are
favorability between 0% and 53%. The top 10% are between 87% and 100% favorable, and then
the other four quartiles are sort of where they lie. So it just gives you some context to compare the
overall score to and to look and see, when we see those top five and bottom five highest favorability
and lowest favorability, to say-- to give you some context to where those scores lie compared to
other human beings who take surveys like this.
SHELLEY COOK: And so what's opportunities? That's where we have an opportunity to turn
things around or to do things differently?
MEGAN YOUNKIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Is that what you were saying? Oh, got it.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I just have a quick question. It says, the next discussion
will be with SLT. What's the schedule or the timeline after the conversation with SLT?

DAVID ZIMMERMAN: This is Dave Zimmerman. So tomorrow we will go with Meghan through
those four focus areas. And the intent is to drill down on those, start talking about what specific
action items might make sense.
And based on the outcome of those conversations, we've talked about things like putting a task
force in place, having a team focus on those action items going forward. So we'll start putting those
in place. And also, we have a whole structure established on how we want to communicate all of
these survey steps that are happening and actions that we're taking as well. So we'll start also
pushing out some communication about what those specific actions will be after tomorrow.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can you talk at a very high level about what those structures are? I'm just
trying to get a feel for what happens next.
DAVID ZIMMERMAN: Yeah. I believe some of it's going to be a function of what we hear is the
recommendations from People Element tomorrow. But we have talked about wanting to have
teams, cross-functional teams, of both represented and non-represented employees that are out
doing any further due diligence on these that's needed. If we have to do some more drilling down
to get to true root cause and understanding, we want to have those teams working on it. But we
want to have some kind of a formal structure in place, some kind of a formal team in place, with
stated objectives and reporting back about what they're finding and doing on these.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's helpful. I know you mentioned that it was much harder for you all to
receive feedback from the representative employees. And so I'm curious as what you would do in
order to be able to increase that outreach in terms of creativity, to be able to have conversations
with those folks and make sure their voices are represented as we're thinking about next steps.
DAVID ZIMMERMAN: It's Dave Zimmerman. I guess I believe that a lot of the things that
Michael Ford mentioned that we're doing with the Communications Committee is going to help
that. We have a lot of efforts in place to go out and do things, like listening sessions, and
engagement with people, and getting their feedback.
So I think all of those efforts collectively are going to get people willing to engage in that
conversation with this. And I think the more that we can share with them that there is going to be
some tangible and actual results coming out of this, and that we heard their concerns and get that
messaging back to them, I think that's all going to compound and help us as we do these down the
road. That they'll understand that this does make a difference to participate.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks. Go ahead.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Mr. Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair, if I may? One thing I might add is, we're really working hard to try
to get email to more represented employees. So this was an initiative that Mike Meter brought
forward as we were working on communicating safety items and issues.

And so I think it was probably about a year or so, maybe a year and a half ago, where we-- because
we didn't have email for represented employees for the longest time. But we came to a decision
point where we've made it available to represented employees now. We're working with them now
to get more people engaged to use the RTD email so that it's just another really good consistent
way that we can communicate out, but then also that we could receive information.
And then also in terms of the survey, provide links in the email to where you can get to the survey
easily through the email process. So that's something we're working pretty assertively on, as well
in conjunction with union leadership on that. Because there's some-- there's a variety of different
challenges towards implementing that wide scale, but we feel we're moving that ahead well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, that's helpful. I would encourage us to think-- maybe even to ask the
represented employees how they like to be communicated with and maybe not make an-- and not
saying that you all are making assumptions. But chat with them about how they might like to be
communicated with.
I think Director Walker is right, that there are communication challenges at any agency that you
go to. But I'd really like for us to move into the 21st century as we think innovatively and creatively
about how we reach out to hard-to-reach populations. You-- 21st-MICHAEL FORD: I would also add, it's just working with them, but making them part of the
solution. It's not just us coming up with ideas, but it's working collaboratively with them, making
them part of that process to get things done. I think it's really important.
I think that's one thing that we really talked about, is engaging, two-way communication. But they
are coming up with answers to the concerns that they have, and we're working with them as well.
So I just would want to emphasize that a little bit more.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And I appreciate you expanding on that. And the last thing I'll leave you all
with is, in the work that I did previously in Community Engagement, one of the things that we
would hear most often is that oftentimes individuals will be solicited for their input. And they'd
give very valid input, and they didn't know how that information was being used. And so really
going back out and saying, hey, we heard you, and these are the things that we've implemented to
address those concerns. So I trust that you have already done that.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, we're-- absolutely part of the plan.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Williams, I'm going to check with the people on the phone.
Director Catlin, do you any questions or comments on the survey results?
PEGGY CATLIN: No. I really appreciate the work that's been done in the action plan moving
forward. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And Director Buzek, same question to you.

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, a couple of comments, if I might. I really appreciate having this come
forward to us now at this critical time, when this Board is engaged in the process of looking to hire
an interim general manager, and ultimately, a permanent general manager, because it's important
that the voices of our employees are heard and understood. And this is a great step in moving that
forward.
The participation of 41% seems pretty high in terms of most typical surveys. And I find the
breakdown of that 41% interesting, in that 71% of them are full-time salaried employees, people
that may have more of a finger on the pulse of the workings of the internal RTD. When we say we
have an overall score of 58%, I think it does a disservice to our employees when we tell them that
that's not bad.
If you look at the chart on page 44, there is only one step lower, and that puts you into critical
problems. Then you might as well have a favorable rating of zero to be there. It's the same thing.
So it's not good, and we have to acknowledge that, and acknowledge that we need to make some
improvement.
My other comment has to do with the chart on page 46, where we have the highest and lowest
favorable items. And I would not try to categorize the lowest favorable items as solely a
communication issue. And that if we just fix communications, all those issues go away. Because
a couple of them have nothing to do with communication.
For example, the first one that says, "leadership is effective in resolving key organizational issues,"
only 26% of the employees thought that's true. And the fourth one down, "leadership's action show
they value their employees," only 32% of these employees felt that to be true. Those are pretty
critical areas and have nothing to do with communication.
So I hope we use this information to our benefit, because it's important as we move forward in the
process we are not engaged. That's all I have. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Williams, I'll go back to you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I just-- I'm back to harping on my wanting this to get to people. I
think that if we-- maybe if we're trying to get it back to the people who participated-- I don't know
how many of our represented employees are active on the Hub. So maybe if we-- Mr. Genova?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, I can say that information has been shared at least twice in the Monday
Morning Dispatch on high-level results and next steps. And so we're using a variety of tools to
communicate and postings at divisions.
KATE WILLIAMS: So is there someplace that-- I held this document up before. This is the front
page of the ATU website. I'd like to see this on the front page of the ATU website, so that we are
giving back answers to people and letting them know that we are here.
Because I don't know how many of those people are listening to the minutes of this Board meeting.
But they are out there working for us all the time, and we need to get it back to them. Thanks.

KEN MIHALIK: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Sorry, quick follow-up. Did you weight-- so where we had, for example,
representative employees who responded in lower numbers percentage-wise. Do you then weight
their numbers so that the final result reflects then-- weighted so that it was as if they did respond
in greater numbers? I've seen that done in populations, like where male and female are different.
MEGAN YOUNKIN: This is Megan Younkin, People Element. No, the responses are not
weighted to equalize the populations, I suppose. But we do have the ability to look at the
populations separately or together to see how those differences might lie with one population and
then how that compares to the overall. But they're not weighted.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
DAVID ZIMMERMAN: This is Dave Zimmerman from Continuous Improvement. Just one other
comment on that too, we had over 1,200 people then complete the survey. And that actually was
about 600 salaried people and about 600 union people as well. So it is almost an equal number of
people that did the survey from both.
KEN MIHALIK: Thanks. Mr. Genova?
DAVE GENOVA: That's exactly what I was going to point out. When you look at the percentages,
even though it's higher on salary and lower on represented, when you look at the number of people
that actually responded, it's pretty similar numbers in terms of their totals.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's in here. That's on packet page 39.
SHELLEY COOK: 30 what?
KATE WILLIAMS: Nine-- packet page 39 it shows that those numbers are 607 and 593 or
something. Sorry, those numbers are in there. And then there's 11 part-time very happy people. I
didn't notice that.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just one question. Do we have the information-- I don't think it's here. But
can we see the information of how all of these things, like the-- I'm looking at page 36, the highest
and the lowest-- how those split out by the represented and salaried employees? I guess I'm asking
if you if you can get us that.
DAVID ZIMMERMAN: This is Dave Zimmerman. That is available. We could follow-up with
that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much for that explanation. We will-- and presentation of that
survey. We'll move on to November's monthly financial status report.
Again, thank you for that presentation. And you've all received a hard copy that includes the sales
tax, sales and use tax information that was not available. So Ms. McKillop and Mr. MacLeod, I'll
leave the rest to you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'll just ask for any questions.
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. I would point out that we handed out hard copies
too, because-KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
DOUG MACLEOD: Oh sorry, I missed that.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, that's OK. I sometimes need a reminder myself. So Director Broom?
PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me, excuse me, Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah?
PEGGY CATLIN: I didn't receive a hard copy. So if somebody could send that to me, I'd
appreciate it.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, I'm sure that'll be sent out-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, and it will be in the official packet. We'll make sure it gets sent.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I noticed that year-to-date sales tax is 1% below what we
budgeted. That means that our external forecasters have so far come within 1% of being right on
on the number. So that if we had a good December, for example, we might very well be right on
the bubble. Is that correct?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, this is Doug MacLeod. Yes, that's correct. December usually, or it
always is, our highest sales tax month mainly due to the holidays. And we typically see $5 to $6
million more in that month than we see in an average month. So that's usually what kind of makes
or breaks us.
But yeah, it's pretty remarkable that we're only off by 1% given that we have a $660 million dollar
sales and use tax budget.

BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I got to talk with my glasses off. So the ridership page, can
we go to that please?
So first of all-- yeah, I'm reading this small-- it says at the very bottom, "October includes estimates
for light rail, and any corrections will be reflected in the November financials." So I'm trying to
look at that and consider that October's-- it doesn't look much different than what I got in the-- I
know there were some updates done. I think that was more on the revenue end versus the ridership
end.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: So this looks like what it's looking at in the pack that we've already gotten.
And I'm trying to just figure it out. So when we had October, we had kind of an estimate last
month. And now it's been corrected.
So we think these are the right numbers. Does November have the right numbers? Because I'm
looking at the drops-- the red-- drops in ridership.
Is that accurate? Or am I going to see in next month's something that says, "November included
estimates"? Because I'm looking like the gold line, a drop-- a majority, a majority of-- except for
the Flat Iron Flyer A Line-- little bits here and there.
R Line-- Director Broom gets a-- R Line, thumbs up. And I am serious about that. Can you explain
that to me? And do you know where I'm going with that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Sure, yes. And I apologize, that footnote was not updated. So that was for
the October financials where we had to make estimates on a few of the routes, because we had
some-- we have-- they're called "concentrators" that download the data from the light rail vehicles
while they're out on the system. And we had some data transmission problems with some of those
APCs.
And as you know, the automatic passenger counters, we have about 30% coverage on the light rail
vehicles. So it's really critical that we try to get as much of that data as we can to be as accurate as
possible when we extrapolate. We did have some data problems with the October numbers.
Once we got to November, we had all those numbers cleaned up for October. And the November
numbers are correct too. So those are all correct, and I should have updated that footnote. That
shouldn't be talking about estimates any longer. But all of those numbers that you're seeing are
accurate by route and by mode.
NATALIE MENTEN: From your point of view, could you tell me if you feel comfortable staying
with our dropped runs that's seen in these numbers? Or are we seeing the trending still?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: The answer is, the dropped runs are in those numbers, which means that
people may have chosen other ways to get around if the run was lost. So those are reflected in
those numbers for November, and November was a difficult month. The other thing we see
sometimes is just where the holiday falls.
Remember, we do have Thanksgiving each year, but this year it fell pretty late in the month. And
it just depends on that-- that whole week is usually down in ridership. And sometimes it just
depends on where the holiday falls in the month as to the ridership numbers. But I don't think we
could make any assumptions about that direct correlation, but there probably is cause and effect
there with the dropped runs on light rail.
NATALIE MENTEN: That was the main focus of my question. Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I'll check with Director Catlin. Any questions or comments on
November's financials on ridership?
PEGGY CATLIN: Actually, no. Director Menten asked the question that I was going to ask. So
I'm fine. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And Director Buzek, same question to you.
VINCE BUZEK: No comment, thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: I think we will move on to the smart card and mobile ticketing update. Do you
want to do the same thing, questions?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, we'll just take questions. Tonya's coming up. So we'll take
questions if you have any.
KEN MIHALIK: Anyone in the room, questions or comments on this topic? I see at least one.
Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Just very impressed to see, as reported
at packet page 56, that 14.2% of our fare revenue comes from mobile ticketing. And I know that
the account-based fare collection system will become even more vibrant, because Denver has
always been a city of early adapters when it comes to technology.
And I think just for the sake of the record, it might be worth pointing out that relative to the smart
card, it's virtually impossible, I take it, to calculate how much of our fare revenue in terms of usage
comes from that. Because people are tapping at validators, and we don't have the same way of
collecting those data as we do for the mobile ticketing app itself, which is directly logged in as a
transaction through mobile ticketing.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is a correct statement. We do have the ability to see what people
have loaded on their MyRide cards, but that doesn't necessarily-- and then we know what they
used. But we don't know as often where.

And we have to do a lot more extrapolation. Then we do have-- then we have that immediacy of
the mobile ticketing. But, yeah, we thought it'd be about 2%. And I think that's one of the things
that drove us to moving towards the account-based ticketing system, is that tremendous amount of
adoption.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. My question is, just looking at the future, do you believe that we still
really need an agenda item for this?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we've talked about that. I think we would still like to bring it back at
least once a year to you. Maybe not-- right now, we're doing this one quarterly.
As we get further into the account-based ticketing system, there will be updates that you'll want to
hear, and there will be fare discussions about some fare policies and things like that that we
probably will have to bring to you in the future. But yeah, we probably don't have to do it quarterly.
NATALIE MENTEN: So Ms. Anderson, is that going to bump your employee survey comments?
Are you going to pad it?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We have to come once a year-- no.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, that's a lot better than where we were going.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Job satisfaction.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Ladies, I have an off the wall question. What does Safeway
and King Soopers get for doing this for us?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: They get a commission.
KATE WILLIAMS: They do. That's what I wanted to know.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: And do we do like promotions and things, like I get my Safeway gas miles,
you know?
TONYA ANDERSON: We did promotions when we first launched at King Soopers and Safeway,
but we haven't really engaged them actively in doing additional promotions. I do believe that they

will occasionally put a little ad in their flyer and their circular about being able to load MyRide
cards, but it's not actively engaging.
KATE WILLIAMS: I was just wondering about-- everybody's always talking about convenience
and what makes it easier. And if people-- I'm not sure how many people know that-- I'm in the
grocery store. I don't know about the rest of you all, but I'm in the grocery store at least once a
week.
I have some RTD benefits for being up here. But it might be nice for people to know that. So
maybe we should look at-- and you know what else-- where that could go? You know where that
could go? On the top of the buses there's those places up there that these cards go in, you know?
That would be a great place to say-HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm using those to advertise for drivers and operators right now.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, good. And after you come drive for us, you can load your card at
Soopers.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, if you come drive for us, you'll get a free pass for you and you're
family member.
KATE WILLIAMS: And you won't have to load your card at Soopers.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Right, ever again.
KATE WILLIAMS: That could be a dual back-to-back-- never mind. That's why we have Paulette
in the job.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Catlin, any questions or comments?
PEGGY CATLIN: You know what? I kind of agree with Director Williams. I'm unfortunately in
the grocery store more than one week.
But I have talked to a number of people who were not aware that they could obtain the MyRide
cards at these retail outlets. And I would be happy to try and promote it through social media or
whatever just to people in my area. Because when folks find out about it, they're delighted.
And when they find out that they have a reloadable card, it's even better. It's like a Starbucks card.
And I converted a couple of folks with the use of these cards.
They said, boy, everybody ought to try this at least once, and then they would become hooked. So
I just think there's tremendous value in trying to promote it a little bit more. And I'll do my part at
my local King Soopers and Safeway.

But I just know that it's just not real prominent in their advertising. So I would just do whatever it
takes. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, we definitely can look at that and do what we did when-- look at
promotions, like when we first launched it, and those type of things.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Buzek, same to you.
VINCE BUZEK: No comments, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams, real quick.
KATE WILLIAMS: The other thing that happens is when I go to Safeway, after I shop at Safeway,
I go to the place where I can get my Safeway points at the gas station. What if I use my Safeway
points on my smart card? And so I got $0.05 worth of RTD ride time, like I get-- it's-- I don't know
how it works or if it would be worth it.
But I'm going to tell you that I stopped shopping and King Sooper and only shop at Safeway,
because I'm chalking up my Safeway gas points. Or vice versa, I could give up Safeway and only
shop at King Soopers if I was chalking up my-- but what if I was chalking up my RTD ride points- just a thought.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Ms. Anderson. We will move on to the last update on the LIVE
program.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So on a LIVE program-- this is Heather McKillop-- we are-- this one is
where we're asking, or we're letting you know, we'd like to move to a quarterly basis to report out
on this. We are continuing to move forward. We had a banner month in December, which-- 204
approved applications. So that was great. That was the highest number so far.
We expect that to continue, as we have weaned the nonprofit programs off of the old program.
And effective January, they're on the new program. So we expect to see an uptick, and we've had
definitely an uptick in communication with some nonprofits that weren't as aware of what was
going on.
And what we're finding is a lot of that's because they've had a change in staff over the last few
months when we've been sending out lots of communications. So we continue to follow-up. We've
had good conversations with the various nonprofits that had concerns.
We've met with the homeless-- I think I mentioned this last month-- the homeless group that
Michael Washington's been working with on other issues. And so one of their recommendations,
which we're actively pursuing, is to getting a roving helper to help sign people up. So one day they
might be in Boulder, and one day they might be at the Denver library, and one day they might be

in Arapahoe County. We're going to have to do some checking where people are filling out
applications and if we could fill in those spots.
So we're having active conversations with City and County of Denver, because they do that for
other programs in their Human Services, and that's who we've contracted with already. So they
seem interested, and we continue to have discussions of what that looks like. But that will help,
where people can go and get assistance in filling out the applications. And people will-- the idea
would-- you have a set day, so you would know what day that person that can provide assistance
would be at what location. So we're working on that, continue-- and we continue to look at
upgrades to the system.
We're looking at changes to make PEAK more user-friendly for our items. And so we'll just
continue to report that progress. One of the things we've committed to looking at is after we know
that we have a pretty good saturation from the nonprofits, sometime in the spring we have told the
Board and others that we would look at whether we would offer it on other fare media besides just
the LIVE card and the mobile ticketing. So we're continuing to look at that.
We figure that would probably be done sometime after the end of the first quarter. We'll take a
look at all those stats and see where we are, and how many LIVE cards we have out there, and
what the actual usage of the LIVE cards are. Because even if we have a lot out there, if they're not
using them, then that might tell us what direction to go to. So we'll keep you posted, but we'd like
to do that after the first quarter will be our next update.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Sorry, I'm talkative today. I have three or four points. I'll
be quick.
Number one, I don't know how many of you heard the article in CPR today about the LIVE
program. It was not pretty. It was very negative.
It was highlighted this morning on the news. So that's number one-- Nathaniel Minor, our friend.
DOUG TISDALE: And he left.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, he's gone. But he had some negative things to say about this program.
Number two, the head of Denver Human Services, who was very involved in this whole-- is just
going to be the new deputy mayor. And so we might want to explore some more promotion with
the City and County of Denver, because Don Morris will be there.
Number three, we just had some interesting discussion about King Soopers and Safeway. Do you
think we could-- at the counter where you fill your card-- that we could put up a little stand thing
about this big that says, "PEAK program benefits"? It'd tie right into those people who are getting
a commission to promote our services.

Another really good place would be at the check-in and check-out desks of all the hospitals. I don't
know if we are doing any promotion there, but that's where-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Currently, no.
KATE WILLIAMS: --people go that need these ride services. And then the last one. I don't know
what's going on with the Reimagine program, but I would like to see the people that are involved
in Reimagine really understand our fare discounts and who gets what. And in my experience right
now, they don't know. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I had a question very similar to Director Williams'. I was
curious of the marketing plans. What are we doing?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we just reviewed the marketing plan. As we had mentioned, we were
going to launch those at the end of January. So hold on, I have it here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And then I can give you examples. So remember, we discussed that we
originally going to just target LIVE. But we found out through the process, and also working with
Denver Human Services, that apparently a lot of people are not familiar with all of our discounts.
And so we were going to expand that to cover the youth discount, the disabled, the senior discount,
and the LIVE so that they know the whole range of services that we're eligible for.
So right now, they're looking at starting the news releases, community outreach presentations that
we offered to make two different groups. I'm going to DRCOG tomorrow night to make another
presentation to the Board there on the program. And then-- so right now, we're in phase three of
rollout, and we're looking at media updates.
We're also looking at working with the nonprofits to get an idea if we have people that would be
willing to do a short, little YouTube video or something like that that we can post on the website
and that other people can use. So they're evaluating that process right now to see how we could
get people to volunteer and what incentive we would give them to volunteer.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Media updates, they're in the process of engaging the CAC and the
TMAs/TMOs to see additional outreach that we can get through those. So I can-- we can get this
sent out to you, but there is a whole list of different things that they're targeting. And the target-the process begins in the next couple weeks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I had a conversation with a few nonprofit partners recently, and there
was a willingness to help RTD to market the LIVE program. And I was curious if you all had been

partnering with nonprofits specifically for the outreach, either to the populations they serve or just
generally.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. We've asked for them to give us their information if they're
interested in that. We're starting to get people to trickle in now. At first, there was a lot of resistance
to that, but we are starting to see that.
So I would encourage them to send that information to me or to Pauletta, and then we can get them
engaged in the process.
SHONTEL LEWIS: One more question. I know we kicked this off in July. And I'm curious if-July of 2020-- if we have a number that we're hoping to reach in terms of individuals that would
be approved for the LIVE program.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I don't have that number handy, but we did have an estimate based on
it. And we are falling a bit behind. And that's why we had agreed, if that was the case, to look at
the media by which we're-- so there's two components-- who applies for the LIVE card, and then
how much media are they buying, and through what mechanisms.
And so one of the things we've heard, of course, even before the program started, that there would
be a barrier for not being able to buy paper products, as an example. So that's one of the things
we'll consider when, I mentioned, we're going to be looking at this at the end of the first quarter to
see where we're at, both with how many cards are issued, but then also how much fare media are
they purchasing. Because that's where we need to monitor our cash outlay or the lack of cash outlay
coming in. So that's what we plan on doing after the end of the first quarter. And then we'll report
back to you guys what we found out and what our recommendations might be as far as changing
either that or our approach to getting people signed up for LIVE.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's helpful. I know there was some concern from partners who serve
populations experiencing homelessness, both individuals and families as well. Has there been any
movement on that conversation, particularly around not having addresses, and not being able to
keep up with documents, and things like that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So from the standpoint of the addresses, last I heard we had work
through some of those issues. We have a list of places that we'll take that people can get their mail
at and those type of things. So I haven't heard that issue recently after we had that conversation.
The thing that we're following up right now is their suggestion that we have places that people can
go to get assistance. So they can send people there, and those places are places that the homeless
would gather anyhow. So it's not some place clear across town.
Because right now they can go to Denver Human Services, but it's not convenient for all people.
So one of the places that we have potentially identified is the library, because we hear that there's
a large homeless population that visits the library for various reasons. So that's one of the areas
that we might be targeting. So just things like that. But we're looking at doing it throughout the
region.

SHONTEL LEWIS: And then finally, I know you mentioned earlier that you'd like to make these
quarterly updates. And I won't speak for other Directors, but I speak for myself. I'd be more
comfortable if we made it to July before we started quarterly updates just to kind of get an idea of
where we were in our first year.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That's fine too.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm fine continuing doing monthly.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm here every month.
KATE WILLIAMS: And hopefully we'll be.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And I would just offer, I don't-- I would imagine that someone could just come
and ask you for a status-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
KEN MIHALIK: --on their own. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I was reading some social media. I don't exactly
remember where, but they were dissing RTD.
And one of the things said was that we replaced a well-functioning discount program with the
nonprofits for a very difficult to use card program. And I was wondering if you could educate me.
I think starting January, we've stopped working with the nonprofits. Or could you tell us what has
changed?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. So the only thing that's changed with the nonprofits, they can still
get product through us at the discounted rate, but it's at the 40% discount, not the 50%. And in
order-- and they're supposed to be checking to make sure, instead of doing the means testing, we
do the means testing for them through the LIVE program. And they just have to make sure
somebody has a card before they give them product. And that's the part that they're not happy with.
So we still sell product directly to the nonprofits to help their clients. They can still get the 70%,
the 50% discounts that they get for seniors, the 70% for youth. But instead of being a 50% for low
income, it's now 40%. And they need to demonstrate that they have the LIVE card.
So that's where the point of contention has been. I think I just want to remind everybody that the
whole idea that the Pass Working Group came up with was access for all. So with the current

nonprofit program, you had to be affiliated with a nonprofit to get that. You don't have to be
affiliated with a nonprofit to get this discount, and that's the whole idea behind the low income, is
that you didn't have to be affiliated. It was one of the main reasons that we started that whole
conversation-- actually before I got here in 2015-- was around not having to be affiliated.
JUDY LUBOW: I was just wondering, have we compared yet the discount that we give, the
amount, to what the non-- what have been given under the nonprofit programs for equivalent
amount of time? Is there some way to make a comparison that would show, well, we're still pushing
out these discounts or we're really not?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So that's been difficult up to this point, because we extended the
nonprofits' ability to buy the 50% product through the end of the year. So in the future, I might be
able to do some of those comparisons starting in January of 2020. But prior to that, we had the
LIVE program and the nonprofits. And then quite a few of the nonprofits-- they'll admit it-- did
not push their employees, or their clients, to this program until they had to.
So that's why I think we're seeing uptick too in the people applying for the LIVE card, is because
they need that to be able to get the low income discount from the nonprofit. So right now, I can't
compare apples to apples. But starting in the New Year, we could probably look back and say,
OK, this is how much product.
The problem is also with the nonprofits, they would get a lot of product, but they would also return
a lot of product at the end of the year. So I'd have to figure out how much product they actually
use, and how much of it was low income versus youth. Because the discounts were all the same,
remember, for youth, low income, and seniors. So it's not going to be apples to apples, but we're
looking at ways to maybe do that comparison.
JUDY LUBOW: It seems to be important, even though it seems cumbersome and difficult, because
at least this one outlet was attacking the program saying, we're not getting it out. And it would be
nice to be able to come back and say, there is a comparison, and we're doing OK. Thank you very
much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The takeaway for me, as reported at
page 58 of the packet, is that of all of the applications that have been processed, 4,609, 2% didn't
meet the threshold income. The other 98% were resolved. I think that's significant. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Madam Chairwoman?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. When I read this report and then I looked
down at the bullet points, where we were last July when we first launched this program off reads
like, for me, what community members said they needed. And I really want to thank Heather and
her team.

Because when you think about how complex this process was and all of the different components
to it, I think that we need to do a couple things. One thing is engage the transportation management
associations and organizations to help market this in the different jurisdictions that they work in
as a partner with RTD. But I have to tell you, working in Globeville, Swansea, and Elyria, we go
to five different organizations every month-- morning, noon, and night-- and they come. And
they're bringing their stuff, and they're becoming ambassadors for each other and telling people.
So I think I'm starting to see this kick in. But everything they've asked for is on this list about going
to King Soopers, and Safeway, and paper products. And I want to just say, thank you, because it
shows that it's evolving into a diverse way of accessing a resource that is so amazing.
And I do think that this is something that's going to continue to grow and be successful. So I just- as a member of the Working Pass Group, this is fabulous. So thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Let me check. Director Buzek, any comments on the LIVE update?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: And Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, I do. I'm at TRB right now. And even though my primary assignment is
through my own business on congestion pricing, I took advantage of some gaps in my schedule to
attend some other sessions as they related to transit where I thought I could leverage some lessons
learned.
And one of them was on a low fare program. And I went with high expectations, and I was sorely
disappointed. The sessions were not really about any actual low fare program.
One was mostly a modeling exercise and a survey to say "what if," and it was a very low population
area in Canada. But I took the opportunity to discuss with some people what we had done in Denver
and some of the lessons learned using my Board packet, pack of material. And Heather, I have to
apologize to you and Michael in advance, but I had a couple of people give me their card and said,
please give me their contact names so that we can find out more about what you did, because this
sounds like you are headed in the right direction.
So I just wanted to say that I took the materials that were readily available to kind of promote what
we were doing and recognizing that not all of the kinks are worked out yet. But there was a great
deal of interest in what we were doing. And I was also kind of surprised that, given this topic at
TRB, that there was no representation from RTD on what it was actually doing.
So probably expect that you will be asked to be on the podium next year. Anyway, I just wanted
to say that it was really a great opportunity to showcase what we were doing. Not that it was
perfection, but that it was a step in the right direction. So thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And that will conclude our updates. Thank you very much.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And we will move on to other matters. Madam Chairwoman?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is for the Board of Directors. Today,
at about 4:15, you all received an email from Ms. Tonilas to talk about the process as we move
forward for the interim GM.
We want to issue a press release tomorrow. I've contacted every Board member about this. I would
really love for you to take a look at it this evening and to let me know, either tonight or early, early
tomorrow morning, so we can get it out and move forward with the process. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten, can I come back to you? I know Director Lewis just mentioned
her comment is regarding the Chairwoman's comment. Yes?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I actually wanted to thank you, Director Rivera-Malpiede,
for your collaboration and your transparency with that press release and getting our input as Board
Directors. I really, really appreciated that. I also really appreciated you pushing on the resume-having access for our stakeholders and our constituents to be able to look at the resumes and the
cover letters of the applicants so that they can make informed decisions.
And so I just wanted to thank you for your collaboration around that, because I think it really
means a lot, one, to the Board, but also to our constituents. Plus, we want them to give good
feedback, and they can't if they don't have the information. So thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Maybe-- is your comment referring to follow-up? So I've given you all a
document that is titled, "Motion for February 2020, Financial Administration Audit Committee."
I have brought this up a couple other times actually over the years-- multiple times. And it is
regarding transparency, financial transparency, here at the Regional Transportation District.
And what I have written in here-- and there are other Board Directors who support this motion-is right-- and for background, let me jump to that really quick. We, right now, since Ms. McKillop
became our CFO, did move forward with expanded transparency in having our check register in a
monthly PDF posted on the website. I, myself, have been passionate about financial transparency
at different agencies, including leading a team to get our state to put the check register online, the
school district, Jefferson County, the City of Lakewood. So this is not my first go at this.
And after you do this many times, you realize PDFs do not cut it. What you need is, A, what we'd
call "comma separated values" or "text delimited file." And what that means in just regular
layman's terms is that you can take the file, and you click on Excel, and you can open it up right
in there.

And what's important in this motion is that it also goes a step beyond the PDF check register that
we have right now, in that it includes specific items which make it much more beneficial for-whether it's us as Board Directors, or the public, or frankly, even our employees. I'm going to
expand on just that for the employees for just a moment. It's possible right now in the Oracle
system that some employees may not have access to all parts of it. And if they want to look at
something that just-- I'm just throwing out an example. They would like to know, when was that
product purchased, instead of digging through an Oracle system, a CSV spreadsheet may help
them find that very, very quickly, even if it was another department not within their purchasing
realm.
There are many advantages to this. So the way that this motion reads-- which I am bringing up
obviously under other matters tonight, and it's for February action-- states, "The Regional
Transportation District Board of Directors at the March 2019 retreat set a strategic goal to
strengthen transparency and communication for 2020, period. To expand our financial
transparency, this motion directs staff to publish a downloadable CSV, which is Comma Separated
Value, or text delimited file on our public website, which shall include all public account payable
line items, including pay date, check number or EFT, which is Electronic Funds Transfer, invoice
number, if available, purchase order number, if available"-- and this is two very important pieces
here-- "cost center account code, object account code, and line description."
The majority of those items right there are not included in our monthly PDF. That is why it an
expansion. I'll continue now with the motion.
It says-- or motion. "In addition, the chart of accounts listing the cost center and the object code
shall be published and available for download. This account payable register shall be published
and accessible to the public by July, 1, 2020."
"This online accounts payable line item file shall be updated monthly and contain the last three
years of payments." I believe this is a reasonable advance in transparency here at the agency, and
that it doesn't require any sort of fancy search field, which is not that fancy. It's just fairly simple
open source.
But it's a way that somebody could go in, pull that file, and as long as they have some way to open
up a text delimited file, they would have access to be able to say, I would like to know-- I hear
RDT doesn't advertise its services enough. Well, guess what? Instead of sorting month by month
in a PDF, all you have to do is when you have the chart of accounts, you know what the advertising
department is, the marketing, you have that. You have the legend that tells you, that's code 0603
and what is website advertising.
It will be able to allow you to break down those things very simply versus multiple months of a
PDF. So this action has been now at this point signed by five Directors. And therefore, it is a
Board-initiated, Board member-initiated action.
And I did leave it open, without a day itself, just in case we should somehow shift the meeting.
But it is a motion for the February 2020 Financial Administration and Audit Committee. This is
something that should not cost us any money.

As an add-on, I will state that if the board feels they'd like to keep the monthly register up there
and the purchase orders-- purchase orders should not even be touched if you've gotten to that
portal-- keep the monthly PDF there for somebody who doesn't have a spreadsheet, doesn't have
Excel. That's great. But for the person who's able to digest the data, they will be slobbering all over
this.
Thank you. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to take these now. We can talk about this
further at the Board-only retreat. But with the five signatures, it is in motion and action.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, with your kind permission, I'll do this from the podium.
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely.
DOUG TISDALE: This is a memorable evening for a host of reasons. But I hope that the reason
for which I rise will help make it memorable, not only to the Board, but to the public, and most
importantly, to the record. Because this is the last scheduled public meeting of General Manager
David A. Genova before this Board and this agency.
We don't have a meeting on Tuesday night of next week. And Mr. Genova will regrettably take
his leave from us at that time. I, therefore, on behalf of the Board, with the knowledge, consent,
and direction of the Chair, am pleased to invite Mr. Genova to join me here at the podium so that
he may see-- here, to my right. Thank you-- so that he may see what the Board office has very
considerately put together on behalf of all of us.
And so let me read this now. "David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO, Regional
Transportation District, Denver, Colorado, 2015 to 2020. The RTD Board of Directors expresses
our gratitude and appreciation to David A. Genova for his leadership, vision, and innovation. From
the opening of the University of Colorado A Line, as well as the B, G, and R Lines, to
implementation of mobile ticketing technologies, micro transit, and the creation of the Reimagine
RTD initiative, Dave has transformed our agency and our city, establishing RTD as the foundation
of the changing face of transportation in our region."
And signed by me, as past Chair, on behalf of the Board. And Mr. Genova, we couldn't fit all the
words that would describe your contributions onto this plaque. And we couldn't fit all the pictures
of all of the accomplishments that you have had through the years.
It is a mere token. This is a mere token from the Board of our respect and regard. And I thank you.
Chair, if I may yield to Mr. Genova, if he would care to state a word at this time.
DAVE GENOVA: I'll be very brief, and just say, thank you for the recognition. Thanks to the
Board. Thanks to our incredible team of employees, and it's been just a privilege and a pleasure to
serve. So thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and I yield the rest of my time.

KEN MIHALIK: Well, that's a, again, a lamentable but a nice way to finish this evening. We will
meet again in a month on February 11. And thanks again, Mr. Genova.
And we'll see you all in a couple of weeks. Thanks. We stand adjourned.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

