Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, December 6, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting order at 8:05 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Remote

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta
Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District C
Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present
Remote

8:07 PM
8:05 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

8:05 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

8:02 PM
8:05 PM

Bill James

Committee Chair

Present

8:01 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District G
Director, District I

Absent
Present

8:03 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

8:07 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

8:05 PM
8:08 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Chair of the Board
Director, District D

Present
Present

8:05 PM
8:06 PM

Director Lasater was absent. Directors Anderson and Deadwyler participated via phone.
Director Solano left the meeting early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tina Aragon, Rolf Asphaug, Chessy Brady, Gina Callahan,
Jeff Cluphf, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, John Ewy, David Genova, Doug
Gragg, Erik Haugen, John Hersey, Brian Iacono, Ali Imansepahi, Ann
Marie Isaac-Heslop, Kate Iverson, Beverly Lindsay, Adrian Mabry,
Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, James Maguire, Barbara McManus,
Jeff Miessel, Tai-Shrae Parish, Kevin Parker, Mace Pemberton, Gary
Schear, Roger Sherman, Zamy Silva, Bill Sirois, Dana Steele, Errol
Stevens, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Rebecca Tate, Doug
Tisdale, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Kate Williams, Susan
Wood, Clayton Woodruff.

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Patty Doersch, William Gross, Anne
Miano, Roger Sherman, John Thompson, Joe Tripplett, Gary Van
Dorn, Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions

• Option to Purchase Real Property at 2907-2915 Welton Street
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager and/or his designee
to negotiate and execute all documents necessary for the grant of an option,
and for the sale of the real property located at 2907-2915 Welton Street,
Denver Colorado (the “Property”), including execution of any deeds and
other property conveyance documents.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 20th
Board Meeting.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Kate Iverson, Manager of Transit Oriented Development,
stated that staff had discussed this item in detail with the
Board at the November 1, 2016, committee meeting. She
noted that Director Francone’s questions about maintenance
was addressed in the new Board Report under Financial Impact
and the questions about ground leasing by Directors Sisk and
Deadwyler are covered in the attached memo. She added that
staff is attempting to balance two policy goals, including
RTD’s policy for fiscal sustainability. She commented that the

City and County of Denver supports this project and has
offered RTD substantial gap financing to support a
development on the 29th and Welton site. In order to exercise
the option and complete the purchase, the following
conditions must be met:
1. Successful procurement of a development partner to
build a mixed-income condominium project according to
the terms agreed upon by RTD and the city.
2. The selected developer will need to reach an agreement
on business terms with the city.
3. The selected developer will need to secure the
financing necessary to complete the project.
Director Francone asked why the City and County of Denver
has the right to assign the option to the selected developer.
Kate Iverson stated that since the City and County of Denver
will be paying RTD fair market value for the land, the
agreement staff has negotiated stated that the City will
discuss with the developer the amount of subsidy that may be
needed. She noted that staff anticipates that the City will lead
the Request for Proposal (RFP) and procurement processes.
Director Francone commented that the property should be sold
directly to the City and County of Denver so that the city can
do what they want with the property.
Committee Chair James stated the transaction is organized so
that the title would pass through the City and County of
Denver.
Director Lubow asked about the letter from Mayor Hancock,
and what exactly was meant by the substantial gap financing.
Kate Iverson said staff’s initial analysis shows that number
could vary, but it could be in the range of $2 to $3 million.
Director Menten remarked that she is in favor of selling the
property, but she does not like the limit of only being able to
sell it to the City of Denver. She said it should be sold on the
open market to the highest bidder.
Director Sisk asked staff to include bullet points at the Board
Meeting to define what is being discussed here.

Committee Chair James stated that staff is asking the Board
to approve the execution of an option, and, under certain
conditions, complete a sale transaction.
Chair Tobiassen noted one issue is gentrification in
neighborhoods where RTD has invested in infrastructure. He
said this is a good opportunity, and the City of Denver has
come up with an option to keep people in their neighborhoods.
Director Solano commented that the Board needs to find a
way to slow down gentrification. He noted he will support
this item if the City of Denver has approved this plan.
Director Deadwyler stated she has mixed feelings on this item,
but she agrees that people who live in this neighborhood need
to be able to buy in this neighborhood. She remarked that
even though this is labeled as affordable housing, it is still
expensive. She added that RTD should keep the property to
use it for a continuous revenue stream instead of selling it for
a one-time payment.
Director Anderson commented that this is a very small piece
of property and the report last month was very informative.
She added that the City of Denver has worked in this area for
a long time to provide more affordable housing options and
she is happy to partner with them.
Director Folska asked if the units will be owner occupied.
Kate Iverson explained that the intent for the units is that they
will be owner occupied, with an estimated 52 units.
Director Folska inquired as to what percentage of the units
would be classified as affordable.
Kate Iverson said staff could determine a number and define a
percentage of units within the resolution that would be labeled
affordable.
Director Deadwyler stated that most likely the affordable
housing units would only be 10% of the total units. She
commented if there will be 52 units, as staff has previously
estimated, only 5 of those would be available as affordable
housing units.

Director Hoy noted that the Board’s goal should be to sell the
property and use those funds to move people from point A to
point B.
Committee Chair James asked staff to speak with the City and
County of Denver to specify the commitment of affordable
housing units.
Director Lubow remarked that one of the reasons the Board is
discussing this is to improve the areas where RTD has installed
transit. She said a big component of this plan is to offer
affordable housing and, if the affordable units are minimal in
comparison to the overall number, that would not suffice.
Director Bagley explained that staff is discussing getting an
appraisal for this property. He said if the Board constraints the
property to 50% affordable housing, the property value will
drop significantly. He added that the land size is only 19,000
square feet, which is quite small.
Director Walker stated he is in favor of letting the City and
County of Denver determine the numbers and market for
affordable housing.
Director Anderson indicated she would be voting yes for this
item.
Director Deadwyler stated she would be voting no for this
item.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 3]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Barbara Deadwyler, Tina Francone, Natalie Menten
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED.

• Parking Guiding Principles
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached parking guiding principles resolution to
provide policy direction to RTD staff on parking related issues moving
forward.

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 20,
2016, Board Meeting.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities,
commented that this item was discussed at length with the
Board last month. He noted the Resolution was the same as
the one presented in November and asked if there were any
questions.
Committee Chair James noted there were no questions and
asked for a vote.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Barbara Deadwyler
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Platte Division Zoning and Land Value
Bill Sirois stated that staff was asked to look at the value of the Platte
property in relation to the City and County of Denver’s rezoning. On
September 19, 2016, the Denver City Council adopted the 38th and Blake
Station Area Height Amendments. The amendments allow for greater
minimum and maximum height at several properties northeast of 31st Street.
The area was rezoned from light industrial use to a form-based code base
height of 8 stories to an incentive height of 12 stories. He noted that based
on comparable property values, Platte Division’s value for sale or groundlease could range from $82 million to $132 million. He added that selling or
ground-leasing RTD’s property would require replacing the bus-maintenance
and operations services, and replacement costs would be between $80 to
$120 million, excluding land costs.
Director Bagley said he wanted the Board to be aware of what is happening
around this property, but he does not think RTD needs to pursue any
additional actions.

• 16th Street Mall
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, reminded the Board
that staff provided an update during the November 1, 2016, meeting and
indicated that the technical working group did not come up with a
consensus on the transit way design. He stated that RTD’s focus remains
on the transit way surface, not the full mall reconfiguration and added that
RTD’s priority is to maintain the 16th Street Mall Shuttle Operations, as well
as safety for our passengers.
Director Francone asked what the split was between the surface area for the
totality of the mall.
Bill Van Meter indicated 25% to 30% is transit way and the rest is
pedestrian.
Director Lubow stated that the transit way needs to be analyzed, not the
entire configuration of the mall.
General Manager Genova commented that there is only so much funding
available that RTD would be able to commit to. He added that the
conceptual cost estimates for a major reconfiguration would be very
expensive.
Susan Wood, Planning Project Manager, said RTD has $10 million from one
grant, and $5 million from another, and that would be all that RTD could
contribute towards a reconstruction effort. She added that the technical
working group could not reach a consensus and it is in RTD’s interest to get
through the environmental process in order to move forward.
Director Solano commented that staff discussed issues raised by the
historical society a year ago. He asked if they could deter RTD’s plans for
the mall.
Susan Wood stated that the historical society is very vocal. They have a
large presence, but they are only one voice. She stated that RTD must go
through a cultural resources process, and they could impact us by slowing
that process down.
Director Walker said 80% of RTD’s customers use the sidewalks in order to
get to the bus. He remarked that we need to look at this as a partnership
with the City and County of Denver.
Chair Tobiassen asked if the $700,000 study would make the project ready
to go.

Bill Van Meter said that it would get us all the way through some design
work, but it would not include the final design. He noted that the final
design would be eligible for federal grant reimbursement.
Chair Tobiassen remarked that our federal lobbyists said that there is a
possibility that the new presidential administration will make a large
infrastructure push. He stated that it would be beneficial to RTD if the
project were ready to go.
Director Menten commented that RTD is spending a lot of money for such a
small stretch of road.

D. Other Matters
Director Menten inquired about the status of the garage on Ringsby that is planned
to be torn down.
Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, stated that as
of now, the building will be repurposed for facilities maintenance.
Committee Chair James said this will be his last opportunity to chair this committee
and he has been honored to lead the committee. He stated that this committee has
always partnered with FasTracks and that next year the two will be consolidated to
Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks.

E. Next Meeting Date - January 10, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 9:15 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

