Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

AGENDA
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, December 6, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Option to Purchase Real Property at 2907-2915 Welton Street
• Parking Guiding Principles
C. Updates

• Platte Division Zoning and Land Value
• 16th Street Mall

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - January 10, 2017
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: December 1, 2016

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

GM

Date:

November 30, 2016

Subject:

Option to Purchase Real Property at 29072915 Welton Street

Assistant

General

Board Meeting Date: December 20, 2016

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorizes the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents necessary
for the grant of an option, and for the sale of the real property located at 2907-2915 Welton Street,
Denver Colorado (the “Property”), including execution of any deeds and other property conveyance
documents.
BACKGROUND
This action addresses the 2016 goal of fiscal sustainability in leveraging RTD assets by selling property
no longer needed by the District for fair market value, and addresses the policy goals of Resolution 17 in
2010, the TOD Strategic Plan by supporting creation of mixed-income housing near transit stations.
RTD originally acquired the property at 29th and Welton in 1993 to replace the on-street parking for local
businesses that was lost during the construction of the Central Corridor LRT. The property is currently a
vacant parking lot used for neighborhood retail parking and is not managed as part of RTD’s parking
management system.
In 2010, the RTD Board adopted the TOD Strategic Plan to create a more focused policy that guides
RTD’s role in encouraging the creation of mixed-income communities near transit. The Board also
approved the TOD Pilot Program to test implementing the new TOD Strategic Plan. Pursuant to that
policy direction, RTD selected the Welton corridor as a Pilot Program site because of a combination of
favorable market conditions for redevelopment and the City and County of Denver’s (the “City’s”)
commitment to revitalization of the Welton Corridor.
In 2013, the Five Points Business District published its Vision Plan Implementation & Revitalization
Strategy, which called for removal of vacant parking lots along the corridor including activation of RTD’s
29th and Welton property. The plan emphasizes the need to retain housing affordability in the Welton
corridor.
Beginning in 2014, RTD staff and the Denver Office of Economic Development (OED) began discussions
around how to partner to implement the community vision established in the Five Points Business
District plan as part of the RTD Pilot Program implementation. In addition, Mayor Hancock has signaled
his eagerness to continue to collaborate with RTD on a new model for mixed-income condominium
construction that helps to achieve the City’s 3x5 Initiative to create or preserve 3,000 affordable homes
in five years by 2018. A letter from Mayor Hancock expressing the City’s commitment to this project is
included in the Board packet, including the City’s willingness to contribute substantial gap financing to
support an appropriate development on the 29th and Welton site.

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

RTD and the City have outlined a potential competitive process to solicit developers to build a mixedincome condominium project on the Property. OED would lead the RFQ process, but RTD would
participate in the selection panel. To aid in the successful completion of the developer selection, RTD
and the City need to establish certainty for potential bidders that the property will be available at
previously agreed upon terms. Accordingly, RTD staff request authority to grant an option to purchase
the Property now so that when the City issues the RFQ, it can represent that it holds a right to purchase
the property under the terms of an option agreement.
DISCUSSION
This action would give authority to grant the City and County of Denver an option to purchase the
Property1. In order to exercise the option and complete the purchase, the following conditions must be
met first:
i) successful procurement of a development partner to build a mixed-income condominium
project according to the terms agreed upon by RTD and the City;
ii) the selected developer reaching an agreement on business terms with the City; and
iii) the selected developer securing the financing necessary to complete the project.
The City would also have the right to assign the option to the selected developer, meaning the selected
developer could purchase the property directly from RTD on the same terms as the City and subject to
the same conditions. The term of the option would be two years from the date of its execution, with
the ability to grant two ninety-day extensions if necessary to complete the transaction. The final
purchase price for the Property will be based on a fair market value appraisal of the Property.
If the City fails to exercise the option during the option period, RTD would remain the property owner
and any subsequent decisions about the Property would come back to the Board for approval.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
RTD currently spends approximately $10,000 per year maintaining the property. If the property is sold,
RTD will no longer have this maintenance obligation. If the Option is exercised, RTD will receive the
amount determined by a fair market value appraisal of the Property.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager and/or his designee
to negotiate and execute all documents necessary for the grant of an option, and for the sale of
the real property located at 2907-2915 Welton Street, Denver Colorado (the “Property”),
including execution of any deeds and other property conveyance documents.
2. Do not authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary for the conveyance of an Option to Purchase the Real Property located at 2907-2915
Welton Street, Denver CO. This is not recommended because RTD does not have any current or
future transit need for the property, and because this would be inconsistent with the goals of the
TOD pilot program previously approved by the Board in December of 2010.
1

An option to purchase property is the right, but not the obligation, to purchase the property at any time
during the term of the option according to the terms of the option.

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1
ATTACHMENTS:


Property Map (PPTX)



2016-11-28 Letter - RTD Board - 29th Welton



163097-Executive Summary-29th & Welton Land Sale-11-30-2016

(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Kate Iverson, Manager, Transit Oriented Development
John Hersey, Senior TOD Associate
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: Property Map (2976 : 2907-2915 Welton Street)

1.B.1.a

29th & Welton in Five Points

Packet Pg. 6

1.B.1.b

City and County of Denver
Michael B. Hancock
Mayor

OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
CITY AND COUNTY BUILDING
DENVER, CO 80202-5390
TELEPHONE: (720) 865-9090 • FAX: (720) 865-8787
TTY/ TTD: (720) 865-9010

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
To the RTD Board of Directors:
This letter is to express the City and County of Denver’s strong and enthusiastic support for the
proposal before you to approve an option agreement between RTD and the city to acquire the
RTD-owned property at 2907-2915 Welton Street for the development of mixed-income
housing.
Since the fall of 2014, Denver’s Office of Economic Development (OED) has been working
closely with the RTD Transit-Oriented Development team to plan for the development of
mixed-income for-sale housing on this site. We look forward to continuing to collaborate on
this joint effort to provide critical affordable homeownership opportunities in the Five Points
neighborhood.
OED’s mission is to advance economic prosperity for the city and its businesses, neighborhoods
and residents. As part of this mission, OED invests federal and local funds in the development
and preservation of a variety of income-qualified housing throughout the city. Each year, OED
invests millions of dollars of gap financing in non-profit and private-sector-led development
projects that add to the city’s stock of affordable housing.
Housing costs in the Denver region are rising out of reach for even moderate-income residents,
with an estimated 100,000 households in Denver County alone paying more than 30% of their
income for housing costs. We recognize the need to invest in affordable housing options not
only to provide shelter for our region’s most vulnerable residents, but also to support the
economic mobility of Denver’s low- and moderate-income families as they become ready to
move into homeownership. To achieve this goal, OED invests in affordable housing units
ranging from supportive housing for the lowest-income residents to for-sale units for
households earning up to the median income.

1
Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: 2016-11-28 Letter - RTD Board - 29th Welton (2976 : 2907-2915 Welton Street)

December 6, 2016

1.B.1.b

Due partly to construction defects restrictions, very few for-sale units have been built in Denver
over the last several years, limiting the entry-level housing options available to lower- and
moderate-income homebuyers. The city is eager to continue to collaborate with RTD and a
mutually selected developer to pilot on this site a new model for mixed-income condominium
construction at this location. We are prepared to contribute substantial gap financing to an
appropriate development on this site to support this effort.
Attachment: 2016-11-28 Letter - RTD Board - 29th Welton (2976 : 2907-2915 Welton Street)

We look forward to the opportunity to continue to deepen and strengthen our relationship
with RTD as a key partner in innovative development throughout Denver.
Respectfully,

Michael B. Hancock
Mayor

2
Packet Pg. 8

1.B.1.c

Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.

Economic & Planning Systems (EPS) evaluated two land disposition options for the RTD owned
parcels at 29th and Welton. The site is currently used as a RTD parking lot. The first option is a
land sale, where RTD transfers ownership to a buyer in exchange for a lump sum payment. The
second is a ground lease, where a land lessee pays RTD a fee to use the land for a set term. At
the end of the term, RTD takes control of the land and any buildings on it. EPS evaluated the
disposition options on two criteria: (1) the potential limitations on land uses and corresponding
policy goals and (2) the potential monetary value to RTD. In the first criterion, the evaluation
found that the ground lease option limits the potential for residential product in general and
likely precludes residential homeownership. In the second, the evaluation found that the land
sale and ground lease generate similar values.

Land Use Limitations
The ground lease option poses distinct challenges as it relates to housing affordability goals.
Ground leases generally preclude residential ownership products like condominiums. As a result,
this disposition option would limit RTD’s ability to create affordable homeownership on the site.
Moreover, ground leases often increase the interest rate on mortgages for potential buyers,
further complicating affordability. Finally, the market for residential ground leases limits the pool
of prospective developers, creating an additional layer of complexity for lenders and investors. A
weak ground lease market may also reduce the potential value of this option.

Value
In addition to policy considerations, EPS estimated the potential value to RTD for both options.
Based on conservative assumptions, EPS found the option yield almost identical values for RTD
of approximately $1.4 million. The valuation methodology is described briefly:
•

•

Land Sale: EPS evaluated 26 comparable land sales within a one-mile radius of the site
completed since 2010. Based on these comparable transactions, a low, moderate, and
high range of price was established. Based on these prices, EPS estimates a price range
between $1 million and $1.7, with $1.4 million representing the mid-range estimate.
Ground Lease: EPS calculated a present value of the potential stream of cash flows. In
contrast to a land sale, a ground lease tenant pays RTD an annual fee to use the land.
The fee is typically based on a percentage of the land value (around 6.0 percent), and
ground leases typically last 50 or 99 years, with the latter being more common. The long
term nature of the lease allows the tenant to earn a return on any investment or land
improvement. Present value allows for apples-to-apples comparison, translating the
stream of cash values into 2016 dollars. Based on these terms, EPS estimates a range of
values between $1 million and 1.7 million, with a midrange of $1.4 million.

While the two options generate comparable values in most scenarios, EPS found more upside to
ground leases in optimistic scenarios. However, RTD must balance this potential premium with
the policy limitations and market constraints posed by the ground lease. In other words, the
objective of developing affordable ownership condominiums can be accomplished most
effectively with a land sale.

Land Value and Disposition Options for 29th & Welton

November 30, 2016

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: 163097-Executive Summary-29th & Welton Land Sale-11-30-2016 (2976 : 2907-2915 Welton Street)

Executive Summary – 29th and Welton

1.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and
CEO

Date: November 30, 2016

From:

William C. Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager, Planning

GM

Date:

November 30, 2016

Board Meeting Date: December 20, 2016

Subject:

Parking Guiding Principles

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors pass the
attached parking guiding principles resolution to provide policy direction to RTD staff on parking related
issues moving forward.
BACKGROUND
RTD has over 29,000 parking spaces serving its transit system. About 20 percent of RTD riders park at
one of RTD’s park and ride facilities to access the transit system so it represents a significant contingent
of RTD’s ridership. RTD’s ability to manage our parking resources is governed by RTD’s enabling
legislation (C.R.S. Section 32-9-119.9) and there is limited internal policy guidance available for staff to
utilize in analyzing and making decisions on parking related projects.
DISCUSSION
RTD’s recent experience with third party parking agreements has resulted in inconsistencies in the
management and operation of shared facilities. This inconsistency creates challenges for RTD staff to
implement RTD’s current parking management program and complicates issues when considering third
party approaches to potentially charging for parking.
For joint development projects, there is limited guidance in RTD’s Strategic Plan for TOD (2010) about
how to deal with replacement parking. It would benefit staff to have clearly identified criteria to
consider when working on projects involving parking replacement. In addition, RTD’s approach to station
access, which includes the provision of parking, is done with limited policy guidance. Having clear
policy guidance on station access would help with in developing a holistic, balanced approach to the
planning and implementation of station improvements.
It would therefore be beneficial to have guiding principles to provide a base level of direction to staff in
day to day dealings with parking issues. Draft parking guiding principles were presented at the
November 1st P&D Committee meeting. Board feedback on the draft principles was provided at the
meeting.

Packet Pg. 10

1.B.2

FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no expected direct financial impact of this resolution. This resolution requires that financial
implications be considered as part of any decision related to RTD parking.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors pass
the attached parking guiding principles resolution to provide policy direction to RTD staff on
parking related issues moving forward.
2. Do not adopt resolution. Continue to operate with limited policy guidance and allow for
continued inconsistency with parking decisions.

Prepared by:
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, Transit Oriented Communities

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 11

1.B.2

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. ____, SERIES OF 2016
A RESOLUTION PROVIDING POLICY GUIDANCE ON PARKING ISSUES THROUGH A
SERIES OF PARKING GUIDING PRINCIPLES.
WHEREAS, The Regional Transportation District plans, designs, builds and operates mass
transit for the Denver region; and
WHEREAS, the provision of transit service to the Denver region by RTD includes the
provision of parking as part of a balanced approach to multi-modal access to RTD facilities;
and
WHEREAS, parking decisions at RTD are governed by a limited set of policies including
RTD’s enabling legislation (C.R.S. §32-9-119.9): and
WHEREAS, RTD staff would benefit from clear policy guidance from the RTD Board of
Directors.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT TO ADOPT THE FOLLOWING GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR
PARKING RELATED DECISIONS:

1.

RTD will continue to operate its parking management program under the current
enabling legislation (C.R.S. §32-9-119.9) and evaluate potential improvements to the
program, including changes to parking fees, on a regular basis.

2.

RTD will evaluate all decisions on parking based on the impacts to ridership and the
financial, operational, and capital benefits to RTD.

3.

RTD will evaluate third-party parking operation and management agreements
considering the following factors:





Consistency with RTD parking management practices, including retaining
control over RTD assets;
Opportunities to leverage third-party resources;
Input from local governments prior to finalizing agreements; and
Other relevant factors.

Packet Pg. 12

1.B.2

4.

RTD will evaluate new or additional parking in the context of a comprehensive, multimodal plan for station accessibility considering the following factors:









5.

Cost effectiveness of each mode;
Ease of access based on connectivity and convenience of each mode;
Infrastructure and maintenance costs of each mode;
Local jurisdiction land-use plans and community vision for the area;
Changes in commuter preferences related to new shared mobility options;
Customer safety;
Feasibility of shared parking arrangements; and
Other relevant factors.

RTD will evaluate parking replacement of station area property for joint development
or other purposes considering the following factors:
 Current parking-facility utilization;
 Opportunities to increase station area density based on local land-use plans;
 Distance from mixed-use, transit oriented urban centers;
 Connectivity to other modes of access;
 Potential for increased transit ridership;
 Obligations on or limits to the quantity of parking due to legal restrictions or
federal funding requirements; and
 Other relevant factors.

Packet Pg. 13

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: December 1, 2016

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

GM

Date:

November 30, 2016

Subject:

Platte Division Zoning and Land Value

Assistant

General

Board Meeting Date: December 6, 2016
Information

BACKGROUND
On September 19, 2016, the Denver City Council adopted the 38th & Blake Station Area Height
Amendments. Noted in the map below, the Height Amendments allow for greater minimum and
maximum height at several properties northeast of 31st St., including Platte Division, which was rezoned
from light industrial use to a form-based code base height of 8 stories to an incentive height (with
affordable housing, for example) of 12 stories. District Shops, located southeast of 31st St., is not
included in the Height Amendments.

Platte
Division

In light of these Height Amendments, Director Bagley requested RTD staff to consider the impact to
RTD’s property, and RTD staff requested Economic Planning Systems’ (EPS) analytical support. This
Report serves to summarize staff’s and EPS’ findings including the property’s valuation under a sale or
ground lease arrangement.

Packet Pg. 14

1.C.1

DISCUSSION
Based on comparable property values, Platte Division’s value for sale or ground-lease could range from
$82 million to $123 million. However, there are a number of additional factors that RTD should consider
in deciding whether or not to consider disposition of Platte Division. For example, the Height
Amendments encourages residential use, which requires the highest and costliest level of environmental
remediation, thereby potentially reducing the long-time maintenance facility’s sale or ground-lease value
to a prospective buyer, depending on the costs associated with the remediation.
In addition, selling or ground-leasing the property would require replacing the bus-maintenance and
operations services currently handled at the Platte Division. Replacement costs include but are not
limited to the following considerations:






Platte Division’s central location in the RTD system presently reduces deadhead mileage and
operational costs. A satellite location may be unlikely to provide comparable service efficiency.
Moreover, Platte Division’s proximity to District Shops leverages unparalleled operational
efficiencies Although RTD could consider relocating both Platte Division and District Shops to
maintain this convenience, the latter property is not included in the Height Amendments and, so,
RTD would not similarly gain from its disposition.
As centrally located property sells for a substantial price, it is costly to acquire sites comparable
to Platte Division in size or location.
In addition to acquiring property, RTD would need to build a comparable bus-maintenance facility.
Research suggests that cost would be between $80 million to $120 million, excluding land costs.

Perhaps more importantly, market conditions within RiNo, the potential for a constrained land supply as
other sites build out, and the potential for substantial capital investment in and around the neighborhood
with respect to Brighton Blvd. reconstruction and National Western Stock Show redevelopment all
suggest that this site will reach greater value in the future.

Prepared by:
John Hersey, Senior TOD Associate
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 15

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: November 30, 2016

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

GM

Date:

November 30, 2016

Subject:

16th Street Mall

Assistant

General

Board Meeting Date: December 6, 2016
Information

Prepared by:
William Van Meter, Assistant General Manager, Planning
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 16

