Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 3,
2010
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

August 4, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
August 3, 2010 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Chair Christopher, Vice-Chair Bagley, Directors Brohl, Busck, Cohen,
Daly, James, Malpiede, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, and Tayer
Directors Kemp and Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Chuck Culig, David Genova, Mike
Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Caitlin Magee, Pat
McLaughlin, Anthony Menendez, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed,
Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill
Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil Washington, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Gary Gonzales, Robin Kneich (FRESC), Bob Wilson, Maria Garcia Berry,
Roger Sherman, Brian Middleton, Raiza Akhavan, Mac Callison, Jonnie
Thomas, Wil Alston, Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Jane Donovan, Debra
Wilcox, Rob Larsen
****

Call to Order:

Committee Chair Christopher called the meeting at 5:34 p.m.

General Manager Washington introduced Dale Austin Jenkins as the new Assistant General
Manager of Rail Operations. He comes to the District with over thirty years of experience in
the transit industry.
Mr. Jenkins said he was happy to be here and looking forward to his new position.
I.

Updates
a. TIGER II – Joint Application CDOT/RTD – Rick Clarke introduced this
presentation. TIGER II is considerably less money than TIGER 1 and RTD
submitted its application along with 2300 others. It will be very competitive.
The Selection criterion focuses on:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 3,
2010
Page 2 of 6

Sustainability
Livability
Economic Competitiveness
State of Good Repair
Safety
Project scope – The scope is the extension of the transit line from Nine Mile to
Iliff and construction of the Iliff Station park-n-Ride. It will also include highway
expansion from Parker Road to Mississippi Ave which will be done by CDOT.
The grant will emphasize the partnership between RTD and CDOT and show
that this is a continuation of the TREX project. I-225 line is very important to
the City of Aurora. It will link Denver to the Anschutz Medical campus.
Financial Information:
Total project costs - $157 million
Grant Request - $123.3 Million
Matching funds - $33.7 million
The Final grant application is due August 23, 2010. The anticipated award date
is September 15, 2010.
Director Martinez wanted to know total money available for TIGER I. Mr. Culig
responded that the total is $600 million but it is apportioned out in different
ways. Some of the money is already set aside for rural projects which leaves
about $300 million available for large projects.
Director McMullen wanted to know if we received the grant, when we could
start construction. Mr. Culig responded that they believe construction could
begin in 2013. Rick Clarke responded that they would like to accelerate that.
Director Christopher said hopefully we will get this funding. A lot of the criteria
for this grant are very similar to elements in the TOD policy and would dovetail
nicely. He also asked if the City of Aurora would be required to participate in the
funding with the 2.5% local contribution since the project is a part of
FasTracks. Staff confirmed that they were presently negotiating with the City of
Aurora.
Director Bagley wanted to know the dollar split of the grant between RTD and
CDOT. Mr. Culig responded that RTD’s portion would be about $90 million and
CDOT’s amount would be $60 million.
b. Proposed Refinement of RTD TOD Policy – General Manager Washington
introduced this presentation. This is the third in a series of five presentations
leading up to a new “transit oriented community” policy. Staff is looking to
bring a new policy for adoption to the Board in September of 2010. Bill Sirois

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 3,
2010
Page 3 of 6

gave the presentation that started with an overview of TOD work the last five
years. A copy of this presentation is available for review in the Planning and
Development Committee Meeting Minute Notebook.
Key points from the presentation:
How can we advance RTD and RTD’s policy.
New federal policy emphasis on Livable Communities
FasTracks is a transition point for moving TOD from planning to
implementation
HB 10-1143 passage allows residential usage at park-n-Rides.
Why are we doing this?
Recognize that TOD can represent more than “development”, TOD can
create “communities” for RTD riders
Mixed income communities
Station/development integrated within community setting
Jobs: creation as well as improved access
Looking to take a more proactive role, emphasis on “Communities” rather than
“Development”.
Develop a pilot program
Identify stations with high potential for creating communities where RTD
could play a role in implementation
Test out expanded role for RTD
Refine existing Strategic Plan for TOD to:
Reflect federal emphasis on Livable Communities and broaden definition
of success to reflect a community focus
Expanded criteria are consistent with the six Federal Livability Goals:
Provide more transportation choices
Economic competitiveness (see slide)
Affordable housing
Support existing communities
Coordinate policies and leverage investments
Value communities and neighborhoods
Continue existing TOD program and provide flexibility where appropriate:
Reduce parking
Use land as equity in partnership – consistent with FTA guidelines
Seek grant funding for TODs with an emphasis on community
Joint venture with other government agencies on development offerings

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 3,
2010
Page 4 of 6

Staff and Directors Bagley and James met with the Ford Foundation and DRCOG
staff. The Ford Foundation is looking to invest in TOD project in Denver.
Development takes awhile to transpire. Expectations have to be realistic. Pilot
program will probably take three to five years from an implementation stand
point. We want to continue working on other TOD opportunities beyond the
Pilot Program.
Revised policy will come to the Board at September 7, P&D Committee for
adoption at the September 21, 2010 Board Meeting.
Pilot Program:
Review of selected pilot projects with RTD Board in December of 2010.
Director Bagley said this was a transformative opportunity for the Board and
moving forward with Transit Oriented Development and Transit Oriented
Communities. He spoke of how impressed the Ford Foundation was with the
District’s ability to work with municipalities and DRCOG.
Director Martinez said he was grateful for the expanded schedule; he felt it
made more sense. He was thankful to Mr. Sirois for listening to the Board on
that suggestion. One of the most important components in the pilot projects
(for him) is affordable housing.
Director Tayer stated he is excited to see this go forward and put it in a plug for
the Bus stations and please advertise this broadly for other areas that do not
have rail stations. He really would like to see the affordable housing component
stressed as well. This is the way we get additional value out of the investments
that we are making.
Director James echoed the other Directors and stressed affordable housing as
well. We have a lot of financial challenges and this could be a way to mitigate
some of the challenges. He believes there is “lots of bang for the buck.”
Director Malpiede spoke about being on the FasTracks CAC in 2005 and she
wanted to see FasTracks as an opportunity to serve all aspects of our
community from the lowest to the wealthiest. This is a big dream come true to
see the focus on affordable housing. She sees this as an opportunity to fulfill
our promise of collaboration, inclusivity and an opportunity to serve our entire
community. These TODS could be an outstanding community gathering places
for our children and grandchildren.
Director Brohl was glad to see the difference in policy. She wants to make clear
that she supports affordable housing, but also brought up that some of the
affordable housing owners in Stapleton are having trouble selling their properties
because of restrictions placed on affordable housing. She wants to caution the

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 3,
2010
Page 5 of 6

Board so that we do affordable housing with our eyes open and do not create a
problem.
Director McMullen loves the term “Transit Oriented Communities”. This is a
step in the right direction. As a public agency we have an obligation to steer
development in the right direction since we are putting transit riders right next
to it. Be cognizant that this is a long term project. It takes time to get buy in
and we must have a successful project to start with so that other communities
can see the example and want to have similar projects.
Director Cohen supports the direction RTD is moving with this policy. There are
opportunities everywhere. He likes the local jurisdiction buy in.
It makes
affordable housing a moving target and requires the input of the jurisdiction. He
likes not fixing a target as areas vary. He agrees with Barbara Brohl’s concern
about affordable housing. We need to define what success means for TOD and
it may vary by locations. He likes the fact that this policy allows for that
flexibility.
Director O’Boyle wanted to introduce a word of caution. Our mission is to
provide transportation. We get tax money to provide transportation. Housing is
not part of our mission.
He supports livable, walkable, multi modal
communities. Local jurisdictions are the ones to support housing, not RTD. We
are the “transit” in the Transit Oriented Communities. There should be a bright
line between providing shelter for those who use our system and providing them
transportation. He supports jurisdictions reaching out to get funding to support
housing. He supports the notion of integrating our services with development.
We stay for the long haul and provide transportation service and he would like
to stay focused on that rather than on housing.
Mr. Sirois provided a clarification; we are not proposing to establish our policy
on affordable housing – that would come from the jurisdictions. We would
defer to them on any kind of policy on the details of affordable housing
developments.
Director Bagley shared that he had conversation with public works director in
Littleton. We might want to look at providing an impetus for communities to
enhance things around the stations like bike lanes, etc.
Director Busck said we are moving in the right direction. He believes strongly in
local control. We are in the transit business and he sees this as developing
partnerships. We need to develop a policy that not only affects people that
have corridors right now but increase budget a bit and work with communities
that have been planning for years to have TOD in their community. There will
be lessons learned. We might not have the funding to finish your corridor until
after the election but we can define partnership and what they might look like
around those stations. In the North, they are really concerned about the rail

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 3,
2010
Page 6 of 6

lines. This is a great step in the right direction and it can send a good message
to people in corridors without funding.
Chair Christopher said that this has been on his mind for a long time. This is an
important moment in his quest to see RTD be a more active partner with
developers and the affordable housing community. He commended the General
Manager for opening the door and commends staff for their work. We are still
going to be running buses and trains, not building homes. This is all about
partnerships. He thinks only focusing on being the “T” in TOD was a mistake
but glad to see the District being more enlightened. This policy sets up
opportunities that haven’t been there before. We have done a lot of
collaboration on DUS so this is very similar only adding affordable housing to the
mix. This is the right thing for us to do. Regardless of what Feds say, this is
the right thing to do for people that need housing and that would use public
transportation. This is a win-win. It makes us more competitive for federal
grants. He believes there is consensus from the Board to carry this forward.
II. Other Matters – No other matter were discussed.
III. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is
scheduled for September 7, 2010.
IV. Adjourn to FasTracks Monitoring Committee- Hearing no objections, Committee Chair
Christopher adjourned the Planning & Development Committee meeting at 6:36 p.m.

