2021-10-19
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
DOUG MACLEOD: Chair Catlin, this is Doug MacLeod.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
DOUG MACLEOD: Hi there. Hey, I wanted to ask if it would be OK if our guest speakers-PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. I thought you were thinking the same thing.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was. Well, I think a number of us were. So we will be adjourning this and then we will
move that information agenda item up. And I'll have you introduce our guests.
DOUG MACLEOD: Great. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
RICH WOBBEKIND: If we could do the screen share.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, we haven't started quite yet.
RICH WOBBEKIND: That's OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Trying to see who's-- thank you for your patience, by the way.
RICH WOBBEKIND: It was quite a discussion, let me just say, as an outsider, as a member of the District,
but not a Board member.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that's a open ended statement, quite a discussion. Does that have a positive or
a negative spin on it?
RICH WOBBEKIND: Well, I thought it was really interesting, and it was driven by lots of fundamental
voting principles, which I find really interesting, and an ultimate hope to be more efficient at the end of the
day, which you can't argue with.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. It is 10 o'clock. So the Financial, Administration, and Audit Committee will now
come to order.
RICH WOBBEKIND: We're 9 o'clock, Director Catlin.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, it is 9:00 PM.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, sorry. I was going to amend that to say Central Daylight Time, which is where I am,
9 o'clock, thank you, Mountain Daylight Time on October 19, 2021.
I'm going to go through this at warp speed, because Director Williams has already said it. But I
respectfully ask everyone attending this virtual meeting to mute yourself until you are recognized to
speak. Thank you all for joining us. You all know by now that the meetings of the RTD Board of Directors
are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. These official meetings of the
Board will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. These recordings, along with the
unofficial minutes of the meeting, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website, at rtddenver.com, where on the bottom of the page you will find a link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged tonight, please raise
your virtual hand and I'll attempt to call on you in the order in which you raised it. For those staff and
Directors on the phone, please indicate you would like to speak by pressing star 9. And to mute, please
press star 6.
We will not be taking public comment during this committee as it currently stands, but those wishing to
address the Board may do so at the monthly Board meetings, the future dates of which are posted on the
Board meeting portal located at rtd.iqm2.com.
OK. We are at the-- to acknowledge the patience of our guests, we have decided to move up one of our
information items up. And we are going to have Doug MacLeod introduce our guests, who will-- excuse
me, it's not an information item, it's a discussion item-- who will introduce our guests from the Leeds
School of Business to talk about the sales and use tax forecast.
Doug, would you like to introduce our guests? Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Thank you, Chair Catlin. Good evening and thank you to our guests for waiting.
This is a semi-annual update to the Board, an economic forecast that coincides with the delivery of the
September sales and use tax forecast which is used in our budget and our mid-term financial plan, which
we will discuss later. With us tonight are Rich Wobbekind, Robert McNown, and Brian Lewandowski by
phone, I believe. I think Rich and Robert are going to walk us through a slide presentation. So please go
ahead.
RICH WOBBEKIND: I'm not 100% sure that Brian is joining us. He's on his way to Steamboat to present
at the Economic Developer's Council of Colorado meeting. But Robert and I will be walking you through
the slides.

In interest of everyone's time, you've been you're working hard tonight, I want to just take you through a
little bit of the backdrop of what we're using for the forecast. And then my colleague, Professor McNown,
will pick it up when we start to talk about the actual revenue forecast that we've constructed.
So looking at the picture for real, when we're looking at real GDP, we are seeing that in terms of real
GDP, we're back to where we were before-- I'm sure many of you follow this closely-- but we're not where
we would be if we had not had the recession, meaning if we had been on the previous trend, we'd be
about 2% higher in terms of GDP. So we're not at potential GDP but we're at the same sort of dollar
value. And this has been getting a lot of air time. And certainly, the Colorado economy has benefited from
this as well in terms of our GDP growth. We've had very strong GDP growth as well. These are, of
course, key drivers in the revenue model that we are using.
However, when you look at employment-- and this actually matches up very nicely with the early part of
your last discussion-- you can see why we have such issues in terms of an employment gap. We're still
down about seven million people from our peak employment. And this is a real conundrum. Everybody
has seen all of the signs about unemployment and everybody is looking for workers. And part of the
reason is, of course, we lost people directly related who were taking care of families or family members or
children or other things.
But another significant piece is we've had a pretty large attrition, not just of females in the workforce, but
attrition of people 55 and older. And one of the big questions is-- there's about 2.5, 3 million people who fit
in that category-- are these people coming back? They've announced they're retiring. Will they come back
as the economy recovers, or are their financial assets strong enough that they really don't need to,
between what we've seen with home price appreciation, retirement account appreciation, and so on? So
more about that as we go along.
So while this was an extremely deep downturn, as you know, we're back to minus 3.3% nationally, and
you can see, compared to the 2008 recession, a much faster flat road to recovery. Our view is at the
national level we'll get back to that sort of same number by 2023, in terms of getting unemployment
growth back. But more relevant for what we're talking about tonight, you can see the drop off from
Colorado and then where we are now in terms of the recovery, year-over-year types of recovery.
So in terms of compared to January 2020, if we look at August, we're still down 2.5% in services and
6.1% in goods, manufacturing, construction, and so on. But in the most recent year, we've been looking
quite a bit stronger. Still, we're down about 2.9%, so less than the national percentage but it's still 82,900
jobs. And so some of those jobs are the people you're trying to hire. Some of those jobs are in leisure and
hospitality, other places, as we go forward. So this is a critical part of the economy fully bouncing back.
So this was driven, this change in forecast over time, this forecast you'll see tonight is significantly more
positive than the March forecast, that last one we produced. And a lot of it has to do with the amount of
recovery of jobs. But more than that, it's been the amount of transfer payments that have occurred in the
economy, which you can see in the bottom right hand box.

So if you look at that particular transfer payments in green, you can see the stimulus checks that went out
in April of 2020, you can see the stimulus that occurred in January of 2021, you can see the big bump in
March of 2021. So the various sort of American Rescue plans and other pieces that we've put in place
have had a significant impact on personal income. And personal income is far and away the largest single
driver of consumption in the economy.
So this relates to the bigger macro economy in the sense that 70% of the macro economy is
consumption, but also very importantly to retail sales, a key component, obviously, of your forecast. So
you're looking at the big driver being national personal income and, in particular, looking at those transfer
payments. But you can also see, if you look at the upper left hand box for just a moment, I said that we're
down over five million jobs still. But if you look at the total amount of employee compensation in the US,
we're at record setting levels in July. So even though we have five million less employees, our total
employee compensation is now higher than it was going into this, has been for several months higher
than when we went in. So this is very, very positive in terms of looking at consumption going forward.
There are some things that are of concern. And I just raise these before I pass the baton here shortly to
my colleague, Professor McNown, that in particular you're hearing a lot about, obviously, the impacts of
Delta and might that slow the economy down. You're also hearing a lot about inflation and particularly
supply chain bottlenecks. And one sort of caveat on our forecast is, this is one of the things that has
slowed the growth in the economy down, going into-- if you looked at this three months or six months ago,
people were suggesting growth for this year in GDP would have been well over 6%. Now almost
everybody has revised down to 5%, or a little over 5%. And in particular, they're revising down the third
quarter GDP dramatically. And again, this relates to the supply chain bottlenecks. Yes, it also relates to a
rise in Delta variant but a lot of it has to do, again, with the inflation and supply chain pieces.
Another key part of that inflation number that I was just talking about is this dramatic rise in gasoline
prices. In a different world, you might say, well, that's great for public transportation. And ultimately,
maybe it will be. But right now, you're seeing this big rise and it's translating into higher inflation rates, in
terms of overall inflation rates, not core inflation rates, but overall inflation rates are significantly being
impacted by retail gasoline.
And many of the pieces of inflation that the Federal Reserve was suggesting earlier were going to be
transitory, say, six months ago they kept saying a lot of this will be transitory, some of those things are
now looking to be more, not as transitory as they thought they were going to be, or not get resolved as
quickly as they thought they were going to be. In fact, we're seeing retailers passing on all of their costs of
supply chain costs and so on, they're passing that on to the consumers. So that really indicates not
transitory in the sense that it continues on on a more permanent basis as they get passed on to final
goods.
So my last slide of my part of the presentation just highlights the fact that it's looking at the various
locations that you can see on the right hand side, Boulder and Colorado Springs, Denver, Fort Collins,
Grand Junction. Some of these, of course, are in the District. But what we're really trying to highlight here

is overall July, we're up 8.3% year-over-year in terms of Colorado state tax collections. But you see great
variation between areas, and you see great variation between earlier in the cycle and later in the cycle.
So to some extent, and when we look at RTD, you're benefiting in terms of the District because you have
some of these weaker locations but you also have some of the stronger locations within the District. And
that gets reflected in the numbers Professor McNown is going to talk to you about here as we move on.
So with that, I pass the baton to my colleague. And he's going to start talking about the RTD forecast.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Thanks, Rich. So with the economic background that Rich has provided, I want to
talk a little bit about the model that we use to develop the RTD sales and use tax revenue forecasts. And
the basic idea is that the national economy drives the Colorado economy, although there's a certain
amount of independence of the Colorado economy from what's going on nationally. And our model is the
Colorado economy then drives the District economy and ultimately the sales and use tax collections.
And so the really strong national forecasts, of course, feed right into what's going on at the state. So here
you can see, for example, one of the key variables that we're looking at, this chart on the right is the
national economic indicators, particularly in the third column over, the percent change in retail sales of
almost 19% in the current year, which is just a phenomenal rate of growth coming out of the slump which
you can see for 2020, which was really stagnant.
So the next slide, Rich. And so jumping right to our RTD forecast. So we've been working on this model,
it's been refined over the past 10 years through the cooperation of the folks in the Finance office, Doug
MacLeod, Monica. And more recently, Todd Nikkel has provided us with data on the components of retail
sales, which are really crucial to helping us navigate through the pandemic and now into the recovery.
Because when you have these different components of retail sales moving in different directions, for
example, e-commerce, of course, soaring, while restaurant and hotel sales were really in the dumps. And
so it makes sense that we have to treat those different components separately. And so we think this has
really informed our forecast considerably and will continue to do this going forward, even to what we hope
are more normal times in the future.
So as I said, the strength of the US economy for the current year carries over to the state and the state
economy and also RTD revenues. And so looking at the line, the row there that's highlighted for 2021,
you can see that in 2021 sales tax revenues are expected to increase by 16, a little over 16%, and the
same for total tax revenues. And in 2021, we're going to exceed considerably the previous peak of 2019.
So that just mimics the speed of the recovery that you saw for the national economic indicators now
coming through to RTD.
The boost in the current year especially strong in restaurant sales and autos. And other components are
maybe a bit more moderate. This slide also shows the forecast not just in the short term here for the
current year and 2022, where there's a bit of moderation, but going forward out to 2027. So our medium
term forecast, as we were charged in developing these forecasts for RTD. And this, what we call our
baseline forecast here, shows that between 2020 and 2027, over this period, we're expecting a 52%
increase in RTD tax revenues, sales and use tax revenues. Next slide, Rich.

Now we realize that any forecast is going to be subject to some degree of error. And so we incorporate
that uncertainty in a couple of different ways. One is that we use alternative scenarios from Moody's, the
national forecasting service that provides our national forecasts and national data. And those alternative
scenarios are in the green, blue, and red lines that you see there for the optimistic, baseline, and
pessimistic scenarios. Those are all, as you can see, pretty tightly related to each other.
Even out by 2027, there's only about a 3% difference on the upside or on the downside. But we also allow
for greater uncertainty based on the statistical considerations, the historical variability in the data,
certainly as manifested by the pandemic, or earlier than that, the Great Recession. We realize those
things can happen again. And so it's incumbent upon us to provide these wider bounds that incorporate
the historical statistical data. And so the uncertainty in the forecast is considerably higher, as you can
see. And the next slide, Rich. Thanks.
We also develop a long-term forecast that's going out 30 years now to 2050. And again, we have our
medium forecast, essentially our baseline, what we expect to be the most likely, but incorporating the
uncertainty going out for such a long period of time. So in our baseline forecast, the table of numbers
there shows that on average over this 30-year period, sales and use tax revenues, as measured in this
case by RTD taxable sales, that's going to grow by an average of about 3.3% per year.
And that's pretty decent. But what's a little more disturbing is that you can see the downward trend in the
rate of growth of these sales tax revenues so that in each successive decade there's a slower rate of
growth, so for example, in the 2040s, only about a 2.2% rate of growth, so probably just barely meeting
the rate of inflation there. And again, emphasizing there's a great deal of uncertainty when we're trying to
project 30 years out into the future. We have these bounds with the high forecast and the low. And you
might imagine, those could incorporate all sorts of structural changes that we can't accommodate, we can
only anticipate that the change will happen.
On the high forecast, for example, that could be driven by a rapid increase in productivity, say, due to
artificial intelligence advances or the revolution that we're already seeing in biological technologies. And
on the other hand, the low forecast, which you can see really stagnates out there in the 2040s, would
possibly reflect damage to the economy from climate change, possibly another pandemic. There are so
many uncertainties when you're trying to look 30 years into the future. And our final slide, Rich.
So I just want to emphasize that our forecast is model driven. We don't try to adjust our forecast with the
add factors, which just would undermine the integrity of the model. Of course, we recognize, with the
uncertainty and the confidence bounds we provide, that there will be some errors in the forecast. But we
do not have, we, in the Leeds School, the Business Research division, we don't have any political or
financial stake in the forecast. We're just trying to provide the best information we can about what to
expect over the coming period.
And so finally, we'd be happy to take any questions that you might have. So we'll turn it back to our
moderator.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. So if you wouldn't mind unsharing your screen, that would be great. Thank
you, all. And we, again, I want to thank you for your patience and waiting for our previous meeting.
So at this time, I would like to ask our Directors if they have any questions of our guests. And I will call on
you and then direct the question to the appropriate guest, whether it be Doug MacLeod or our Leeds
School of Business experts. So I believe the first hand raised was Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you so much to our guests from the Leeds
School of Business. It's truly appreciated.
I have a quick-- maybe it's not a quick answer, but it's a quick question, which is on the long-term forecast
slide, the Colorado taxable revenue rates were not the same as the RTD taxable rates. And I'm curious
as to why. Because my understanding was that we had parity on what's taxable for RTD and what's
taxable for the state.
PEGGY CATLIN: Who would like to take that question?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah, I can respond to that. So yeah, sure. This is a tricky question. And it has to
do with the marijuana tax, because we have had to essentially pull that out and forecast that separately.
That does ultimately contribute to RTD's tax revenues, but it doesn't show up in the same category as
other retail sales within the District in terms of what we call the taxable sales.
I've got to say that the on and off business with the marijuana tax has been a real headache for me as a
modeler, but that's what we've had to do.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: It does. And if I could just put a finer point on it, which is are there items taxed in the
Colorado state tax that are sales and use taxes that RTD is not getting revenue from, which is, do we
need to go to our state legislatures and say RTD's missing money because you're allowing tax on these
items but not RTD tax on these other items, for sales and use tax?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah. Well, you know, I'm glad you raised that question. Because I think we've all
been extremely curious about the possibility of a marketplace facilitator ordinance. And I know that some
of the other municipalities that we work for and provide forecasts for have been generating sales tax
revenues from this ordinance. And essentially what that is, for those of you not familiar with this, is that
we know that RTD receives revenues, sales tax revenues from Amazon, but Amazon also can collect
revenues from third party merchants. And it's simply up to the jurisdictions to enforce that and say, yes,
we want that money.
Now I don't know if there's a disconnect between-- I'm just not that familiar with the legal aspects here as
to what the potential is for RTD to collect some revenues from a marketplace facilitator ordinance. I have
to say, though, that really has provided a boon the revenues of some of these other municipalities.

RICH WOBBEKIND: And not all of the municipalities collect that, just to put a fine point on what you said.
Big municipalities in the RTD District don't necessarily, some of them, collect this. I mean, people we work
with. So some are collecting and some aren't collecting. So there may be a potential there.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that help, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: It does. In the interest of time, could we get, as a Board, a follow-up from Mr. MacLeod
or Ms. Johnson or a member of your guys' staff? Because it sounds like some sort of marketplace
ordinance could provide, I don't know if a windfall is the right word, but increased revenue for RTD, if it is
my understanding. And it'd be good for us to be able to evaluate that, if we have ability to increase our
revenue.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. MacLeod, can you do that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, absolutely. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Is that all, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: That is all. Thank you so much.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I noticed Director Lewis had her hand up, but it's no longer here. Director Cook, I
see your hand up.
SHELLEY COOK: Quickly, and forgive me if this is in the backup, but I didn't catch it. There seems to be
some disagreement at the federal level about whether or not we're going to see accelerating inflation.
Your slides seem to indicate you think there will be inflation. There's too many pressures. What do you
assume is the rate of inflation for your modeling? Or is that just what's shown as the increase in sales and
use tax and so forth each year?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yes, that's a good question. So we don't pull out inflation as a separate variable, but
rather that's built into our forecasts of, say, personal income, which is in current dollars or nominal terms,
and retail sales. So whatever inflation might exist or might be forecasted is a part of the data, part of the
historical data and also going forward.
And so it is certainly the case that some portion of our forecasted retail sales increases will be simply due
to higher prices. But we don't take on the challenge of separately forecasting, let's say, retail sales or
income in real terms in constant dollar terms and then separately try to forecast what's happening to
prices. I think since what RTD really cares about is nominal sales tax revenues in current dollars, then we
want to focus on current dollar retail sales as well.
RICH WOBBEKIND: Yeah. I think the driver model-- Robert probably knows this better than I do directly-but I think it's looking at in the near term 4% for next year, or almost 4%, and then it tails off pretty quickly
thereafter. So it's going to be-- and that's part of why the numbers, a small part, but part of why the
numbers are getting weaker out over the decades. There's really a presumption that inflation is going to

be much slower and that, frankly, GDP growth is going to be much slower decades out. So that slower
GDP growth and slower productivity growth is part of what you see in the long-term forecast that Robert
just presented.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair. If I may, I'll just plunge in with an extra quick question. The use tax you
project for growth at 16%, pretty big number for next year, I think it was next year, if not 2023, is that
building? Is that construction-related and we already know projects in the pipeline or something? Where
did that come from?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah. Use tax collections are dominated by the construction industry. The real story
here is that use tax collections are just highly volatile and they hop around tremendously from year to
year. So it's a forecaster's nightmare, I have to say. But we often do observe that if there's an extremely
high observation of growth in use tax in one year, it's often followed by a much lower rate of growth in the
following year. So fortunately, it's a relatively small piece of the whole RTD revenue pot, I think less than
10%. So the overall forecast for revenues, it's pretty much dominated by sales tax revenue. So I don't
want anyone to lose sleep over the high volatility of the use tax forecast.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. That's all I have. Thank you much.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry. I was on mute. I said Director Rosenthal. I apologize.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. Quick question. So my concern, narrowing to the concept of inflation down to
energy prices that we also saw in that graph going up, particularly my concerns for electricity, for our
electrically charged vehicles and also for maintaining our buildings, but also the diesel prices. We saw
gasoline going up, and I'm assuming that diesel is also reflected in that. So what is sort of the projection,
or do they have any thoughts on which direction those will continue to go? What I keep hearing in the
community is that energy prices will continue to go up. We may actually have a possible crisis this year.
I'm hoping not as bad as the British. Because we do have supply chain issues, we have workforce issues,
things like that, that may all contribute to higher energy and diesel costs, which obviously impact our
expenses. Thank you.
RICH WOBBEKIND: --if Robert wants to comment or he wants me to take the first shot at this.
ROBERT MCNOWN: I don't have a-- in our model, we don't have a separate forecast of energy prices or
electricity prices. So I'm going to have to defer to Rich on this one.
RICH WOBBEKIND: Yeah. So I'm going to say, first of all, I think what you're reading is accurate. We do
think energy prices are going to continue to rise throughout the rest of this year. And that's one of the
elements that the Federal Reserve keeps saying is transitory in terms of longer term inflation, that we're
going to have these sort of bottlenecks. Once they go away, we'll get back down to a more normal sort of
rate of inflation going forward, and energy will be part of that.

But frankly, what's happening in Europe with natural gas prices is pretty scary right now. And it isn't just
the US is, as you know, we're moving away from coal. So it's not about coal, but coal prices are up. But it
is about natural gas and it is about sort of other forms of energy right now.
So I can't tell you in the short run that we're not going to have some issues that relate to more expensive
charging of vehicles or, frankly, more expensive heating of homes. I will say, fortunately, we have one of
the lowest natural gas prices in the entire country. We're like the seventh lowest, So. That's good for our
homeowners at least. But it is a concern, until we start to see more production in particular and get
through some, again, the supply bottlenecks that you mentioned.
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair, may I add to that? This is Doug MacLeod. Thank you. At least as far as
RTD goes, Director Rosenthal, we did lock in our fuel prices for diesel fuel for 2022 at a rate of $2.30 per
gallon. That excludes federal taxes, so it's lower than the pump price that you're used to seeing. However,
what that does for us is it gives us some budget certainty, at least for the next year. It's down from $2.40
that we had locked in 2021. So we look at that as a favorable item.
In terms of RTD's costs, we have a $700 million operating budget. Our diesel fuel costs are $15 million of
that. So 1-5 million. So not a significant cost, but good to have budget certainty and not be subjected to
the volatility. We also purchase gas but we pay the pump price there, exclusive of taxes as well. And
that's $3.8 million per year. So not a huge portion of the budget but enough that it would be something
that we'd like to have some certainty on.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Mr. MacLeod. I was going to ask you to speak to that. So I appreciate it.
Are there any other questions or comments? I had seen some hands up previously but they had been
taken down. Any other questions for Mr. McNown or Mr. Wobbekind at this point ?
I don't see any hands raised. Again, I want to thank you for your presentation. And I especially appreciate
the fact that we're talking about a model and that we can't get too granular with the model, that it's really
looking at a lot of the forecasts, and I appreciate that. So thank you again and we'll look forward to seeing
you in another three or so months. Correct?
RICH WOBBEKIND: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. All right, back to the original agenda. We do have one recommended action
this evening. It is for the Board of Directors to adopt the 2022 to 2027 midyear financial plan, the MTFP.
Do we have a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Director Davidson.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Second, Director Lewis.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I heard two seconds. But who was it? I know Lewis. Well, we'll just put Lewis for
the record. OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE] privilege.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please, go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: I just want to acknowledge that it's 9:40 PM. We're talking about the midterm financial
plan, which is one of, sort of part of the guiding posts here, as well as the budget later this evening. I'll
speak for myself and say that I don't know that, it may be more prudent to push this to right before our
actual scheduled Board meeting, given that the budget should get the same fervor and scrutiny that the
earlier discussion received. And from my experience thus far on the Board, I know that we get tired. We
do get fatigued and that the discussions that occur after 9:00 PM do not have that same level of really
sharp, attentive, thoughtful commentary, because there's an urgency to be finished.
And I just want to pose for the Board the personal privilege of pushing this meeting in gratitude to our
staff, but also in recognizing that we heard that when staff have to go to 11:00 and wake up for a 7:00 AM
meeting, it also puts our staff in not a great position and the fiduciary duty that we have to put the agency
in the best position that we possibly can and what it means to be discussing these items at this hour and
the position it puts our staff in to possibly be here for another hour plus.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might-- I appreciate that, Director Dishell. If I might, I'd like Doug MacLeod to answer
that. But right now we're talking about a mid-year financial plan, which does not appropriate any funds.
The budget does that. And we're scheduled to do that in two weeks. So it's really just kind of a plan
moving forward. And then the budget was for information only. So I don't know if that would change your
perspective. I do agree that we're not nearly as sharp.
And actually, for the record, Director Williams did have to drop off. I don't see anyone else that had to. But
I guess I would ask Barbara McManus what her thoughts are, and Doug MacLeod both, on delaying this
portion of the meeting.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I would ask Doug MacLeod and also CEO and General Manager Johnson
as to her thoughts to when we would postpone this to prior to the [INAUDIBLE].
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. First, Doug MacLeod, what are your thoughts?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, that's fine by me. This is Doug MacLeod. That's fine. If you wanted to
postpone, I would defer to General Manager Johnson, if she has any concerns with that.
PEGGY CATLIN: So I would like to hear General Manager/CEO Johnson's thoughts too. But bear in mind
that we have already-- am I correct, Doug-- posted the two week notice for public comment on the

budget. So we will-- public will not have benefited from any of this discussion tonight. So it'll be crowding
that November 9 agenda just a bit. But anyway.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you for pointing that out. Yeah, I forgot, we do have an early Board meeting in
November. The Finance Committee meeting is on November 9. So between now and then is when we
would be coming to the Board with a final budget for request for approval on the 9th. So it doesn't allow
much time.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. General Manager/CEO Johnson, your thoughts on this?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I do want to acknowledge Director
Dishell's recommendation and comments as it relates to all this meeting. And as we clearly see, in light of
the discussion that ensued at the previous committee meeting, that's why it was paramount as we look at
doing these on different days. So with that as the backdrop, recognizing this is the mid-term financial plan
that has been brought before you all in various committee forums and have had discussion, I am more or
less agnostic as relates to whether or not we defer.
As it relates to the budget in and of itself, as we know, by virtue of statute that we posted that as of
October 15 moving forward, and recognizing that we will have an opportunity to garner public comment
and then have a more robust discussion with the Board, I'm inclined to continue on with the discussion.
But recognizing that it is late in the evening, I would basically ask Board members what they're inclined to
do. We are already assembled here and I would assume that everybody did their due diligence and
reviewed the materials as well and we could garner discussion around the subject matter that we have
outlined on the published agenda.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Dishell, did you have further comment?
BOBBY DISHELL: Nope. I just wanted to raise it, if others want to weigh in or if we want to, I guess, vote
on it or not. But I'm happy to buckle in and come in for the ride and do my best to apply the same level of
diligence we do at 5:30.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I appreciate it. Your hand is still up, by the way.
So in light of the fact that we do have a proposed action and we did have a motion and a second by-- I
wrote it down, it's the late hour-- by Directors Davidson and Lewis, I would ask General Counsel Snyder
what the protocol would be if we decided to defer this discussion to next week.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. The protocol
would be for some Director to make a motion to postpone to a date certain and time certain, and then you
will take a normal, a second on that and vote on that motion.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Maybe what I would like to do is gauge the preference of the Board before we go
through that. Would that be appropriate or not? If there are any other comments as to Board members
preference before a formal motion is made?

MELANIE SNYDER: So typically, Madam Chair, you have the motion, a second, and then conversation
and discussion about it, is advisable.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. We do have a motion and a second on the floor.
MELANIE SNYDER: Right. But what I-- pardon me-- what I was saying is having a motion to postpone to
a date certain would be the proper motion, if the Board wants to postpone consideration of this.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I will entertain a motion to postpone to a date certain. And I'm assuming that date
would be November 2. Oh, no, that's Election Day.
BOBBY DISHELL: Madam Chair, I'd moved to postpone to a date certain, with that date being October
26, 2021, immediately following the scheduled Board meeting.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Madam Chair, if I may.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm certain our Chief Financial Officer won't broach this, but he is on approved leave
that evening. And I think he is crucial to the discussion at hand, and so I'd be remiss not to acknowledge
that his absence would be missed.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: On the 26th, Doug, you have approved leave? In which case, I will withdraw then. I
just want to make sure-DEBRA JOHNSON: He's on vacation for a week. And I know he won't say that but I will.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOBBY DISHELL: You deserve your vacation.
PEGGY CATLIN: And thank you. With one of our core values being employee ownership, I totally respect
that. Is there any other desire to-- OK, well, let's just kind of plow through this, if we could. We do have a
motion and a second. And so Mr. MacLeod, if you would go ahead with your presentation, which I know is
fairly brief.
DOUG MACLEOD: It is. Thank you very much. And thank you for deferring to my vacation.
So I will be brief. As General Manager Johnson said, this is in your package. This presentation is
intended to be very high level. That's one of the Board policies, along with the budget, that we present at

a high level and don't get too far down into the weeds, although we are available if there are any
questions that you might have specific to getting into the weeds.
So the mid-term financial plan is covering the next six years of RTD's financial forecast. What it really
does is sets a path forward in terms of just looking out to see past the budget what our demands are in
terms of expenses and what our expectations are on the revenue side. One of our priorities, strategic
priorities, is financial success. And so it kind of sets that roadmap. And one of the intentions of our budget
alignment is to align it with our strategic plan. So this also pulls that out for another six years past our
current year budget.
So the 2022 budget is the baseline that we work from, then we forecast out beyond that with current
known assumptions. And as Chair Catlin mentioned, this is not an appropriation. By accepting this from
the Board, it really just accepts it into the record and provides a guidepost, essentially, for how our
financials are looking.
So just taking everybody back, so the last time we had a midterm financial plan approved by the Board
was November of 2020. That was delayed from October of 2020 because of all the uncertainty due to
COVID. So at the time, there was a lot of uncertainty and the Board agreed to only approve two of the six
years of that mid-term financial plan. At the same time, the forecast was that there would be
approximately $250 million shortfalls annually in revenue on a $1 billion base, so about a 25% loss in
revenues, which is very significant.
At the time, it was also planned, there were several measures taken immediately, including furloughs,
reductions in service, and then there were also layoffs planned for January of 2021. With those expense
reductions, there were also asset maintenance deferrals. And that's kind of a big part of the problem why
we have such a backlog at this time is because in that mid-term financial plan it was only assumed that
we could afford over the next seven years to fund about 70% of the asset maintenance requirements. So
that backlog has grown since that time. And then of course, the unpredictable financial outlook. We only
had a few months of actual sales tax numbers at that time and we were still trying to determine what the
ridership picture looked like that affected fare revenue.
So moving forward to where we are currently, things have improved markedly in terms of our financial
outlook. We've seen fare revenues slowly recovering. Sales and use taxes are higher, based on the
previous discussion you heard that the forecast for those returns is much better than it was a year ago at
this time. And COVID relief funding was a huge gap. I have a chart coming up that will show you-- was a
huge gap filler-- that will show you what that did for RTD to kind of bridge the gap through those tough
months.
We've also forecasted sustainable service levels, and asset maintenance plans have been fully funded in
the six-year plan. So that's a big change from the last midterm financial plan. And then finally, one of the
big concerns we have from a financial foundation standpoint and having financial success is maintaining
our fund balances in a solid financial foundation. So those have been restored, you will see here shortly.

Some additional considerations. So there's always a lot of assumptions made in a forecast. With the
strategic plan implementation, certainly these funding expense demands, et cetera, can change over
time. So this is just what we know at the current time.
Some other impacts that may change what this looks like in the coming years and months is results from
the Reimagine RTD study, the fare study and equity analysis. We also have TABOR limits. We've
discussed this in the past with the Board, that the base system in particular will be subject to TABOR
limits, and that's revenue growth limitations beginning in 2025, which kind of caps how much revenue we
can keep on the basis inside. Anything above a certain threshold has to be returned to taxpayers. There's
also a ratchet down effect, where if we go through a recession, for instance, and we have a new, a lower
sales and use tax revenue collection in one year, that sets a new baseline to where we can't grow past a
certain level for that next year. We don't get a return to where we were at the prior year. So it really has
some significant impacts to RTD, possibly, if that were to happen.
Also, economic volatility. You heard about supply chain management. There are supply chain issues as
well as inflation. Those could change the outlook as well. And then finally, what we don't have in here is
any litigation or possible liability funding issues that may arise.
Just to give you a quick picture, this MTFP versus last year's MTFP. So the revenue is a revenue picture
and a bar chart format. The red bars are the current look versus the blue bars, where we were in
November of 2020. Really the big increases there that you see from '21 through '24 are the impacts of the
additional COVID funding that we received of about $774 million, very helpful.
Our expenditures. So what that additional revenue has allowed us to do is catch up with our state of good
repair needs. So the big increases in the red bars here on the expenditure side are really for state of good
repair and getting caught up, particularly in the early years.
And then we have the base system, FasTracks, and then a consolidated look at what the cash flows look
like on the midterm financial plan. So what I'm going to do is just talk about on the base system, the
bottom line, essentially. So what this is showing is revenues less expenditures, including state of good
repair, to get to a net cash flow number there, below row 10. So the positives are obviously positive cash
flow, negatives are where we spent more than we've brought in. And then I think the important point to
focus on is what's left over. How are we faring financially going forward?
On the base system, what you can see is the reserves that are left over, so the net cash flow that we
retain with the agency, is growing year-over-year, to the point where we get to 5.7 months of operating
expenses on the base side. Really good picture. And I would point out that on the sales and use tax
revenues for the midterm financial plan, what we did, just to be conservative, is to only grow the sales and
use taxes on the base system side by 2% per year after 2024. So that the idea behind that is to be
conservative, in case we are subject to some TABOR down impacts. We don't want to get too ahead of
ourselves and set aside money and spend it that we may not realize. We'll know better, I think, as we get
closer to that point in time. But essentially, the takeaway here is that base system looks really good.

Moving on to FasTracks. So this was a big concern of the Board last year. FasTracks has a negative cash
flow in every year. And this is actually a much improved picture from what we had seen before. And it was
so bad that the totality of the reserves that FasTracks had was being used to keep them afloat. So we like
to look at it as one company really from a financing standpoint, because the base system can actually
fund FasTracks but not vice versa. So it's a good thing that the base system has more money, more cash
flow than FasTracks and not the other way around.
So what's been contemplated is that the biggest problem on the FasTracks side is their debt service. It's
significant because of all the build out. So you can see, out of about $250 million a year in debt service,
$180 million of that is FasTracks alone. So this was planned this way, because we knew that the base
system would pay off all its debt in 2024, have additional cash flow to help sustain the FasTracks system.
So I don't get too wrapped up in base versus FasTracks, but it is noteworthy just to show that if they were
operating alone, they wouldn't have enough money to continue on the pace that they are with the debt
service requirements.
So what happens when you add both of those together? So we actually have a really, in my opinion, a
very solid financial picture going forward. So I would point out that we do have the debt servicing here.
You can see that's a big number, about 25% of our revenues. We are funding all of our state of good
repair throughout this process. So that's great. We can get caught up and also maintain what we have.
What we don't have included in here is new projects. So we're basically saying that we have enough
funding to maintain the assets that we currently have, maintain them in a state of good repair, in a safe
manner, compliant manner, et cetera. And what happens is, you can see, there's positive and negative
cash flows. And that's all based on the outlays for state of good repair when we get to a negative year.
But again, the bottom line is what we're really concerned with is maintaining that financial stability so that
the volatility in cash flows year to year isn't a huge concern, as long as we can kind of maintain that solid
financial footing. And what we're showing right now is that we have three or more months of operating
expenses and meeting the fiscal policy of the Board throughout the entire six-year period.
So Madam Chair, that is the last slide. And I know that was quick. And I'd be happy to answer any
questions anyone might have. And I will stop sharing.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Directors, do you have any questions of Mr. MacLeod? And I'm sure that if there
are questions that you want to take offline, he'd be happy to entertain them. Director Guissinger, I see
your hand up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. MacLeod, thanks. The TABOR, I think what you said and what the packet said
is you're limiting the growth after 2024 to 2%. That's down about 2%, is that about right?
DOUG MACLEOD: Right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And do I remember correctly that a TABOR exemption election is limited to even
years?

DOUG MACLEOD: And General Manager Johnson had asked us to do some research. So we have been
doing some additional research internally to see what our options are. So we had talked to Dee Wisor,
who is a TABOR expert. He's our bond counsel. And he actually said we can take it in any election. But
there are certain elections that you might have more success at, like a large general election, better
turnout, less focus on individual issues. So there are some recommendations that we will put together for
Miss Johnson and then come back to the Board, because I think this is going to require a strategy, from a
policy standpoint, of how do we approach this. And now's the time to start looking at it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I agree. It would be great if we could set a meeting of whatever group is
appropriate, and with our public affairs advisors, local and state, and start thinking about how we position
the agency. And I think the question that Director Dishell raised in the earlier issue about the-- oh, gosh,
I've forgotten the term-- but the municipal, the elimination, the facilitation, sorry, is also worth pursuing, if
we could plan to start moving forward with the appropriate group. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. And we'll work with General Manager/CEO Johnson to
develop maybe a working group on that.
Director Cook, I believe you were next.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. And I had the chance to talk to Doug MacLeod today. So unfortunately, I forgot
to ask one question. We show fare collection increases, but I thought I saw someplace that we don't
assume any increases in our fare rates. Did I get that right, over the term of the midterm financial plan?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, correct. And actually, with the 2020, November 2020 midterm financial plan, we
had actually assumed, we were pretty aggressive in assumption of ridership returning to where we would
get, after two or three years get back to the levels we were at pre-COVID. We don't think that's the case.
And we're basing our midterm financial plan on a Standard and Poor's report that kind of looked at overall
what that expectations are for transit. Standard and Poor's thinks there's going to be a 20% permanent
loss nationwide for transit riders, due to remote work and other issues.
What we've assumed in the midterm financial plan is that we will build back up to about collecting about
79% of fare revenues, 79% of pre-COVID levels in 2022, and then we get up to an 85% level,
commensurate with the service that we'll be providing. So it's still pretty much a guess, but that's really
how we put that in there. And we assumed no fare increases in there. It's strictly based on an expectation
for ridership changes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, it does. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Your hand is still up. Did you-- OK. Thank you. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. What is the magnitude of the additional sales tax that you might
achieve if you can pick up on those Amazon sales that go through, people that sell through Amazon?

DOUG MACLEOD: Great question. And I need to check with the Department of Revenue. Because I
believe the marketplace. Fairness Act established a standard in which large retailers must submit sales
taxes. So Amazon [INAUDIBLE] the sales, they do, they actually submit sales taxes to us. And it's, as Mr.
Wobbekind described it, it's those smaller retailers that aren't held to the same standard. I believe under
the Marketplace Fairness Act, there's a threshold, and I believe it's any retailer that's less than $500,000
in sales per year does not have to remit sales tax, or it's voluntary. So it's not really enforced. But I do
need to check with the Department of Revenue, because they do all of RTD's sales and use tax returns,
to see if they can give me some additional information on that, to see if we can even tell. I don't know.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Two questions. First, which is you had just mentioned that
we're expecting to sort of see, eventually get to a point of about 85% service level, right, retain. So is the
number in 2027 85%? Because if not, it's just going to be a plateau?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, good question. And that's what we assumed from a financing standpoint. So at
least in the early years, we wanted to make sure that we had enough financial resources available to get
to 85%. As you heard earlier, it all depends on what staffing we can get. So we want to make sure we
have the funding there first so that we can get the staffing. But we've basically carried that forward
through all the remaining years through 2027 and inflated it by our 3% CPI rate.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. And then my second question is, when the recent legislation passed-- which, side
note, thank you to everyone who worked on that-- that passed through the legislature this year that
allowed us to charge for parking and allow for vendors on platforms. There was, in the media, a lot of
discussion about whether this was great, RTD was going to be able to generate all this extra revenue.
And what I'm seeing in our midterm financial plan is that we don't have the same financial analysis as
perhaps the media or our friends at the state capital did on the windfall that that might create. Is that a fair
assessment?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes, absolutely. You know, we're so reliant on sales and use tax, which
makes us susceptible to economic swings. So it makes about 2/3 of our revenue. So any additional
revenue that we could possibly get would probably be relatively small. We have looked at the parking
issue and possible revenues from fees. And essentially what it boiled down to when, at our planning
department several years ago looked at charging fees for parking, it really appears to our customers as a
fare increase, right, because you go to a Park-and-Ride and you've got to pay to park as well as pay for
your fare. So it creates that trade off, I guess, is it cheaper to drive?

BOBBY DISHELL: And the cost of sort of having a program where vendors could be on the platforms,
which I believe was also part of the package, it sounds like that might end up being a sort of, it might net
itself out, the cost of administering the program to the amount of money we'd actually make.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah. There was a whole lot of discussion about that. That's a great question too.
And the amount of money that probably could be collected would be relatively small, probably be almost
unnoticeable. And it would probably actually incur additional costs, because then we'd have to have
permitting fees, we'd have to have additional administrative duties, oversight over those vendors. And on
top of that, we don't allow food on our buses and trains, food or drink. So there were several issues
dealing with that that we looked at.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is that all, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: That is all. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for your comments. Director Sloan, please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. I hope I'll be quick. But looking at the 2022 through '27 total, you said it
emphasizes the state of good repair but does not include any major projects. Does that exclude
electrification to any extent in the fleet through 2027?
DOUG MACLEOD: Somewhat yes. So I think under that, what we would do, so we have the funding
available to maintain the fleet that we have. So if we were going to take that strategic direction, we would
have to align our budget with that and then possibly replace it. But it assumes no change in our fleet
structure as it currently exists, with the exception of the electric buses that we're already committed to
buying.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Those are 17 buses, is that right?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair, to clarify. We currently have 36 buses in our fleet. We have
an active solicitation underway right now that looked at 17. That would bring the fleet to a total of 53.
Recognizing that there could be an opportunity for fleet replacement, recognizing that we keep buses for
up to 12 years, there could be some overlap in reference with this midterm financial plan that we would do
a fleet replacement as it relates to what's outlined.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, it does. And I appreciate the answer.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
PEGGY CATLIN: So do I. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Are there any other questions of Mr.
MacLeod o staff? on the midterm financial plan?

OK. We do have a motion by Director Davidson, a second by Director Lewis. I guess I'll first ask if there
are any no votes on approval of the midterm financial plan. Seeing none, I believe the motion is passed
with 14 yeses and one absent. So the motion passes. Thank you.
That was the only action item. We do have another discussion item, and that is the 2022 proposed
budget. And Doug MacLeod and Todd Nikkel are up next to present, for information, or for discussion, the
2022 proposed budget that is based on the midterm financial plan. Doug, you're up again.
DOUG MACLEOD: Great. Thank you, Chair Catlin. See if I can get the right-PEGGY CATLIN: Screen?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: And while he's getting it up, I would encourage you all to take a look at this information
pretty carefully so that we can have a more complete discussion at our next Board meeting, or our next
financial meeting, when on the agenda we are going to attempt to approve the proposed budget. So if you
have any questions in the next two weeks, please feel free to contact Doug MacLeod and his staff, except
for the week that he's on vacation. So yes, I would encourage you to take a look at it.
Please, Mr. MacLeod, go ahead.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Catlin. Actually, any time is fine, I'll check my email.
So just going over the budget timeline again. So with the budget, this is the draft budget or the proposed
2022 budget, to give a first look of what that looks like to the Board. We also posted it for public comment,
as required by state law. It was available on the 15th of October, which is required by state law. So that's
been available for public comment. Then in November, we will come back, at the Finance Committee on
November 9, and ask for the Board to approve the 2022 budget.
That period also includes, with the final approval at the full Board meeting, there's a script that's read and
time for public comment. We're also taking public comments in the meantime through other channels. So
if you have any questions, concerns, please let us know, let me know.
So just kind of a summary of the budget itself. So we changed the look of how we do this from previous
years. We used to present several spreadsheets, lots of numbers and tables. And it wasn't really userfriendly so we developed a new budget document. Hopefully you find that a little more user friendly. It has
more of a narrative and explains some of the policy considerations, how we develop the budget, et
cetera, to get to the final numbers. Then we have a few charts in there too. So hopefully that's helpful. I
think it'll be much more helpful for the public to understand and our other constituents.
I'd like to mention also that this is a very collaborative development. General Manager Johnson included
all the AGMs in several meetings, developing these budgets for their individual departments and then
coming to a consensus as to how that looks in total. It aligns with the strategic plan. And again, what I'd

focus on here with the budget development is we really focused around service restoration, asset
management, and adhering to our fiscal policy.
Some of the assumptions that we've included in the one-year budget-- so we're only talking about 2022
here-- is ridership and fare revenue increases commensurate with expectations for ridership. So those
are very modest, I would describe them as. So I don't think we're being too optimistic. If we get more
riders, more fare revenue, all the better. But at least it fits within the financial picture at the modest levels.
Sales and use taxes are significantly higher with the September forecast. Prior to that we were working
off a March forecast, which was much more tempered in terms of the growth year over year. So we'll see
hopefully the forecast come true. We've already seen actuals come through for the last several months at
very high levels. So we're very encouraged by that, but also want to be somewhat conservative in our
assumptions.
Target of 85% service level. So we've included enough on the cost side, on the operational cost side, that
we have the funding available to get to those 85% service levels, other resources allowing.
We've addressed the asset management needs for the year. Some of the bigger items are continuing with
the fleet replacement needs that we have on the bus side.
And then meeting fiscal policy requirements. One of the things you'll see in the budget document on the
final pages, that we show that we're meeting about 3% operating reserve requirement. We're also
meeting the other requirement that we have, which is 1.2 times debt service coverage ratio. So what that
means is after you take all of our revenues, subtract out our operating expenses, we want to have enough
money left over to cover 1.2 times our debt service. So we have a cushion there of 2/10 of a percent, just
to allow for additional funding to go towards CapEx and other items. But what that does for us externally
is that our credit rating agencies like to see that we're managing our funding well in that respect.
Some of the considerations that we'll need to take into the new year is that we want to be strategic with
our budget. So we're using current information when we develop this budget. Things will change. As we
continue to develop the strategic plan and get more specific about metrics, et cetera, we may need to
realign some of those funding requirements. There's still some uncertainties with the collective bargaining
agreement, litigation, et cetera. We have some provisions within the budget to take care of some of those
things. But we are in negotiations, but we think we're in a good place for now.
Also, just a reminder of reserves and one-time revenues are finite. So even though we got the-- I keep
talking about one-time revenues, and we want to use those for one-time expenses. So with the COVID
revenues, great, bridge the gap. But those will end, and we'll use those at a certain point in time. So
where you're really using some of that funding to replace sales and use taxes. And sales and use tax
funding will then be used to maintain our fleet, maintain our assets. So we can't expect those to continue
for an indefinite period of time.

And then again, no new projects are included, with certain exceptions, of course. We do have a US 30-or sorry, state highway 119 funding available in there, as well as the FISA contribution for the Northwest
Rail study.
Just going back in time to show you where we've been to where we currently think we'll be in 2022. The
red bars are total revenue year over year. You can see we had fairly decent growth at the $1 billion level
pretty much for 2016 through 2019. Then in 2020, we had a big drop. So the red bar dropped way down
to 900, less than $900 million. The blue bar indicates the COVID relief grants that kind of bridge that gap.
Same with 2021. And then we'll have some additional draws down on those apportionments in 2022. So
it's really kind of kept our revenue level steady.
I won't spend much time on this. But I think the takeaway here, these are expenditures. You can see, I
think, one of the big items that we're all focused on right now is our recruitment and retention of
employees. Salary and benefits make up the overwhelming majority of any single item within our budget.
So that's a big focus in terms of retaining employees.
Then finally, this is the cash flow statement. Similar to the MTFP, the midterm financial plan, but what we
have is we're comparing this current year, the amended budget, versus what we have included in the
proposed budget, in the 2022 requested budget column. What you can see there is on line 5, indicated in
the blue numbering over to the left, we do expect a small decrease in our overall fare, or sorry, total
revenues. That's really because we see a drop in what we're drawing on the COVID relief grants. You
may recall in the midterm financial plan, we're going to spread the ARPA funding drawdown over three
years. We may draw that sooner but we're trying to spread it out, just for cash flow purposes.
You can see the growth items over there. Some of the larger items year over year rose 6% and 7%,
materials and supplies, as well as salaries and benefits are increasing, 11% and 8%. Fairly significant,
but most of that increase is due to the fact that we're planning to add back service to a certain level from
where we currently are. Same with utilities. There's a fairly sizable increase there.
And then Other Expenses increases by 13%, but it's only $972,000. Some of the items that we want to
include in there is we put in some provisions, we've really been operating at a very austere level. We cut
out everything travel, employee relations, some of the recruitment expenses. We feel we need to restore
some of that funding, especially for employee relations and doing things for our employees, now that we
have the opportunity.
And then finally, purchased transportation. That goes up 11%. Again, that's for the add back of service.
So what you'll notice is down in the bottom, row 19, we have negative cash flow. That's really due to the
fact that we're spending quite a bit on capital in row 16, capital expenditures, asset management, $153
million this year. And a lot of that's catch up-- sorry, next year, 2022. A lot of that's catch up of the
backlog. So we have a negative cash flow projected for next year, but it's offset by our reserves as well as
the positive cash flow in 2021.

So that's a quick look at where we are for our 2022 requested budget. So going forward, what we'll do is
we'll get comments, if there's anything that was missed. We haven't heard of anything internally that's
anything substantial. But what we will do is between now and when we bring the final budget to the Board
asking for approval, we'll have documented any changes so you can see what changes we've made from
this point to the final budget request. I don't anticipate anything significant and I think overall we're in
pretty good shape, at least for next year.
So Director Catlin, those are my comments.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. And before I take comments from the Board, I want to say
that we had a good discussion, Director Davidson and I did, about making sure that the outcomes of this,
the anticipated outcomes of these expenditures for the budget tie to our strategic plan. So that's probably
something that we're going to, going forward, going to be more closely aligned with those strategic
outcomes.
OK. Let's see. The order that I have Directors appearing for comment or questions, first I have Director
Dishell. Go ahead, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much, Madam Chair. And thank you, Mr. MacLeod. I have three
questions.
First, on salary and benefits. I think the message that we've been receiving is that we can't find the
people. The people is the issue, not the money. And so to see an 11% increase, I would love to give more
raises. I'd love to see that restoration of service. But why the change in confidence from the message we
received earlier, which is, I can't hire enough people to fill these jobs to an 11% increase on the overall
budget, which you explain was largely due to restoration of service. To me, there's a disconnect between
the two.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm going to ask Doug to maybe start out by responding to that. But then I'd also like
General Manager/CEO Johnson to reply as well.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you, Chair Catlin. I agree. Yes, I would like General Manager
Johnson to respond from an operational perspective. At least as far as the financing goes, Director
Dishell, one of the things that we try not to disclose very obviously is what we're contemplating in terms of
wage increases, until that decision's made by our General Manager. So even though it shows 11%, some
of that's volume, some of that's wages. But you can't-- what I would say is from a financial perspective, it's
not just raises.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. No, of course.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. So thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod, and to you, Director Catlin, or Chair
Catlin, excuse me, and to you, Director Dishell. I think at this juncture, I'd be more inclined to have a
discussion holistically with the Board, recognizing that we are going to work in good faith as we look at a
successor agreement for a collective bargaining agreement, recognizing what Mr. MacLeod has

specified. I don't believe at this juncture, this is the appropriate forum in which to engage or delve into that
conversation.
BOBBY DISHELL: Not a problem.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. That's what I was hoping to hear. Does that answer your question, Director
Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: As long as we get more clarity at some point. I think the other pieces are insurance. I
saw a substantial decrease. My understanding is that we're self-insured. So what led to that? Why do we
feel less risk aversion, or why do we feel like there's less risk, we don't need to have as much insurance?
Assuming, self-insurance is correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes. So essentially what's happened is we've seen a large decrease in
our claims. So we've had some really good-- we've been working very hard. Our risk management
department, under Melanie Snyder's department, has been working really hard on our claims settlement
process over the last couple of years, we've actually seen a nice steady decrease year over year.
We are self-insured on some items and we do have governmental liability caps in certain instances. So
fortunately, we're in a good position there. But it's really due to the claims management. Also, last year we
did have an additional, we had that first bump from the railroad liability insurance premiums regarding the
commuter rail. So that was kind of a jump up that we had, and then I think we ended up paying a little bit
extra for that policy premium and we changed the period, the policy period to a fiscal year so that it's a
little misrepresented year between year. But yeah, it's really due to good claims management.
BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE]. And outside services are also going up. Is there one big contract we're
dropping, or is it just sort of a collection of a lot of things, or is it somewhere in between?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah. It's really actually a collection of many things. So what's in that number, the two
big items in that number are our security services, which are not necessarily decreasing, but it's more the
IT services that we outsource for a lot of our new projects. So where we don't have in-house expertise,
we go outside and we have contracts with external agencies that may have particular expertise in an
application.
So in prior years, we always had something new, a new project going on. That drove those costs up. In
the year going forward, that that's really a big contributor to the decreases. We're not trying to do anything
new, other than maintain what we have.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it.

DEBRA JOHNSON: And if I may, just another point of clarity, Mr. MacLeod, as well, as we go forward, as
we look at our procurement practices, we are shoring those up, in all honesty, as well, because there was
a tendency, in some instances, to do contract amendments and things of the like. We want to ensure that
we are leveling the playing field, giving ample opportunity. So in reference to doing that, optimizing our
solicitation process holistically as well.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Time check. It's now 10:20 PM Mountain time zone, 11:20 for me. But if
there are some of the questions that could be deferred to one-on-one conversation with Doug MacLeod,
that would-- to expedite, it would be appreciated. But nevertheless, I would like to call on Director Lewis.
Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I actually had three questions. And Director Dishell had Mr.
MacLeod answer the first one around salaries. And so the question, the second question I have is, you
mention employee relations. And I was curious if you were referencing employee investigations or
engagement.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. MacLeod, if I may.
DOUG MACLEOD: Please, yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, so recognizing that we collectively have worked in earnest on our strategic plan,
and one of the priorities is employee ownership, we have taken a step forward as it relates to recognizing
and engaging with employees. I recognize that there were decisions that were made previous to me
coming into the organization where that was not a focal point, recognizing that we are people moving
people. And I cannot run this organization by myself. And the critical people that are doing this are all of
our employees collectively. We need to recognize that. And I believe that is part and parcel of some of
our underlying issues, as we talk about employee retention. So there's clear cut intersectionality in
reference to where we stand currently in reference to retaining our employees and how we can move
forward. So this is something that's important as we invest that aligns with our strategic plan, holistically.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Beautiful. So that's exactly what I was hoping that you said. So thank you so much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
PEGGY CATLIN: And your third question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll ask the General Manager offline.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you, Director Lewis. Appreciate it. Director Tisdale, you're up next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Relative to the budget as presented, it's both on
page 203 and page 216 of the package, just for the sake of the record, because I think people need to
understand this, line 1 shows a 44% increase in fares budgeted in '22 over 2021. It's important to recall,

and I just want to emphasize what our Chief Financial Officer has said, that that is an assumption that we
will return to something like 80% or so of our budgeted, our pre-pandemic budgeted fares.
And for the sake of the record, in 2019 our budget showed fares of $125 million. The $98 million we're
projecting in 2022 is 78% of that. So we are taking into account the fact that, no, fares look like they're
going up tremendously, but they're still significantly lower than what they were in 2019, to the tune of
about 22% lower. I think that's important to emphasize for people who might be looking at this budget for
when it comes back to this committee for formal action.
The second item I have, however, is a real question. Have we really not included any anticipated liability
for litigation expenses, for ongoing litigations in which we are engaged?
PEGGY CATLIN: Doug, would you like to address that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Sorry. Yes, we have included our normal recurring expenses that we anticipate
incurring. I should have been more clear on that litigation term, that in case there's any large settlements,
we have not included any provisions for those because we wouldn't know what those are or if they're
even possible. So thank you for raising that.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. That's all I have, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. So just to recap that we do not have a plan for addressing the settlements,
is that correct? It's not included in the budget currently, if there are settlement. But does the insurance
budget normally sort of look at what the risks are out there and have a reserve or something for that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. In fact, we do have a reserve. So we incur expenses throughout the year. We
also have reserves for our insurance, particularly workers' comp and liability. What we don't have is any
large settlement claim dollars set aside, in case there's a certain large settlement that may come along.
However, we do have some strategies that we can use to address that, if that does happen, and I think
we can be successful in addressing that.
SHELLEY COOK: Can I talk to you about that offline, Doug?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, please. That would be great.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks. And then just for what it's worth, I really like a lot about this budget and
midterm financial plan. I like the new format. I like the way we're being more outgoing about getting public
comment. I like the better footing we're on, the fact that we adhere to the fiscal. Policies I just want to say
thanks for all that. And I also, though, recognize that we're not operating in a vacuum on this, that we
can't, I think doing it as you discuss is the best case, in terms of hewing to our strategic plan. But we also
had the feedback from the Accountability Committee, and I would just urge that to the extent we can find
places for there to be overlap between what they urge with regard to stimulus money and our operations

and so forth, that we find those and highlight them and try to indicate some openness to the suggestions
that they made, where we can, within this budget and the midterm financial plan. So thank you so much.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Cook actually raised the issue that I had in mind. And I agreed
with a lot of what she said in terms of where we're going with the budget and making progress with our
asset management backlog and all of that. The Accountability Committee, if you missed the meeting, I
thought it was a very good meeting and it's one that's worth watching the video for. And it does look at
sort of the big picture of what we're dealing with in terms of the climate crisis and the ozone problems. I
think General Manager Johnson is talking about starting to take, to have RTD work on clean air days,
which are, she could explain better than I could, but I think free fare when we're over the ozone limits is a
CMAC concept.
But I do think that we've all expressed, the Board, the staff, we're concerned about those issues that
others in the state are in. And I hope that we can, as we're moving forward, keep those reflected in our
MTFP and budget and those documents. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Director Guissinger. Are there any other comments?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, I was just going to say, if I feel remiss if I don't address the comments that were
put forward by Director Guissinger and Cook.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Recognizing the comments that were put forward and recognizing as well that I
know you both were in attendance at the Accountability Committee, what I put forward still stands true.
There was a lot of intersectionality with our strategic plan and the overarching aspects of what we're
trying to do here as a public transportation agency. There are elements in which the team and I are
working on that are captured in our strategic plan that also address the items that you put forward. As we
looked at the sales and use tax projections and so forth, we're utilizing that to leverage what we do going
forward, recognizing you made mention of what we can do as we look at climate change, the spare the air
days, as they're categorized, recognizing that we could use congestion mitigation and air quality funds. I
have had conversations collectively with the team as a whole where we can actually not reinvent the
wheel but use models that have been leveraged in other parts of the country which have been doing this
for decades, more so working hand in hand with our partners at DRCOG, because quite naturally we'd
have to leverage the MPO as well as the TMOs and TMAs, because this is a program we would stand up
that would be something that's recurring going forward to benefit the vast majority of the population
committed to reducing vehicle miles traveled.

So I did not want to step away from this comment or discussion without putting that out for public
consumption, because that is something we are working on in earnest. So thank you very much for
broaching that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, General Manager/CEO Johnson. And I think Director Guissinger and I had
a conversation about this earlier today, that we recognize that some of these projections are on the
conservative side. And to the extent that we have any surplus, let's consider making an effort towards
fostering some of those ideas that you're putting forth to meet the spirit of the-- excuse me, I'm getting
tired-- of the Accountability Committee.
With that, are there any other matters to come before this committee?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes. And I'll keep it very brief, if I may.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just wanted to share that the US Senate has included funding for our CRP, our
credit risk premium, in the appropriations bill that passed yesterday, passed or was announced yesterday.
It's $29.8 million. We would share that with the city of Denver. It's not a done deal. But it's closer than we
have ever been in the past. So cross your fingers. We have great-- Squire Patton Boggs and Michael
Davies for our team are doing a great job moving that forward. And thank you to Senators Bennett and
Hickenlooper for their help. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah. Thank you, Director Guissinger. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would be remiss if I didn't just say to the Board,
man, we've come a long way over the last year in terms of our finances. And I just want to commend our
General Manager and Mr. MacLeod for doing such a stellar job on behalf of this agency. So thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And just a point of privilege, I was going to give an update on the activities
with the Reuben Brown consulting firm that we've engaged to review our internal audit. And I have about
a page of notes. And if it's OK with you, in the interest of time, if I can just give a report in Other Matters
during our General Board meeting, I would appreciate it. Because I'm tripping over my tongue as we
speak. So if that's OK with you, I can give that audit update at that time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Only if you promise.
PEGGY CATLIN: What?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Only if you promise.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I just think it would be a better use of time.
So with that, it is now 10:32 PM Mountain Daylight Time and I am calling this meeting adjourned. And
thank you all for your patience and your good work tonight. Thank you. And good night.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Have a good night.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Bye, folks.
DOUG TISDALE: Good night.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good night.

