Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 1 of 13

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant

Date:

September 13, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
September 11, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Tobiassen, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Gore, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, and Walker.

Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover,
Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Brian Mathews, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez,
Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, Dean Shaklee, John
Shonsey, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Greg Smith, John Elias, Brenden Morgan, Robin McIntosh Jr., Richard
Rost, Ryan Hiatt, Eric Farrington, Gary Googins

Others Present:

Terry Bright, Dana Easter El, Kevin Fehn, Gary Forbes, Stan Gronek,
Steve Lewis, Stu Livensparger, Carol Smith, Larry Tenenholz, Stephan
Weinstein
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 6:39 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Award of Solar Panel Photovoltaic for the East Metro Facility
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to
award a contract to the most qualified proposer, Namaste, in the estimated
not-to-exceed amount of $1,200,000 for the design/build of the solar panel
photovoltaic (PV) installation at the East Metro facility.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 2 of 13

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at
the September 18, 2012 Board
meeting.
Chair Kemp seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Robin McIntosh began by stating that this is a federally funded
project through the” State-of-Good-Repair” grant. Richard Rost
shared that this would be one of RTDs first renewable energy
projects. Richard explained that there were 7 proposers and
Namaste was the clear winner.
Richard Rost highlighted the savings outlined in the Board
Report that this project will create. He also explained that there
is a rebate program with Excel Energy that RTD will be eligible
for that will equate to about $32,000 over the next 20 years.
Director Anderson asked if the grant is what makes this a viable
project. She asked for an explanation of the cost if we were not
getting a grant. Richard explained that without the grant there
would be no costs as we would not have the funding for the
project.
Director Hoy asked the projected lifespan of the photovoltaic
cells. Richard stated that there is a manufacturer warranty that
varies based on the components. For example there is a 15
year warranty on the wrapping system and a 25 year warranty
on the modules.
Director Hoy asked if the grant we are utilizing was issued
because we are installing photovoltaic cells or if it could be used
for anything. Richard explained that RTD has many projects
using the State-of-Good-Repair grant funding. This is just one of
the projects. He stated that the projects do not even need to be
energy based to qualify for the grant funds.
Director Tayer stated that he appreciated the other Directors’
questions about funding and the grant. He thanked staff for
pursuing this type of opportunity. He recognized the challenge
in implementing these types of technologies with our current
infrastructure. Director Tayer shared that he is looking forward
to seeing more opportunities like this.
Director James echoed Director Tayer’s compliments to staff.
He believes “greening” is a good thing. He stated that the
lifespan of photovoltaic technology has been changing rapidly.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 3 of 13

He asked if his assumption was correct that the technology will
surpass the cells that we are installing before those cells wear
out. Robin McIntosh stated that was a potential outcome.
Director Daly stated that when East Metro first opened the rock
that could retain heat was quite a novelty but it is really an old
technology now. He asked if that system can still be used.
Richard Rost explained that we do not have to use the rocks.
He stated that part of the proposal is to reevaluate the rock
storage system to determine how we can make it work.
Director Gore expressed that it was his understanding that we
determined a budget first and then asked the proposers how big
of a system they could build based on that budget. He asked if
the size of the system was adequate. Richard stated that there
is also a space limitation on the building. He explained that it
works out well space wise for the money that we have
available. Director Gore asked if the bigger limiter of the system
was the dollar amount we could spend or the roof size. Richard
stated that the limiter would be the dollars but it works out that
the space left on the roof can be filled within our budget.
Director Gore asked if the local match was based on the
requirements of the grant or what RTD had to leverage. Richard
stated that the grant is an 80/20 grant.
Director Walker asked about the size of the system. He
expressed that he is in favor of the proposal. Director Walker
stated that just like RTD provides options for transportation, we
are providing options for electricity. Director Walker believes
this system will be a good back up. Richard stated that
Namaste’s proposal would generate 604 kilowatt hours per
year.
Director O’Boyle requested that if we have a similar project in
the future staff consider having the panels cover a parking lot.
He believes this will also be a benefit to customers by providing
cover from the sun.
Chair Kemp asked what our projections are for the life
expectancy of the East Metro facility. Richard stated that staff
has not started discussing complete facility replacement. He
explained that if the facility was replaced entirely, the cells
could be moved to a different location.
Director McMullen asked who would be responsible for replacing
the cells if they were damaged in a hail storm. Richard

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 4 of 13

explained that we would be responsible for replacing any panels
that were broken.
Director Hoy asked if there are any photovoltaic manufacturers
in Colorado and asked if we could buy from those
manufacturers. Marla Lien explained that on a federally funded
procurement you cannot have a state preference; however,
there is a Buy America requirement.
Director Bagley pointed out that if the system lasted 25 years
the savings would be $1,200,000 and if the system lasted 20
years it would be $967,000 while the local match is only
$$240,000. He believes that if the system lasted for only 18
years it would be justified. Richard Rost stated that if RTD was
to get the Excel rebate the savings would be $1,600,000 over
20 years.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked if anything was being
budgeted for maintenance of the system and who would
perform the maintenance. Robin McIntosh stated the system
would be maintained by facility maintenance personnel.
Committee Chair Tobiassen shared that he looked into the rock
system several years ago and it was his understanding that the
wrong rocks were installed. He asked if the rocks were going to
be fixed. Richard explained that when they began looking at the
rock system they learned it would cost approximately
$1,000,000 just to get the existing rocks out of the system.
This is why they decided it would be better to invest in a
system that would work year round. Richard explained that
$100,000 will be dedicated to studying the existing rock system
to determine a way to best utilize it.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 15
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, and Walker) and 0
against.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 5 of 13



January 2013 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve moving the proposed January 2013 Service
Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and comment.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the September 18, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel began by reminding the Board that they were not
approving the service changes just moving them forward to
public comment.
Director Anderson stated that she thought the Thornton route
was a good idea.
Director Deadwyler asked about the stop at 29th and Welton
Station on the D-Line. She stated that recently members of the
community shared with her that they believed it was only
temporary that the line would no longer stop there. Jessie said
that it would be a permanent discontinuance of service. He told
Director Deadwyler that he would go with her to speak with the
community. Bruce Abel believes this idea may be coming from
discussions about the Central Corridor system. It has been
requested that nothing permanent be done with the station until
the decision on the Central Corridor stops have been made.
Bruce stated that on the D-Line this discontinuance would be
permanent. He explained this was being discussed to improve
the service as a whole. With the removal of this stop RTD will
see marked improvements in on-time performance of the entire
system.
Director McMullen asked if the 29th and Welton Station is where
we commemorated Charlie Cousins. Jessie Carter said that he
would have to look into that. He stated that if the plaque was
at this station we could look at moving it to the next closest
station.
Director Daly asked if Route 89 was going to be discontinued.
Jessie stated absolutely not as that route is an integral part of
our system.
Director Daly asked for more information on Route 104X.
Jessie explained that the route is being continued based on

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 6 of 13

funding through a Transportation Improvement Program grant.
The route provides service to the Reunion area that currently
has very little service. Jessie stated that there will be no
financial impact to RTD. Director Hoy stated that he was
enthusiastic about more service to the north but had concerns
about how long the grant would fund Route 104X. Jessie
explained the grant was for a 3 year time period and we would
need to decide if we were going to continue the service at that
time.
Director Hoy stated that we have no service between I-25 and
the Platte River. He requested staff give some thought to
providing service in that area. Jessie explained that they have
looked at that area but there is not a great deal of ridership
potential.
Director Tayer thanked staff for working with Longmont to help
them analyze their best transit options. He hopes this can be a
model for working with other communities. He requested that
staff complete a careful analysis on the ridership numbers from
the past to what they are going forward so we can demonstrate
to Longmont the ridership based on their recommendations.
Jessie stated that on many of the routes there are options that
staff would like to discuss with the public. They are viewing
the public process as another part of finalizing the service
changes.
Director O’Boyle noted that on Route 403 it states that a time
savings is gained at a cost of 3 passengers per day. He asked
how much time is saved. Jessie Carter said that the savings is
less than 3 minutes. He explained that the change was not
really being made for the time savings but at the request of the
neighborhood. They asked RTD to discontinue having the bus
run on a certain street.
Director Deadwyler asked why minor adjustments were being
made to Route 32 and 28. She also asked about the shelter at
36th and when Route 89 service would begin. Jessie stated this
was because of timing issues. He explained that the busses
were arriving late to Stapleton so staff is making adjustments to
try and meet the 88% on time performance measure. Jessie
stated that staff is working with the City of Denver and Park
Creek Metro District as they own the roadway. He believes we
are getting close to building the shelter. He explained that
Route 89 would begin in January.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 7 of 13

Committee Chair Tobiassen requested more details about the
relocation of the Downtown Terminal for Route 15L. Jessie
explained that the Office Depot building is being redeveloped
into a high rise apartment community. Due to the construction
we will lose our layover spot. He stated that we are not sure
when construction will commence but it will happen between
January and April so we are announcing the change now.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 15
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, and Walker) and 0
against.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.



Approval for Contract to Purchase Retail Point of Sale Terminals for Smart
Card Program
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
enter into a contract for the purchase of up to 300 Retail Point of Sale
Terminals from Xerox, Inc (Formerly ACS Transportation Solutions, Inc.). This
contract is for an amount not to exceed $1,725,513.00.
Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the September 18, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Gary Googins began by explaining that these terminals were
needed to sell our products at King Soopers and Safeway with
the implementation of the Smart Card program. He also stated
that RTD is in discussion with 7-11 to sell our products.
Director Hoy asked if we would purchase all 300 or if we would
only need 300 if we were to add 7-11 as a seller. Gary stated
that as we purchase more units the price per unit goes down
substantially. He feels this is a great price for the terminals and
that we can have 300 retailers selling our products in a very
short time.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 8 of 13

Director O’Boyle stated that this seems like it is a net positive
for the retailers. He asked if the retailers enter the sales into
their books and then remit a payment to RTD. Gary Googins
stated that when he first began the design process he contacted
the state lottery. They provided a lot of insight as to what
works and does not work. Gary explained that the retailers fill
out a credit application with RTD. At the end of the month RTD
runs a report to determine the amount of the sales and the
money is automatically debited from the retailer’s bank account.
Gary said that he is not sure how the retailers reflect the
transactions on their books. He believes they classify it as a
non-cash transaction.
Director Daly asked why only Boulder, Blake Street, LODO and
DIA RTD locations were listed in the Board Report. Gary
explained that those locations are the EcoPass service centers.
Director Gore noted that the system can download and manage
the hot-list. He asked what the hot-list is. Gary Googins stated
that is a list of cards that have been reported lost or stolen.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked if these terminals are
wireless. He also asked what would happen if a location did not
have an internet connection. Gary stated that they are
connected through Ethernet. Both King Soopers and Safeway
have high speed internet connections in their stores. He
explained that the expectation would be for the location to
provide internet for the terminals.
Director Bagley thanked Gary Googins for an excellent
presentation.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 14
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Gore, Hoy,
James, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, and
Walker) and 0 against. Director
Deadwyler left the meeting early.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.



Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 9 of 13

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
enter into a contract for the purchase of up to 300 Retail Point of Sale
Terminals from Xerox, Inc (Formerly ACS Transportation Solutions, Inc.). This
contract is for an amount not to exceed $1,725,513.00.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the September 18, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Brian Matthews explained that Vanpool groups are usually
generated through an employer for people that live in the same
area. There is a volunteer driver that usually receives an
incentive like being allowed to have the vehicle for personal use
on evenings and weekends. He explained that a criminal
background and insurance check are performed on the drivers.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 13
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Gore, Hoy,
James, Kemp, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Tayer, Tobiassen, and Walker) and 0
against. Directors Deadwyler and
Malpiede left the meeting early.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.

II.

Updates


Quarterly Reports
Second Quarter Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary
Director O’Boyle asked how the new fare enforcement statue was affecting
the number of riders without fare. John Tarbert explained that these statistics
are still under the old statute. He stated that we are seeing an increase in the
fare evasion rate of about 20% because of the new statute.
Director Hoy noted that we have a 5.4% fare evasion for the Light Rail. He
believes that if we could get that increase in revenue from the fare evaders it
would offset the cost of having more enforcement individuals. John Tarbert
stated that this system is based on individuals checking at certain platforms
and station/vehicle sweeps. He confirmed that Director Hoy is correct that

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 10 of 13

with more enforcement people we will catch more people evading the fare.
John explained that it appears less people are paying the fare because it is no
longer a crime. John shared that compared to other systems in the country,
our statistics were very good.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked if there was an update on the Aurora police
officers that were working with us. He said some of the bus operators
mentioned that they were not on the busses anymore. John Tarbert explained
that is because they are now working in plain clothes and are very excited
about it.
Access-a-Ride
Carolyn Conover pointed out that there was an increase in productivity that
equated to an increase in ridership.
Director Daly noted that the report mentioned a recruitment challenge. He
stated that is it hard to believe with an unemployment rate of close to 9%
that we are having difficulty finding drivers. Larry Buter explained that they
are receiving a high volume of applications but when they begin the
drug/alcohol screening and the rest of the hiring process it is a challenge to
find drivers that are qualified. He did share that slowly but surely class size is
increasing but it will always remain a challenge to find qualified drivers.
Director McMullen asked for more information about the 6 minute wait time
that was implemented. Larry Buter stated this is not a new policy, we just
started implementing it. He explained that over the past several months
Access-a-Ride was not meeting their quarterly goals. They investigated why
they were not meeting the goals and found this was because of traffic and
riders foregoing the 6 minute rule. Larry shared that in interviewing some of
the drivers he learned that sometimes there are riders who can take 10-20
minutes to get to the Access-a-Ride vehicle. He explained that a situation like
that can destroy the schedule for the entire day. He stated that they
understand there are riders who do need longer than 6 minutes and they are
evaluating those situations on a case-by-case basis.
Chair Kemp asked why there was no total for total passenger trips for First
Transit on page 4. Carol Conover explained that First Transit only operates
the call center so they do not run any trips.
Director Bagley clarified that on the report, the numbers for 2nd quarter were
actually cumulative. Carolyn stated that was correct. Director Bagley noted
that it is very apparent that Access-a-Ride is slowly going up whereas Accessa-Cab is accelerating much faster. He thinks it is great to see that trend
occurring.
Special Services
Carolyn highlighted that complaints for South Jefferson County decreased.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 11 of 13

Director Daly commented that it is good to see 0 and 0 for preventable
accidents in the first 2 quarters. He expressed that the numbers are still not
looking good for the South Jefferson County Call-n-Ride. He asked if we need
to do more advertising or adjust to mini busses. Brain Matthews shared that
RTD just did some marketing over the past few weeks. He believes it is too
early to begin making adjustments.
Director McMullen stated that the Belleview Call-n-Ride numbers look good.
Brain confirmed that they are looking good. It is up to 2.5 passenger
boardings per hour. Brian explained that our minimum threshold is 3
boardings per hour. He believes given time Belleview can be up to 5 per hour.
Director O’Boyle noted that Federal Heights is showing continuous
improvement. Brian stated that staff has been working with Adams County
and Federal Heights. He explained that staff has done a lot of grass roots
campaigns in the area.
Director O’Boyle also commented that he noticed the Parker Call-n-Ride went
over 3 boardings per hour in June. Brain Matthews shared that the Town of
Parker sponsored free rides through the end of September to try and increase
ridership.
Director Bagley pointed out that during the school near the Highlands Ranch
Call-n-Ride has higher ridership than during the summer months. He stated
that hopefully ridership will increase in September, October and November.
Brain stated that Highlands Ranch has always been a challenge. Bruce Abel
reminded the Board that we examined the Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride and we
learned there are many people with disabilities that use the service. Bruce
explained this encourages us to keep the Call-n-Ride during the summer rather
than move to a more costly service.
Contracted Fixed-Route Performance Measures
Carolyn explained that while there were some areas in which contractors did
not meet their goals we are seeing improvements already in August. She also
stated that RTD staff investigated the passenger accidents. She explained
that most often these accidents occurred when the bus was stopped and
another vehicle hit the bus.
Director Daly commented that the accident to accident ratio is still pretty high.
Chair Kemp thanked our private contractors for coming to the Board meeting
to answer questions.
Customer Complaint Analysis
Director Daly noted that the memorandum talks about strollers being an issue.
He wonders if the Board needs to set a policy about the kinds of strollers that

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 12 of 13

are permitted on the busses. He asked if having room for a large stroller and
wheel chair at the same time is a problem. Carolyn Conover shared that Alice
Osner recently issued a bulletin to remind drivers about the proper procedures
for when someone boards with a stroller. Bruce Abel stated that Bus
Operations is working with the Marketing Department to create collateral that
can be distributed to passengers.
Director Daly asked if the complaints for passengers passed us at a stop take
into account when a bus is full and the driver cannot fit another passenger.
Carolyn explained that it is possible those were included in the statistics.
Director O’Boyle noted that we list fare enforcement as a big complaint
generator but in complaint analysis it does not appear in the top ten. He
asked if this is really an issue. Carolyn Conover explained that this category
was created when RTD first started enforcing the fares. She explained that
often when a driver tries to enforce a fare the customer will often call in and
complain that the driver was discourteous or followed an improper procedure.
Director Hoy asked if there were any categories in which complaints went
down. Carolyn stated that unfortunately the number of complaints have
increased in almost every category. She shared that the feedback she
received is that increased ridership and fuller busses lead to more passengers
who are upset. Carolyn explained that the contracts work with their drivers
on customer service skills and will continue to do so. Bruce Abel and Carolyn
stated that often when the videos are reviewed the complaints are not valid.
Director Tayer stated that he was also concerned about the rise in complaints.
He asked if we audit the tapes from the contractors. He encouraged staff to
participate in the reviews on a periodic basis because we may have a different
standard for appropriately interacting with the customers. Carolyn explained
that if we see a complaint that is troublesome we will review the video.
Director Gore asked how long the tapes are kept. Carolyn Conover stated that
video is kept for 72 hours before recording starts at the beginning of the tape
again.
Director Tayer recognized the amazing drivers we have in the system. He
expressed his desire to see a program that recognizes those individuals.
Director Tayer said that from personal experience when there is a tense
situation and you have a driver with a positive attitude it really diffuses the
customers frustrations. Carolyn stated that all our contractors recognized the
commendations they receive with the drivers. Bruce Abel also shared that we
started an Operator of the Month Program that recognizes outstanding drivers.
Committee Chair Tobiassen stated that when you consider the number of
people we are carrying these numbers look tiny in comparison. He thanked all

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 13 of 13

of the drivers. He believes they do a great job. Committee Chair Tobiassen
shared that the Operator of the Month can also be seen on Facebook.


Radio – CAD/AVL Project Status Update
Eric Farrington reviewed the Project Status Update with the Board. He
explained that due to some system problems installs are occurring on about 34 busses per day. He stated that we need to get up to installing on 16 busses
per day to meet the end of year deadline. He believes we have reached the
point where we can allow the contractor to increase the number of
installations. Eric shared that we did receive a waiver from the FCC granting
us a year extension so we no longer have the regulatory threat that was there
before. He expressed his desire to still meet the end of year goal.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked how many radios were left to install. Eric
Farrington stated that the only vehicles needing the new radios are the
busses. About 50 of 1,000 busses have been fitted with the new equipment.
Director Hoy asked if the equipment being installed will still have the problems
that we were experiencing with the first 50 bus installations. Eric explained
that most of the problems were software related. He stated that once these
glitches are fixed a patch can be sent out to the equipment wirelessly. Eric
believes we have resolved about 30% to 40% of the software issues.



Smart Card Project Status Update
Gary Googins reviewed the Project Status Update with the Board. He stated
that there have been some challenges with bus installation but that is primarily
coming from the contractor. Gary shared that ACS has hired an additional
contractor to help get the project back on schedule. He stated that the
platform installations, web portal, and marketing aspects of the project are
going well.
The Directors asked several questions about Smart Cards and Gary Googins
responded.

III.

Other Matters
There were no other matters presented.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – October 9, 2012

V.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 8:39 p.m.

