2023-06-22
Executive Committee Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good morning or good noon. The Thursday, June 22 Executive Committee meeting
will now come to order. We're convened as of 12 PM. I respectfully ask everyone attending to unmute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak. I'll start by calling the roll. First, Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second, Vice Chair Davidson. Director Davidson is not here. His work kept him from
attending today. He asked me to tell everyone how sorry he was to miss it. Secretary Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here
LYNN GUISSINGER: Treasurer Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am Chair Lynn Guissinger. I am here. Other Directors-- I don't see any other
Directors at this point. Staff in attendance are our GM CEO Debra Johnson, Legal Counsel Melanie Snyder.
Welcome Jack Kroll, our new Board Executive Director in his first Executive Committee meeting. He and I
have been talking, he's been very helpful already. Welcome.
To Tai-Shrae Parish Jillian Knapp-Rhodes, Charlene Pileggi, John McKay Michael Davies, and Brandy
Hunter, I believe, make up the whole group. So we're going to open public comment to anyone who'd like
to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for this meeting or for
this month or the immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please
either raise your virtual hand, or press star 9 on your phone.
Ms. parish or whomever is there, anybody in line to speak?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Hi, Chair, I don't see any hands raised. And there were no emails received for today's
committee either.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thank you. And our CFO Doug MacLeod has joined us, I see. We are going
to shift the agenda slightly. We've had the June Board Meeting Agenda Review and Approval in before our
recommended actions. But one of the recommended actions is part of the June Board meeting. So we need
to address that first.

So we're going to address our two recommended actions. First, there are two recommended actions on the
agenda this afternoon. Our first is for the State Lobbying Services Contract Amendment, for the Board of
Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute an Amendment to
exercise the two 1-year options to extend the current state lobbying services contract with Brandeberry
McKenna Public Affairs or BBMK through July 27, 2025, for a total cost not to exceed $250,000. Do we
have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
BOBBY DISHELL: Second,
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear Director Sloan and Dishell as the movement and the second. I would ask
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer to please present this item.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you Chair, members of the Board-- Michael Davies, Government Relations
Officer. Chair, as you stated, this is authorizing the General and of CEO to extend the current contract for
state lobbying services with Brandeberry McKenna. And that would extend through July 27, 2025, not to
exceed a total cost of 250,000. RTD staff is pleased with the work that Brandeberry McKenna does on
behalf of the agency, and thinks they continue to do good work under the gold dome, building relationships
for this agency and advancing our state legislative agenda. With that, I'll end my remarks and happy to
answer any questions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you, Mr Davies. Are there any questions or other comments or
discussion? Director Ruscha-- I will note that Director Ruscha has joined us.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just have a brief question about the contract. In addition to
lobbying at the Capitol, do we ever utilize our state lobbyists for things like rulemaking? Or would that
potentially be-- I guess what I'm just trying to understand is in addition to legislation, are there other activities
that might fall under that contract?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Currently, there's no activities that I've engaged with them on with regards to
rulemaking at the state level. Generally, their work really is focused really on the legislative session.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I would say, and the processes that get us there, the TLRC and those things.
But it's with the legislature.
JOYANN RUSCHA: That was my only question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin?

PEGGY CATLIN: I would just like to comment that they were represented or they were at the event today.
And it's really clear that they have strong relationships all over the state, but also even with local elected
officials. And I think that they are very, very good at helping us, not only during the session, but other times
of the year. So I'm very much in support of this contract Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I would second that and agree. Any other comments? All right, at this time,
we will take a vote. Are there any "no" votes on this action? With 4 yes votes and 0 no votes and 0
abstentions, the motion passes.
The second recommended action on the agenda is for establishing a queer cultural district in the city and
county of Denver and declaring June 28th as an Annual Ride with Pride Day. It is recommended by RTD
Directors Ruscha, Guzman, and Dishell that the Board of Directors adopt a resolution supporting both the
establishment of a queer cultural district in the city and county of Denver, and the declaration by the Board
of June 28th as Annual Ride with Pride Day.
So I want to take a motion here. And then I'm going to ask the Director Dishell or Director Ruscha to present
their amendment, please. So do we have a motion to move this item forward, this recommended action to
the Board?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And do we have a second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Director, thank you. Director Dishell is the movement. Director Sloan is the
second. Director Dishell or Ruscha, I guess I would ask you to present this item, but also if you have an
amendment first, we could entertain that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. And I believe was the Amendment circulated to everyone, I believe? Great. I moved
to amend the motion to read as circulated, not unless you'd like me to read the whole thing into the record.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I think we'll ultimately need the recommended action. Do you have that you could
read? It should be pretty short.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I move that the Amendment is to approve resolution number blank, blank series
of 2023, declaring June 28th as Annual Ride with Pride Day as amended.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. Do we have a second for that motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second.

LYNN GUISSINGER: We have a motion to amend from Director Dishell and a second from Secretary Sloan.
Director Dishell, did you want to discuss this further?
BOBBY DISHELL: I'll yield to Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Dishell. I was actually just going to say as, you are a member of
Executive and was part of this, I'd be happy to yield to you. And I do want to note that I have a community
meeting to go to in a few minutes. So I have to hop off.
So initially the resolution was crafted-- excuse me, let me start my video. This resolution was crafted, and
it had two parts. The first was the stated support of the concept of a queer cultural district in the city and
county of Denver, something that community groups have been advocating, whether formally or informally
for quite a while. And the second component was declaring June 28th, which is the anniversary of
Stonewall, as Ride with Pride Day, and making that just an annual, I don't know if you call it an event, but
essentially, an annual day that we recognize at RTD.
After some feedback from Board members and taking a second look, we decided to remove the references
to the queer cultural district, not because it's not something that we don't support. But rather, it might be
just too soon in that process and might inadvertently detract the Board from some of its other initiatives. But
we did feel that the Ride with Pride Day declaration and having an Annual Ride with Pride Day did align
with our strategic plan and our stated core values.
So we did some further workshopping with Board members and members of the community and a few staff
members just to get their feedback. The resolution essentially directs, but loosely directs staff under the
guidance of our GMA CEO Miss Debra Johnson, to come back to the Board next year with their vision for
a Ride with Pride Day and any other related pride activities. I do think that staff probably has some plans
next year for Pride Month, and that portion of the resolution is not intended to overstep into operations, but
rather take a co-governance or embrace our co-governance model and simply say, as a Board, we have
these values. We would like to demonstrate these values to the community.
We think this provides a community value. But we trust our staff to come up with a plan to demonstrate
that. And with that, I also noted, in addition to the revised language Mr Kroll sent out, a revised memo to
that effect. And I did list for edification, several other transit agencies that do something similar. I found
some transit agencies creating a Ride with Pride bus, going back to 2014. And I think that this would be
good company to join.
So some of those agencies include La Metro, DC, Palm Beach, London, Sydney, Dublin, and so forth. I
didn't list everyone I found. But I did count more than 30 over the weekend when I was doing some digging.
So I think we'd be in good company, and the community would really appreciate it. I would welcome your
support, but I'm here really for questions, if I can answer any.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you. There are questions or comments here? Secretary Sloan? Oh, you're
muted.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I just have a couple of comments. I appreciate the Amendment I think we were getting
far ahead of ourselves with the previous one. And I mentioned this to Director Ruscha yesterday. There is
a typo that should be a prize Board from staff, rather than a praise.
The only other comment-- and again, this is very minor. It's troubling to me that it says, "every year
thereafter." It sounds like a perpetuity thing and life changes. And I would prefer it just say, June 28th be
known as Ride with Pride Day, rather than this year plus every year thereafter. But again, I'm appreciative
of the work that the proposing Directors did.
I know it's difficult for three people to negotiate something like this. So I know you're very sincere about
having it before the Board. So thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I have a couple of comments. I see Mr Kroll. And then I'm going to ask
Ms Johnson if she has any comments or concerns.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Guissinger and members of the Executive Committee. I just wanted to
note that we too, caught the typo. And there was a couple other capitalization issues. And if it's permissible
from of the Executive Committee, we would just circulate that copy. OK, great.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Ms. Johnson, do you have anything to add?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you to the committee for the
opportunity to speak. And thank you, Mr Kroll, because yes, he made reference to some of the elements
as it relates to RTD-style by the nomenclature in which we utilize. So those are the types of things.
I'm supportive. I mean, I've worked at transit agencies in which we've done this. We do have wrapped buses
and so forth, recognizing that with our fleet, we don't have designated vehicles and things to the like from
an operational nature. It's something we support collectively because we provide service to all and
recognize what the intent is behind this, and would just share with the Board, recognizing that we represent
a varied demographic.
And so forth, we understand the intent behind this going forward. And we'll apprise you accordingly into the
fact about Riding with Pride just on June 27. We have a watch party. And we are engaged, and we will be
participating in Pride next year, because applications have to be submitted a year in advance.
And so I see Director Ruscha nodding, because she's probably aware of that. But we do have plans. And I
just wanted to ensure that there was an understanding as we talked about, wrapping vehicles and things

of the like that takes a lot of effort. And that's why we have a wrapped bus that we use collectively that
showcases a myriad of different demographics.
So we're open to it. And we will apprise accordingly. So thank you very much for the opportunity to offer up
comments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, I'm sorry. Did you say June 27, there's a launch party?
DEBRA JOHNSON: June 27, there is a watch party, as relates to the Pride parade here in Denver. And
we, as a organization, are participating, as we have in other events, culturally-based.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So I think there are a couple of options here, the bylaws Thank you too, Jack,
for reminding me that these say that a Director-initiated action should go to a committee before it comes
here. But it doesn't require that.
It also says that as long as-- if they're turned in after noon yesterday, the Director, the Chair has discretion
whether to send it to the Board. So that suggests that the Chair doesn't have discretion. Regardless, I think
we want to send this to the Board. And it could be sending it as with the Executive Committee's support or
just sending it without a statement like that.
In terms of my view of this, I also am supportive of this. I think it's a great idea. I don't like announcing on
June 26th or essentially June 27th that we're starting at this year. Because June 28th is Bike to Work Day.
And we've had a lot of our local governments and the TMAs and TMOs and DRCOG, there's a lot of energy
that has gone into that.
So I personally would prefer to see it set on the night of June 26th to begin next year. And I may end up
making a motion to that effect. Would you oppose that, Director Ruscha and Director Dishell?
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may-- so I think that given that the 28th is around the corner, I personally don't-- I
wouldn't have an expectation of our staff to be pulling something together or pulling away from other
planned activities. Perhaps, there's a social media tweet. In some ways, I think that for this year, it is more
of a proclamation. And next year, there are more actionable items.
And I hope that addresses where you're coming from, Madam Chair, if I understood your concern correctly.
I think we can have multiple things going on at once. Or we can Ride With Pride, we can Cycle With Pride.
And we can have Bike to Work Day.
Our community engagement is very broad. But there was no intent to add something to staff's plate last
minute or distract from anything that is currently on the calendar. I hope that addresses your concern. But

I wouldn't consider-- I guess I'd have to see what the amendment would be or understand further before I
could answer my thoughts about it. I don't know, perhaps, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I think I hear you, Director, Chair Guissinger. But I think to view them as mutually
exclusive. It's not totally fair. And I think this year again, there's not really an ask of staff to do much. It's the
meaning behind the date.
And I think frankly that's also on Bike to Work Day, for not considering the fact that, hey, there's a huge
segment of our community for whom this date is really important. And this action created meaning for them
and created major Civil Rights changes for them. And so, sure, you can say, Bike to Work Day was
registered first. But the flip side of that is, well, why didn't Bike to Work Day consider that date and the
importance of it?
And similarly, why can't you Ride With Pride to the bus to get to work. I don't see them as taking away from
one another, especially with the number of people who do take their bikes to the bus or you take their bikes
to the train. So I don't think it's material. I just think it's sort of cheap. It cheapens it to shift the date for the
sole reason of wanting to not take anything away from Bike to Work Day, which I don't think it does.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you for your comments. I will consider the comments. I still feel like if
everybody that we work with has put this much effort into Bike to Work Day, we're not doing anything that
adds value by doing that. But it's just the differing opinions. So, Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I actually thought about the Bike to Work Day coincidence, I
guess, as well, and have some concerns about it. I am supportive of putting this forward for the whole Board
to discuss and vote on, and whether it's as amended. So I just wanted to let you know.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Pardon me just one second, I got to get back, look get my technology here.
First of all, are there any no vote-- excuse me, Director Sloan? You're muted.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I would like to propose a minor amendment that I think might take care of your
concerns about Bike to Work Days. And that is delete 2023 and every year thereafter from the language of
the resolution. And I think that satisfies your concern about all the people putting energy into Bike to Work
Day. And it satisfies my concern that we are an elected Board right now. And this seems to be committing
every elected Board in perpetuity to defining this as Ride with Pride Day, and there might be other conditions
that come up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, that's my motion.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we have a motion to delete the language, "2023" and every year thereafter. Do
we have a second for that motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll second that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. Thank you. Director Catlin seconds the motion. I see Director Ruscha and Mr
Kroll both have their hands up. I'm going to ask-- before we go back to you Joyann, I'm going to just ask if
Jack has something procedurally we should be looking at.
JACK KROLL: Now, the only thing I would say is there was an amendment on the table initially to adopt the
language as circulated. And I just want to make sure you approve that before you take the additional
amendment from Director Sloan. You only one to consider one thing at a time. And then the second thing
I'll mention is just for information purposes is, Bike to Work Day is always on the fourth Wednesday of June.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. It's just an issue this year.
JACK KROLL: It would be an issue this year and potentially, I'm not going to get it exactly right. Once every
seven, eight-ish years, it would be coincidental.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Ruscha, if your comment is about this amendment, I'm going to go back
first and take the vote on Director Dishell's amendment. So the amendment to essentially limited the
recommended action to Ride With Pride Day and does not address the district is on the table, on the floor.
Do we have-- just got an interesting text I'll tell you about in a minute. Do we have any "no" votes on that
amendment? That amendment passes with 4 "yes" votes and 0 "no" votes and 0 abstentions. Now I guess,
do we need to take the amendment again? Can you state your amendment please, Secretary Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, I would recommend deleting the year 2024 and every year thereafter from the
proposed resolution.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And we have a second from Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thank you. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So the proposal Secretary Sloan said, the year 2024. But I
think she meant 2023 in that bullet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right.

JOYANN RUSCHA: But I guess I just wanted clarification. So I just want to understand from the amendment
proposal and also from you, Madam Chair. Is it removing the an annual designation? Or is it just cleaning
up the language?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't have the language right in front of me. But I think we are making the
designation, the proclamation. If somebody else wants to look at it, Ms. Snyder if you see it or whatever.
But I think we're making the proclamation. We're just not stating, you know-- I assume that this proclamation
would move forward.
And we've asked the Board to apprise, the staff to apprise the Board about 2024. So I think that it would
move us forward, just not naming 2023 or thereafter. Anybody disagree with that?
BOBBY DISHELL: I just don't understand. Oh, sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Did you have more, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, sorry. I wasn't sure if I could speak, if you clicked me. I still have confusion. Is this
amendment to change the intent of having an annual designation, so every June 28th? Or is that the intent- I guess I want to understand what the intent of the amendment is.
Because if the intent is to remove the annual designation, then we would have-- I mean, I think in effect,
we would have Ride With Pride, depending on how you interpret it, maybe this year, definitely next year.
But then the Board would have to come back and do this any year following, right, if we don't have that
annual designation? And so I don't understand what the intent is.
And if I may, I appreciate where Secretary Sloan said, we're doing something that a future Board would
have to adhere to. Well, that's true. A future Board can always change it. This current Board enacts policies
from resolutions of previous boards on pretty major issues.
And in fact, our strategic plan, because it's a five-year plan, was done by a previous Board. And the current
iteration of this Board will not be able to affect that. So I think that I mean, I respect where that perspective
is coming from. But it is sort of part and parcel of being like a rolling legislative body.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Let me-- Oh, excuse me. Sorry.
JOYANN RUSCHA: But I guess I don't understand the intent of the amendment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Let me see if I can ask Ms. Snyder to help here. If we take that date out, so it just is
a proclamation of Ride With Pride Day, and then we ask for them to apprise us what they're doing in 2024,
does it change, really? I mean, it seems like we have proclaimed it. And it's not limited to just 2024. Is that
how you would read it, or is-- I don't have it in front of me, as I said.

MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Chair. That's how I would read it as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It would continue.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Does that satisfy your concern, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I think once we finish this amendment, I will have another amendment, which is
to in that second bullet, change-- just make it so that second bullet is an annual commitment, so that it
reads-- well, I'll do it after.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We have a motion and a second. Do we have any "no" votes? OK, we have 4
"yes" votes, 0 "no" votes. The amendment passes. And we will be removing that language. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, I move to amend the second bullet so that it reads, "Each year, RTD staff working
under the guidance of General Manager and CEO shall apprise the Board of Directors of its vision for that
year's Ride With Pride Day and any related Pride Month initiatives, no later than March 1st of each year.
This information may include but should not be limited to projects that require Board authorization.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is there a second? I guess we're just requiring it for next year. But certainly, we could
require it. I mean, I think what you all are wanting is still happening here, which is that this is moving forward.
It's being proclaimed.
BOBBY DISHELL: I don't mind bringing it for the whole Board to discuss.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry?
BOBBY DISHELL: I don't mind bringing the same amendment for the whole Board to discuss.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's fine. Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. It seems to me that if we proclaim June 28th as Ride With Pride Day, that it
would take some sort of an action in a subsequent year or a subsequent Board to negate that. So it just
seems to me that if we just leave it at that, that unless there's some sort of action taken by this Board or a
future Board in a year or two, that it would just stand as being Ride With Pride Day. Am I wrong? I don't
know.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's what Miss Snyder agreed with. So thank you. Ms Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I would say that is the intent. And it concerns me that Director Ruscha is confused
about this, because we discussed it at length last night. I don't-- there's just something about the language
and every year thereafter that gives me heartburn. And I think you get the same result by taking off the
year.
And I mean, it's just like, when is Mother's Day? It's an annual event. But it doesn't require staff to do
something every year. And it doesn't-- and I have no problem with this continuing for as long as it's
meaningful. I don't want to take it away. The intent was to keep it, but just remove that kind of troublesome
language.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Hi, thank you, Madam Chair. I apologize for causing concern. I was just making sure
that this amendment didn't functionally change the proposal. I think it's fine. And I don't have any objection,
in case that wasn't clear before. I was just making sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Well I'm sorry, because I'm not trying to take the Chair's role. But I guess I would just
say that perhaps it would be beneficial if our GM/CEO weighed in if she had any thoughts to what we have
been discussing, any additional thoughts, since this amendment has come up.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, I defer to you if you'd like me to-LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so thank you very much Director Ruscha and Chair Guissinger. So from staff
perspective, we do things annually anyway. And so, recognizing that you want to memorialize this, as I said
before, during my previous comments, I think to the fact that is reoccurring each year, just as we have
Hispanic History Month, we have Autism Awareness Month, Domestic Violence Month, things of the like,
and a multitude of others, we traditionally do something to acknowledge. And I know we're trying to
memorialize this here.
So regardless of the date or what have you, staff will continue to do what we typically do in reference to
being an inclusive organization, embracing the notion behind diversity, not just in people, but in thought and
experience, as it's embedded in our values of which we collectively agreed upon that are the ideals and
beliefs we hold true for the organization. So I understand both sides of the fence, relative to ensuring that
we're not taking away or the perception taking away from Bike to Work Day. But recognizing that June 28th

will be the anniversary of Stonewall. Regardless if we put a date on it or not, we are still going to march
down that path and support the efforts in reference to what we do from a communications and engagement
perspective.
So that's what I would offer up. I more so would say that I don't think the date is going to hinder what we do
collectively. And I understand the points that have been raised by all, and that we're amenable because we
are still going to do what we do. And that's make lives better through connection with being an inclusive
organization. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Do you have anything else, Director Ruscha, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I would just say I'm a little bit disappointed frankly, at the Executive Committee. I
found that sort of the discussions around this, similar to discussions around equity issues, we choose to
hide behind, oh, well I don't want to bind future boards when it's something that's related to equity. We try
to say that our strategic priority, how important equity is. But then when push comes to shove, a lot of times,
the actions of Board members show sort of trying to water things down, not willing to fully commit and stand
in that truth and really push to be an equitable organization to have those types of actions.
And marking a day is one thing. And taking the action is another. But it is just-- I'm glad to see this is going
to go to the full Board. But I just want to express my disappointment of how we talk about and decree equitybased proposals that come to this Board, versus how we treat other proposals and which procedural things
we choose to hide behind or choose as reasons to try to water something down. That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, I'm just going to take a second to respond, because I guess I disagree. I
think that's a bit unfair. I think that we have the same-- we have pushed this forward. We've pushed it for
this forward with the amendment that you all came to us with.
And we have created a proclamation that does not have specific dates, but essentially has the same effect.
It's a long term proclamation. And so, I think that I don't see that complaint. But I'll leave it at that. Director
Tisdale? You're muted, Director Tisdale, still muted, you're still muted. We can't hear you.
DOUG TISDALE: There we go. Now, you can hear me, right?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, thank you. I just wanted to second the expressions by the Chair, relative to the
response to Director Dishell. I think that's very appropriate. Because I might also say, there are lots of things
that we do only on an annual basis. The first one that comes to mind, of course, is the budget.

We don't intend to, nor can we find the future Boards relative to expenditures. So I think it's appropriate that
we treat it this way. I'm very much in favor of having a discussion. I think there's a lot of merit to this.
And I appreciate the discussion. Because I think it will give us the opportunity to share with the public and
with the other Board members, who may not have had an opportunity to look into this as much as I know,
the three presenting Directors have and the Executive Committee to learn more about it. So I appreciate
that.
But I think in response, there are lots of things that we only do on an annual basis as we attempt to govern.
Thank you very much. That's all, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. All right, we have passed the amendments, I believe. Are we
set on this issue, Mr Kroll or Ms Snyder?
JACK KROLL: I think the only thing that's left is to-- basically, you started with a motion here to consider it.
You've amended that. There was a failed second motion that didn't get a second motion to amend that
wasn't, or that was approved. So we're done with that.
Now there's been a second motion or a third motion to amend. That did not receive a second. So you're
back to your original motion, which is to send this to the Board for approval at the June meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
JACK KROLL: And so you need to just vote for that. And then we'll add it to the agenda if it is so approved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, are there any "no" votes on that motion? All right, seeing none, there are 4
"yes" votes, 0 "no" votes. The motion as amended is approved to be sent to the Board and on the agenda.
All right, the next item on our agenda is approval of the June Board agenda for the Board meeting on June
27th. And I'm going to take a motion on this in a second. And then I have a couple of comments about
what's on the agenda. Is there a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second.
PEGGY CATLIN: I hear Director Catlin and Director Sloan as the second. I would just point out one item.
There is a flag presentation for number 5, a flag presentation for Chief Fitzgerald. I think some of you know
about this. I'm not sure.

But Lee Kemp, who is a former Chair of the Board, worked with Senator Bennett's office and had the federal
flag flown over the US Capitol. And I think somebody related with him had a state flag flown over the state
capital that he has asked if he could present those to Chief Fitzgerald during the Board meeting in honor of
his and in memory of his son as a fallen police officer. And I know that Ms Johnson and Chief Fitzgerald
were all good with it.
I'm good with it, I think. Does anybody have any concerns with that, I guess is my question? And I think the
Code of Conduct does not come up separately here. I know Miss Ruscha, are you still here?
OK. Well, this is an issue for the Board. Then I think she wants to move to amend to consider the Code of
Conduct and Suspension Policy as separate recommended actions. I think that is appropriate in the Board
meeting, and she's not here to discuss it anyhow. So we won't move forward on that. Director Dishell, do
you have comments on this motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I was just going to move to separate those out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: Those need to be separate items.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm fine with entertaining it. I sort of felt like that made more sense to leave to the
whole Board. But is that what you're thinking, Ms Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: I think so. Because Chair, technically this was deferred by this committee to the Board
meeting. So I think the Board meeting is the proper place to offer that Amendment to sever the two.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Are you OK with that?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, just for procedurally, will we do that the top of the meeting or once we get to the
item itself?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I assume when we get to the item. But others weigh in?
JACK KROLL: That's what I would recommend, is get to the item. You take the motion to consider the item
at the Board meeting and then move to separate it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: To separate recommended actions. So, good, Director Dishell? Secretary Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, I'm not sure emotion is necessary for this, because this is something at the
Chair's discretion. But this would seem an appropriate meeting for the Employee Appreciation Statement.
Because we are recognizing retirees. That's somewhere, that we're recognizing retirees, but maybe not.

Yes, we are. So it seems like at the beginning of the meeting, following the land acknowledgment, that
would be possibly appropriate for this meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that makes sense. And that statement has gone through this committee as
well, right? Yeah, OK.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And the Board.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And the Board, right. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, just want to confirm that 17, 18d is going to be revised to reflect the amendments
that we just went through in the published agenda.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's correct.
BOBBY DISHELL: I don't know if I need to separately.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That will be revised. And Mr Kroll, those in the Board Office, can we please add in
the Employee Appreciation Statement, maybe after the land acknowledgment?
JACK KROLL: Certainly.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. Let's see. All right, we have several discussion items. Monthly Government
Relations Report-- actually, I'm going to stop for just a second here. Pardon?
MELANIE SNYDER: You had a motion and a second, just need a vote on to approve the agenda.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, sorry about that. Are there any "no" votes on approval of the agenda? With 4
votes in favor and 0 "no" votes, the agenda is approved as amended. And I know that Ms. Johnson just got
this notice or may have gotten it before me. But we just got a notice that the application for $25 million for
Highway 119 BRT from the US Department of Transportation, which was a joint-- you could describe this
better than I could, Ms. Johnson.
It was a joint-- I think Boulder County was the lead on it. But CDOT and RTD were all in support, was fully
granted. The $25 million essentially finishes out what we need to do 119, which is great. Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just for everybody's edification, with a
collective joint application that was submitted through the RAISE grant process, in which it was submitted
under the auspices of CDOT and Boulder County this time, excuse me, for $25 million. So yes, we've just
received that notification from Congressman Neguse's office earlier this morning.

And then there was subsequent notification as well. So that's hot off the press. And the senator's office will
be disseminating a press advisory.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, that's great news. Thank you. We are at the monthly Government Relations
Report for June 2023. Michael Davies, I believe you are up.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, thank you, Chair and members of the Board, Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer. Really, this month, running through our federal, state, and local matters, the action really
is at the federal level for once. And so with the completion of the debt ceiling negotiations last month, that
really has allowed the Appropriations Committee to start moving forward with the annual appropriations
process.
As you all may know, RTD certainly tracks and relies on the Annual Appropriations process to ensure that
funding is appropriated. You have your authorized funding that gets authorized in say, the bipartisan
infrastructure law. But it takes the Annual Appropriations process to move that forward on an annual basis.
I wish I had better news for the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development subcommittee numbers.
And that really is looking-- nothing out of the Senate has come out of the Senate yet. The house has
published their subcommittee numbers this year. And they are listing a 25.3% cut to the transportation
budget. That's roughly about $22 billion less than last year's funding. And that is far below the authorized
levels of the bipartisan infrastructure law.
I think, as discussed with this committee before, we knew there would be some changes as a result of the
2022 election. And we're starting to see those changes play out in the legislative process with the
Appropriations Committee. It is not just the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development subcommittee
that is receiving cuts. There is cuts largely across the Board, between 30, 25%, 35%.
The largest cut is to the Financial Services subcommittee of 59% cut. Only three subcommittees saw a
increase. That is the Defense, Homeland Security and Military Construction, Veterans Affairs
subcommittee. Those were the only three that saw an increase. So it really is the desire of House leadership
to do some financial cutting in the Annual Appropriations process.
That is largely seen as a starting negotiation point with the Senate, and in many ways, lines up a
disagreement between Senate leadership and House leadership that will play itself out toward the end of
the fiscal year, which is September 30th. So RTD will be tracking that closely. No legislative language or
committee markup has been scheduled yet for the Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development
subcommittee.

And they often post, no more than about a day, two days before the committee markup, the actual
legislation. And so at that time, we'll be able to see that legislation and analyze where those cuts come
from. And at that time, we'll of course, communicate that to the Board.
And that really is the news at the federal level. Moving over to state-- with the legislative session wrapping
up on May 8th, there is little to report in regards to state legislation. RTD is of course, working with the state
legislature on their upcoming Transportation Legislation Review Committee hearings. Those committee
hearings will start later this summer. And RTD will go forward with its regularly scheduled report to the
Transportation Legislation Review Committee in the fall later this year.
And then finally, just as a note to the Board-- RTD did finalize the grant agreement with the Colorado Energy
Office for the Zero Fare for Better Air program. That amount was $13.8 million that is to be reimbursed upon
completion of the Zero Fare program. And that really is all of the available state funding that was allotted to
RTD through the state grant program.
And then just at the local level, we wanted to note that we have continued to do our proactive outreach to
cities and counties. And on June 6th, this happened both on the same day, Directors and staff participated
in updates to the City of Thornton City Council and Golden City Council. And lastly, also not included in the
report, just this week on Tuesday, General Manager Johnson did was presented a proclamation in support
of RTD's Zero Fare for Youth by the Denver City Council.
And with that, that concludes my report. And I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr Davies. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: This is not a comment. But it's something I feel like we should-- I should share with
the Executive Committee. At the most recent Metro Mayors Caucus meeting, one mayor stated that Denver
really doesn't have a transit system. And Mr Davies gave a data-backed and very eloquent response to the
inaccuracy of that statement. And it had a big effect on the caucus.
And I really appreciate his stepping up and looking at all the facts and figures about other Metro systems
that this mayor commented on were better than ours. So it was a great moment. I was glad to be there for
it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great. I'm glad you raised it. I had not heard that and. Thanks. Thanks so
much, Mr Davies. It sounds like you handled that well. So great. Any other comments or questions?
I'm going to skip-- the next discussion items updates is Board Operating Guidelines, skip over that for just
a minute. And we'll discuss it down below. Public comment responses-- I think I've heard from several

people, and I have felt that we get comments in our Public Comment. And we take this stand that we don't
reply to those.
I think Miss Johnson has-- I've tried to at least, softly reply to those recently. And I think Ms Johnson has
sometimes addressed them in her statement. And we talked about-- by the way, people can register. Staff
can get back to them. We don't want to commit staff to getting back to everyone on every comment. Ms.
Johnson, do you want to address that at all?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Chair Guissinger. Just for everyone's edification, yes, to the
point the Chair Guissinger raised, that there's awkward feelings relative to members of your constituency
taking time out to bring forth public comments, but recognizing public comment is just that public comment
due to the fact that we would be limiting public participation, because these items, should they be discussed,
for an agenda. So not everybody has ample opportunity to be present, relative to engaging on certain topics.
So what I had suggested to the Chair in reference to past experiences in which I've had a different public
agencies that receive public comments, that statements can be made relative to when somebody puts
forward their desire to speak, we ask them what they like to be contacted. And there could be staff followup that's done through the Office of the Board. And if in fact there is additional information that's warranted- because I think it would behoove us all to recognize that we do have a customer relation management
system that we have here. And if we could then, ensure that we are placing these individuals' names in
such a way that we can track that, it would be helpful.
Because oftentimes, you all receive different communique in disparate fashions. It's gone to me, it's gone
to somebody else within the organization. And we want to ensure that we're being consistent in addressing
the customer constituents' concerns, comments, or questions as appropriate.
So with that as a backdrop, I believe I mentioned this to Mr Kroll in a brief conversation. We haven't had an
opportunity to delve deeper. But in relationship to having somebody register, and if they say that they would
like to be contacted, then the Board Office could coordinate accordingly and coordinate with members of
my team or with me directly. So I think that's the best manner going forward. So thank you very much for
the opportunity to provide that information, Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Ms Johnson. Mr Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes, happy to coordinate responses and follow up. I think that's a very reasonable request
of the Board Office. I will offer that there's been some conversation recently around Directors wanting to do
additional follow-up with members who provide comment or write in letters to the Board. And so that will
just be something I think, Chair Guissinger, that we can talk a little bit more about, around how we want to
handle that.

I might recommend a system by which the Chair responds on behalf of the Board or something like that.
And then individual Directors may make follow-up essays as they see fit. So we can talk more about that.
But there has been a request made by a Director for contact information. And I think that relates to another
item on our agenda here. So Melanie Snyder, General Counsel Snyder and I have been discussing some
of the merits of those requests recently as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thank you. I think that's our next item on the agenda, which is the Director
request for documents and the Colorado Open Records Act. I will also get into the Board Operating
Guidelines a little bit after we discuss this. And I know that Ms. Snyder and I have had conversations, and
Jack Kroll and Ms. Snyder. And so we've all been kind of discussing this. Melanie, do you want to start this
off?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Chair. So I think this came up most recently at a Board meeting in
response to one of the Director's requests for a number of contracts that are related to our Access On
Demand contract. And I just want to be clear. Of course, staff is here to support the Directors and ensure
that you all get the information you're requesting, you get the records that you're requesting, and you get it
in a timely fashion.
So what has been happening historically-- and I did confirm this with John McKay, that the practice was
similar when he was in the Board Office, is that when Directors request for records, Board staff would submit
a core request through the online portal and just set up a request that way. That is the fastest way to ensure
that all records are compiled and then any necessary redactions are made. So for example, of any
confidential or proprietary information or safety sensitive information.
And that is not to say that a Director couldn't get that information. You're certainly welcome to come in and
review unredacted versions of contracts. It's just to ensure protection and that we're meeting RTD's
obligations to not disclose confidential information.
So that's the process that was happening historically. I did confirm that there were many requests that John
McKay processed on behalf of former Directors. And then we also, as an alternative, Directors are also
welcome, if they want, to submit a core request. And we have other Directors that have done that
historically.
So both of those avenues are available. I think going through Board staff is the fastest way to ensure you're
going to get the records you need. And really, all this is happening sort of behind the scenes very quickly.
And unless there's any questions, I'll just leave it there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, I think-- well first of all, I'll ask for other comments or questions. And then I'll
add a little bit. Dr. Dishell?

BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, just so procedurally, is it, if we have a request, can we just, Jack, just CC the
Board Office on the initial email? And you guys will then be able to process it. Or do we just send you guys
a separate email that says, please file a core request?
JACK KROLL: No, I just ask that you include the Board Office in every request. And frankly, there is
probably a best practice here that we could move towards, which is the request comes to the Board Office
directly. And then the Board Office runs the point, along with the administration, on how to funnel that down
correctly to the appropriate parts of the administration.
And I'll just give an example recently, without providing too many specifics. But we had a request go to
someone in the organization. And information was provided. And then a request that came through the
Board Office that was then funneled more correctly through the organization, and more accurate information
was provided.
And so if we're not aware of what's out there, we can't help meet the needs of the Board or the individual
Directors. And we can also this way, work with CEO Johnson her team to ensure that the most accurate
information is provided. And it's provided consistently so that Directors aren't necessarily getting information
when they ask this person, but not getting information when they ask this person. So that's what I have to
add. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything else, Director Dishell? Ms Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much for the question, Director Dishell. And Thank you, Chair
Guissinger for the opportunity to speak. And I just want to put a finer point on what Mr Kroll said. It's
something that I have shared constantly as we go forward.
We really need to leverage the Board office. Because oftentimes, there could be a request that comes in
and goes to somebody. And middle management within the organization, and of course, they're going to
run it through the food chain. I'm getting something directly from this Director. And we had a circumstance
where it wasn't the appropriate person. And so that creates a little angst and trepidation among staff
unnecessarily.
And so I would really iterate that since we have this opportunity and Mr Kroll being in space with his team
members, that we remember that. And I know oftentimes, people will send things to me. But we can do it
in such a way where we have Mr McKay in my office, that could be working in tandem with Mr Kroll's office,
recognizing the familiarity there. And this could be a lot more expeditious, and we won't have members of
the Board that are disgruntled or dissatisfied with the response time, if in fact, we do it in this manner.

So what we'll try to endeavor to do is work on those protocols so it's clearly understood by all parties.
Because we want to ensure that you have the information to carry out your duties accordingly, to represent
those in your districts. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. That was really what I was going to say is, I think we're getting a lot of
questions from a lot of different people. And they're going to various places in the organization. I know that
the Board Office is really committed to taking those questions, keeping the Director in the loop, getting the
answers, and bringing them back to the Director without having a lot of different people addressing that.
And I would say too, some of those questions and requests raise-- well, I think those questions often raise
good issues. But we need to think about how we manage them. I think this is one piece of them without
taking up too much of staff's time from their work. And we are going to be looking at the Board operating
guidelines there's a requirement that we should be reviewing them every year in the first quarter, which we
have not done.
But Jack has offered to work on that. I'll help him. If there's anyone else that can help as he goes through
the process, that would be great. I know, Director Sloan, you've looked at him some. So you might have
some ideas.
So all requests should go to the Board Office. I think I've also asked Jack to go ahead and schedule the
rest of the onboarding. I know that the office, Ms. Parish has a list of onboarding topics. Let's get those
addressed so people-- some things came up in other matters in the Finance Committee the other night. I
think that finishing some of that around real estate options and things like that can help with those questions
from Board members.
And one thing we may want to look at in terms of those sorts of questions and how we move forward, is
looking at longer term work plans for our committees. But that's a conversation that's still in progress. And
that's not one we need to engage with Ms. Johnson and others.
So as we look at the Board Operating Guidelines, we'll be looking at those things. There are also two
resolutions that have been passed by this Board in 1986 and 1996, that essentially say that-- it says that
Board members should not use more than 4 hours of a staff person's time on a particular subject. I don't
know if that's relevant here. But we'll look at that in terms of the Board Operating Guidelines as well and
see if that is something we need to move forward on or just reiterate.
So I think everybody is committed to getting people the information they need, and also committed to trying
to streamline it so staff is not spending inordinate amounts of time. And we're not getting all different people
throughout the agency. Any comments? I'd love your comments now, later, other Board members'
comments on how we move these things forward.

I think our last discussion item-DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may, just a point of clarification?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So recognizing that conversations did ensue in the Finance and Planning Committee,
and the Chair of that committee, who is no longer with us right now, indicated staff would respond. I'm going
to be very transparent, recognizing that a lot of those requests don't even fall within the enabling legislation
of the Regional Transportation District.
And so recognizing a statement was made, I do not want the appearance the staff isn't being responsive to
those requests. Because more so, there was a lot of angst, relative to members of my team hearing those
requests that were made, that there are certain policies that the Board has acted on, relative to what it is
that we can do. And when conversations ensued relative to us utilizing assets that were procured in a way
in which we do not have autonomy over disposing of to create housing and things of the like, I do believe
that there is an expectation that staff is going to respond in some way. And I just want that to be clear,
relative to where we're standing with staff, recognizing that we're trying to ensure that we can keep our
transit agency in a state of will repair and a myriad of other things that are going down the pike.
I just wanted to ensure that perhaps-- and we can talk offline. But that is made known. Because we pride
ourselves on being very responsive to Board requests. And traditionally we provide memoranda and things
of the like.
But I have ensured with my team, that they are not supposed to do anything at this juncture. Because it
wasn't clear in reference with any direction that was provided. So thank you for the opportunity to just share
that in this forum.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you for sharing that. I think that's important. And I think that's what we were
thinking about in terms of, let's finish the onboarding process so some of the people have a better
understanding of those things. But I think that's right. Those are not matters that I think, staff should be
responding to at this point. Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. I was frustrated after that
Finance and Planning Committee meeting, that it was almost inferred that staff would look into things that
I did not believe were, as you said, enabling legislation. But just really, I think, we as Board members, need
to look at everything through the lens of, are we providing public transportation and transit? And I think
some of those things were a big distraction.

And we have so much we need to do to shore up this agency in providing our core services. And some of
these things in my view, were unnecessary distractions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Jack?
JACK KROLL: I just had, given these concerns, something that I've talked, albeit briefly with CEO Johnson
about, as well as John McKay on her team. And I've talked with you, Chair Guissinger and Director Davidson
about, is creating annual committee work plans. And we know, the administration knows that there are
certain things that have to come forward at certain meetings. The thrice annual service changes, we know
when those are coming. And the budget, we know the process that takes.
But this will help provide structure to these one-off requests that are rather large, where the committee
chairs would have, in theory, discretion to say, OK, we can take that matter up if it's of great interest to the
committee. But realistically, given our work plan here, we're not going to be able to consider that until this
time in the future. And so having committee work plans would be one way to help manage these types of
requests and funnel them in a way that allows the district to meet its current needs and also meet the needs
of Directors' desire for more information on certain topics.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I agree. I agree with all the comments.
And I think that one example that came out of our retreat was the importance of sustainability and the desire
to have a sustainability plan. We've got staff right now that are focused on this transition plan. They've got
work plans. They've got their own goals and KPIs.
But some of those issues that were raised in the other matters the other night are something that might be
worth raising at that point. Having a sustainability plan on a schedule at some point in the future, if not right
now, but at some point, would give people a place to say, oh, this is when it's going to be discussed. So it's
just a concrete example that we can discuss. Anything else on this?
I think it's a discussion that we'll need to have with the full Board as well. The final discussion item is
reinstatement of full Board meeting dinners. I ask that this put on here for two reasons.
I know that many of you, or some of you have not been here when we've had Board meeting dinners. But
it really, to be able to grab something to eat and sit in the conference room upstairs for 30 minutes with our
colleagues, I think is a nice way to develop relationships to get to know people, to develop that collegiality
that makes us work better as a Board. And I also think people are coming from jobs and meetings and other
things, and going into meetings that sometimes can last a long time. And now, we're not having any food
in the meeting room.

So I think it's important to feed people and not have them thinking, how soon can I get home to dinner? So
I have asked that we do this. There's a process, as I understand it in place. Mr Kroll could explain that more.
But I think that the proposal is that we would have certain vendors. And people could choose. We could
start off-- we never chose before. But we could start off with, I guess that's the plan, choosing certain items.
And for those who eat, there would be the charge against their local budget.
I know that there are some who think that this is not a good use of taxpayer money. For the minor tiny
amount of money that it is, something, 15, $16 a meeting with five meetings left to go this year, I think it's
a very good use of taxpayer money. So that's why I have requested putting it on here. Can you please let
me know if you agree here, or if you have comments or disagree? Bobby?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. I just don't think it's a good use of taxpayer money. I think it's one thing to pass
the hat and say, hey, if we want to kick in funds to have dinner together, that's awesome. If not, no worries.
I just-- to use, because inevitably, what will happen is that the local budget will be small. And people will
say, oh, I need more local budget in order to do x, y or z
And the local budget piece, just depending on how it's used, can also have some challenges. So I don't
think we should be using taxpayer dollars. That said, I don't mind being in the minority on things like this.
So I just don't feel great about using that money to feed ourselves, when we can feed ourselves. And then
you get into, oh well, if I'm working, if I'm taking the meeting remote, do I get reimbursement for dinner?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
BOBBY DISHELL: If I'm out of town. So it's only-LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I see.
BOBBY DISHELL: There's just all those issues where to me it's a lot, just a lot simpler to say, let's just not
do it. But I get that some people want that to be there. I think also, frankly, personally, I can't take another
half an hour to sit and eat, especially that early in the work day.
And I know that for other people who work full time and feel like there's this obligation to be there as early
as 5:00 or 4:30 is hard. And so, I'm opposed to it. But I can understand why other people would be in favor
of it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks. Secretary Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, I don't see this as anything but an investment in Board relations. And it's a cross
cultural tradition to break bread together and talk together. And just this very meeting has an example why
I should be speaking more to Director Dishell if he can be there.

There's a lot to unpack in his feelings that we're limiting the Board's commitment to equity. I don't agree
with it. But I understand I need to hear his viewpoint. And the Board meeting itself is not the opportunity for
that. It's the more informal interactions before the meeting. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I mean, looking back several years, when I first got on the Board, the meals
were had in the boardroom itself. And so we found ourselves eating in front of our constituents. And then
they moved it upstairs, which I think was a much better way to handle it.
But keep in mind that we had meals for every committee meeting and Board meetings. So it was a weekly
occurrence. And we're talking about 12 times a year here.
I would also like to point out that CDOT's Commission, who meets on a monthly basis, are provided meals
on the day of their Commission meeting and the day of their committee meetings. So it's not uncommon for
elected bodies or even Boards and Commissions to have that breaking bread, as Director Sloan so aptly
put it.
So I'm in favor of it. Although, if the Board decides it's not a good use of taxpayer money, I would certainly
yield to that. It's not something I would fall on my sword for. But I appreciate the consideration, but just did
want to remind everybody that we did a lot more of this several years ago.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Mr Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Well, thank you, Chair Guissinger. It sounds like we have some consensus here and can
move forward for this month. I will say the process will look different. There are some procedural things and
some plans that we need to follow, just given the realities of our situation with this.
So we are working, just as an update, we are working to identify a caterer that can accommodate some
needs that we have for ordering dinner. And if we can get that all worked out in the next day or two, we
would be contacting Directors, hopefully by the end of this week, with requests to have their orders, if they
would like to order anything for dinner, into us by noon on Monday.
And so, this is a first go at reintroducing these things. And it will get better over time. So we just ask for
some patience. And we're doing all that we can from a Board Office perspective. Tai-Shrae just got back
from vacation. She was out for quite some time. And this is priority number one for her to get on.
But there are some further constraints that we have this go around that we didn't have in the past that we're
needing to work through. But we should be in a position to have meals for next week. And if that changes,
we'll let you know.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much Thank you, all. I apologize this meeting has gone a bit long.
Are there any other matters to discuss? Seeing none-PEGGY CATLIN: Just note that the meals is not the reason that I'm going to be missing my first Board
meeting in person this month.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We'll be happy to have you back. So seeing none, I'll entertain a motion to adjourn.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, the meeting is adjourned as of 1:20 PM. Thank you for joining us. Have a good
day.

