2020-08-11
FA&A Committee
SHELLEY COOK: Hi, everybody. I'm Shelley Cook. And we'll call to order the Finance,
Administration, and Audit Committee for August 11, 20220, and show that we convene now at
6:50 PM. Would just remind everybody that if you're-- everybody connected to this call-- if you
would still keep your phones muted and set your ringers on silent.
Would recap too that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being remotely held in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. And during
this time, the meetings will be primarily audio recorded. Those recordings, along with unofficial
minutes of the meetings, are posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. And would
suggest folks visit rtd-denver.com, scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of
Directors page.
So would move on to recommended actions. There was a recommended action on the agenda
tonight. But the staff is pulling that item. And they suggest, Directors, that if you have any
questions regarding it, please contact Brian Iacono, Senior Manager of Materials Management.
And the Board Office can help you connect with him. That's all I know on that item. But we won't
be acting on an item at all tonight. Instead, I'll move into updates.
So let me get to our agenda here. And the first update is the discussion regarding the fares for the
2021 to 2026 midterm financial plan. Heather McKillop will be presenting. And I wanted to note
that the 10 minutes indicated on the agenda are the timeframe that the staff has indicated it will
limit its presentation to. So please, with that, proceed, Miss McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. Thank you, Madam Chair. So I'm going to be starting on package
page 26. For your reference. That's the first page of the PowerPoint.
I just wanted to point out the reason we're having this discussion this evening. As you know, we've
had significant conversations around sales and use tax, but we haven't had a lot of conversation
around fares. We know that we suspended fares for a period of time, so fares are considerably
lower than what we anticipated. And we had incorporated that into your 2020 amended budget. So
the Board was aware of that piece of it.
For 2021 through 2026, we had started out assuming that we would see fares around 80% of what
we had originally anticipated for 2021 and about 90% in 2022, kind of the best information that
we have at this time based on resuming fares. As we continue to see fares coming in-- I'm going
to get July's any time now-- we'll then be able to update the Board and see if we're going to be on
track for those numbers for 2021 through 2026.
What I wanted to talk about this evening was more around the fare increases. We currently, in the
cash flow scenarios that we presented to you last week, with the reduction-- with the shortfalls that
we're going to anticipate, assumed a fare increase in 2022 and 2025. In order to be able to do a fare

increase in 2022, we would normally start the public outreach process in early 2021, which is right
around the corner.
So when we had our conversation back in April with fares, and we had our consultants from 49
talk a lot about inelasticity, what different fare structures could look like, we really thought that
the COVID, we were really new into it, didn't think it would last that long, thought we might be
back to a normal, whatever that is, a lot sooner. That doesn't look like it's going to happen.
So I wanted to talk a little bit about where are we now, with what we know now, and what options
the Board may want to consider. And this is really important that we get feedback tonight from the
Board because we need to incorporate it in what number we're solving for when we present the
information to you, now I believe it's on September 21, our workshop that moved from the 25th to
the 1st of September.
So in order for Bruce and I to be able to present options and what it might look like, we need to
know what number we're solving for for fares. Because the current policy through the fiscal policy
process is that we would have an increase in '22 and '25. And if the Board's OK with that, then
we'll go ahead and proceed with that. But I did come up with a couple of other options.
So one, based on current COVID-19 impacts. As we know, fares were suspended between April 8
and June 30. We're currently estimated to have about a 43% reduction in fare revenue for 2020.
Again, those have already be included in the 2020 amended budget that you adopted previously
last month. For the '21 through '26, fares are estimated, as I mentioned, 80% of forecast for 2021
and 90% in 2022. And then after that, it's assumed to be what our original forecasts were. And
those fare increases are included in the current model. And then those shortfalls that we showed
you last week in our workshop were based on also having fare increases in 2022 and 2025.
But based on everything going on, I wanted to present some options to the Board. And some are a
little more manageable from a financial standpoint than others. But wanted to offer these up for
discussion this evening.
The first is, would have the most minimal impact and would allow the Board an opportunity to see
what materializes in 2021 and 2022. This option would shift the fare increase from the current
2022 and 2025 back a year. So it'd be 2023 and 2026. So it keeps the fare increase within the midyear financial plans, midterm financial plan, and would be a change in revenues of $32.5 million.
And that's spread between 2022 and 2026.
The next option, potential option, would be eliminate fare increases altogether in the midterm
financial plan. That would result in a shortfall, additional shortfall of $117 million between 2022
and 2026.
And the last option that I was asked to add was actually reducing fares. And that reduction could
change, but the amount that was used in this scenario was 10%, basically taking a $3 local fare to
$2.70. This option would decrease fares by 10% starting in 2021 with no fare increases in the
midterm plan. That would be a cost of about $210 million, in addition to the shortfalls we're solving
for.

So we've included the chart so you can see it visually also. You can see that in the option with
deferring the fare increase and no fare increase in the midterm has no impact on 2021 because we
weren't planning on having a fare increase there, does start impacting in 2022, and then you can
see the changes there.
Reducing the fare has an impact in every single year, including 2021. And just to give you an order
of magnitude and where my concern is with that one is that that would add to the decrease-- hold
on a second, sorry, I'm turning pages-- so that would basically take our shortfalls in 2021 from
$165 million to $178 million, in 2022 from $168 million to $197 million, in 2023 from $145
million to $178 million, in 2024 $142 million to $175 million. In 2025, it would take it from $186
million estimated shortfall to 237, so $237 million. And then in 2026, it would double it.
So we would have-- without that, we would have a shortfall of $41 million, and that would take it
up to $92 million. So there is a substantial impact if we reduce fares. But I know there were enough
people that asked me to put that on as a potential option.
So I wanted to now open it up, Chair, to you and the other Board members to provide feedback so
that Bruce and I will know what direction to go to be able to know what number to solve for. And
then ultimately, that will be included in the workshop that we do on September 1 for additional
comment.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. There isn't a lot in the packet. I mean, not a lot of the detail,
just this presentation in PowerPoint form. So I hope folks had a chance to get with staff ahead of
time. But please feel free to ask a question now.
And I'll go around. If you already know your preference for scenario, please indicate that as well.
So starting at the top of the alphabet, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I think my position would be that we should just skip a year. I
mean, that's what a lot of other organizations are doing because of the virus. And then a year later,
you start the whole process back up and you know where you're at as a starting point. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. So basically, her first proposal, correct, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. I agree in principle with some of what Director Broom said. But that
presumes, I believe, just merely pushing the fare increase back. So it presumes a fare increase. I'm
not a fan of that. But I'm not a fan of lowering it, today, in a general sense, probably. So my
preference would be to leave the fares where they are now until we really see how things are going,
because we don't know who's going to come back to our buses and trains. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So you're suggesting not plugging in for the subsequent years, just
resuming, or saving that question for later?

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Leaving the fares where they are right now. Yep, leaving the fares alone.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So it looks like-- OK, got it. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, given the fact that we adjust the midterm financial plan on an annual
basis, I would be in favor of deferring the fare increases by one year but then re-evaluating on a
year by year basis. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. So a variation on number one.
NATALIE MENTEN: Madam Chair, this-- Madam Chair, this is Menten. I have a question about
point of order.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Go right ahead. Sure.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry, did we poll recommended action for Masabi?
SHELLEY COOK: No. Yes, we did. What I indicated was the staff had polled that. And if you
had questions, because I don't have a lot to go on here, please get with Brian Iacono.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I missed that. OK. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: You bet. OK. So Director Folska, back on the question of the fares and which
of the three scenarios or a variation would you prefer?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Cook. I think it's appropriate to leave it as is, and let's just
hang on to our bootstraps and hope that sales tax revenue will increase and then take it year by
year. And just like Director Buzek said, we don't know who's going to be coming back. But
hopefully people will be able to start doing more purchasing of things and back to work and sales
tax revenue and maybe some grants will come in and so forth. So leave it as it is.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Option number two, more or less, correct? Which is eliminate fare
increases in the midterm financial plan, understanding that we adopt a new midterm financial plan
every year. Is that correct, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, I think so.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Kind of put a 2 question there. And Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I'm trying to think this through. I'm certainly not a fan of raising
fares right now. What does that look like in the midterm financial plan? Are we showing a deficit
each of those years, '22 to '26? Or do we have to take that money from somewhere else?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, please.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Can you repeat the question, Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Thank you. It says if we eliminate fare increases in the midterm
financial plan, it results in lower overall revenues in 2022 to 2026 of $117 million. So do those
years just show that as a deficit or do we have to find that money somewhere else?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, I have to solve for that $117 million.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So it's sort of like what's the placeholder we want, because I consider this
sort of a placeholder when it's that far out. We're making assumptions that I think after next year,
we're back at-- next year we're back to 80% of our previous ridership and the following year 90%.
You know, I would want to revisit this every year. But I'm not sure I want to go back and hit our
reserves or the FISA even harder, or whatever else it is we have to do.
So I don't like it but I guess I would say I would go with the first option to postpone the fare
increases, but try hard to see about avoiding that. Thanks.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, if I can just clarify. I think Director Catlin said this,
that, yeah, we revisit the midterm financial plan. But for planning purposes we have to make
assumptions. So that's what we're trying to get to today is what assumptions should we use right
now. Again, the Board can change that every year when they adopt a new plan or even a new
budget, right?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree with that. I don't know, I guess now that I'm thinking about it, I'm
sort of hesitant to give a nod to fare increases until we see what else we're bringing forward from
the task force and everything else. But I'll leave it at that. I guess I'll say that we'll go with the
2023, 2026 fare increase.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. With the proviso that Director Catlin had, correct, about reevaluating? Just want to make sure if we're giving direction, we're kind of clear. OK. Thank you.
Director Lewis?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Absolutely.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I would not be in support of a far increase of any sort. We are still trying to
figure out the ramifications of COVID and folks being impacted by the loss of job, loss
employment, loss of income, and for some, unfortunately, a loss of housing. We also don't know
the level of service that we're realistically going to be able to offer. With folks teleworking and
seeing our declines in ridership, we have so many question marks. And I would really hate to see
us increase our fares, not only in the next year but in the next three to four years, until we truly
understand the impacts of COVID and those impacts on our riders.
And so that would be my-- I am not, obviously, [INAUDIBLE], but that would be my suggestion
is that we don't make any changes to our fare, certainly not increase them. And I would encourage
us to look at that for the next one to three years as we deal with the impacts to the folks who live
within our cities. Thank you

SHELLEY COOK: OK. So what I heard you say is a scenario to eliminate the increases in the
midterm financial plan, correct?
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's correct. And not just the midterm financial plan, I'd say moving
forward for the next few years, just to clarify.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. [CLEARS THROAT] Excuse me.
There are no good answers here. Seeing a fare increase where we had decreased service is horrible
to me. It just doesn't-- it's not a good thing for the agency. On the other hand, we don't want to not
have money that we need to give good services.
I am interested in deferring the fare increase by at least one year, but-- and I'm not sure how to
phrase this-- if we find after a year that we're still in economic turmoil and we're still in a huge
recession, AKA depression and/or great turmoil, I would say defer it for another year. Under those
circumstances, I'm not sure how to phrase what option I'm in. It could be defer fare increase by a
year, but then at that year, once again do this exercise and maybe do the same thing. Or just say
that we're not going to increase for several years. I don't know what would be better for the budget,
in terms of phrasing.
SHELLEY COOK: I think we're discussing this right now. So just to-- on your first idea, that
sounds very similar to what Director Catlin said, defer one year and then re-evaluate, but allow the
CFO to go ahead and plug in the numbers in order to make the midterm financial plan balanced in
the meantime. Is that sort of in keeping-JUDY LUBOW: Yes, it is in keeping. I guess what I'm worried about about that, though, is if we
have to defer it again because the turmoil has continued, is it destructive to have said we were
going to increase it and then say that we're not in terms of our planning process? I don't know.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Heather McKillop, do you want to comment?
JUDY LUBOW: But anyway-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. Madam Chair, I can respond to that. I think as we talk about, we
look at this every single year. And the advice that I would have given you back in April, which
was don't defer it at all, has changed in just the last three months to, maybe it makes sense to
postpone it at least a year and then re-evaluate.
So I would say that we have that flexibility. As has been stated here multiple times, we can
reevaluate this on an annual basis, and we do. And I think so much is in flux that we will have no
option but to do that, and even more, probably more frequently than annually will probably be, I
would guess, that in the amended budget for 2021 we'll be having a lot of conversation like we
just had for this last amended budget. And then we'll have opportunities to make those changes as
we go along, based on what we're finding.

SHELLEY COOK: You're not suggesting, are you, that we might increase fares after all in 2021?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. I'm saying we'll be able to re-evaluate the next year, 2022-23, and
see if you want to move forward or not. Because again, in 2020, to do a fare increase in 2023, you
would need to start that process in 2022. So that's going to happen, that discussion is going to
happen again about this time next year about 2023. So you have plenty of opportunity to have that
conversation.
SHELLEY COOK: Got it. Thank you. OK, moving on. I'll allow folks who were still pondering a
chance to weigh in again. But just to move on, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, there's three options here. So I would, of those three, have to say to
postpone the fare increases for one year.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So basically scenario one, or would you be OK with the caveat that
Director Catlin had and that was reaffirmed by CFO McKillop, that we will need to re-evaluate,
given how much in flux the budget is, but not to introduce a fare increase earlier but rather that it
might be possible to push it off farther.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would say yes. We are in such a difficult situation that I hate to walk us
into saying no we're not going to increase the fares. We need more information. But Heather needs
something to start with, right? So, Heather and Bruce.
SHELLEY COOK: All righty.
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, this is Director Whitmore.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure, Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: If you would indulge me, and I apologize to Director Mihalik. I have to
jump to another meeting briefly in Brighton. I just wanted to give my input that I support the so
aptly stated by you, the Catlin proviso.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: All right. We'll record that. Thank you very much.
TROY WHITMORE: I will return to the meeting as soon as I can. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you much. And good luck in your meeting with the Brighton
Council. Very important stuff. So thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah. I don't mind at all. The option one, or scenario one, is where I'm at.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I would, in fact, support postponing for
one year. Now note, please, that the first scenario, as shown on package page 29, does not impose
the mandate or otherwise force a fare increase in 2022, but rather it would say that it is available
for consideration in 2021 as to 2022. Now you may call that a blending of scenario one and
scenario two, if you will.
My own personal view is that we probably would be in a position to consider a fare increase in
2022 and that it could be 10%. So for budgetary planning purposes, and that's the only discussion
we're having, for budgetary planning purposes, I support scenario one. But that is not an
irretrievable commitment by this Board to impose that fare increase.
This is probably a long winded, but mere more technical restatement of what First Vice Chair
Catlin said. And I think that that gives something for our Chief Financial Officer to work with in
a productive manner. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, just one point of clarification. And I keep conflating these two as well.
The planning starts in 2022 and the increase, under scenario one, would then take effect in 2023.
So Director Tisdale, just noting that change, you're good. And then in many ways similar to what
Director Catlin had indicated too, we're re-evaluating this as we get into the coming year and so
forth.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. And thank you for that technical clarification because that is accurate.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: You bet. Thank you. OK, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I was-- what appealed to me the most is option three, reducing the
fares by 10%, for a couple of reasons. One is it that when we hear from Leeds forecasts, we often
have a pretty good discussion ongoing with either the, often the lowest, or the mid-range economic
forecast, as far as revenue projections go. So I'm thinking if we do that with that, we should
probably do it with this.
One of the other reasons is because I often tout how our fares are not the highest in the country, if
you look by the ability to travel for a certain number of miles on one fare. We don't provide that
kind of service anymore. A lot of our connections are lost. A lot of the speed and the frequency is
lost. So I'm not sure we provide that $3 fare for local service, and also for regional at this point.
So I'm wondering if-- so what I'm thinking is I'm more in favor of pushing number three, because
it is the most conservative forecast, and it would give staff a chance to see if there's any recovery
in the economics and in the efficiency of a system that they could develop when they're looking at
scheduling.
But for practical reasons, option two, eliminate it for the midterm financial plan.

SHELLEY COOK: Got it. OK. Thank you. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think I really, looking at all of these
different scenarios, we clearly are in a fluid situation right now. I would really support First Vice
Chair Catlin's position in terms of giving the fact that we adjust our midterm and take a look at
deferring for one year and then reevaluating. Thank you, ma'am.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, sure.
We had a couple of people who had kind of indicated they were still-KATE WILLIAMS: Chair? Chair, this is Director Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: Did I skip you? I apologize. Forgive me. Go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, you did. It's probably just as well. Heather will probably be happy. I
am distinctly in favor of number three, for a number of reasons that Director Walker said, on top
of which I think that, as our governor recently stated, that we might have our assets sold or we
might declare bankruptcy or a variety of other onerous situations that he suggested that we might
be in, I think that it would be in our best interest as an agency to look at a fare reduction and to try
and work around that. Thank you very much.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you very much. And again, my apologies.
I was starting to say I wanted to return to a couple of the directors who'd expressed the thought,
and one sent me a text indicating she had a further thought. Go ahead, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I am very torn on this. But right now just seems like not the time to talk
about raising fares. I think Director Walker was kind of convincing that it would be really nice to
lower them by 10% just for this year and then potentially raise them back up after the end of the
year to where they are now. And I guess if we were doing something like that, I would be willing
to consider another rise at some point later. But I think, as tough as it is, I think I'm going to go
with option two and just eliminate the fare increases at this point.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: One. Option one for me.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So the question cropped up for me, with Director Guissinger's thought
about just reducing fares for the current year, would we, through the CARES Act reimbursement,
be able to recoup that money, or what would be our status there?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather, Madam Chair. You know, I didn't run that number.
Through the CARES Act, that money is already spoken for. So that would not be an option.

However, we are monitoring sales and use tax. And so we're going to have to see what we get in
that could be an option of using that to offset that fare. I just didn't run the numbers to know what
kind of a shortfall that would be in 2020 and how much we would have to make up. So I am not
prepared to answer that question, but I could look at that information tomorrow and get it to you.
SHELLEY COOK: And so the idea of, to the extent it becomes possible of looking at potentially
reducing the fares, for the current year, not for the years in the midterm financial plan, that remains
an option is what I'm hearing from you. Is that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I just don't have an answer to that. So I'd be glad to research that and get
back to you guys to let you know what that would look like so you can make that decision.
SHELLEY COOK: So first of all, does anybody have any-- I mean, the decision or the nod of a
head that we're giving her tonight aside, which pertains to the outlying years, not the current year,
do you object to her doing that?
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead. Who was that?
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead. Yes, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: [AUDIO OUT] big problem to the fare for a few months and then turn around and
raise it. You're going to catch all of the flak for raising fares for putting it back to just where it was
after three or four months. I don't think it's [AUDIO OUT] to change-- you know, all the printed
matters and to change all of the machine settings and everything else, it's just not worth the hassle.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. It was immediately appealing to me because I'd seen other transit agencies
who were offering a sort of come back to transit special. But I get your point.
So OK, let's return to the first-JEFF WALKER: This is Walker.
KATE WILLIAMS: This is Williams, too.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: OK, thanks. Yeah, I agree with Director Broom, so I'll just the cycle that, the
Big 10, Pac-12 canceled the football seasons. And so there are going to be less riders on Saturdays.
And I just don't know if there'll be enough people who need to go anywhere this year. I know I'm
not going back to my office downtown until the beginning of next year, at the earliest. But I think
that beginning of next year, maybe, if that vaccine does materialize, then a reduction might be
warranted and beneficial to the people who do need to travel.

So that's it. Thank you. So I'm not in favor of reducing fares just for this year, for the remainder of
this year.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I know I'm the voice here crying in the wilderness. But we need to give people
a break now. Everybody needs a break right now. And I don't know, I'd like to see from Heather
exactly how much money we will lose by reducing our fare by 10%. And I would suggest that we
would gather more in public support than we could pay for, with any amount of money, and that
there's no guarantee that we would raise it. We are working with a number of factors here, and I
think that we should lower it 10% now in the interest of all of the discussion that we had earlier at
the previous committee meeting. And I am fervently in support of that. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Now since we started at that end of the alphabet with you and Director
Walker, let me continue. I assume Director Whitmore is still gone. So we'll [AUDIO OUT].
So what we're considering here is this little sort of amendment on the current year, whether or not
we want to get additional information from Heather and consider or pursue the idea, if it becomes
possible, to offer a current year temporary reduction.
So I've heard from Director Williams and Director Walker. Director Tisdale, your thoughts?
JUDY LUBOW: Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Go ahead, Director Lubow.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you mind if we just summarize the '21 through '26 and then go back
to the current year? Just [INTERPOSING VOICES].
SHELLEY COOK: I don't know. In some ways, I'm trying to sort of resolve this and then go back
to the main question idea. OK? So Director Tidsale.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Who is this?
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: Sorry. This is Monika Treipl-Harnke, Senior Manager of Revenue.
I would-- is it OK if I give a comment on logistics?
SHELLEY COOK: Sure.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: I just want to caution with, or just letting you know that we have
several months runway to make any changes in fares. So you know, it's just the reality that there's
a lot of logistics involved, including communications. And I know some of the agencies have
solved that by just offering a reduced fare on maybe one of the fare payment options but not all.

So I just want to let people know there is some work, some runway, definitely some system
changes involved, and it is not an immediate process, even once there is an actual decision. Thank
you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. That's really helpful. Thank you for that. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Sorry, Madam Chair. It was a second to get me off of mute.
I spoke to the main question of the overall approach, and I will confess some confusion relative to
the current ask. And that is, are we talking about do we wish to consider something in terms of
reduction at the present time? I didn't see that really on the agenda, so I'm not really necessarily in
tune with addressing that.
I am looking at the request of the Chief Financial Officer for instructions on how to do planning,
budgetary planning with the midterm financial plan. And I remain of the opinion that we keep the
status quo in hand and defer any fare increase by one year so as to implement that in 2023, and
with the option for us, obviously, to reconsider in 2022 whether we wish to take that step.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Yeah. And I am deviating. And forgive me for that. It's a less formal
session. And the idea was somewhat introduced and had some appeal. So I apologize for that. If
there are other people who, like Director Williams, have a pretty strong feeling for that, would you
please indicate now? And I won't go back through and continue to muddy the water on that.
Anybody who wants to get information in some subsequent meeting or in a report about the
possibility of a fare reduction, fare special in a certain category, something like that, if it becomes
possible for the current year.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams, yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Got you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm happy to-LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you state the question again?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. So we have a question before us that I'm really deviating from. And that
is, to get a head nod on what our policy should be regarding fare increases for the 2021 through
2025-- excuse me, '26 timeframe. And then the idea got sort of injected into the discussion, after
Director Guissinger's suggestion about the fare increase, and it introduced the idea of a current
year.
And so I'm kind of going back through in the inner circle, kind of using the format we have of an
amendment, to poll people about that idea. There have been some concerns raised about it. One is
Director Broom's. It may be confusing. Are we going to immediately then increase? Is there a way
to do it that doesn't cause that problem?

The second thing is the timeframe involved in rolling out and whether you'd want to do it in a
restricted fashion. Just, the idea had enough appeal, and forgive me for, as Chair, sort of putting
my weight, my thumb on that scale to see if there was interest in getting more information.
So does anybody else want to go down that path, or shall we just continue on to, on the question
that we originally had to begin with?
JUDY LUBOW: This is Judy Lubow.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure, Judy.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. It would seem to me kind of combining the idea of getting the
goodwill of a quick reduction, which apparently wouldn't be very quick, but nonetheless could be
in a couple of months maybe, and with Director Broom's concern about whiplash about changing
it quickly and in a few months, is maybe thinking of doing that as soon as possible and then
continuing it for a year.
And to me, that sounds interesting. What has been stopping me is the idea of any reduction in fares
or any loss in fares means that we're losing some service probably also. And people in our surveys
seem to say, you know, give me the service, I'd even pay more, I want the service. So that concerns
me.
But why not find out what the cost would be for a good, not so much publicity, but a goodwill
process? And I would suggest that it be done for the year, but also for include next year. Because
it shouldn't-- I don't think there should be whiplash about this.
Anyway, that's my two cents. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis, did I hear you back there, in the background? Did
you have a-SHONTEL LEWIS: I did.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, go ahead, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I was interested in the information that was going to be sent to Director
Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Any others?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I'd be interested.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.

SHELLEY COOK: Buzek. OK. Anybody else? I would, personally.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, this is Director Catlin. I think to Director Tisdale's point, we're
trying to give guidance to our Chief Financial Officer for planning purposes. And I think that the
exercise in looking at a fare reduction to see how much of an additional deficit would result might
be interesting, but I still think that we do need to give clear guidance to Ms. McKillop on the fiveyear planning horizon.
And I thought I heard, for those purposes, a majority of Board members who were in favor of
option one with a re-evaluation after a year. Am I correct?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. And I was going to return to that and then sort of try to summarize in
that vein. And again, forgive me for deviating from process, but was treating this as sort of an
amendment that we would deal with and then return to the main question.
So you are correct. And I was, as soon as we put this one to bed, whichever direction it goes, I was
going to suggest that we then return to the question about the midterm financial pain range and the
options that have been presented. And it did look to me like what you were suggesting, first of all,
defer a year, but with the express point made, as you and Director Tisdale and others had, that
we're in flux here still and we're going to be re-evaluating the assumption being plugged in of a
fare increase in 2023 and 2026. OK?
So that's kind of where I was going. But if you would indulge me for one minute more, I'll just
wrap up the other idea of the thought and some information coming to us about whether in the
current year, given changes in the sales tax receipts based on what we'd assumed, or in comparison
to what we'd assumed, and/or CARES Act reimbursement possibilities, what the shortfall might
be and is there some thought of, in a way that's practical, doesn't cause whiplash, that creates some
added affordability. OK?
So I counted six, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. I make seven. So we're not quite there.
Maybe Director Whitmore, when he returns, would have some thought. But that's what I'll leave
it at for that interior question, if that's OK, CFO McKillop.
And then with everybody's indulgence, I'll return to that main question now. We're talking about
the midterm financial plan, which is not the current year. It's 2021 through 2026. And what I heard
a majority, it looks like, eight or nine, for sure, had favored was Director Catlin's variation on
scenario one.
Now some of the people who said one, are you OK with this idea that we'll be revisiting, which is
sort of part of our process anyway? I see Director Menten, Director Mihalik. Are you fine with the
caveat that we are re-evaluating as we get into the year, the delay year? Are you good with that,
her caveat on that?
Director Menten.

NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. I was OK with that. But then where we veered off, where we've got
folks saying that they would like to reduce, I think what I heard is reduce fares here like coming
up pretty soon, even though this takes weeks to do and manpower, which, by the way, I'd rather
see those people putting up the-- I keep wanting to call it Coroplast, but it's a different plastic-from the driver doors than reprogramming the TDM's probably different crews.
But why didn't all of those folks then just say they wanted number three, which is not the direction
that I would go, but it seemed like we really veered off track here with an immediate kind of a
thing that, as Monica stated, takes weeks to do. More hassle for the drivers and not a quick thing.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I got that. And I think the sense was to get more information and
recognizing that it may not be practical. But there was some thought of maybe only offering for
some classifications. It sounded like there was a little bit of a thought there for potentially reducing
or making more affordable for some people.
But anyway, I don't want to argue about that. I pretty much think that the course of action at this
point is one with the Catlin variation. Is that good for you on the main question of the 2021 through
2026 timeframe for fare increases?
NATALIE MENTEN: In summary, what we have given is a direction for planning to Heather, but
we have left the door open to make decisions that can change our direction. But she needs
something for planning, so that answer is yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Mihalik, you too?
KEN MIHALIK: I'm also a yes. And because that door is always open to change budgets, and the
fare thing doesn't have to be every three years. We've talked about that before. And so lots of doors
and they're always open.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
KEN MIHALIK: Fine.
SHELLEY COOK: So with that, I think that we're good on that. Is that clear for you, CFO
McKillop?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: Chair? This is Menten.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure, go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't know that anybody else wants to comment. But I'm starting to feel
really bad for Stefan that we've got all of these budget cuts and it feels like we're going to try to

handle this job with one of those little shovels you use when you're digging in your little bed. And
now we're digging into a problem that's going to take a much bigger shovel. I don't know how to
best to share that. But when we've now added on don't increase fares, that's what I feel like we're
at. We've just added to our troubles, I think.
But you know, people aren't riding because of $0.10 difference. They're not riding for other
reasons. So just wanted that on the record. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Just to be clear, we're going with the staff recommendation on this one,
on item one, with the understanding that, as has been stressed, we always re-evaluate each year.
But this is just putting a point on that, as Director Tisdale had said. OK?
Anyway, OK, so my apologies for once again taking the opportunity to veer off into the current
year affair and that possibility. I didn't want to add too much confusion and it appears that I did.
So Director Whitmore, I'll get with you later about something that came up. He's just joined the
call again. Thank you. Welcome.
OK, we also have an update with Doug Macleod for the current, the June financials. Doug, are you
there? Can I turn this over to you?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, I'm here.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Please proceed. And by the way, we got this update from John McKay
this afternoon. So you could go back to your mail here quickly and pull that up as well.
But go ahead, please, Doug.
DOUG MACLEOD: Great. Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Doug Macleod, Controller.
Yes. As stated, the revised financial statements went out this afternoon. They were revised because
we received the sales and use tax numbers for June yesterday. So you'll note that those numbers
have been updated in the new file.
So just to give a quick review of these June financials. One thing I'd like to mention is that you'll
now see that all the comparisons, instead of being to the adopted budget, as was shown in previous
months, we now have the amended budget in the June financials. So we're comparing to amended
budget.
As far as sales and use tax go, we were actually pleasantly surprised with the results we received
yesterday for June. So we actually received $56 million versus-- you'll see the budget, so it shows
$56 million because we revised the forecast going forward for the remainder of the year. But what
we had seen in previous months was on the order, since March through May, we saw on the order
of anywhere from $43 million to $46 million per month. Then all of sudden June comes along and
we see $56 million for that month.

A couple of things to note about that number is that we had discussed previously with the Board
and Leeds that it was uncertain as to what impact the stimulus might have. So that could be driving
some of that. We're still cautiously optimistic about what that number will turn out to be, but it
was higher than what we expected.
I would point out in those sales and use tax numbers that the makeup changed a little bit. So
previously by industry, in our top 25 what we had seen, prior to the COVID crisis, was that it was
typically, number one was new car dealers or restaurants. Those kind of flip back and forth between
places one and two.
But for the month of June, electronic shopping, which is shopping by the internet, was our number
one producer, followed by new car dealers. New car dealers in previous months had dropped down
to fourth or fifth place. But we saw a big increase in new car dealers and also with internet sales.
In fact, internet sales increased by 192% over June of 2019, so basically a big shift in shopping
patterns there.
Moving on to our ridership numbers. So our ridership, you'll see it's compared to the amended
budget. So it shows it being under the amended budget slightly. In previous months or compared
to last year, we're still down 60% to 70%. So we haven't really seen a whole lot of an increase or
a change since the last few months. So we're still down 60% to 70% based on these ridership
figures.
Moving on to fare revenue. So our fare revenue for the month, we actually produced $651,000 of
fare revenue, even though we weren't collecting fares in the month of June. You'll recall that we
stopped collecting fares the beginning of April all the way through the end of June. However, we
made fares available for purchase about the mid June timeframe, because a lot of folks like to buy
their monthly passes in advance. So we did see some fare revenue come through for the month.
And that is just a quick update of the June numbers. And I don't have anything else but would be
happy to take any questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Going around, does anybody-- I'll just offer it up. Does anybody have any
questions for Doug Macleod on the financials he presented?
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Is there any indication that construction is up, use tax on building materials?
DOUG MACLEOD: Let me see. Sorry, just a moment, Director Broom. I'm going to call up the
breakdown of sales and use taxes. I believe it was fairly steady. I wouldn't have the breakdown by
industry. But typically most of our use taxes are from equipment and those types of related
construction activities.

No, it looks to be about where it is about. It typically floats around 8% to 10% of our total sales
and use taxes. And it's still in that same range for the month of June.
BOB BROOM: But isn't use tax also the auto sales?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug Macleod. I'm going to ask Heather to respond to that. She's a
little more familiar with the Department of Revenue sales tax collections.
Heather, are you there?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, I'm sorry. My phone went dead so I had to plug it in. I apologize.
At the most inopportune time.
The question about building materials?
BOB BROOM: Building material, in general about use taxes. Isn't building materials and auto
sales most of what you get? And also equipment sales?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. So building materials and building supply stores were up
significantly in the April, May timeframe. So we did see a big increase. It made it up into the top
25, when typically they aren't even in the top 25. So we did see it rise up to the top 25.
But I believe for June, and I just quickly glanced at it, I didn't see it in the top 25. So it's dropped
back down again. But we did see, towards the end of March and specifically in April, May, that it
made it up into the top 25. But it did not break the top three or four industries.
The other thing we're seeing are resurgences in restaurants. So it had dropped quite a bit. And we're
seeing full service restaurants start to rise again. And then more fast food-type restaurants, casual
dining, that has been pretty strong actually through the whole thing.
But as Doug mentioned, where we've seen the big increases, and we anticipated them, was in the
online shopping.
BOB BROOM: And the internet sales, does that include if you call and order a meal from a
restaurant and it's delivered to your house?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, that would be recorded under restaurant sales. Internet sales would
be more from when you purchase not services but actual goods.
BOB BROOM: OK, thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Anybody else?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I apologize for that.
SHELLEY COOK: Sorry?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: I said I apologize for losing you.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, no worries. We all have the mute problem or the phone goes dead problem.
Anybody else with a question of Doug or CFO Heather McKillop?
OK. So we have, under Information, three items. Now our normal process with this is just to
highlight those in the packet. We know that folks can get with staff with questions and then they
can also request that it be taken off in a presentation and/or questions allowed.
But I haven't had that. I did have, from Director Guissinger, an indication that she'd like to
comment on the county allocation report. So Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I had a meeting last week with Heather McKillop and Susan
Cohen and they answered a lot of my questions. I guess I would still point out that of all of the
FasTracks expenditures, 48% are still unallocated, which makes-- and I get it, you know, I
understand what their issues are. And Heather said this is why they don't think this is a good way
to do it.
But I guess my comment is just the same as Heather's. This is not a good way to do it. It's not really
giving us a clear picture. So I hope we can keep looking at other options for presenting this
material. Thanks. That's all.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Heather McKillop, any reply? Or does anybody else want to offer or ask
a question?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, I don't have any comments. This is Heather.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Anybody else? Or on the quarterly investment report or live
program update, if you have one you want to poll? Otherwise, we'll assume we're good.
All right. Next is Other Matters. Does anybody have anything to bring up under Other Matters?
OK.
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair-SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Go ahead, Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah. This is Director Whitmore. I just want to explain to the Board my
brief absence.
As you all know, most governmental entities seem to meet on Tuesday night. And I needed to
make an appearance at the Brighton Chamber-- or, excuse me, the Brighton Council Chambers via
Zoom. And multitasking will work for old guys like me from time to time-- just to talk a little bit
about the N Line bus route changes. And so that's kind of what we were doing. I just kind of teed
it up for two of our planning staff to give a report on that change that's coming very soon.

Thank you for your indulgence.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, thank you. It's Director Williams. Since Director Whitmore brought that
up, I'd like to point out in relationship to our discussion about fare reductions that we already have
a fare reduction on the N Line that will be taking effect in September for six months.
SHELLEY COOK: That's a good thing. Thank you. Good point.
OK. So it's 7:50. Let's go ahead into the Executive Session.
We've got this listed. Executive Session pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(b) C.R.S. to receive legal advice.
I'm reading the citation that we need if we're going to go in. And then I'll ask for a motion. And
24-6-402(4)(3) C.R.S., Board determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to
negotiations, developing strategy for negotiations, and instructing negotiators for discussion of
litigation update and considerations in Denver Transit Partners LLC versus RTD, and financing
matters.
Do I have a motion to go into executive session on that basis?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede is the movant. And who is the seconder, please?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Director Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion on the motion?
All right. Let's go around on the votes. And please, I'll go from the bottom of the alphabet. Director
Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: No discussion on this motion to go-- we're discussing to move into executive
session. I'm in favor.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Yeah, we're voting now, please. So Director Williams, yes. Director
Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Walker?

JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis? Director Lewis? I'll return to her. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director-- or Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a yes. And I would note that immediately upon the end of the
executive session, we will not be coming back in to do any work. We will adjourn the meeting
immediately. So there is no reason to hang around. We won't be doing any, taking any action once
we adjourn the executive session. OK?

So with that, in terms of how we handle this, Roger, how do we restrict the meeting to the folks
who are in the executive session or who are supposed to be in the executive session? Or Melanie,
how do we do this here?
NIKKI CAREY: This is Nikki. I'm going to put a music hold on. And that will put all of the
participants into music hold. So whenever you're ready to go in, unless you want to break, I will
just do that when you tell me to.
SHELLEY COOK: Are you all good with just plowing through? We've been at it an hour now
since our last break. Let's give that a whirl, OK? So we'll just go right into the executive-NIKKI CAREY: OK, I'm going on hold for all participants that are there.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great.
[BEEP]

