Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on February 15, 2011
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

Date:

February 15, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
February 15, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D

Board
Members Present:

Directors
Absent:
Staff Present:

Committee Chair Tobiassen, Directors; Bagley, Brohl, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Riley, and
Tayer; Chair Kemp

Director Anderson
Bruce Abel, Tom Barlow, Jeff Becker, Janne Bennick, Michelle Boyd, Larry
Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Phuoc Dang, Mantell
Dyles, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, David Genova, Mike Gil, Lee
Greene, Bill Holmes, Terry Howerter, Scott Johnson, Tom Hughes, Austin
Jenkins, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod,
Anthony Menendez, Ken Parker, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff,
Scott Reed, Sue Sandoval, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Greg Smith,
John Stark, Daniel Sullivan, Rob Timmerman, Christina Tubb, Bill Van Meter,
Judy Vialpando, Percy Washington, Phil Washington.

C. Benavidez – Celina, Inc., Celina Berg, Eric Biga – Veolia, Kelly Boyd,
Douglas Connor – RTD Retired, Chris Cruz – Celina, Inc., C. Garcia – Celina,
Inc., Harry Katz – University of Denver, Ben Kelly – TKG, Mark Knudson University of Denver, Rick Mitchell – Transportation Solutions, Emily
Sanschagril – University of Denver, Julie Stetson – University of Denver,
Roger Sherman-CRL
*******************************************************************
Call to Order:
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
Others Present:

Committee Chair Tobiassen introduced the online survey monkey tool that he will be using
as a way of getting the Board Members’ questions in advance to expedite the meeting
along.
1. Recommended Action

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on February 15, 2011
Page 2 of 4



Approval of May Service Changes
Bruce Abel explained that they had just received information today that the planned
Cold Springs pnr/Federal Center Station Relocation will be ready for the May service
changes as part of accelerated work in the West Corridor. He passed out a handout
indicating the change which increased the annualized cost estimate from $742,235
to the new estimate of $1,119,000.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the May 15, 2011 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annualized cost of approximately
$1,119,000, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the amended motion for
approval to advance this action item including
the change to the Cold Springs pnr/Federal
Center Station Relocation, before the full Board
on February 22 for approval.

Second:

Director McMullen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Phil Washington indicated this accelerated
schedule for the Federal Center is indicative of
the quality of work of the West Corridor team.
Director Brohl made several comments: (1) she
inquired about the poor attendance (6 people) at
the public hearings and stated this is not
working. We need to find a way to get more
public participation. She challenged staff on
getting more creative in this process. Bruce
Abel responded staff shares in this concern.
They also use other avenues such as transflux
and comments on the web. Unfortunately, most
of the comments are received after the fact
when the changes have been made.
Phil Washington interjected that the
communications group is looking at this as well.
Scott Reed is convening a small group to look at
ways we can reach people better. He will be
talking to Director Deadwyler about some of her
ideas.
(2) Director Brohl inquired about the changing of
the mall shuttle. Jesse Carter responded it was
changed but with the change of the signal lights,

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on February 15, 2011
Page 3 of 4

the mall shuttles will be put back to a 90 second
cycle.
Director Bagley asked about the trains and Jesse
indicated that we could not clear the tracks at
19th. This is the reason for the need for the 90
second signal. Director Bagley also inquired
about the bus box and Bruce Abel indicated we
are on target for its opening in 2014.
Director Daly commented on the $507K for
extending the shuttles out to the new LRT.
Bruce Abel indicated some of the components of
this change. Director Tayer inquired if the
funding for this extension was through the
FasTracks family. Bruce Abel responded not
necessarily. He talked around the 1% that goes
back to O&M from FasTracks. Director Tayer
requested that we get clear accounting on what
is getting paid by FasTracks and through the
base operational budget.
Director Tobiassen indicated he does Friday
night hangouts with the drivers at East Metro
and they are a good source for information on
our processes and getting input to the public
hearings.
Director McMullen requested that information is
sent to former Director Paolillo on the change to
the H schedule.
Vote on
The Motion:



The motion passed unanimously.

Voice Radio Equipment Hardware and Optimization Support Contract
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract for the Fixed Radio Equipment hardware
and Optimization Support (Request for Proposal (RFP) No. 50DH028) to Motorola,
Inc. (Motorola) in an amount not-to-exceed $3,050,000. This price includes
equipment,optimization support and warranty. The purchase is through the Western
States Contracting Alliance (WSCA) contract.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to approve
moving the Voice Radio Equipment Hardware
and Optimization Support Contract to the full

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on February 15, 2011
Page 4 of 4

Board for approval on February 22.
Second:

Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Trent Ratcliff commented that these contracts
have been broken up to make it easier for DBEs
to work on various aspects of the overall
CAD/AVL project.

Vote on
The Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

2. Information Items
 Austin Jenkins, AGM of Rail, introduced two new employees, Danny SullivanSCADA, and Walt Springer-Sr. Manager Commuter Line, both of whom have
significant experience.
 DUS detours/Update—Jesse Carter indicated this is basically working well. On the
day this was rolled out, we had inclement weather and there have been some delays
due to a traffic light malfunction and in leaving Market Street in the afternoon since
traffic from Larimer construction is detouring to Blake Street.
 Other informational item updates on Focus Points, access-a-ride, CAD/AVL, and
smart card update were included in the Board packets. Director Tayer asked Bruce
Abel to comment on the real time bus service. Bruce explained that the tracking
timeline does not include any work on real time in 2011; however, they will be
coming back to the Board with a specific program for real time access.
 Smart Card privacy—Director Brohl inquired about this policy, its intent and who will
get access to it. John Stark indicated this privacy policy will be given to smart card
recipients and companies who purchase smart cards for their employees. Director
Brohl inquired how we will utilize the privacy. Bruce Abel responded personal
information will not be given to our customer service and they will provide utilization
information to company if they are the owner of the information. We would not
supply information to 3rd parties and in pursuant to CORA, we will follow our
treatment of confidential information or non-disclosed information.
3. Other Matters
 Director Daly offered to lead a tour for new Board members of our facilities.
 Director Tobiassen indicated he has concerns over the security model which
hopefully will be further discussed in a later session.
5. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned to Financial Administration and Audit Committee at 7:45 p.m.

