Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
October 20, 2016 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
I.

Call to Order
Chair Tobiassen called the Executive Committee to order at 12:04 p.m.

II.

Committee members in attendance:

Chair Tobiassen, 1st Vice Chair Hoy,
Director Francone and 2nd ViceChair Deadwyler by phone

Committee members absent:

Director Solano

Others present:

General Manager Genova, Executive
Manager Barbara McManus

Bylaws/Procedures Discussion
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager to the Board, spoke to the ongoing project of
getting the Bylaws and Expense Policy updated. She said the review copies were
ready, and with the approval of the Executive Committee she would send the
redline and final proposed copy the full board for review for the mandated 10-day
review. The schedule proposed is as follows:
 Review by the full Board for 10 days starting today October 20, 2016
 This discussion will be brought up for questions as an update item on
November 1, 2016
 The Board action will come before the Board on November 15, 2016 and
 Move to the Board Meeting for approval on November 22, 2016

Chair Tobiassen asked the Committee if they had any comments, and if not could
they continue forward in the process to get these two items moved forward for
approval at the Board Meeting in November. The approval to move forward was
unanimous.
III.

October Board Meeting Agenda Review
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to
approve moving the October 25, 2016
Board Agenda to the full Board.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Chair Tobiassen provided the initial review of the agenda and indicated one item
that had been tabled was being brought forward and there were three additional
recommended actions. Chair Tobiassen noted there were no retirees for the
month of October.
Director Francone outlined her update on the GM Oversight and Performance
Management Committee meeting schedule including that the GM performance
survey has been completed with 11 directors participating. The next meeting
for of the Committee is scheduled for October 25th.
GM Genova mentioned at this point that he apologizes for getting the final SelfAssessment to the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee late
but it was forwarded earlier in the day Barbara McManus.
Barbara McManus said she had received the assessment and has already
forwarded to the Committee via e-mail just before this meeting.
Chair moved onto Recommended Actions and asked for questions or comments.
IV.

Other Matters
Director Hoy asked if we had heard from Director Solano since he had not seen him
at an Executive Committee meeting recently.
Barbara McManus said he was scheduled to dial in but must have had a conflict.
Director Francone stated that she had met with UBER and County Commissioners
and they are excited to work with us on the last mile solutions, including call n ride
and access a ride.

General Manager Genova said we were already engaged with LYFT and he is
interested in what they have to offer. The pilot program in Centennial “Go
Centennial” will give valuable information to help us move forward.
Director Deadwyler stated she has tried to engage with LYFT and UBER, but they
are not readily available in her area and are not equipped with lifts.
Chair Tobiassen said procurement needs to be involved along the way so we are
following process and protocol to keep us clear of any issues.
General Manager Genova gave a detailed overview of the status of the A, B & G
lines and the temporary waiver that was in place. He said he and his team would
be meeting with the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) with an action plan for
the grade crossings. RTD and DTP have brought in additional resources that are
working on an assessment and staff is looking forward to the results of the
assessment. General Manager Genova added that he has been speaking the CEO’s
of all the partners involved in the concessionaire agreements and he will keep the
Chair aware of the continued dialog and the outcome of his meetings.
Director Hoy asked if under the present scenario was safety an issue.
General Manager Genova said the FRA has been making frequent visits and have
made some recommendations, as there is always room for improvement.
Director Hoy asked why the FRA would not give us approval to test the G line as
the window of testing time is so slim.
General Manager Genova said currently, the FRA has drawn a line in the sand and
we have to follow their lead in this decision.
Director Deadwyler asked about the plan that we were presenting and what that
meant to the current waiver schedule.
General Manager Genova said we do not know how the FRA might proceed with
extending or granting a new waiver and said there are certain milestones that will
need to be met before any extension or new waiver would be issued.
Director Deadwyler mentioned that she had received some calls regarding accidents
that have occurred at the crossings and wanted to know what was being done to
avoid the problem in the future.

General Manager Genova said the flaggers are being evaluated on a daily basis and
that he would look into the accidents to see what the causes were.
General Manager Genova spoke about the Press conference on Tuesday and the
format that was used and that they will continue to move forward in being
transparent. All materials were provided to constituents, the press and our
government relations contractors to get the word out. He mentioned that we can
also expect an article this weekend from John Aguilar of the Denver Post.
V.

Adjourn
Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 1:16 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

