Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
October 20, 2016 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
I.

Call to Order

II.

Bylaws/Procedures Discussion

III.

October Board Meeting Agenda Review

IV.

Other Matters

V.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - October 25, 2015
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Special Recognition – Bus Roadeo
RTD Fixed Route Operator Winners
1st Place – John Deschner – East Metro
RTD Fixed Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Jon Mitchell, Tim Wallace, Ernesto Perez – Platte

RTD Service and Cleaning Winners
1st Place – Mark Buyalski – Platte
Private Contractor Fixed Route Operator Winners
1st Place – Jose Ek Chan – First Transit Denver
Private Contractor Fixed Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Geraldo Cabrera, Bob Baatar, Curt Sarinopoulos – First Transit Longmont
Paratransit Operator Winners
1st Place – Miguel Robles – MV Transportation
Special Recognition – Light Rail Rodeo
Light Rail Operator Winners
1st Place – Robert Dennis
2nd Place – Derrick Shaw Jr.
3rd Place – Marcus Hampton
Light Rail Maintenance Winners
1st Place – Randall Lovegrove
2nd Place – George Sweeney
3rd Place – Raleigh Elstun
Special Recognition – Snow Plow Rodeo
Single-Axle Snow Plow Truck Winners
1st Place – Richard Seedroff and Mark Weifenbach
Tandem-Axle Snow Plow Truck Winners
1st Place – David Waite and Reed Sorenson
V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Francone
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone

CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Lasater
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Chair Tobiassen
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Chair Tobiassen
VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 27, 2015

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent

XII.

Recommended Action
A.
Budget Transfer for SH 119 Bus Rapid Transit Environmental Clearance and
Basic Engineering
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors approve a transfer of $3.5 million from the Planning
expense grant project budget to a new capital project for the SH 119 Bus Rapid
Transit (BRT) Corridor, which will permit staff to seek consultant services for
assistance in the preparation of National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) review
and Advanced Basic Engineering services. A total of $1.5 million in funding for
this project was approved in the 2016 Amended Budget in the Planning expense
grant budget, and the remaining funds are planned for 2017 and 2018 in the
2017-2022 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
B.

Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the Winter 2016/2017 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost savings of
approximately $1,337,000 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.
C.
Authorization to enter into contract with Protran Technology for purchase of
Railway Worker Protection Early Warning System (16DR0003)
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a
contract not to exceed $1,500,000 with Protran Technology for the purchase of a
Railway Worker Protection Early Warning System and associated equipment
(Contract Number 16DR003).

D.
Transfer FasTracks Sales and Use Tax Revenues in Excess of Forecasted
Sales and Use Tax Revenues to FasTracks Internal Savings Account
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors approve transferring FasTracks sales and use tax
revenues (.4%) from unrestricted fund balance to the FasTracks Internal Savings
Account (FISA) on an annual basis when actual sales and use tax revenues
(.4%) collected for the calendar year exceed the forecasted sales and use tax
revenues (.4%) projected in the adopted budget each year. The actual sales and
use tax revenues will be determined based on the audited financial statements.
XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.12.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

Date:

September 12, 2016

Subject:

Budget Transfer for SH 119 Bus Rapid Transit
Environmental Clearance and Basic Engineering

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: September 13, 2016
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: September 27, 2016

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve a transfer of $3.5 million from the Planning expense grant project budget to a new
capital project for the SH 119 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Corridor, which will permit staff to seek
consultant services for assistance in the preparation of National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)
review and Advanced Basic Engineering services. A total of $1.5 million in funding for this project
was approved in the 2016 Amended Budget in the Planning expense grant budget, and the remaining
funds are planned for 2017 and 2018 in the 2017-2022 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
BACKGROUND
RTD initiated the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS), in April 2013. The purpose of the study
was to develop consensus among RTD, the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) and the
Northwest-area stakeholders, including local jurisdictions and businesses, on cost effective and
efficient mobility improvements to serve the Northwest area. On June 24, 2014, the Board approved
a resolution which accepted the Final Consensus Statement as developed by the NAMS stakeholders
for priorities within the Northwest Study Area. One of the highest priorities, as described in the
Final Consensus Statement, was to proceed into advanced planning, environmental clearance and
preliminary engineering to establish Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in the SH 119 Corridor from Longmont
to Boulder.
As part of the 2040 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) process, the Denver Regional Council of
Governments (DRCOG) included the SH 119 BRT Corridor in the Fiscally Constrained 2040 RTP.
Inclusion of the corridor in the RTP is required before National Environmental Planning Act (NEPA)
clearance can be completed.
In order to advance this effort, DRCOG awarded RTD $1 million in Congestion Mitigation / Air
Quality grant funds for Fiscal Year 2016 to further environmental planning and engineering efforts in
the corridor. RTD would need to obligate these funds by September 2017 or risk losing the funding
to another project.
The cost to establish BRT in the corridor is estimated to be approximately $57 million in 2013
dollars. Staff assumes that grants will provide funding for approximately half of this cost. The
Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) includes $60 million in Base System funds (with $30 million assumed to
be from grant sources) for construction of the corridor beginning in 2022.
This action fits within the General Manager Goal to Improve Service Delivery, specifically the sub
goal of enhancing or expanding operations, as the eventual completion of BRT in the SH 119 corridor
will increase service reliability, ridership and cost effectiveness of the service.

Packet Pg. 5

2.12.A

DISCUSSION
RTD will require extensive consultant services to complete the NEPA environmental clearances and
basic engineering prior to BRT construction in the SH 119 Corridor. Staff estimates those consultant
services to cost $3.5 million. RTD has received $1 million in DRCOG grant funds for Fiscal Year
2016 for this effort, with RTD providing the remainder of the project cost. Staff expects the effort
to span approximately 2.5 years, and these funds were programmed in the 2016 expense budget
and in the years 2017 and 2018 in the 2017-2022 SBP to match the anticipated project schedule.
However, the full contract amount must be appropriated up front in order to issue a Request for
Proposals (RFP) because the project is a capital project. The budget transfer will allow staff to issue
an RFP for consultant services in November 2016 and award the contract in February, 2017. Based
on the 2.5 year schedule described above, the environmental clearances and basic engineering would
be completed by July 2019.
Should RTD pursue BRT construction in this corridor, as prioritized by the NAMS Final Consensus
Statement, the SH 119 BRT project would be subject to approval by a two-thirds vote of the RTD
Board. In addition, DRCOG SB 208 approval would be required as this project would be defined as a
rapid transit corridor project. The expectation is that the funding breakdown for future BRT
construction in the corridor would be as follows:



50 percent from RTD Base System Funds; and
50 percent from grant sources, such as DRCOG Transportation Improvement Program (TIP)
funds, and/or Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Small Starts funding.

Project construction would occur within the 2022 to 2025 timeframe. And, as noted, future Board
action would be required to approve construction of BRT in this corridor.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The funding that will be used for this project is available from projects funds rolled forward from 2015 to
2016 that are no longer required for that purpose and are available for this priority. Because these funds
were programmed in 2017 and 2018 SBP, funds will be made available in those years by funding the
project now.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors approve a transfer of $3.5 million from the
Planning expense grant project budget to a new capital project for the SH 119 Bus Rapid
Transit (BRT) Corridor, which will permit staff to seek consultant services for assistance in
the preparation of National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) review and Advanced Basic
Engineering services. A total of $1.5 million in funding for this project was approved in the
2016 Amended Budget in the Planning expense grant budget, and the remaining funds are
planned for 2017 and 2018 in the 2017-2022 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not approve the requested budget transfer at
this time. Instead, include this request as part of the 2017 Recommended Budget. This
action is not recommended since it will delay the procurement of consultant services for the
SH 119 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor by at least two months.
3. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not approve the requested budget transfer;
instead wait until the full $3.5 million for consultant services is available in 2018 on the
schedule included in the SBP. This action is not recommended since it would delay

Packet Pg. 6

2.12.A

procurement of consultant services for the SH 119 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor until early
2018 and would likely delay future construction of the corridor, thereby subjecting
construction to cost escalation. This action would likely cause the forfeiture of the $1 million
in DRCOG TIP funds, which were awarded to advance the NEPA / Basic Engineering effort in
the corridor, which would increase RTD’s local funding required to advance the project.
4. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not approve the requested budget transfer and
do not proceed forward with procuring consultant services to assist staff in the preparation of
National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) review and Advanced Basic Engineering services for
the SH 119 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor. This action is not recommended given the
considerable commitment on the part of RTD and the Northwest Area stakeholders to reach
the consensus prioritizing SH 119 as the highest-priority BRT corridor in the Northwest Area.
Furthermore, this action would require RTD to forfeit $1 million in DRCOG TIP funds, which
were awarded to advance the NEPA / Basic Engineering effort in the corridor.

Prepared by:
Susan Cohen, Senior Manager, Finance and ECM
Chris Quinn, Project Manager, Planning
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

2.12.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 13, 2016

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 12, 2016

Board Meeting Date: October 18, 2016

Subject:

Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the Winter 2016/2017 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A
resulting in an annualized cost savings of approximately $1,337,000 and, further, to authorize the
General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also
our responsibility to identify services that are underperforming and recommend modifications,
curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted. The proposals herein include a mix of service
adjustments and reductions. Based upon current and past ridership performance Route 116 Limited is
proposed to be discontinued. Also related to its ridership performance, the Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride
is proposed to be continued contingent upon discovery of alternative funding from sources outside RTD.
Additionally, service reductions on the W Line (light rail) are proposed in an effort to match the level of
service and expense to current ridership demands. We will monitor customer response to the
implementation of these service changes and propose adjustments and service alternatives as
appropriate in future service change recommendations.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
 Response to changes in the communities where services are provided
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
Eight public hearings were held in Aurora, Brighton, Denver, Highlands Ranch, Ken Caryl, Lakewood, and
Stapleton Denver at the Blake Administration building. Comments and further details from these
meetings and the service change website are summarized in Attachment B of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATIONS
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following proposals have been significantly modified:
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus: the proposal to discontinue this route has been rescinded.

Packet Pg. 8

2.12.B

Highlands Ranch call-n-Ride: the proposal to discontinue the Call-n-Ride, has been modified and is
contingent upon funding alternatives.
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service reductions:

Route 40 – Colorado Boulevard: discontinue the 6:32pm northbound trip from Colorado Center
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus: proposal to discontinue service rescinded
Route 116L – Ken Caryl Limited: discontinues service on the Route 116L, due to very low ridership.
Route 169L – Buckley Road/Denver Airport: discontinue 7:10pm southbound trip daily and 5:10pm southbound
trip on Saturday and Sunday only.
Highlands Ranch call-n-Ride: continue the Call-n-Ride, contingent upon alternative funding
RockiesRide: discontinue all but two RockiesRide bus services
W Line (FasTracks): discontinue 16 Monday-Friday trips in the AM and PM peak periods

Routes proposed for mixed service improvements/service reductions:
Route 324 – Main Street Crosstown: reroute of service currently on St. Vrain School District property
Route R/RC/RX – Brighton/ Denver; Brighton/Denver Express: renaming of route
Routes proposed for routine running time analysis/schedule adjustments
Route 15 – East Colfax: running time analysis
Rail Lines proposed for routine schedule adjustments:
Minor running time adjustments are proposed for all light rail lines: C, D, E, F, H, and W Lines, on all
service days.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The overall financial impact contained in this proposal includes a cost reduction of $962,000 from
FasTracks and $375,000 cost saving from the base system, for a total savings of approximately
$1,337,000 annualized.
EQUITY ANALYSIS
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
Executive Order 12898 regarding Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA requires RTD to
evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that exceed the established major service
change threshold, to determine whether those changes will have a disproportionately negative impact on
minority or low-income populations. Our evaluation of the proposed Winter 2016/2017 service changes
does not reveal any disparities in impacts absorbed by minority or low-income populations.
A Look Ahead – May 2017
L – Line
A proposed solution to D Line on-time performance issues and consequentially, overall light rail system
performance, this proposal introduces a modification to current D Line operations. The L Line adds a
new 30th& Downing to 14th Street Loop (Downtown) movement, replacing the D Line service between
30th & Downing Station and 19th Street. More extensive information regarding this proposal will be made
available in a future update to the Board of Directors.
<<Enter Remaining Information Here>>

Packet Pg. 9

2.12.B
ATTACHMENTS:


Attch A Winter 2016



Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes



Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (PDF)



Atch D St Andrew and VIA Retirement Community letters



Atch E Douglas County Call-n-Ride Letter

(DOCX)
(DOCX)

(PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 10

2.12.B.a

Attachment A – Winter 2016

Bus

Route 40 – Colorado Boulevard
It is proposed to discontinue the 6:32pm northbound trip from Colorado Center, which is
not needed to maintain 15 minute frequency on the Route 40. Cost savings are expected
to be an estimated $8,000 annualized.
Route 44 – 44th Avenue
It is proposed to reroute the current service to use Clayton Street to 40th Avenue in the
place of the current Steele Street routing to improve sight lines at the rail road crossing of
the University of Colorado A Line. No operation cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus
The proposal to discontinue service on the Route 89 has been rescinded, due to new
ridership and financial information.
Route 116L – Ken Caryl Limited
This proposal discontinues service on the Route 116L, due to very low ridership. The route
currently averages less than 5 passengers per trip and 6 passengers per hour, which falls
below the service standard of 6.5 for a Suburban Local service. Alternatives to this service
can be found the use of Route 21 in the Bear Creek area and Green Mountain Call-n-Ride.
Anticipated cost savings are estimated to be $90,000 annualized.
Route 169L – Buckley Road/Denver Airport
This proposal discontinues the 7:10pm southbound trip weekday and weekends. This trip
averages 5 passengers per day. It is also proposed to discontinue the 5:10pm southbound
trip on Saturday and Sunday only, which averages 6 passengers per trip. Anticipated cost
savings are estimated to be $25,300 annualized.
Route 324 – Main Street Crosstown
Due to routing currently being on St. Vrain School District property and the request
of Silverthorne High School to remove the current terminal from school property, it
is proposed to reroute the Route 324 and locate a new west-end terminal at
Grandview Meadows Drive and Nelson Road, northbound, nearside Nelson Road.
No additional operational costs are anticipated.
Route R/RC/RX – Brighton/ Denver; Brighton/Denver Express
It is proposed to convert 3 PM peak north-bound and 2 AM peak southbound R
trips into RX trips and rename the route to RC/RX only. The renaming will provide
clarity in the route designation after the introduction of the new light rail R Line
service. No additional operational costs are anticipated.

1
Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Attch A Winter 2016 (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

Route 15 – East Colfax
This proposal supports routine schedule adjustments on the Route 15, which are
anticipated to cost $41,000 annualized.

2.12.B.a

Highlands Ranch call-n-Ride
In November 2006, the Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride began service. The Call-n-Ride
operates Monday-Friday 6:00am – 6:00pm. Despite numerous marketing
campaigns and adjustments to the Call-n-Ride boundary, the Call-n-Ride falls in the
lowest category of boarding’s per hour and highest subsidy cost per boarding’s.
Our most recent ridership data show the Call-n-Ride at 2.5 boarding’s per hour.
Staff recommends the continuation of this service be contingent upon the receipt of
$94,085 (50% of the operating cost) from sources outside of the RTD. Alternative
service includes Routes 402L and 403. If alternative funding is not provided the
anticipated cost savings are estimated to be $188,170 annualized.
RockiesRide
With the major changes in transit corridors within the RTD, it is recommended that
many of the buses used for RockiesRide be redeployed to backup existing service
on Rockies game days in 2017. Rockies service for 2016 included opening day,
Saturday, Sunday and all fireworks games. The following changes are
recommended for the 2017 season:
 RockiesRide Route 36R / Wadsworth-Hampden – this route would be
discontinued and no replacement offered as ridership averages only 5
boardings per bus.
 RockiesRide Route 55R / Olde Town Arvada – this service would be
discontinued, as an alternative; customers can use the new G Line, which
will be operating with service to Union Station.
 RockiesRide Route 86R / US36 & Broomfield – this service would be
discontinued, as an alternative; customers can use Flatiron Flyer service to
Union Station. Back up buses will be available.
 RockiesRide Route 120R / Wagon Road-Thornton – Route to remain the
same – no changes.
 RockiesRide Route BR / Boulder High School, US36 & Table Mesa Station,
US 36 & McCaslin Station – this service would be discontinued, as an
alternative; customers can use Flatiron Flyer service to Union Station.
Backup buses will be available.
 RockiesRide Route LR / Longmont – Route to remain the same – no
changes.
Cost savings are anticipated to be an estimated $104,700 annualized.

Rail
W Line (FasTracks)
It is proposed to discontinue 16 Monday-Friday trips in the AM and PM peak periods:
Eastbound trips from Federal Center Station at 6:16 AM, 6:46 AM, 7:16 AM, 7:46 AM,
8:16 AM, 8:46 AM, 4:01 PM, 4:31 PM, 5:01 PM, 5:31 PM, and 6:01 PM and Westbound
trips from Union Station at 5:27 AM, 5:57 AM, 6:25 AM, 6:55 AM, 7:25 AM, 7:55 AM,
3:10 PM, 3:40 PM, 4:10 PM, 4:40 PM, 5:10 PM, and 5:40 PM. This proposed change
effects approximately 789 passengers that will need to take a W-Line 7.5 minutes earlier

2
Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Attch A Winter 2016 (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

Attachment A – Winter 2016

2.12.B.a

Attachment A – Winter 2016
or later. Three-car trains will be reapportioned to adjust for crowding on trains to meet
Service Standards.

The peak vehicle requirement for the W Line service would be reduced from 23 cars to 16
cars, which helps improve the spare ratio, which will be below our standard when the I225 Rail Line opens.
The anticipated cost savings are estimated to be approximately $962,000 annualized.
Rail Lines proposed for routine schedule adjustments:
Minor running time adjustments are proposed for all light rail lines: C, D, E, F, H, and W
Lines, on all service days. This is based on new data received from adjusting the
scheduled timepoints, which allows for a more thorough running time analysis. Running
time will only change between 15 and 30 seconds and only between a few stations on
each line. This will not alter the light rail trips and the same service will be provided. No
changes in hours are anticipated.

3
Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Attch A Winter 2016 (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

This proposal creates a 15-minute frequency in the AM and PM peak period, which is
similar to the majority of other individual light rail lines in the peak periods. It reduces the
peak hour, peak direction capacity from 1,500 passengers to 1,000 passengers. Existing
ridership in the peak hour, peak direction is approximately 740 passengers, which still
leaves room for future ridership growth. This brings the peak W Line operation closer to
the level of service of the rest of the system.

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Winter 2016 Service Change
Public Meeting Comments

Monday, September 28th, 2016
Stapleton Development Corp
6:00 PM
Staff member in attendance was Jeff Dunning. There were no RTD Board members in
attendance. There was 1 member of the public and a representative from Northeast
Transportation Connections.
There was general discussion regarding the recent changes related to the opening of the
A-Line, and any future changes with the R-Line. No specific comments were received
regarding the proposed Winter 2016 changes.

Monday, September 28th, 2016
Lakewood Clements Center
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Eric Miller, Kim Kinnison, Diane Marquiss, and Cooper
Langdon. There were 8 members of the public in attendance including RTD Board Member
Natalie Menten.
Director Menten asked that if anyone in attendance knew of anyone else who might have
questions or concerns that they should spread the word about upcoming public meetings,
specifically the 10/6/16 meetings at Blake Street.
W Line:
Debra Klein is concerned about cutting the W Line and asked about what standards were
applied to justify the potential cuts. She mentioned utilizing smaller train sets as an
alternative solution and asked that this change not take place in the winter.
Renee Sanders is concerned about how these changes would affect her wait time at
Wadsworth Station if she just misses a train.
K Poaker expressed concern about the closing of Auraria West Station during major events
at Sports Authority at Mile High Field. This sentiment was echoed by Renee Sanders. She
would also like to see additional cars on the W Line during major downtown events.
Dave Ruchman asked for empirical evidence justifying the cuts. Eric Miller offered to send
the data and justifications via email.
Route 76:
Debra Klein is concerned about the transfer time between the southbound route 76 and
eastbound W Line.
G Line:
Julia Hyman asked about the flaggers posted at the at-grade crossings along the G Line as
well as about the expected opening date of the G Line.

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Safety
Renee Sanders is concerned about the safety of the bus stop at Colfax and Wadsworth

Thursday, September 29th, 2016
Ken Caryl Ranch House
6:00 PM
Meeting was facilitated by Diane Marquiss. Staff in attendance included Diane Marquiss,
and Cooper Langdon. There were 6 members of the public in attendance.
Diane Suchomel – Wanted specific details regarding the 99/100 service change. She is
retired and doesn’t take the bus often but wanted to be informed. Diane gave her some
information regarding the changes.
Andy Marner – He wanted to discuss the 116L that will be cut when the fall service
changes are implemented. He understood that there is low ridership, but doesn’t have a
good option for getting to the Federal Center. He also does not live in our Call-n-Ride
service area.
Steve Kern – Steve was also there to discuss the proposed cancellation of the 116L and
the possibility of having the first afternoon trip on the 100L leave earlier. Regarding the
116L, Diane told him about our Call-n-Ride service and told him we would send him Brian
Matthews contact information to possibly set up a consistent pick up time.
Linda Metzger – She just stopped in to see what changes were proposed and did not have
any one concern regarding the changes. She did mention that she would like the 116X to
be more direct and skip the local portion of the route. She suggested the route leave Ken
Caryl Park-n-Ride and immediately take C470 and make a stop at the Quincy exit, then
proceed directly to Civic Center. She said the local portion adds too much time to the
route.
Matt Smith – Matt works at the Denver Airport early in the morning and would like a
4:45am-4:50am trip on the C-Line, leaving from Mineral Station. This would allow him to
get a one seat ride to Union Station to catch the A-Line. Currently he has to take the DLine to Broadway Station then catch the E-Line to Union Station, which he said can be a
tight transfer.
Tony Lott – Tony had heard that there were going to be changes to the routes 77 and 85
that also included a fare increase. Once we told him that there were no planned changes
to either of his routes and that the fare structure was not changing, he left happy.

Thursday, September 29th, 2016
Brighton Recreation Center
6:00 PM
Meeting was facilitated by Nataly Erving. Staff in attendance were Nataly Erving
and David Menter. There were 4 members of the public in attendance including
RTD Board Member Judy Lubow. City of Longmont Staff in attendance: Phil
Greenwald; City of Longmont TAB representatives: Buzz Feldman, Bob Lee

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Lynn Philippsen requested that the stop at Table Mesa and Tantra Drive be considered as a
stop on the US36 BRT Flatiron Flyer routes. She stated that the walk to the closest BRT
stop was too far. Staff pointed out that local underlying service on routes DASH and 206
is available and that at this time demand at this stop location does not warrant for it to be
a BRT stop. Staff will continue to monitor demand in this regard.
Bob Lee liked the proposed changes for the BOLT, J and L stops, as well as the Bolt
Express trips. He stated that he would like to see the fare for route BOLT to be local all the
way between Longmont and Boulder and urged RTD staff to reconsider the recent fare
zone change. He also requested that RTD staff look into airport service from Longmont to
Denver, as well as a meeting to discuss various options in this regard with city staff and
members of the TAB. RTD staff will coordinate with City of Longmont staff to set up such
a meeting.
Buzz Feldman also stated that he agreed with the proposed changes and asked when they
would go into effect. He suggested that instead of calling the faster trips on route BOLT
‘express’ to reference them as ‘Limited’ in order to not be too confusing or perhaps
misleading, since the trips will serve all of the agreed upon stops for regular route BOLT
within Longmont and then only travel at a faster pace once outside of the city. Staff
agreed that this would be a good idea and that they would consider doing so.
Peter Lloyd was concerned about the connections from route BOLT to route 206 and
having to walk from 28th Street to Boulder Junction in order to now make his connection.
Upon review of the proposed BOLT Express trips he however noted that they would most
likely provide a good alternative and better connection for him to get from Longmont to
the East Flatiron Business Park. He also encouraged staff to make sure that the
connections to these express trips from route 324 at 8th & Coffman Park-n-Ride be
considered. In addition, he requested to have route FLEX consider making better
connections at Boulder Junction to route 206.
Rolf Kaumann stated that he is a route L (LNX/LSX) passenger and appreciates the service,
as well as that RTD staff is willing to listen to customer concerns and input. He asked why
routes LNX and LSX have to ‘loop’ via 21st and Terry Street before continuing their trips
and requested for staff to look into the elimination of this routing since it could save up to
5 minutes of travel time.
Andrea Papa requested that there be a later LNX or LSX trip in the AM peak that would
better match the 9am work shift start time in Downtown Denver.
Phil Greenwald pointed out that the city is in the process of developing a community
development plan and that within that plan there are suggestions for future bus routes,
including a potential routing for a true BOLT Express, which would avoid multiple railroad
crossings within Longmont.
The meeting closed at 6:30pm.

Monday, October 3rd, 2016
Aurora Central Library
6:00 PM
Meeting was facilitated by Jeff Dunning. There were 15 members of the public
there and RTD Board Member Tom Tobiassen.

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
The discussion was wide ranging, including upcoming R-Line service, stations, parking
facilities, and safety; fare policy and enforcement; general safety onboard buses and
trains; and the need for good overall frequency and span of service on all bus routes.
Route 3-Alameda Avenue received particular criticism for poor frequency and lack of late
night service. No specific comments were received regarding the proposed Winter 2016
changes.

Wednesday, October 5th, 2016
Highlands Ranch Recreation Center at Southridge
6:00 PM
Meeting was facilitated by Brian Matthews. Staff members in attendance were Pat Heye
and Brian Matthews. RTD Board members in attendance were Director Kent Bagley and
candidate Doug Tisdale. There were 28 members of the public and a representative from
VIA Highlands Ranch Retirement Community
Ted Ruskin – Ted is almost totally blind and has no wife, children, or family at all and
depends on Call-n-Ride and Access-a-Ride to be mobile. Access-a-Ride is ok for things far
out in time but only CnR works for daily trips reserved for the same day.
Ali Zanjani – Ali is the afternoon driver of the Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride. He thinks the
service needs to stay because the needs of his customers is greater than RTD making
money.
Michelle Yorntz – Michelle’s daughter Sara is a special needs high school graduate who
works at Good Will to be independent and cannot continue with her job without the Call-nRide.
Teri Whitmore – Thinks the Call-n-Ride service is great. Her child is a Mountain Vista
Student who depends on Call-n-Ride since the school busses were taken away. The fixed
route option will not work because it only serves east and west customers to the LRT
Stations. Thinks Call-n-Ride can be saved by recruiting more students for customers.
Option of Lift and Uber is not suitable for children.
Ellianna Gorton – Loves the Call-n-Ride service and her child uses it for transportation back
and forth to school at Stem. She is a single parent and must work so her child must have
CnR. She volunteered to help RTD by joining a committee to help with ridership.
Deanna Evens – Her parents are refugees from Russia in their 70’s and have no other
transportation other than Call-n-Ride. Feels that Call-n-Ride is just not well enough known
in Highlands Ranch. Also thinks that Service should be 7 day per week, not just Monday
thru Friday.
Kelvin Ivery – Has been riding buses all his life and depends on public transportation. He
works in law enforcement and cannot leave work to get his 12 year old daughter home
from school and he is a single father.
Paula McMartin – She has children attending both Stem and Mountain Vista school and
they depend on Call-n-Ride because both her and her husband work. Thinks we could get
more students to bring up the ridership.
Ali Zanjani – Been using Call-n-Ride for 9 years and depends on it to get to and from work.
Thinks the drivers are very special and more marketing might help keep the CnR.

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Deanna Evens – Representing group of disabled and senior people. Access-a-Ride does not
work nearly as good as Call-n-Ride because Access-a-Ride has such a large time window
and reservations must be made far in advance. Thinks Douglass county should share the
cost of the Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride because they pay a special tax to Douglass
County set aside just for transportation needs.
Elaine Gorton – Daughter has Downs Syndrome and works at Good Will. She would lose
all of her independence she has worked so hard for if we lose the Call-n-Ride.
Ted Ruskin – Call-n-Ride needs to do a better job of ride sharing.
Mountain Vista High School - Also submitted for RTD were 2 letters from residents and 16
letters from students who use the Call-n-Ride
St Andrews United Methodist Church – Submitted letter in favor of stops in front of VI
assisted living and St. Andrew.

Director Candidate Doug Tisdale - spoke about his past as a lawyer and Mayor of
Cherry Hills and what he hopes to do if elected to the Board of Directors of RTD.
Thursday, October 6th, 2016
RTD Administrative Offices
NOON
Meeting was facilitated by Cesar Ochoa. Staff members in attendance were Nataly
Erving, Brian Matthews, Cesar Ochoa and Dave Genova. RTD Board member in
attendance was Director Nataly Menten. There were 16 members of the public present.
Route 89 – 4 people requested the retention of this route. .
Route 3 - There was a request for a higher frequency for the eastern part of the Route 3.
There were comments regarding the Route 116X on time performance at 5:55 p.m. as
well as a request to correct passenger conflicts with vending carts at the Civic Center
temporary stops. There was a request to look at the Route 122X at 7:30 a.m. regarding
crowding issues.

Thursday, October 6th, 2016
RTD Administrative Offices 6:00 PM
Meeting was facilitated by Jessie Carter, manager, Service Planning & Scheduling. The
meeting began at 6:00pm with 6 public participants present. RTD Board member in
attendance was Director Nataly Menten. There were 5 members of the public present
Tracy B. - Disagrees with the Route 89 proposal and states that children who go to DDS
have 20 minutes to where a Denver Public School bus would pick them up, which require
the kids to leave at 5:30am. The school is located at 33rd-Syracuse Street. Walking would
take the kids more than 45 minutes.

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Peter Lozano – he has a son who uses the Route 116L to get to and from school at
McClaine High School. He gets out of class at 12:30pm and works in the library until the
first trip is available on the Route 116L. Jefferson County Schools doesn’t have an
alternative for his son. He and his wife both work and cannot accommodate a pick up time
for his son, so the Route 116L is his sons only alternative.
Miriam Garcia - had questions about the signage on the Route 31L that described the
cancellation of the route service.
Felicia Hardney - She lives in Commerce City and catches the Route 88 and connects to
the Route 89. She believes RTD has not let enough people know about the Route 89 and
that has hampered the level of ridership. She works at Children’s Hospital on Anschutz.
The current Routes 88 and 89 are superior to using the Route 40 and Route 20
combination for access to the hospital. She also sees the people who get on the Route 89
at the mercy Housing stop and wonders what alternatives they would have.
Tommy Thomas - Adding to the comments made by others regarding the cancellation of
the Route 89, he emphasized that the people using this service are low income and transit
dependent with no viable alternatives.
Karlyn Huffman – suggested that RTD request a signal at Yale Street and Yale Court to
allow buses leaving the Yale Station safe access to Yale Avenue. She also mentioned that
the ramp to the platform at Yale Station is too steep for persons in mobility devices,m
stating she observes a woman who has to wait for someone willing to push her up the
ramp on regular basis.
Steve Albers – rides the Route J and has suffered through several changes to service in
the Boulder and Gunbarrel area. He had two suggestions; reinstatement of the stop at
Spine Rd and South Orchard Creek, even if not heavily used he believes it important to
stop at this location due to its proximity to a multi-use trail. His second suggestions is to
add a time point along Spine Rd on the Route J that would allow for better trip planning
for customers in his area. Currently there is 9 minutes between the timepoints.
Salinda Wright - commented on her previous suggestion that was made for the Route 34
to be moved from 38th Avenue as the former Route 38 had been routed. She stated that
she has a difficult time walking to the bus stops on 40th Avenue. She also requested more
frequent service in the peak period on the Route 34 leaving the 31st and Downing area,
stating that in inclimate weather it is difficult to wait for the service, which currently is
offered only every 30 minutes.

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Electronically Received Comments
Route

Support

Opposed

27

Inquiry

First
Name

Last Name

1

31

1

Paul

Joshua

31

1

Vincent

Mineault

31

1

Sherri

Rener

31

1

Joshua

31

1

Lisa

Additional Comments
I use the 27 to commute to work daily. The morning drivers
are very punctual and courteous. The afternoon drivers...not
so much. I catch the eastbound 27 at around 3:45pm and
get off about 4:25pm. I would estimate that my afternoon
bus has been on time about 10 times in the past six
months. The schedule says that the bus leaves the
Wadsworth & Hampden PNR at 3:27pm and gets to the
Englewood Station at 4:05pm - it's supposed to leave the
Englewood Station at 4:09pm. I can tell you, pretty much
every day, the bus leaves the PNR at least 5min later and
gets to Englewood anywhere between 4:08 and 4:15.
I fully understand if there is traffic or other factors that
prevent drivers from being on time, but every single day?
What about those drivers who consistently miss the
schedule times because they drive slow or take a long break
at a station? If I was late to work every day I would be
fired; I don't think it's a lot to ask to expect the drivers to
TRY to be on time.
I figure that if the bus is 5min late arriving to my stop and
10min late arriving at my destination, then the schedule
should be advertised to include this 15min adjustment. I
lose that 15min on the ride, and miss my transfer (which
costs me another 30min waiting at another stop), almost
every day. So I'm really losing 45min every day, which is
225min every week, or 900min a month, or 10,800min in a
year. That's a significant enough amount of my time for me
to make this request for an audit, to see if your bus tracking
shows that the timing is hardly ever true to the advertised
schedule.
All I'm asking for is that the people who put together the
schedules to take a serious look at this route, and change
the advertised schedule to show the actual times a rider can
expect it, so riders can plan transfers more accurately.
Today I saw on the sign at 76th & Lowell after October 23 This would
no longer be a stop for the route 31 going North and South. I wanted
to put in a suggestion for you not to change this.
I am a CERT volunteer with rtd and i am hearing from lots of
passengers uses 31 to and from front range community college are
upset because its doesn't serve the westminster station for the b line
I'm calling to voice my opinion about the service changes on route #
31. I travel with a disabled veteran and it has been very convenient
for us to get to recreation center and the library. It is a real disservice
for us in this area and the disabled people.
From what I understood the 31 going by 76th and Lowell
and the ones by the Irving Library will be gone which is no
good. The reason is not only I take, but I know of several
other who do. Some take it on a daily biases because they
can’t afford ubur or a car. Others take it because they can’t
walk to Federal, Sheridan or the B Line. So I please don’t
take the 31 that goes to and from 76th and Lowell and the
Irving Library away
So I am frustrated, you guys are taking away this stop on 76th and
Irving. Not only this stop on this rider alert but all stops affected by
this rider alert. Did you think about the people who catch the bus
from this area. I understand you guys are trying to serve the new
station. now you guys leave a big gap of area you are not servicing? i
want a call back i want to hear you guys are putting a bus to cover
these stops you are taking away.

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
43

1

Karen

Brooks

72

1

Rick

Campbell

Krissy

Alberti

76

1

I am highly upset that you have changed the 43. The changes to this
route have made it so hard to get to the rail from the 43 stop. In the
past I have even had to help elderly people get from the 43 stop to
30th and Downing. If this was a Highlands Ranch this wouldnt
happen. Lastly this 28 is ridiculous. Now is there no weekend service
to the grocery store. There is no way I could walk from the 43 to the
grocery store. How could RTD stop a major bus like this from running
on the weekend. RTD only cares about the train and no longer cares
about the custom
I read that you may be changing the route 72 and that it will not stop
on 55th & Marshall I need that bus to stop at that stop going both
directions.
I like that you're proposing 15 minute frequencies, but why
only to Olde Town Arvada, more commuters on the G line
are going to be coming from the North of Olde Town
Arvada than they are from the south. Seriously, between
Lakewood Commons & Olde Town only? or Southwest
Plaza & Olde Town. Like I said before there are large
number of riders coming from north of Olde Town.
I strongly urge you to increase the 15 minute frequencies
up to at least 80th Ave.

89

1

Alison

Auster

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. bus route 89 is an
important community resource that benefits residents and local
businesses. I strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to
discontinue the route.
My address is:
8908 East 25th Drive
Denver, CO 80238

89

1

Val

Beckler

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is:
2820 Wabash St
Denver, Co 80238

89

1

Traci

Bekelman

89

1

Traci

Bekelman

Please do not discontinue the 89 line between Stapleton and the
Fitzsimons Medical campus. I use this route five days a week to get
to and from my job. The alternative would be to walk 1.7 miles to the
Central Park A line, ride it to Peoria, transfer to the R line, take it to
Fitzsimons and then walk another 8 blocks to my office. This would
take me almost 2 hours. The other option is to walk the 2.5 miles
between my house and my job through an unsafe neighborhood with
no sidewalks. If ridership is low, why can't RTD just send the small
shuttle bus instead of the full size bus? You could also eliminate the
buses in the late morning and early afternoon and just run buses
between 7-9 a.m. and 3-7 p.m. I am begging you - do not discontinue
this bus route.
Please do not discontinue the 89 line between Stapleton and the
Fitzsimons Medical campus. I use this route five days a week to get
to and from my job. The alternative would be to walk 1.7 miles to
the Central Park A line, ride it to Peoria, transfer to the R line, take it
to Fitzsimons and then walk another 8 blocks to my office. This
would take me almost 2 hours. The other option is to walk the 2.5
miles between my house and my job through an unsafe
neighborhood with no sidewalks. If ridership is low, why can't RTD
just send the small shuttle bus instead of the full size bus? You could
also eliminate the buses in the late morning and early afternoon and
just run buses between 7-9 a.m. and 3-7 p.m. I am begging you - do
not discontinue this bus route.

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
89

1

Rebecca

Berman

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is: 8051 E 33rd Ave. Denver, CO 80238
Thank you for considering my request.

89

1

Tricia

Campbell

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is: 3098 Syracuse Street; Denver, CO 80238

89

1

Jennifer

Cowqan

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is:
2853 Clinton Way
Denver, CO 80238

89

1

Gillian

Dale

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is: 2856 Emporia St., Denver, CO 80238

89

1

Michael

Del
Giudice

89

1

Tanya

Duffy

I strongly disagree with your decision to discontinue this
route. It provides a much-needed quick connection between
Stapleton / Central Park Station and UC Health / CU
Anschutz Medical Campus.
People heading east on the A line will now have to make
three transit changes instead of two: Transfer at Aline
Peoria Station to the R Line, and get off at Fitzsimmons
station, and wait for a CU shuttle, which due to lack of
roadways, will go onto congested arterial roadways and
take as longer to get to the hospital than a direct bus from
Central Park.
I would strongly suggest that RTD delay the discontinuation
of the 89 route until the Fitzsimmons Redevelopment
Authority and City of Aurora have constructed roadways
that will link the Fitz Station to the southern medical
campus.
Lastly, the CU Shuttle will not be picking up passengers at
the Colfax Station, as a pull-out /pic-up was not
implemented and CU shuttles cannot stop in traffic lanes.
Please reconsider/delay this decision until effective access
from the stations is realized. If not, folks like me will just
start driving to Anschutz in December.
Hello, I live in Stapleton and am writing to oppose the
proposed discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. More
an more people from the medical profession move to
Stapleton all the time for its location to the Anschultz
campus and if you want people to use public transportation,
there needs to be a route like this. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local
businesses. I strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to
discontinue the route.
My address is:
7998 E. 28th Place Denver 80238

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
89

1

Margaret

Gramling

89

1

Annie

Hill

89

1

Sonja

Joksimovic

89

1

Srdjan

Joksimovic

I understand you intend to discontinue this route in
December due to low ridership.I ride this bus every
weekday to reach my job. It's the last leg of my journey
from Littleton, which takes two buses and two trains, a two
hour trip. If this bus is discontinued I will be forced to take
the 105 bus and walk half a mile from Central Park. I'm 60,
and the prospect of having to make my way this distance
through the snow fills me with despair.Also, there are no
89 schedules available at Anschutz Medical Center, which
also prevents riders from accessing the route. Those in
wheelchairs need this route even more than I do!
Don't punish the riders for your own oversights and
shortcomings. I realize your focus us all about the trains
these days, but please, have mercy on those of us who
take the 89 bus.Please reconsider the discontinuation of the
89 bus!
I live in Stapleton 9164 E28th ave. Please do not discontinue the bus
route. Members of my household need access. Thanks
I have recently been informed by bus driver of 89 bus that
this line will soon be discontinued. I live in Stapleton and
work at the Anschutz Medical Campus and the only two
bus lines that can take me to work are 20 and 89. The only
line that is always on time and always follows the schedule
is 89! Second, both A and R lines will not cover people
from Stapleton who work at the Anschutz (and the number
of these people is substantially increasing as I can see) from
several reasons:
1) R line is covering Aurora
2) R line can take a person from Fitzsimmons to Peoria
station, however in order to reach Stapleton that person still
needs to wait for A line, and then to take another bus
usually 28B to reach Stapleton as train station is absolutely
far away from residential part of Stapleton
3) With your proposed solution to catch lines R and A, I will
need approximately an hour to reach my home, or work,
while with 89, I am at my destination in 10-15 minutes
If you discontinue 89, I will most likely cancel my Ecco
Pass, as it would not make sense to me taking a bus line 20
that is usually always late, or train everyday to work. I think
that instead of discontinuing 89 line, much better solution
would be to limit it to cover several hours early in the
morning (5-10 am) and afternoon (3-7 pm) when most of
the people are commuting to home or work.
I heard recently that bus line 89 will soon be discontinued. I live in
Stapleton and work at the Anschutz Medical Campus and this is
basically the only reliable bus line that can take me to work within
20-30 min! I’m not sure if you’re aware but A and R lines will NOT
cover people living in Stapleton who work at the Anschutz (and the
number of these people is substantially increasing).
If you discontinue 89, I will most likely cancel my Ecco Pass, because
line 20 is usually late. Instead of discontinuing 89 line, please
consider limiting it to early in the morning (5-10 am) and afternoon
(3-7 pm) when most of the people are commuting to home or work.

89

1

Mary
Beth

Lustik

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the
proposed discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus
89 is an important community resource that benefits
residents and local businesses. I strongly urge RTD to
reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is:
2849 Emporia Court
Denver 80238

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
89

1

Dan

Lyons

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is: 2845 Geneva St, Denver, CO 80238.

89

1

Heidi

McKernan

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.

89

1

Chuck

Montera

89

1

Nancy

Moseley

I have lived in Stapleton for 11 years and am writing to
oppose the proposed discontinuation of bus route 89 this
winter.
I am a patient at the Barbara Davis Center and I rely on Bus
89 to take me to appointments with my endocrinologist. I
literally schedule my appointment around this route.
I also have neighbors in Stapleton who are doctors, nurses,
administrators and researchers at the Anschutz Medical
Campus at the University of Colorado and know they rely
on Bus 89 for their daily commute.
I STRONGLY urge RTD to continue the Bus 89 route as it is
a vital connection between our community and the
Anschutz Medical Campus at the University of Colorado.
My name, address and phone number is below, please
contact me with any questions and thank you for your
consideration!
Chuck Montera
2829 Emporia Court
Denver, CO 80238
I am requesting that you continue to provide service on the 89 line.
There is no close access to any bus line from the eastbridge area of
Stapleton. Your proposal to take the A line would required a 1/2
hour walk. The New R line will require a 1/2 hour walk also since
there is no direct sidewalk routes available. Loss of this bus line
would create a severe hardship for riders accessing the eastbridge
area of Stapleton, including many low income residents.
The route will also benefit people needing access to the new king
Soopers grocery store especially low income families using public
transportation.

89

1

Maggie

O'Toole

89

1

Zavelia

Padilla

89

1

Lauren

Ross

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
Hello my name is Zavelia, I am a doctoral student at the Anschutz
Medical Campus , live in the area of Stapleton and Route 89 is the
only route that i can take to go to school, some friends and I took
this route during the week (Monday to Friday) to go to school. I
disagree with the discontinue service of this route, as most people
without a car in the Stapleton area take this bus to get to work and
school, and I believe that in November this route will be benefited
the grocery store on Martin Luther king, as this route will be an ideal
medium of transport for people who go to this store, which will
increase the use of this route. Please do not take this route, it is
important for all those who attended the Anschutz Medical Campus
route.
I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is: 2335 Beeler St. Denver, CO 80238
Thank you for considering my request,

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
89

1

Tim

Ruszel

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is: 2826 Emporia Street, Denver

89

1

Tamara

Timić
Stamenić,

89

1

Laura

Zerbe

I'm so surprised to see that you are planing to discontinue
bus 89! It is not true that the ridership is low. People are
moving to Stapelton every day and it is much bigger than
few years ago.
I have been using line 89 since I moved to Stapelton. This is
the only bus that connects Stapelton with Anschutz
Medical Campus where I work. There is no alternative for
this bus. The trains A or R line are not at all convenient
because they are so far and I will need to take another bus
(or two) to be able to use this trains.
I am using ECO pass now, only because of line 89. If you
discontinue this service I will not longer need to pay for
ECO pass.
My name is Laura Zerbe and I am a Stapleton resident and
am writing to oppose the proposed discontinuation of bus
route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important community
resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue
the route.
My address is: 2845 Geneva St. Denver, CO 80238

89

1

Greg

Zioba

89

1

Kara

Zioba

89

1

Marty

I’d like to express my concerns regarding Route 89...
I live in the area at Havana St and MLK blvd in Stapleton. I don’t ride
it daily, but I do about 3 times a week. The reason I don’t ride more
frequently are:
1. no service on weekends;
2. the bus schedule is not convenient enough for me (goes only once
an hour).
My concern is: why the route 89 is planned to be closed completely?
I understand that reason is “low ridership”. Did you know that, there
will be a new King Soopers store opening in that area this Fall and it
will impact ridership situation.My proposal is to wait another 3
months, to see what kind of impact the newly opened King Soopers
store will have, before completely closing route 89.
Hello, I am reaching out to you with respect to the proposed changes
for Route 89. My mother-in-law has to take 2 buses and the light rail
from Stapleton to her job in Lakewood (and back). She was just
informed by her bus driver last night that you are proposing to
cancel the 89. If this gets cancelled, she will have to walk an hour to
the light rail station from her house each morning and back at night.
Is there any chance that you could continue this service for the 89? If
not, is there another option for her to get to the Central Park
station? She does not have a car.
Hello,
I understand you intend to discontinue this route in December due
to low ridership. I ride this bus every weekday to reach my job. It's
the last leg of my journey from Littleton, which takes two buses and
two trains, a two hour trip. If this bus is discontinued I will be forced
to take the 105 bus and walk half a mile from Central Park. I'm 60,
and the prospect of having to make my way this distance through the
snow fills me with despair. I believe your low ridership numbers are
likely due to the fact that this route is not included in your trip
planner. If a bus driver hadn't known better, I'd be walking three
miles as the trip planner directs me to do.
Also, there are no 89 schedules available at Anschutz Medical Center,
which also prevents riders from accessing the route. Those in
wheelchairs need this route even more than I do!
Don't punish the riders for your own oversights and shortcomings. I
realize your focus us all about the trains these days, but please, have
mercy on those of us who take the 89 bus:

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
125

1

Duncan

Smith

116L

1

Sarah

Ceretto

169L

1

Irma

Ayers

169L

1

Jude

Buemi

169L

1

Shamir

Way

31/51/92

1

Barb

Stephens

31L

1

Melinda

Cuthriell

I saw this sign at Union and 2nd Place. I went to http://www.rtddenver.com/servicechanges-fall2016.shtml and didn't see any
reference to Route 125. Can you please update me on Route 125?
Can you tell me about the opening of the G-Line as well?
I was told you will be getting rid of the 116L this week. The 116L is
the only route that can get me to my job without having to walk 2030 minutes no other bus runs by my work. You cannot get rid of the
116L alot of people rely and depend on that route. If anything it
would be more beneficial for it to run more frequently than it does.
I'm writing to give my comment on the proposed discontinuation of
the 169L at 7:10pm. Without this bus at this specific time, I will not
be able to get to and from my place of work at the airport and could
possibly lose my job. This is why I'm against the discontinuation.
Thank you for reading.
Greetings: I am writing today concerning one of the proposed Winter
service changes....discontinuance of the Rt. 169L southbound trip at
7:10 PM on weekdays. As someone who rides this particular trip I
strongly oppose this change and am writing to urge you to keep this
trip and not discontinue.
To me, this trip seems to have a respectable number of riders. Not
as packed as a 15 or a 15L but what I would consider to be decent
ridership. And, I would like to point out this trip does indeed have
some regular riders.
I do not ride the 169L on weekends and so I cannot comment on the
proposed discontinuance of the southbound trip at 7:10 PM on
weekends. However, I firmly but respectfully ask to keep the 7:10
PM southbound trip on weekdays. Thank you for your consideration
of my comments. Please feel free to contact me if you have any
questions or wish to discuss further.
Hi i am a frequent rider of the 169L it is the most affordable and
fastest way to get the airport where my job is at. My job doesn't
offer rtd discounts so its cheaper to catch the 169L. I wish it had
more 169 L buses because it is very convenient. So please let it
continue to be in operation thank you
I live around 8467 Chase Drive and regularly take advantage of
services between Wadsworth and Sheridan, and 88th and 92nd. I
don't understand and can't agree with your plans to shut down the
services provided by the 31, 51, and 92 in these areas. As a baby
boomer, I expect that you will be encouraging folks my age and
younger to drive LESS in the coming years and to take local buses to
get to regional buses and trains! Installation of the G line did not
reduce the ongoing need for good and regular local bus service in
NW and North Arvada. In my case, with your taking almost all
services away from Harlan & 88th, I will have to walk over a mile
instead of half a mile...or drive, which you will want to discourage as
the years roll on.
Why is the 31l being cancelled. I have to be at work by 6 a.m.
downtown and this is the earliest bus that gets me there. I live in
Westminster and don't own a car. How am I going to get to work if
there is no bus to get me to the park and ride. The 51 doesn't go to
the Light Rail station in Westminster at this time or at a time that I
can take it to get to work. I'm very upset that the 31 is being
cancelled.

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
55L

1

John

Warren

I know that the 55L will be discontinued due to the G line
becoming operational but I was wondering about all the
other routes. I don't see them on your website.

A-Line

1

Snory

Boy

A-Line

1

Curt

A line is the worst experience people have coming to this State to
have fun. TSA employees have stopped using A line because they
can't be late. Many DIA employee's have stopped using A line and
they tell travelers not to use A line.
I've seen several news stories about customer complaints
regarding the A-line and the required horn sounding at
crossings, especially in the Stapleton area near the hotels.
Trains sound their horns to warn people as they approach
an intersection, but as I see it, you have a better warning
system in place with the crossing guards that are present
due to the faulty gate arms. I think a very sound argument
can be made that you have a higher standard for warning at
intersections, with the crossing guards and that the horn
sounding is not necessary. Deaf people can't hear a horn,
but the definitely can see a guard in a reflective vest!
5th time taking to events Downtown. Need more frequency!!! Work
at airport. Sometimes arrive midnight or later.
Will the stop for the Bolt bus at 55th and 119 be back in service this
Saturday October 15 so I can use it to get to work at Celestrial
Seasonings on Saturday.
I do not want to walk over 2 miles to the next stop at 63rd and would
be very happy to have this in use again.
Please reply so I will know if I have to pay somebody for a ride.

B-Line
BOLT

1
1

Susan
Ann
Donna

Treadway
Sharp

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
BOT

1

Andrea

Clark

I’d like to start off by saying that I have had nothing but
great experiences riding the RTD bus to work. The bus
driver that works the BOLT route in the morning is
FANTASTIC. I’m writing today in hopes that you will
strongly consider reinstating the BOLT stop within the
Monarch Business Park near Niwot. I relied heavily on bus
transport during winter months last year as biking to work
(as I typically do in the warmer months) isn’t really an
option. There are several reasons that I believe the stop
should be reinstated, at a minimum during the winter
months.
• as winter storms roll in, walking down the 52 from the
diagonal to work isn’t safe in the least. Cars will
undoubtedly be swerving on ice as I’m walking in the bike
lane down a road that the speed limit is 55mph on.
• there were about 5 people that used the bus on a regular
basis last winter (both to and from work) and I suspect
those same folks need transit to and from the business
park. In addition, there are 3 other people that ride the bus
that work in the business park. Some of them are currently
walking along the train tracks and cutting through a large
field to get to their work. Also, not safe.
• even if you only offered one stop in the morning and one
in the evening, that would be better than nothing. The
BOLT stops at IBM every morning, before it drops me at the
52 and Diagonal and more often than not, there is nobody
on the bus that gets off at IBM. There are several large
businesses in my complex: Lucky’s Market Corporate
Offices, Spark Fun, Case Logic, Crocs to name a few.
• when I leave work, I’m forced to stand on the side of the
diagonal for 10 minutes as cars are whizzing by at 60mph.
Also, not safe.
While I don’t expect that anyone at RTD really cares about
one persons opinion, it’s still really disheartening to think
that the need to save a buck or two by cutting a stop that
was being used is more important than the safety and
livelihood of some good folks who commute every day. I’d
really like to continue to rely on bus transit but if the stop
isn’t reinstated, I’ll be forced to make some financial
decisions that I’m not in a place to make just so that I can
ensure I can get to work safely.

E and F
Lines

1

Jack

Williams

FF

1

Debra

Caamamo

I’d really love to hear back from someone regarding this
stop. I only wish I reached out immediately when the stop
was discontinued… but I just figured I was only one voice.
And that I’d be ignored.
Your E and F lines all need 4th cars. I have been contacting
RTD continuously and getting nowhere. There needs to be a
resolution
I really don't understand why the stop and Broadway & Canyon was
taken out. That is a busy stop with a lot of riders and with that stop
gone there is a great distance between the stops. With bad weather
coming and the distance between those stops it make it hard for
people to want to catch that bus. It would be nice to get that stop
back or another stop put in at Broadway & Arapahoe to make it
more convenient for the riders out this way.

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
FF1/FF3

FF1/FF3

1

1

GS

1

Sti

Sau

Derej

Winkler

Brittany

Holmgren

GS

1

Brittany

Holmgren

GS

1

Brittany

Holmgren

I've been advised to provide my feedback to this email address. I've
been riding the bus (the BF, and now, unfortunately the FF1 and FF3)
for several years, and have never had a problem with it until the "FF"
routes were introduced. Now, unless school is out for Summer or
Winter break, there is only standing room only (if you're lucky
enough to even get on the bus - often times there's not even
standing room left) for FF1 and FF3 buses leaving Union Station at
5:09pm and 5:17pm. I don't usually catch the buses surrounding
these times, but I would be willing to bet they have the same
problem. This has been going on ever since the FF routes were
introduced, yet after personally writing multiple times, and even
seeing others actually writing their complaints while on the bus (you
can see a lot while standing for your ride home), here we are several
months later and nothing has changed. I understand the 90L was
brought back, but that did nothing to address the large number of
passengers leaving Union Station. Being used to riding the BF where
there was very rarely ever a time when passengers would have to
stand, I don't understand why the change to the FF route was made
if this is how people have to ride this bus now. And what is even
more baffling is that nothing has changed to fix it after multiple
people have written to point out the issue and complain to try to get
it fixed. How and when will this issue be fixed?
I noted that the October service changes are planned to
include schedule adjustments to routes FF1 and FF3, which
I ride daily. What I would like to propose is that the
morning trips for these two routes be better spaced to
provide better transfers at Union Station for the many riders
who continue on to the Denver tech center via light rail.
Currently, the FF1 and FF3 busses arrive at almost the
same time, at least those that I see (approximately 6:03
am, at Sheridan station). I run for a train at Union Station
almost every morning, and it would be great if one of these
two routes came just 5 to 10 minutes earlier.
I've been a bus-commuter for nearly 8 years.
Recently I got a new job that involves a different bus. I live in Golden
and most of the time I have been an RTD commuter I have worked in
Golden. And that was fine. Maybe the 16/16L isn't always as
frequent as I would like, but I made it work.
Now I work in Boulder. I'm fortunate enough to work a 9-5 (ish) job.
The GS is simple enough most of the time. But I work weekends, my
job is in an industry where we don't just do Monday-Friday. My
commute more than doubles on the weekend - I have to go into
Denver just to get to Boulder.
I can't socialise with my new coworkers because if I miss the 6pm GS
on weekdays, I have to go into Denver to get home to Golden. On
occasions when I have to work late to finish a time-sensitive project,
I have to go into Denver to get home. Or spend $30-45 on a car
home. On occasions when I have to go in for a mid-day meeting on
my day off, I basically spend my whole day off at work, because since
it takes so long to go into Denver then back out to Golden, I typically
just take the GS and use the extra hours to reorganise my desk or
something.
What I am saying is please expand the hours of the GS. Make it
convenient.
After the 2 hour ride last night from Boulder to Golden, I
was too exhausted to suggest changing the GS to broader
service.
An hour and 45 minutes to get from Golden to Boulder this
morning. Oh wow, if only there were some other way to
get between those two places.

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Suzanne

Argosino

My son told me today of a proposal to stop Call-N-Ride in Highlands
Ranch. Please consider this a formal plea to continue this service for
the following reasons:
1. My son goes to stem school and he is highly dependent on this
ride so he can get picked up safely after school since both my
husband and I work.
2. My son is able to go to Valor school for his after school physical
education activities that is not offered in STEM and because both
and my husband work this is his only way for him get to his class at
Valor at a timely and predicted manner.
3. Losing the Call N Ride will cause a hardship for my son and family
and other families as many students at STEM utilize this service.
I am also very willing to speak in person or via phone at 303-9497685 regarding our concerns should this service is discontinued.

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Autume

Estrada

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Danica

Estrada

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Elaine

Gorton

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Elaine

Gorton

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Joan

Gorton

Hello I am writing in regards to the possible cancellation of the bus
for the highlands ranch call n ride. my two kids and I both live in
south Denver. We use the call and ride from Skyview Academy to
lone tree entertainment district. This helps so that way my kids can
come to my work during my work hours after school. I am concerned
if there is no Call in ride that my kids will have to make the walk from
Skyview Academy to Quebec Street. This would be very hard in the
winter and double as far as timing goes. I'm writing to ask the board
to consider this email. As I am a single parent with two children who
commute 40 miles total per day for school and work. If there are
further questions for feed back please let me know.
Hi this is Danica autume Estrada's youngest daughter I am saying
that that should not do this to the call and ride because it helps me
whith my mom and her job my father is in jail fore bad things and
she has a hard time getting us to hear job and this bus is going to
help us and we go to Skyview academy it's a long way from school
and whith me and my older brother and the grads we are in and all
or books it helps us but we need this to go in to this meeting please
Danica
I am single mother who lives in Highlands Ranch and am a
frequent user of the Call-n-Ride service. This service is
valuable to me and my family and its being discontinued
would be a devastating blow. My kids use it every day to
get back and forth from school and this past summer I also
used for additional needs.
It is a wonderful service and I appreciate the
professionalism of each person that I have interacted with
that make this ride possible.
PLEASE do not discontinue service.
I am single mother who lives in Highlands Ranch and am a
frequent user of the Call-n-Ride service. This service is
valuable to me and my family and its being discontinued
would be a devastating blow. My kids use it every day to
get back and forth from school and this past summer I also
used for additional needs.
It is a wonderful service and I appreciate the
professionalism of each person that I have interacted with
that make this ride possible.
PLEASE do not discontinue service.
Dear sirs, On behalf of my daughter-in-law and her 2
school age children (my grandchildren), I appeal to you to
continue your bus service in Highlands Ranch. My
daughter-in-law is a single Mom who supports her family
with a 9-5 job, M-F. She depends on your service to get
her kids to school and to camp during the summer. In
support of working Moms and education, please consider
continuing your valued service.

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Nina

Ivanichvili

Our family has been greatly saddened by the news that our beloved
RTD Call a Ride bus service in Highlands Ranch will be discontinued
next year.
We respectfully ask you to reconsider this decision, as it will
negatively affect the lives of many residents of Highlands Ranch, and,
especially members of the most vulnerable population, the senior
citizens of Highlands Ranch, CO.
We know that people living in the suburbs often feel isolated. But
this isolation is even more unbearable for people residing in
Highlands Ranch who cannot get anywhere without the excellent
services provided by the drivers of RTD’s Call-n-Ride bus service in
Highlands Ranch.
My parents, refugees from the former Soviet Union, are in their late
70s, and are loyal patrons of the RTD’s Call-n-Ride bus service. They
have been able to get around and to pursue a healthy lifestyle thanks
to the RTD’s Call-n-Ride in Highlands Ranch, CO.
We ask you to remember that your decision to discontinue the RTD’s
Call-n-Ride bus service in Highlands Ranch will change the lives of
many people for the worse.
We would greatly appreciate your continuing this valuable public
service in the years to come.
Please remember that by keeping the Call-n-Ride RTD bus service in
Highlands Ranch alive, you will be bringing more hope, happiness
and joy into the lives of many residents of Highlands Ranchers who
otherwise would be facing the grim reality of isolation and inability
to get anywhere without the RTD’s Call-n-Ride RTD bus service.
We hope that you will vote for keeping the RTD’s Call-n-Ride bus
service in Highlands Ranch alive!

Highlands
Ranch
CnR
Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

LIZZ

Landert

I know people that use this .... it would be a heartship for them if you
discontinued this service in Highlands Ranch..

Bennett

Rutledge

Thank you for the proposal for Discontinuance of Highlands
Ranch Call-and-Ride.
This is not a legitimate function of government, nor
something that should be funded by compulsory tax
payments.
I understand that you are considering discontinuing the Call-N-Ride
service in Highlands Ranch. I urge you to reconsider this.
While I don’t personally live in Highlands Ranch, I have an employee
and her family who use the service regularly and depend upon it.
This is an essential service in a car-dominated part of metro Denver,
and should remain a Call-N-Ride service area for the RTD.
Discontinuance of the service would just exacerbate the “last mile”
problem of urban mass transit in the Denver metro area—a move in
the wrong direction.

1

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Dan

Slack

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Jacquette

Tara

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Sharon

The current RTD proposal to discontinue the Call-N-Ride service in
the Highlands Ranch area has our family very concerned and
troubled. This is a valuable service which we appreciate and value
on a daily basis. A discontinuation of this service will cause undue
stress and conflict for many of us.
Please take my concerns and those of others under sincere
consideration when weighing the pros and cons of this proposal. We
await the decision and sincerely hope it is a favorable one.
Sharon wants to express her opinion on the proposed
schedule change. She does NOT want the Highlands Ranch
call and ride to be elimated. She is a senior and that is vital
for her and the seniors in her area to get around. She can
not attend the meeting tonight. She doesnt have access to
a computer to email her opinion or fax it in. Please re
consider elimating it. Thank you

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
W Line

1

J

Gerondale

I'm concerned about the discontinuance of of Monday –
Friday eastbound rush-hour trips from Federal Center
Station. Your qualification for doing this is "This proposal
would create 15 minute frequency, which is similar to other
light rail lines during rush-hour periods." HOWEVER, all of
the other lines have 3 or 4 cars for each trip and the W line
only has 2 cars. During rush hour the trains are already
packed and one cannot find a seat to sit in. A lot of time it
is a struggle to even get in the car because people are
standing in the entrance/exits because there are no
available seats.

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

2.12.B.b

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters
2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.c

Packet Pg. 49

2.12.B.d

Attachment: Atch D St Andrew and VIA Retirement Community letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

Atch D St Andrew and VIA Retirement Community Letters

UNITED METHODIST CHURCH
Our mission: to inspire spiritual maturity in outwardly focused Christians
who love their neighbors and serve the common good.

October 5, 2016

To RTD Representative and others it may concern:
Although I can't attend this evening's public meeting with RTD representatives, Suzanne
McFarland of Vi at Highlands Ranch tells me that RTD is considering installing bus stops along
South University Boulevard in front of both Vi and St. Andrew. I'm writing this note on St.
Andrew's behalf to voice our support for those new stops. A number of our church members live
at Vi, and a bus line would make it easier for them to be here throughout the week for church
events, bible studies, concerts, and the like.
A stop in front of our church would also enable people from other areas of the Denver
metropolitan area to get here more easily on Sunday mornings and throughout the week. St.
Andrew's church building is extensively used by community groups for art shows, concerts,
public lectures, seminars, and the like, so a bus stop would help us make those events available
to more people.
From our inception, St. Andrew has been dedicated to being a church for all. We place a strong
value on inclusivity, community, and service. Additional bus stops on University Boulevard in
front of the Vi and our church building will help us live out those values. We're grateful for RTD's
consideration of our needs. Please feel free to contact me with any questions or for further
conversation at 303.794.2683 x 153 or adunning@gostandrew.com.
Sincerely,

Andy Dunning
Executive Pastor
St. Andrew United Methodist Church

Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: Atch D St Andrew and VIA Retirement Community letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

2.12.B.d

AT HIGHLANDS RANCH

Staff Schedules

Nursing (24/7 Staffing):
6am -2:30pm
6am-6:30pm
2pm-10:30pm
6pm -6:30am
Maintenance (7 days a week/365 a year):
7am-5:30pm
Housekeeping (7 days a week/365 a year):
7:45am-4:15pm (Monday-Friday)
lpm-9pm (Monday-Friday)
7:4Sam -3:4Spm (Saturday-Sunday)
12am-8:30am (Sunday-Thursday)
Dining (7 days a week/365 a year):
6:30am -3pm
llam-9pm
4pm-9pm

Security (24/7 Staffing):
8:30am-4:30pm
4:30pm -1:00am
12 :05am -8:35am
Concierge (24/7 Staffing):
8:15am-4:30pm
4:15pm-12 :30am
12:15am-8:15am
Valet (7 days a week/365 a year):
6:30am-2pm
7:30am-4pm
2pm -7pm
4pm-9pm

F&B (7 days a week/365 a year):
6am-2:30pm
7am-3:30pm
8am-4:30pm
10am-8:30pm
llam-9pm
lpm-9:30pm
2pm -10:30pm
Spm -10:30pm

Packet Pg. 51

Attch E Douglas County Call-n-Ride Letter

2.12.B.e

~~DOUGLAS COJI~JX

Office of the County Commissioners
www.douglas.co.us

Mr. Tom Tobiassen, Chair
Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Mr. Tobiassen:
The Board of County Commissioners is very concerned about the proposed elimination of the
Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride. With limited service available in the area, it is alarming that the
citizens of Highlands Ranch are potentially losing an affordable transportation service option in
their community.
In a good faith effort, Douglas County entered into a cost sharing agreement with the Highlands
Ranch Metro District (HRMD) and RTD in October 2014 to save this service from elimination.
Douglas County worked closely with a Transit Advisory Committee (TAC) made up of concerned
residents, RTD and HRMD staff to improve ridership. As a result of these efforts, the service
area was adjusted and the TAC participants worked to promote ridership through enhanced
outreach and marketing efforts. In 2015, these efforts increased ridership from 2.0 to 2.4
boardings per hour. In 2016, the ridership continued to increase until the summer months
when students were not utilizing the service for school trips.
It is disheartening that RTD would choose to cut a service that has demonstrated improvement
while ignoring the contribution that Douglas County citizens make to RTD. In 2014, Douglas
County contributed $22,958,456 in sales tax revenue to RTD and in return received $11,341,838
in transit service investment within the County.
If RTD feels that the Call-n-Ride model is not an appropriate service option for the Highlands
Ranch area, we would like to work with RTD staff to identify a ride share alternative using Go
Centennial, for example, as a model. We propose RTD provide a portion of our tax contribution
as seed funding to contract for ride share services in the RTD Highlands Ranch service area. We
believe this option would be more cost effective than the Call-n-Ride model, while addressing
customer needs. In order to maintain service for residents during this transition, we ask that
RTD continue to support the Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride service during the development and
implementation of an alternative option.

David A. Weaver
Commissioner District I

Roger A. Partridge
Commissioner District II

Jill E. Repella
Commissioner District Ill

100 Third Street •Castle Rock, Colorado 80104 • 303.660.7401 • Fax 303.484.4344

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: Atch E Douglas County Call-n-Ride Letter (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

September 19, 2016

2.12.B.e

Feel free to contact any one of us if you have any questions or would like to discuss the service
alternative.
Sincerely,
BOARD OF DOUGLAS COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

BOCC/je/fe

cc: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Dave Genova, RTD General Manager and CEO
Bruce Abel, RTD Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations
Brian Matthews, RTD Special Services Manager
Douglas J. DeBord, Douglas County Manager
Terence T. Quinn, AICP, Director of Community Development

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: Atch E Douglas County Call-n-Ride Letter (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

Mr. Tom Tobiassen, Chair
Regional Transportation District
September 19, 2016
Page 2

2.12.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 13, 2016

From:

Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager,
Rail Operations

GM

Date:

October 12, 2016

Board Meeting Date: October 25, 2016

Subject:

Authorization to enter into contract with
Protran Technology for purchase of Railway
Worker Protection Early Warning System
(16DR0003)

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract not to exceed $1,500,000 with
Protran Technology for the purchase of a Railway Worker Protection Early Warning System and
associated equipment (Contract Number 16DR003).
BACKGROUND:
Railway worker protection has been in the spotlight in recent years brought on by numerous
Maintenance of Wayside worker accidents and fatalities. On December 18, 2013, the NTSB made an
urgent safety recommendation to the FTA to prevent further accidents on rail transit systems. This
recommendation was for the FTA to issue a directive to all transit properties requiring redundant
protection for roadway workers. The District has a solid policy in place incorporating flags and red
signals where feasible to protect workers on the right of way. Our collective opinion is that safety can
be greatly improved. The current policy relies on human beings to remember locations of work parties
and work parties ability to spot the oncoming trains and leave the track before the train passes. There
are numerous factors that erode the effectiveness of this procedure such as time of day, visibility,
weather, operator/worker fatigue and architectural configurations. An early warning system will notify
the train operator and worker well in advance, often before the train is visible to the work party and is
not affected by these environmental factors. Early warning systems are currently the most effective
means of protecting workers in the right of way from trains and would be an essential enhancement to
railway safety all around. This early warning system would not take away any of the current safety
procedures, but would add an additional layer of protection.
The recommended system is an electronic device mounted on all light rail trains that, in conjunction with
the hand-held device carried by any railway workers, will warn both the operator and the worker well in
advance of each other. The system uses radios on both ends and will give a minimum 15 second
warning before the train arrives at the workers location. The workers can then move to a place of safety
before the train’s arrival.
DISSCUSSION:
RTD initially issued an Invitation for Bid (IFB 26DR001) on May 27, 2016 for the acquisition of a railway
worker protection early warning system. RTD received two bids, one of which did not meet our
specifications and one which exceeded our project budget. RTD subsequently issued a Request for
Proposals (RFP 16DR003) on August 19, 2016 with revised specifications for a similar system.

Packet Pg. 54

2.12.C

Evaluative criteria were cost- 50%, conformance with specifications- 30%, history and proven track
record with this equipment- 10%, and quality of references- 10%. RTD’s evaluation committee
consisted of Karl Shoemaker, MOW Senior Supervisor, Track Engineer; Matt Younce, Manager of
Maintenance Training; Greg Pennington, General Superintendent of Rail Infrastructure; and Leo Fautsch,
Senior Buyer.
RTD received two proposals; one from Metrom and one from Protran Technology. The evaluation
committee recommends Protran Technology, the proposer that met our specification and was the only
one within the project budget.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
The cost of the Railway Worker Protection Early Warning System is funded in the Board approved 2016
budget.
ALTERNATIVES:
1. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract not to exceed
$1,500,000 with Protran Technology for purchase of a Railway Worker Protection Early Warning
System and associated equipment (Contract Number 16DR003). This is the recommended
alternative.
2. Do not authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a contract with Protran
Technology to purchase needed Railway Worker Protection Early Warning System. This action
would result in RTD’s inability to improve the safety of its railway workers and risk future
accidents. This is not the recommended action as it would not allow us to improve worker
safety.

Prepared by:
Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager, Rail Operations
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 55

2.12.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

Date:

October 13, 2016

Subject:

Transfer FasTracks Sales and Use Tax
Revenues in Excess of Forecasted Sales and
Use Tax Revenues to FasTracks Internal
Savings Account

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: October 13, 2016
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: October 25, 2016

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve transferring FasTracks sales and use tax revenues (.4%) from unrestricted fund
balance to the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) on an annual basis when actual sales and
use tax revenues (.4%) collected for the calendar year exceed the forecasted sales and use tax
revenues (.4%) projected in the adopted budget each year. The actual sales and use tax revenues
will be determined based on the audited financial statements.
BACKGROUND
During the course of preparing and adopting the Annual Program Evaluation (APE) and Financial Plan,
many meetings with the Board of Directors and stakeholders were held regarding the lack of funds
and use of the FISA to assist in funding shortfalls in FasTracks. Use of the FISA to cover shortfalls
in operations and maintenance was not popular with many of the Board members and stakeholders,
but staff felt it was a necessity due to current revenue forecasts.
DISCUSSION
During meetings with some of the stakeholders, it was suggested that if FasTracks revenue
forecasts improved in the future those excess funds could be directed towards the FISA. Some
stakeholders felt this could evidence continued RTD support for construction of the unfunded
corridors. This action would transfer, on an annual basis, FasTracks sales and use tax revenue in
excess of the forecasted FasTracks sales and use tax revenue to the FISA account. This would only
occur if there was actual revenue collected above the forecast.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This should not have a fiscal impact as any FasTracks sales and use tax actual collections over the
yearly forecasted projections would already be deposited and be used towards the FasTracks program
generally. This action would direct those revenues to the FISA account instead of the unrestricted fund
balance.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. FasTracks sales and use tax revenues in excess of
forecasted revenue will be annually transferred to the FISA account.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Revenues in excess of forecasted revenue will be
retained in the unrestricted fund balance but can still be specifically transferred to the FISA

Packet Pg. 56

2.12.D

account.

Prepared by:
Heather Copp, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 57

