1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, June 18, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Barbara Deadwyler

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Deadwyler called the meeting to order at 6:41 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
6:39 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:42 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Committee Co-Chair

Present
Present

6:38 PM
6:40 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:41 PM
6:41 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:42 PM
6:42 PM
6:39 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:47 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Committee Co-Chair

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:42 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:42 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:41 PM
6:40 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington,
Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, Terry Howerter, Erin Klaas, Doug Macleod,
Brian Matthews, Robin McIntosh, Jr., Barbara McManus, Paula
Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Cal Shankster,
Zamy Silva, Greg Smith, John Tarbert, Mark Tieman

Others Present:

Ed Bush, William Carter, Martell Dyles, Jennifer Eckert, Doug Gragg,
Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Douglas Howey, Gregory Jenifer,
Brian Klatt, Stu Livensparger, Dan Pearsall, Maxine Pryor, Gary Van
Dorn

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

 Civil Rights Division Update
o

Introduction of Civil Rights Interns
Ken Hardin stated that they have been staffing up in the division. He
introduced Zamy Silva as the new Small Business Office Manager. She
comes from the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority out of
Boston; she was a Compliance Officer there and Specialist in
certification. Zamy stated that she is excited to be here; she has heard
that RTD has an exceptional program. She is committed to the Small
Business and DBE program. Zamy stated she will make it a priority to
learn everything that she can and continue the excellent work already in
place.
Ken introduced the two interns that will be working in his department.
Brian Klatt is from the Colorado School of Mines; he is studying Civil
Engineering with an emphasis on structural transportation and
infrastructure. He is working on a special project for RTD putting
together some DBE pieces to focus on what we can do to put DBE in the
right place and be very careful with regards to our goals. The other inter
is William Carter with the University of New Mexico. He runs track and
comes through the Conference of Minority Transportation Officials
organization. His special program this summer will be helping us with
our PRISM software. This is the DBE compliance software and they
expect to have good reports out of the software.

o

Small Business Office North Metro Rail DBE/SBE Update
Kenn stated that the update is in the packet. The North Metro is coming
on board and on May 7 they held an outreach meeting with the project

managers for the project. They had over 240 small businesses attend
the event. It included professional services, construction and other
consulting companies looking for an opportunity on that project. They
expect to release the RFP on July 1st; they are working very hard to put
the requirements together. The pre-bid meeting has been moved to July
8th. They will put on the calendar for the Board. It will be at the Denver
Post Building from 9:00AM-11:00AM. They are planning a DBEAC in
preparation for the North Metro. They are excited about the North Line
opening. They have invited the contractors bidding for the project to
come and listen to the community and hear their thoughts about what
has happened before with RTD projects and what they would like to see
in their proposal with regard to how they think might be a better
opportunity for them on the contract. They want to give suggestions.
Kenn explained that some SBEs think that some of the open houses
should be more concentrated and have an open house just for
professional services vs having an open house where everyone is there.
This way the SBE/DBEs can have their questions answered better. This
has never been done before and staff thinks that it might give an
opportunity for people to think outside of the box and be more creative.
They expect a very good proposal with a lot of opportunity for the
SBE/DBE community.
o

ADA Program Update
Kenn stated that they are working diligently towards putting together an
ADA program and the information is in the packet. This is very complex;
they have ADA programs throughout the District; fixed route, rail,
access-a-Ride and call-n-Ride all do pieces of ADA. It is amazing what
RTD does for the ADA community. There are so many parts and pieces
that happen on a regular basis. He is finalizing the assessment of what
is going on throughout the District and will have the report for the next
meeting in August. We go out to schools and show students with
disabilities how to utilize our services. People with wheel chairs can call
us and we go out to teach them how to use those chairs in our fixed
route systems. People can call and we visit organizations and teach
them how to use their service animals and help them feel comfortable on
the buses. Kenn stated that they are working with a number of
committees that are listed in his report. This is a very large organization
and the number of things we do is amazing but it is just a matter of
coordinating it. They are working diligently to figure out how best to
coordinate these efforts.
Director Folska stated that when she became an SBE there was no place
in the application form for a SBE or DBE. SBE is Small Business
Enterprise and DBE is Disadvantage Business Enterprise. She asked if
they can provide the number of the SBEs that are in system and that are
owned by people with disabilities. Kenn stated that at this point they
have not done a survey with regard to disabled business owners. Kenn
thinks the number would be fairly small. He is familiar with two
companies that attend the meetings regularly; one is a painting company
the other one is a construction company. Director Folska stated that it
would be good if there was a line that was optional for people to disclose

that they are a SBE/DBE operated by a person with disability and the
type of disability too. She mentions this because RTD has a third party
in Minnesota that sends out the job opportunities, so now they have to
go through this place in Minnesota and pay $10.00 for the privilege of
printing it. It is not even accessible. She finds this is an opportunity to
improve the process and make it available for people with disabilities.
She also encourages actively recruiting business that are owned by
people with disabilities. Kenn stated that they are making some changes
in the SBE application. The DBE however, is a federal application and we
don’t control. He will bring this up with his DBE counterparts.
GM Washington stated that one of the things they will do is to check
with our legal department to see what kind of vulnerability we would
have if that disabled contract did not get a contract. GM Washington
also mentioned that on the DBE piece, he believes that there is a disable
veteran box that they can check. There is also a percentage rating on
disability that gives some advantages and that is VA determined. Zamy
stated that with the DBE application itself, they have to be very careful
because the federal government gives us the application the way it is
and it is based on social and economic disadvantages. If someone is not
a minority or a woman that fall into that category of social and economic
disadvantage, they have to prove how they are disadvantaged. Director
Folska stated that the Department of Labor and President Obama have
stated that anybody receiving federal funding, and especially any
government agency, needs to make hiring people with disabilities a
priority. They are not looking for a large number, about 2-3%. As she
has said before, in order for them to count they need to be counted.
Director Sisk applauds Kenn and the group for the think tank. He
suggests putting it on a DVD and distributing it for people that might not
be able to attend. Kenn said we can put it on Facebook. Director Sisk
also suggested having people that have been successful working with
RTD to come and share their ideas.
Director Deadwyler stated that she attended the North Metro outreach
event with Directors Hoy and Lubow. She thanked Kenn and the staff
because it was very well organized and attended. The message for both
the prime contractor and DBEs was very stern and clear on what the
expectations are.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 13, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Co-Chair Deadwyler adjourned the meeting at 7:03 p.m. to the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

