1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

AGENDA
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, June 18, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Barbara Deadwyler

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Updates


Civil Rights Division Update
o Introduction of Civil Rights Interns
o Small Business Office North Metro Rail DBE/SBE Update
o ADA Program Update

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - August 13, 2013
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:

 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.a.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: June 13, 2013

From:

Kenn Hardin, Senior Manager, Civil Rights
Division

GM

Date:

June 13, 2013

Board Meeting Date: June 18, 2013

Subject:

Civil Rights Division Update

Information

ATTACHMENTS:


Civil Rights Division Update

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Adrina Gibson, DBE/SBE Compliance Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.a.1.a

Civil Rights Board Committee Meeting- June 18, 2003

Civil Rights Board Committee Meeting- June 18, 2013

N. Metro Rail Line DBE/SBE Opportunity
Meeting
-

Took place May 7, 2013 at the Denver
Post Auditorium
240 Construction, Professional Services
and Consulting companies attended
Several small businesses submitted
Capability Statements and company
contact information

General Project Information
-

RFP release date set for no later than July
1, 2013
Pre-Bid Meeting July 9, 2013 located in
the Denver Post Auditorium

Small & Disadvantaged Business Advisory Council (S/DBEAC) *N. Metro Focus* Meeting
-

June 25, 2013 from 12:00-2:00 pm at RTD Blake T&D Conference Room
“Think Tank” to voice opinions on how primes can provide opportunities to the community
Associations, organization, chambers and potential primes to discuss soliciting opportunities,
project components and packages

Potential Prime Contractor Open Houses
-

RTD is encouraging potential prime contractors after the release of the RFP to conduct
individual DBE/SBE open houses to partner and discuss opportunities

ADA Program Update
- Ongoing Program Development
o Developing program goals, objectives and inventory
-

-

District Wide Assessment
o Conducting inventory of RTD’s current ADA activities
ADA Advisory Board & Committees
Page 1 of 3
Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: Civil Rights Division Update (1618 : Civil Rights Division Update)

North Metro Rail Line DBE/SBE Update

1.C.a.1.a

Civil Rights Board Committee Meeting- June 18, 2003
RTD State of ADA Report Overview
RTD has activities throughout the organization that provides myriad of services internal and external to our ADA
community. Below is an overview of the “RTD State of ADA Report” to come from the Civil Rights Division at our next
Board meeting, August 13, 2013.

-

Fixed Route
Rail
Access-a-Ride
Call-n-Ride

Demographic Profile of RTD Disabled Passengers
In the 2011 Bus and Light Rail customer satisfaction surveys, customers self-identified as disabled in several different
ways and based on a data obtained our disabled customers are proportioned in the following services:
100% Access-a-Ride
5% Fixed Route
9% Bus Passengers
4% Light Rail
RTD Internal Programs
ADA Public Communication- This is how RTD communicates with the public about ADA. It incorporates Marketing and
Information Technology to deliver compliance and other ADA information both internal and external to the organization.
Capital Programs – Ensures all new construction and modifications made to existing transit infrastructure adheres to the
current ADA Standards for Accessible Design.
Service Development – Manages service development issues and impacts of service changes on disabled community.
Technology and Communication – Builds and maintains accessibility tools through technology for the disabled
community.
Marketing – Creates and develops imaging and branding for messaging to the disabled community. Marketing works
with all Technology and Public Communication to ensure consistency of access to RTD through the RTD website and
specially designed campaigns.
Operations – Proactively assist disabled customers to ensure excellence in service from RTD operators with each service
experience.
-Operator Training
-Special Policies/Awareness:
Securement Area, Service Dogs
Outreach Program
Teaches people how to use fixed-route services
Snow Removal Program
What to do if you miss your bus or stop
Visit schools to work with disabled students
Established relationships with many organizations and rehabilitation centers and hospitals to reach out
to disabled individuals and help them use RTD services.
Page 2 of 3
Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: Civil Rights Division Update (1618 : Civil Rights Division Update)

RTD’s Family of Services Serving the External Disabled Community

1.C.a.1.a

Civil Rights Board Committee Meeting- June 18, 2003
-Additional Services will be discussed in the full RTD State of ADA Report.
Advisory Boards and Committees

-

ADA Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC)
o This Committee was established to act in an advisory capacity for the ADA Paratransit Implementation
Plan, the initial blueprint for RTD’s current paratransit service. The Committee was composed of
representatives from both the disabled and non-disabled communities, as well as from various service
agencies working with people with disabilities. They were very instrumental in providing RTD with the
proper guidelines for service while maintaining compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.

-

ADAAC - American with Disabilities Act Advisory Committee
o This group convenes once a quarter to address ADA related matters associated with the District. The
membership consists of various RTD staff and members of the public who represent citizens with
disabilities.

-

DRMAC- Denver Regional Mobility Access Council
o This Committee works with for organizations and facilities that work with people who have disabilities
and are trying to develop safe and effective ways for their clients to use fixed routes.

-

CAD/AVL Project Committee
o For the CAD/AVL project, IT has involved with the disabled community in configuration of the
Automatic Stop Announcement (ASA) system. The opening meetings with representatives of
disabled community were held in November 2009. All the volunteers for this Committee were from
the blind community. The group had input into vendor selection. The initial meetings were to solicit
feedback on requirements for the ASA system. This group has been actively involved in reviewing
ASA requirements and during vendor selection received a demonstration from the preferred vendor.
They are still very involved on the Committee and the system should be deployed in September
2013

Page 3 of 3
Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: Civil Rights Division Update (1618 : Civil Rights Division Update)

Within RTD ADA activities throughout the organization, a number of Advisory Boards and Committees have been
established to either inform the ADA community of services and opportunities available at RTD or to solicit input on
changes to service or products that RTD is considering to enhance services provided to the ADA community.

