Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on April 2, 2007
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

April 8, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting held
on April 2, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D

***
Committee Members
Present:
Dave Ruchman, Chair; Noel Busck, Vice-Chair, Bruce Daly, Lee
Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, Barbara
Yamrick (via teleconference)
Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Susan Altes, Bill Sirois, Bill Van Meter,
John Shonsey, Rick Clarke, Stan Szabelak, David Krutsinger,
Jerry Nery, Pauletta Tonilas, Sherry Ellebracht, Errol Stevens,
Steve Pilon, Andy Mutz, Chuck Culig, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn, Jeff Leib, Greg Walker, Marion Combes, Bob
Wilson, Doug Ryan, Larry Warner
***

Call to Order:

Vice-Chair Busck called the meeting to order at 5:04 p.m.

I. Updates

I-225 EA/PE RFP – Larry Warner, Contractor, gave this update.
He
introduced the I-225 team. Chuck Culig, David Krutsinger, Marion Combes,
and Julie Skeen make up the team along with Larry Warner. Last week a
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between CDOT and RTD was signed
that will allow RTD to move forward with the I-225 project. The following
conditions were agreed to in the memorandum; CDOT will be a partner with
RTD in the study and participate in the consultant evaluation process, the
study will not preclude an eight lane typical section on I-225 where transit is
proposed (in the median), RTD and CDOT will agree to modify the scope of
work if managed (toll) lanes or 8 lanes on I-225 moves forward, a MOA
would be requires prior to issuing the Request for Proposal (RFP) for
consultant services and an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between
CDOT and RTD would be executed prior to RTD providing a Notice to
Proceed (NTP) to the selected consultant. This IGA would require Board
approval.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on April 2, 2007
Page 2 of 5

Director McMullen asked about the process and if there was any way that
CDOT could override the transit plan if there is a push for 8 lanes. Larry
Warner stated that the transit must be designed so that it doesn’t conflict
with an eight lane highway.
Director McMullen also expressed the concerns of the community about
being the final corridor in FasTracks and will there be anything left for the
project. Larry Warner agreed that the team is hearing those concerns as
well.
CDOT will be a partner and FHWA will be the lead federal agency for the
study due to the transit alignment being in the I-225 right of way for a
portion of the alignment. The team is not expecting any Federal Transit
Authority (FTA) funds for this study. There is a meeting set for April 10,
2007 between RTD, CDOT, FHWA, and FTA to make sure that all parties
are on the same page.
A Draft Scope of Work has been distributed both internally and externally
(CDOT, City of Aurora) for comment. The Scope of Work is for an
Environmental Assessment (EA) rather than an EIS. Larry Warner believes
that the EA will save the District money and make up time in the project
schedule. The team will be starting from the MIS and ¾ study basis as far
as the preferred alternative.
The team is interested in using design-build for the project. The team will
seek Board approval after the draft EA is completed regarding the
implementation of the program. If something changes during the EA process
and design-build is off the table, the program would most likely go to designbid-build.
The evaluation criteria for the RFP is as follows; 1) Experience of the firm(s)
and individuals proposed for key positions, 2) Understanding of corridor
concepts and issues, 3) Public involvement approach, and 4) Commitment to
Meeting SBE Participation. The SBE goal will be set by RTD’s DBE office.
Larry Warner said that the team hopes to advertise the RFP by the end of
April 2007. The team would like to have approval from the Board in June of
2007. The consultants have been waiting for this RFP and the I-225 team
has met with five teams and they are all well qualified. Larry Warner would
like to award the contract and give a Notice to Proceed (NTP) in August of
2007. Then the goal is to complete the EA and PE efforts in November of
2009 and then have revenue service begin in June of 2015.
Director Yamrick asked about involvement with the CU Medical Center and
Larry Warner said they are actively involved in discussions.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on April 2, 2007
Page 3 of 5

Director Ruchman asked about the SBE/DBE goal and asked why it was only
a SBE goal and not a DBE goal. Because there are no federal funds involved,
the District can use SBEs as well.
II. Sustainability Update - Stan Szabelak, Engineering Project Manager, gave a
presentation on the District’s progress in regards to the Sustainability Policy that
was passed by the Board in October 2006. A copy of this presentation is
available for viewing in the Planning and Development Meeting Minutes Notebook.
The Sustainability Goals for 2007 were reviewed. Staff agreed to return with an
update and review of RTD’s sustainability efforts district wide.
III. Recommended Action
 Acquisition of Right of Way Adjacent to the Consolidated Main Line for Light
Rail as Part of the Denver Union Station Intermodal – Liz Rao, Assistant
General Manager, Planning and Development presented this action item. This
is part of the DUS development plan for light rail at the CML. In order for
that to happen, RTD needs to purchase the property at 17th Street. Staff is
asking that the Committee recommend the purchase following an Executive
Session at the April 17, 2007 Board Meeting. The appraisal has been
received and has not been reviewed. This will be discussed in the Executive
Session.
Director Pulliam objected to the references of light rail in the recommended
action as this decision has not been finalized. Cal Marsella said that the
action can be amended to remove references to light rail.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors discuss a recommendation for acquisition of property
at the 17th Street and Consolidated Main Line at the Executive Session of
April Board meeting subject to a firm market appraisal (to be received
shortly) and a confidential discussion on the price of the offer at the time.
Motion: Director McMullen made a
motion to forward this item to
Executive Session at the April
17, 2007 Board Meeting.
Second: Director Busck seconded the
motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
IV. Updates Continued
a. Sustainability Update – Errol Stevens, Senior Manager Property Management
talked about work that staff is doing to implement some sustainability
options. Staff has been working for several months with an organization

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on April 2, 2007
Page 4 of 5

called Rebuild Colorado that provides technical assistance to agencies and
business that want to save energy. They do an energy audit, through a
competitive process the District selects a firm that provides analysis,
research, recommendations, and financing based upon projected savings and
they make the investment and improvements to your facilities. There is no
upfront cost to the District; the improvements can be paid out of savings in
energy costs. RTD staff feels they will be ready to issue the RTP in about
60 days. This will get the attention of several national companies. This
would address all the energy consuming devices in the District’s facilities;
lights, motors, lighting in park-n-rides, HVAC, etc. Advanced Lighting and
Energy Solutions (a company that works with Xcel) did an audit of lighting
at all RTD facilities. This company can guarantee equal or better lighting
and save the District six million kilowatts of electricity a year. This would
result in $200,000 in rebates from Xcel and save $430,000 a year in energy
savings. The company would finance the project through the rebates and
two years of savings. Staff would like to broaden this to all energy
consuming devices and save the District more money without any upfront
cost to the District.
b. RTD/Xcel Sustainability Presentation by Doug Ryan of Xcel Energy – Doug
Ryan of Xcel Energy gave a presentation on ways they can help the District
save energy and save money. This covered many different areas from
lighting to HVAC.
c. County Line Station – Andy Mutz gave this update. He distributed a
handout containing drawings and aerial photos of the site. An agreement
was reached in December of 2006 for a bridge from the County Line Station
to Park Meadows property so patrons can access the mall. The bridge will
be paid for out of TREX contingency funds. The District put out a RFP for
design services and received eight proposals in January. Parametrix
consulting was chosen as the design consultant. There is a six month
design window and a six month construction window. RTD is responsible
for the bridge and touchdown. The City of Lone Tree will fund the design
and construction of the sidewalk from the bridge to the mall.
Directors McMullen expressed concerns with the proposed walkway from
the bridge leading into the mall. He feels the route is circuitous and most
patrons will walk directly across the parking lot into the mall.
Director Kinton expressed concern with the design of the sidewalk. He is
concerned that the public will see this planning as RTD’s design rather than
the wishes of the mall ownership. Liz Rao stressed that what people do
once they get off the bridge from the light rail station is their own choice.
Director Kinton expressed concern about negative press.
Director Kemp expressed his displeasure with the pedestrian walkway and
worried about winter maintenance and access for the disabled.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on April 2, 2007
Page 5 of 5

Andy Mutz stressed the positives of the project and that after many years of
negotiation, there is progress with the mall ownership to get the bridge built.
d. University Station Rezoning Update – Errol Stevens gave this update. First
reading on the rezoning was to occur on April 2, 2007. Thirty days from
that date, the public hearing will be held on this rezoning. There has been a
lot of discussion about the usage and Errol Stevens distributed a chart
showing the different uses that will be available to the site after the rezoning
is approved.
Liz Rao said that the City and County of Denver has said that if any
development occurs that the community would like to have certain
conditions met. The building height has limitations and access can’t be
restricted anymore than RTD allows and the developer has to set up a 24
hour telephone line for complaints, a sidewalk must be built and landscaping
must be similar to other properties in the area.
Chair Ruchman asked for an update if anything important comes out of the
zoning meeting.
e. West Corridor Rail Removal and Salvage Amendment to CM/GC – John
Shonsey gave this update. There are old rail lines on the West Corridor
route that must be removed just west of Knox Court to north of Sixth
Avenue (5.7 miles). The CM/GC is accepting proposals from two separate
DBE firms that specialize in this kind of work. The proposals will include
removing the rail and the tiles and reimbursing the District for the salvage
cost of the rail. This is in preparation for utility relocation on the West
Corridor. There will be a groundbreaking ceremony held (tentatively
scheduled for May 3, 2007) to commemorate the beginning of West
Corridor construction.
Director Ruchman asked why only two bids were accepted and John
Shonsey responded that CM/GC wanted to exercise part of the DBE portion
of their contract.
V.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development
Committee will be determined at a later date due to potential conflicts on
May 7, 2007.

VI.

Adjournment - There being no objection, Chairman Ruchman adjourned the
meeting at 7:01 p.m.

