1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

AGENDA
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, October 21, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Angie Rivera-Malpiede

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy
C. Updates

• ADA Update
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - December 9, 2014
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

Date:

October 16, 2014

Subject:

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate
Burden Policy

Assistant

Date: October 16, 2014
General

GM
Board Meeting Date: October 28, 2014

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Civil Rights Committee that the RTD Board of Directors approve the
implementation of the Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy.
BACKGROUND
Per Section 12 of the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Master Agreement, RTD must comply with
49 CFR part 21 and FTA Circular 4702.1B, which effectuates Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
(Title VI) and Executive Order 12898 “Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority and
Low-Income Populations.” Title VI and Environmental Justice essentially prohibit recipients of federal
financial assistance (grants, loans, land, etc...) from discriminating on the basis of race, color, national
origin and low—income status. Accordingly, RTD is committed to the administration of an equitable
mass transit system, with a specific interest in the impacts absorbed by minority and low-income
populations.
In pursuit of equitable transit, FTA Circular 4702.1B requires the completion of an equity analysis for all
fare changes. Through the equity analysis, RTD will evaluate fare changes for adverse effects that may
disproportionately impact minority or low-income populations. The FTA further requires that RTD develop
a Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy that will guide RTD in analyzing fare changes
for equity.
DISCUSSION
This policy establishes a statistical threshold to determine whether minority and low-income riders are
disproportionately impacted by the adverse effects of a proposed fare change. RTD has established
threshold of 5%. Thus the difference in the adverse effects absorbed by minority and low-income
persons as a result of any fare change or the average of multiple fare changes shall not be greater than
or less than 5% of impacts absorbed by the overall ridership (see full policy for details).
As RTD proceeds with the Fare Study, this policy is needed to ensure recommended alternative fare
policies are equitable in accordance with FTA requirements.
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
The FTA also requires that this policy be established through the public decision-making process.
Accordingly, RTD solicited feedback on the threshold during the Fare Study Problem Identification phase.
During this phase RTD sought feedback on the proposed threshold from Local Governments,
Transportation Management Associations/ Organizations (TMAs/TMOs), non-profit organizations and
community based organizations through a series of focus group style discussions. We also provided the
general public with opportunities to comment via the RTD website, phone and six public meetings held
throughout the district.

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

Generally, participants asked questions about the manner in which the threshold would be applied in an
equity analysis rather than commenting on the 5% threshold. Participants seemed more interested in
fare affordability and access to discounted fare media in the context of equity. Overall, reactions to the
proposed threshold and RTD’s philosophy on equity were positive.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The approval of this policy doesn’t result in a financial impact.
ALTERNATIVES
1) Approve the Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy, achieving compliance with
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and secure current and future federal funding.
2) Delay the approval of the Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy and jeopardize
current and future federal funding.
3) Reject the approval of the Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy and jeopardize
current and future federal funding.
ATTACHMENTS:


Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final)

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Mike Washington, Title VI Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

Fare Disparate Impact and
Disproportionate Burden Policy
As a recipient of federal financial assistance, the Regional Transportation District (RTD) is
required to comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Executive Order 12898
“Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income
Populations” (Environmental Justice). Title VI and Environmental Justice require that federal
recipients administer all of their programs and initiatives without regard to race, color, national
origin and low-income status.
The purpose of this policy is to establish specific measures to avoid and mitigate
disproportionate impacts absorbed by minority and low-income populations with respect to
fare changes.

Definitions
The definition of each key term used in this policy is as follows:
Disparate Impact: a percentage of adverse effects absorbed by minority persons that is
considered to be significantly disproportionate.
Disproportionate Burden: a percentage of adverse effects absorbed by low-income persons
that is considered to be significantly disproportionate.
Fare Media: a form of payment for transit service (i.e. cash fare, monthly pass, etc...).
Fare Change: an increase in the price of fare media, decrease in the price of fare media,
creation of new fare media or the discontinuance of existing fare media.
Low-income Person: a person whose median household income is at or below 150% of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Poverty Guidelines. The HHS Poverty
Guidelines can be viewed at http://aspe.hhs.gov/poverty/index.cfm.

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Page 1
Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

1.B.1.a

Minority Persons include the following:
(1) American Indian and Alaska Native, which refers to people having origins in any of the
original peoples of North and South America (including Central America), and who
maintain tribal affiliation or community attachment.
(2) Asian, which refers to people having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far
East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian subcontinent including, for example, Cambodia,
China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and
Vietnam.
(3) Black or African American, which refers to people having origins in any of the Black
racial groups of Africa.
(4) Hispanic or Latino, which includes persons of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or
Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race.
(5) Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, which refers to people having origins in any of
the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands.
Substantial Legitimate Justification: evidence that a policy/policy change is necessary to meet
a goal that is legitimate, important, and integral to RTD’s institutional mission and business
requirements (e.g. farebox recovery ratio policy).

Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Circular 4702.1B outlines Title VI and Environmental
Justice requirements pertaining to fare changes. Specifically, the circular requires recipients of
federal funds to establish a disparate impact and disproportionate burden policy. This policy
must establish a statistical threshold to determine whether minority and low-income riders
are disproportionately impacted by the adverse effects of a change between an existing
fare and a proposed fare.
Pursuant to this requirement, the RTD threshold indicating a disparate impact or
disproportionate burden shall be set to +/-5%. Thus the difference in the adverse effects
absorbed by minority and low-income persons as a result of any fare change or the average of
multiple fare changes, shall not be greater than or less than 5% of impacts absorbed by the
overall ridership.
Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Page 2
Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

1.B.1.a

Prior to establishing this threshold, RTD reviewed the thresholds established by peer transit
agencies, as well as FTA partiality to trending thresholds. Based on this review, other transit
agencies and the FTA tend to prefer the more conservative threshold of 5%. See Appendix A to
view thresholds established by other transit agencies.
Every proposed fare change shall undergo an Equity Analysis using this threshold to identify
disparate impacts and disproportionate burdens during the planning stage. An Equity Analysis is
a comparative analysis used to ensure that each proposed fare change has the least
discriminatory effect while still fulfilling RTD’s business requirements. This analysis is primarily
dependent upon customer satisfaction survey results that detail the use of fare media on a
demographic basis (e.g. race, income, etc…). See Appendix B for an example of how an equity
analysis uses the policy to evaluate a fare change for a Disparate Impact and Disproportionate
Burden.
In the event a fare change proposal results in a disparate impact or disproportionate burden,
RTD will examine alternatives in an attempt to avoid, minimize and mitigate the discriminatory
results of the initial proposal. If after the revision of the proposal a disparate impact or
disproportionate burden still exists, the equity analysis must demonstrate that the proposed
fare change is the least discriminatory option and there is a substantial legitimate justification
for the proposal (see the decision tree in Appendix C). Each proposed fare change will be
accompanied by a summary of an equity analysis for the RTD Board of Directors’ awareness,
consideration and approval.

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Page 3
Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

1.B.1.a

Appendix A
Peer Review

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

1.B.1.a

Page A- 1

Packet Pg. 8

In the examination of the Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy requirement,
peer transit agencies were examined as well to identify trends in establishment of the statistical
threshold. Thresholds ranging from 0% to 20% were observed in nationwide inquires. Though a
large range of threshold percentages were identified, the most commonly observed thresholds
were established at 10% or less. Depicted in the table below are the percentage thresholds
established by other transit agencies nationwide.

Transit Agency

Thresholds

Washington Metropolitan Area
Transit Authority (Washington D.C.)

5%

L.A. Metro (Los Angeles, CA)
Capital Metro (Austin, TX)
Sacramento Regional Transportation
Authority (Sacramento, CA)
San Francisco Municipal
Transportation Agency (SFMTA)
Valley Metro Transit (Phoenix, AZ)
Orange County Transportation
Authority (Orange County, CA)
Southeastern Pennsylvania
Transportation Authority SEPTA
New York City Transit and
Metropolitan Transit Authority Bus

5% absolute change
(10% differential)
2%
20%
5%
4%
10%
5%
5%

The above thresholds suggest a pattern of transit agencies moving toward a common threshold.
Further, some agencies were interviewed to obtain a more detailed understanding of the FTA’s
response to their established threshold(s). Although the FTA has yet to provide a formal and
acceptable statistical differential for transit agencies, the evidence suggests that the FTA has
shown a general preference for a threshold of 5% or less. This percentage more closely
resembles the use of the statistical significance principle. Statistical significance refers to
whether any differences observed between groups being studied are "real" or simply due to
chance. While this principle doesn’t fit squarely into the context of measuring equity in transit,
it serves as a basic framework for determining disparate impacts and disproportionate burdens.
Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Page A- 2
Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

1.B.1.a

Appendix B
Equity Analysis
Example

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

1.B.1.a

Page B- 1

Packet Pg. 10

As an example, assume a fare increase on 10-Ride Ticket Books was proposed. RTD would have
to examine the percentage of minorities and low-income populations using 10-Ride Ticket
Books, compared to the percentage of the overall population that utilizes the 10-Ride Ticket
Books.
Fare Media Type
10-Ride Ticket Books

Minority
Ridership
45%

Demographics
Low-Income
Ridership
40%

Overall
Ridership
38%

The table above illustrates the percentage at which 10-Ride Ticket Books are used on a
demographic basis, comparing minority and low-income populations with the overall
population. Figure - 1 illustrates the use of this information to identify a Disparate Impact or
Disproportionate Burden using the +/-5% threshold.

Figure - 1

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Page B- 2
Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

1.B.1.a

The example chart above clearly reveals the existence of a disparate impact resulting from the
proposed fare change, as minority populations will absorb greater than 5% of the effects
absorbed by the overall population. Yet there is not a disproportionate burden since the effects
absorbed by low-income populations is less than 5% of the effects absorbed by the overall
population.

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Page B- 3
Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

1.B.1.a

Appendix C
Policy Decision Tree

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

1.B.1.a

Page C - 1

Packet Pg. 13

Potential Disparate Impact /
Disproportionate Burden?

Yes
No
Take actions to avoid, minimize and
mitigate
(Revise Proposal)

Analysis Complete

Analyze Changes for Disparate Impact /
Disproportionate Burden

Potential Disparate Impact /
Disproportionate Burden?

Yes

No

Is there a Substantial Legitimate Justification for the
proposal? Is the proposal the least discriminatory
alternative?

Analysis
Complete

Yes (answer to both
questions)

No (answer to either question)

Analysis Complete

Revise Proposal due to possible Title
VI violation
Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Page C - 2
Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

1.B.1.a

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 16, 2014

From:

Kenn Hardin, Senior Manager, Civil Rights
Division

GM

Date:

October 16, 2014

Board Meeting Date: October 21, 2014

Subject:

ADA Update

Information

ATTACHMENTS:


Board Report Update 10-21-2014(PDF)

Prepared by:
Adrina Gibson, DBE/SBE Compliance Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 15

1.C.1.a

RTD Board Meeting
Civil Rights Committee: ADA Update
October 21, 2014
1. General
o Position Creation- ADA Coordinator
(Civil Rights)

o Position Creation- ADA Liaison Officer
(Fixed Bus Route and Paratransit Contracted
Services)
2. Communications:
o RTD ADA Advisory Council (ADAAC) Meetings
 Scheduled for November 2014
 Coordinates with RTD internal departments, citizens, organizations and
associations
o RTD & Denver Regional Mobility Access Council (DRMAC) Meetings
 1st Wednesday of each month
 Collaborates with DRMAC, municipalities, citizens and organizations
o ADA Marketing
 Frequently partners with marketing on public and internal sign design and
display
3. Compliance:
o Collaborated with FTA Officer, Rebecca Tanrath on ADA Program requirements
o FTA Triennial Review ADA Audit was a success
 RTD had 0 findings
o ADA Policy revisions completed March 2014
4. Training:
o ADA Refresher Training
 Conducted April- July 2014
 Purpose was to inform and educate RTD staff about the ADA policy revisions
 50% of RTD employees has received training (inclusive of drivers, dispatch
and street supervisors)
o ADA Refresher Training
 Next training will take place in 2015

Page 1 of 1
Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Board Report Update 10-21-2014 (2111 : ADA Update)

o Position Creation- ADA Liaison Officer
(Bus Operations)

