Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
December 18, 2018 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Special Recognition
TSA Gold Standard Award

V.

Retiree Awards
Randy Bachicha - Track Maintainer – 33 years
Roxanna Erdman - Supervisor of Service Monitoring - 33 years
Karl Moritz - Payroll Practitioner - 28 years
Michael Scott - Parts Clerk - 34 years
Fred Stewart - Signal & Power Maintainer - 16 years
Mary Ann Wolkensdorfer - Light Rail Train Operator - 24 years
Paul Wurmlinger - Bus Operator - 25 years
William Wysocki - General Repair Mechanic - 19 years

VI.

Proclamations
Approval of Proclamation for Lorraine Anderson
Approval of Proclamation for Ernest Archuleta
Approval of Proclamation for Barbara Deadwyler
Approval of Proclamation for Larry Hoy
Approval of Proclamation for Charles Sisk
Approval of Proclamation for Paul Solano

VII.

Public Participation

VIII.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker

IX.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

X.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 27, 2018

XI.

Chair's Report

XII.

General Manager's Report

XIII.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Annual Audit Plan 2019
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached Annual Audit Plan for 2019.
This meets the General Manager’s Core Goals:
Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
B.
Approval of ERP Licenses
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract to Workday for licenses for the ERP Replacement Program
– Phase2 (Human Capital Management and Payroll) for an amount not to exceed
$2,700,000 over 5 years. RTD will be utilizing the City and County of Denver’s
contract with Workday. Subscriptions for the ERP Replacement Program – Phase 2 will
be paid annually.
General Manager Goals:
 Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
 Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
 Task Goal #2 – Workforce and Human Capital

C.
Approval of Plan Changes to the Salaried Employee's Pension Plan
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached Amendment No. 3 regarding plan changes recommended
by the Salaried Employee Pension Trustees.
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management, Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability, and
Task Goal #2 – Workforce and Human Capital

XIV. Recommended Action
A.
Approval of 15L Route Improvements Contract
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to execute the contract for the 15L Route Improvements with
Jalisco International, Inc. in the dollar amount of $8,690,000.00, subject to evaluating the
bid for being responsive and responsible, and Colorado Department of Transportation
approval (CDOT). Funding for this contract is included in the 2019 Adopted Budget for
the Colfax Transit Improvements project. Any changes to the contract amount and
performance will be made in compliance with the RTD Procurement Manual and
agreements governing the Grant funds.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goal - Core Goal #1:
Successful Delivery of Transit Services.
B.
Approval of Contract Extension and Increase for Jacobs Engineering for FasTracks
Program Support Consulting Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment
to Jacobs Engineering for Program Support Consulting Services (PSC) for FasTracks, to
extend the contract completion date from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020,
and to increase the contract not-to-exceed amount by $1,200,000 to a total of
$192,623,336. Funding for this contract is included in the 2019 Adopted Budget for the
FasTracks capital program in the specific projects where Program Support Consulting
(PSC) support would be utilized.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goal - Core Goal #1:
Successful Delivery of Transit Services.
C.
Approval of increased Contract Authorization to Front Range Systems Consultants
(FRSC) for FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to

FRSC to extend the contract completion date from December 31, 2018 to December 31,
2019, and increase the total contract amount by $1,743,739, for a total contract
authorization of $72,726,498. Funding for this scope is included in the 2019 Adopted
Budget for the FasTracks capital program in the specific projects where FRSC support
would be utilized.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goal - Core Goal #1:
Successful Delivery of Transit Services.
D.
Authorization for Acquisition of Property for the North Metro Maintenance Facility
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying certain
properties as necessary for the North Metro Maintenance Facility and authorize staff to
proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 Goal – Task Goal #1 –
Successful Delivery of Transit Services
E.
Purchase 14 45 foot Ultra-Low-Sulfur Diesel Intercity Flatiron Flyer Buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to authorize the purchase of
fourteen (14) new forty-five foot (45’) intercity buses for Flatiron Flyer services from
Motor Coach Industries for a price not to exceed $634,715.17 each and one (1) spare
engine and after-treatment for $47,987.
The total cost for the contract is
$8,933,999.38.
General Manager’s Goals:
Core Task Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services.
F.
Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG for 2019
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD financial support and expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool
program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2019 and
shall be in an amount not to exceed $780,000.
General Manager’s Goal:
Task Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services.

XV.

Executive Session

XVI. Old Business
XVII. New Business
XVIII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

