Dec 18 2018
Board of Directors Board Meeting
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
I now call to order the Tuesday, December 18, 2018 meeting of the RTD Board of Directors. The
record will reflect that we are convened in conference rooms R, T, and D as of 5:34 PM
Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully request everyone at this time, please, to silence
your phones and other electronic devices. And please, also note, for the sake of the record, I
advise you that this meeting is being video and audio recorded.
Now in a moment, we're going to ask you all to rise. And tonight, for our Pledge of Allegiance,
we are doubly blessed. We are privileged to be joined by the members of the RTD Color Guard
and by scouts from Boy Scout Troop 870 from Highlands Ranch, Colorado, located in my own
district, District H. We will ask the Color Guard to present the colors first after which the scouts
will lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance. And as the Color Guard enters, we will ask you then,
please, to rise. Gentlemen, please proceed when you are ready.
SPEAKER: All rise.
CAPTAIN: Ready, set, go.
[GIVING COMMANDS]
AUDIENCE: I Pledge Allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic
for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
CAPTAIN: [GIVING COMMANDS]
DOUG TISDALE: Ladies and gentlemen, you may be seated. And I'd like to thank-- and I don't
know if that was Scott Dahl or Isaac Dresser. Who was our scout who was here?
SPEAKER: Scott Dahl.
DOUG TISDALE: Scott Dahl. Thank you, Scott. That was Scott Dahl. Let's give it up for the
scout and for the color guard. We are very appreciative to our color guard and to the scout troop
870 for being here tonight to lead us in the pledge and to post the colors, marking this the final
regularly scheduled meeting-- God forbid there should be another one-- but the final regularly
scheduled meeting of the board for 2018.
Ms. McManus, as our executive manager, would you please now call the role of the Board?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Anderson. Director Archuleta. Director Broom.

BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Deadwyler.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sisk.
CHARLES SISK: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Solano.
PAUL SOLANO: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm present, and I believe, also, Director Mihalik is present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I apologize. Thank you so much. We have 12 present, three absent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of RTD, safety is our core
value and we always begin with a brief safety briefing. You already know about the 911 call.

You know about the automatic defibrillator outside. You know about exiting through the door
you came in.
You also know about the Transit Watch app that you can get on your Apple or your Android
phone that will help you to report suspicious activity. But you may not also know that this is a
perfect time of the year to check your gas appliances in your home just to make sure that they're
not leaking. So that's something that, in the interests of safety, we share with you.
As part of our agenda tonight, we turn to a special recognition. We are quite pleased about this.
We have a special recognition related to an award that is being presented by the Federal
Transportation Security Office. And I am going to avoid asking them how long they had to stand
in the security line, but at this time, I would like to recognize RTD Chief Bob Grado and our
Chief Safety Officer and the Assistant General Manager of Safety, Security, and Asset
Management, Mike Meader so that they can introduce our guests and explain a little bit more
about this tremendous honor that the RTD is privileged to receive from the TSA. Gentlemen, the
floor is yours.
BOB MAGUIRE: Thanks, Chair. First of all, a lot of you know, we work hand-in-hand with
TSA Department of Homeland Security. So each year, we have an assessment done on our
agency, our security model. And then every three years, we have a more intensive deep dive into
the entire model, checking our camera systems and access control and our policies.
And there is a lot. It takes about a week to get through this process. So I'm just going to
introduce these gentlemen here from TSA and kind of let them take over. So we have Bob
Maguire from TSA and then Kelvin Reed. And I'm just going to hand off to them.
KELVIN REED: We'd like to thank you for that introduction. Good evening, general manager,
Mr. Genoa, Mike Meader, Chief Grotto, members of the board, and any agency presidents,
presidents and distinguished guests.
So my name is Kelvin Reed. I'm one of the Supervisory Transportation Security Inspectors for
the state of Colorado. More specifically, in the Security Operations and Compliance Offices in
Denver. As such, I'm responsible for working with the industry partners to prevent and protect
our passenger rail and public transportation agencies from terrorist attacks.
As Bob mentioned, the base is aimed at the requirements of the 9/11 Act, which directs TSA to
work with industry, address vulnerabilities throughout their security programs. General Manager
Genova, you should be extremely proud of the accomplishments your staff has achieved. It
speaks to your leadership in making transit security a priority within your organization, as well
as a commitment demonstrated in achieving this important goal.
As all good leaders know, the people who truly deserve that thanks for a job well done are those
devoted to the mission and who preserve on our behalf. So thank you for your faithful
contributions toward enhancing your agency's security programs. So at this time, I'm pleased to
introduce Regional Security Inspector Robert Maguire of TSA headquarters. And he's going to
join me in presenting you with the plaque.

ROBERT MAGUIRE: Good evening to the members of the Board, the public. I appreciate this
opportunity, especially coming before RTD. It's been my privilege to work with your team for
the last eight years, and all types of different exercises, and especially on these base programs.
They're conducted locally, but they're managed. They're graded. And this is all maintained at a
headquarters level. So this speaks to the highest level of our organization.
So it's my pleasure to speak on behalf of our Administrator, David Pekoske. And I'd like to read
the letter that he sent with the plaque for this ceremony. "Dear Mr. Genova, congratulations to
Denver Regional Transportation District's RTD for earning the 2018 Gold Standard Award. It
gives me great pleasure to recognize RTD's successful efforts in establishing and maintaining a
strong security program, as evidenced by the high scores on your most recent baseline
assessment for security enhancements-- its acronym is BASE-- review.
The Transportation Security Act Administration developed the base to support our strategic goal
of increasing domain awareness, enhancing prevention, and protection capabilities, and
furthering response preparedness of transportation systems nationwide. Base is a comprehensive
review of your security program, focusing on 17 categories, identified by the transit community
as fundamental for the Sound Transit Security Program.
Your system attained high scores across all categories. This caliber performance deserves special
recognition. I commend you and your organization for the commitment and hard work this level
of achievement requires, and I wish you success in maintaining the high standard of security you
have demonstrated. Sincerely yours, David P. Pekoske, Administrator.
[APPLAUSE]
On behalf of the administrator, I'd like to present our team with this plaque Thank you.
[INAUDIBLE]
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: This is a great time for photo ops, so feel free to just come on up, gentlemen.
DAVID GENOVA: If I can just take a minute to say, this is many of our key team members
here. It's not me. It's all of us together. I'm blessed with such a great team. And I just also want to
thank the Board for all the support throughout the years and making this possible.
DOUG TISDALE: Chief, it is a distinct honor to have these fine men and women representing us
and taking care of our system. Safety and security is a principal purpose of the RTD.
[APPLAUSE]
That, indeed, is a special honor, and we are very, very pleased to be able to host the TSA here
tonight and to celebrate our partnership with them and to accept the TSA Gold Star Award. The
next item on our agenda is the retiree awards. Alas, none of the retirees are able to join us this

evening. That's not going to stop us from honoring them and just saying their position and
duration with the organization.
And they are Randy Bachicha, Track Maintainer, with us for 33 years. Roxanna Erdman,
Supervisor of Service Monitoring, with us for 33 years. Karl Moritz, Payroll Practitioner, with us
for 28 years. Michael Scott, Parts Clerk, with us for 34 years. Fred Stewart, Signal and Power
Maintainer, with us for 16 years. Mary Ann Wolkensdorfer, Light Rail Train Operator, with us
for 24 years.
Paul Wurmlinger, Bus Operator, with us for 25 years. William Wysocki, General Repair
Mechanic, with us for 19 years. Those retirees represent 212 years of service to the RTD. So
though they are not here, we honor them and we give them our thanks.
[APPLAUSE]
The next item on the agenda is truly what can be called bittersweet. Directors, guests, staff, it is
my distinct honor, a privilege, and a pleasure to pause in our work this evening to recognize and
honor the departing members of the RTD Board of Directors, and the considerable contributions
that they have made to this agency and to the constituents that we serve. I would like to bring to
your attention the slide show of these directors, which will be displayed on the screen behind me
as we continue to talk here. And we want you to help us all celebrate their accomplishments,
their achievements.
Allow me, if you would now, to read an excerpt from the proclamations that we will be voting on
shortly. And there are six proclamations for the six departing directors. I will read them
collectively as one, and then we will present certificates and proclamations to the directors in a
moment when we complete the formal process of adopting the proclamations.
So these are a proclamation in recognition of the contributions made to the Regional
Transportation District, whereas the 200,000 constituents of your districts elected you each to
represent them on the RTD Board of Directors, and whereas you have served faithfully and
dutifully on the Board as advocates for providing public transit that offers safe, clean, reliable,
courteous, accessible, and cost-effective service throughout the district, and whereas each of you
has served on the board during a time of tremendous growth for the agency, during which you
have helped guide the organization to ensure its long-term viability and sustainability.
Now therefore, be it resolved by the RTD Board of Directors that we, the RTD Board of
Directors, hereby extend our heartiest commendations to Directors Anderson, Archuleta,
Deadwyler, Hoy, Sisk, and Solano for their many contributions to this board and recognize their
steadfast dedication to the agency and its constituents.
At this time, I would ask, please, to have a motion to approve jointly the proclamations for
Directors Anderson, Archuleta, Deadwyler, Hoy, Sisk, and Solano. May I have a motion? I have
a motion from Director Broom. Do I have a second to that motion? I have a second from
Director Folska. Is there discussion on that motion? Oh, and Director Folska, you are recognized
for purposes of discussion, recognizing that we all do want to get out of here tonight.

[LAUGHS]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: All right. It's not really a discussion. I just wanted to thank each of the
outgoing members of the Board, thank them for their service and their time. And I've
appreciated, very much, working with you. I've learned a lot from you, and because of you I'm
more elevated and I've learned a lot. So thank you so much for your time.
DOUG TISDALE: And we do thank you. And I joke, I joke, people. Understand that. It is a
great honor. Is there anyone else who wishes to express themselves? Please feel free if you
would. We are going to recognize each of them separately at the podium in a moment. Hearing
none, if we could please ask for the vote on the motion to adopt all of the resolutions? Director
Broom was the movant and Director Folska was the second on the motion. If you would please
vote now.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to note that we have 11 votes in favor. We have three
Directors who are away and one Director, a lawyer, who abstained, since he was the subject
matter of the motion, I suppose. So we thank you all for that. And now, I'm going to proceed to
the podium and enlist the assistance of staff in asking the directors to come forward for a
moment.
We do not have Director Anderson with us here this evening. I do want to point out, Director
Anderson was elected by her peers to serve as a chair of this Board and served with distinction
on many committees during her tenure, including terms as Chair of the Operations and Customer
Service Committee, and on the General Management Oversight and Performance Committee,
and on the Metro Mayors Task Force Northwest Parkway Authority Board, Jefferson County
Parkway Public Highway Authority Board, and the Jefferson County Transportation Advisory
Group. Let's give it up for Chair Lorraine Anderson.
[APPLAUSE]
Director Archuleta was also unable to join us this evening and sends his regrets and regards. He
served with distinction on many committees during his tenure, including terms as Vice Chair of
the Civil Rights Committee and on the Fast Tracks Committee, as well as serving on the General
Manager Oversight and Performance Committee. Let us give it up for Director Ernie Archuleta.
[APPLAUSE]
Second Vice Chair Barbara Deadwyler. She was elected by her peers to serve two terms as
Second Vice Chair, and served with distinction on many committees during her tenure. And
Director, I'm going to ask you, Madam Second Vice Chair, if you would, perhaps, be able to
come down here. Or we could come to you, if you would prefer, because we do want to present
you with something as we acknowledge that you have been the Chair and Vice Chair of
Operations and Customer Service Committee, Vice Chair of the DBE Committee, Co-chair and
Chair of the Civil Rights Committee, and on the General Managers Oversight and Performance
Committee, as well as Regional Transportation Committee, and the E-470 Public Highway

Authority Board. We have for you a certificate, as well as a flag that was flown over the state
capital yet today in your honor.
[APPLAUSE]
We have here a lovely certificate and a presentation case for the flag, as well as I have yet-- and
this is the certificate of authenticity of the flag, and also a picture of the Board that includes you.
And now, I turn it over to our General Manager for him to say something as well.
DAVID GENOVA: Director Deadwyler, on behalf of the staff, we have a framed certificate for
you for our appreciation and recognition of your years of service on the Board. So thank you so
much from all of us.
DOUG TISDALE: Ladies and gentlemen, Director Deadwyler.
[APPLAUSE]
[INAUDIBLE]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Well, I do want to say that it has been a pleasure, these eight years,
of working with everyone on the board, some of the outgoing Board members from two years
ago, and all the newcoming Board members. I've made a lot of friends here. And I mean, it
started off a little rough, but I tell you, it's been an enjoyable eight years and I am proud to have
served my community and this district. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: God bless you. Thank you. [INAUDIBLE]
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Next. By now, you've figured out it's alphabetical order. Chair Larry Hoy.
Director Hoy was elected by his peers to serve as the Chair of this body, as the First Vice Chair
of this body, as the Second Vice Chair of this body, as the Treasurer of this body.
And he served with distinction on many committees during his tenure, including terms that he
spent as the chair of the Fast Tracks Committee, the vice Chair of the Planning and Development
Committee, as well as serving on the General Management Oversight and Performance
Committee, on the Northwest Parkway Public Authority Board, as our DRCOG represented him,
and on the Adams County Economic Development Board, and the Jefferson County Parkway
Public Highway Authority Board. A man who has been a personal inspiration to me and to all of
the directors here because of his tireless service. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you Chair Larry
Hoy.
[APPLAUSE]
So we have the certificate of service. We have a board picture. And we have a certificate for the
flag that was flown over the state capital that we present to you, and General Manager Genova.

DAVID GENOVA: And Chair Hoy, we also have a on behalf of the appreciation and recognition
of staff, not only recognize you for your service on the Board, but as the Chair.
[APPLAUSE]
LARRY HOY: Well, thank you. This has been an exciting eight years. I see a lot of familiar
faces. I've met a lot of people. I've had a lot of good times. We've had a lot of success, and I've
enjoyed every minute of it. I have made friends here that will be our friends forever.
For those people that are the new directors, boy, latch on to this one. Enjoy it. Think smart. Work
hard. We've got a great organization, as just witnessed just a few moments ago by the TSA.
That's just a long line of things that we've been awarded. So thank you very much. It's been an
honor and my pleasure. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Chair Charles Sisk. Director Sisk was elected by his peers to serve as Chair
of this Board, not once, but twice. He served with distinction on many committees during his
tenure, including his terms as the Vice Chair of the Government Relations Committee, as well as
the Vice Chair of the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee.
And he represented RTD faithfully and well on the Metro Mayors Caucus, being a former mayor
himself. It is a great privilege for us to have had the experience of knowing an incredibly
qualified elected official and lawyer. Ladies and gentlemen, please, give it up for Chair Sisk.
[APPLAUSE]
We have presented to Chair Sisk. The flag, the RTD flag, flown over the state capital, we have a
certificate attesting to that. We have a certificate of service, and we have the beautiful, full color
framed photograph of the entire Board.
CHARLES SISK: Oh my gosh.
[LAUGHS]
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And General Manager.
DAVID GENOVA: Chair Sisk, again, on behalf of the appreciation and recognition of staff for
your service on the Board and as our Chair.
CHARLES SISK: Thank you, sir.
[APPLAUSE]

I guess I'll use this speaker.
DOUG TISDALE: You can move that.
CHARLES SISK: OK. Chair Tisdale, General Manager Genova, and everyone else, I just want
to thank you all for the opportunity to allow me to serve in the RTD. It's been a distinct honor.
And truly, I will say this, that the honor that the every day I saw was the fact that we have an
absolutely great staff. And my admiration for them grew exponentially, as I was fortunate
enough to stay on the Board and have my peers put up with me. But it really was something that
I think there's nothing, really, that you can impart at this point.
But to the new Board Members, and certainly the holdovers, and that is that the staff, really, are
your allies, and they're here to make RTD better. We're in this together. And I think that's
something that is a lesson that should resonate, hopefully, with all of us. Because what I've seen
is that this staff is tireless. They're dedicated. They're professional.
And they're here to make us look better. So again, my thanks to, certainly, my fellow Board
Members who are here and who preceded me, but also, certainly, to the staff that have been so
generous with their time, their commitment, and making RTD a great organization that it really
is. Thank you so much.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Our final departing Director, a good friend, a good man, Director Paul
Solano. Paul Solano was elected by his peers on this Board to serve as the Secretary of this
Board, to serve as the Second Vice Chair of this Board, to serve as the Treasurer of this Board.
He served with distinction on many committees during his tenure, including his terms as the
Chair, and also the Vice Chair, on both the Civil Rights and on the Government Relations
Committees, and representing RTD exceptionally well on the Adams County Economic
Development Committee. Paul Daniel Solano, thank you so much for your service, sir. Ladies
and gentlemen, I give you Director Solano.
[APPLAUSE]
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you for the distinct honor. I want, first of all, to thank my constituents
that voted me in for two terms. The first term was for two years. That's a long story, but it
worked out. I won two elections. If I was in baseball, I'd be batting 666 out, two out of three.
But anyway, it's been great. It is the opportunity of a lifetime that I'll never forget. But I think my
life and politics is just starting. So you'll see more of me. And I will definitely remember RTD
and always remember what you did for me and I will always give back. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]

DOUG TISDALE: Here is our certificate of acknowledgment and appreciation for your service,
and the full color picture of the Board. And then General Manager Genova.
DAVID GENOVA: Director Solano, just on behalf of the staff, thank you so much. And
appreciation in recognition of your service from the Board. Thank you so much.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: All right. I particularly like the slide show. I think staff did an excellent job
on pulling together some great moments with our great outgoing Directors in honor of them, and
we appreciate that. So we thank you all, Directors, who are leaving us. We give you, again,
congratulations for your outstanding achievements accomplished here on the RTD Board of
Directors.
And it has been a pleasure to honor you as we give you that great, great celebration that we love
so much. And at one point, I think I may have said I was the RTD flag. I meant it was the
Colorado State flag flown over the state capital for the outgoing RTD Board of Directors, that, in
fact, were all each delivered to us today. So we're very honored about that. And rest assured,
they're all collected on the side table. You will all be restored to your honoraria at the end of the
meeting.
We now turn to the public participation portion of our meeting. This is that period which is open
to anyone who wishes to speak to this Board, as is our custom. We do allow any of our elected
officials present to speak first so that they can get back to their own meetings and attend to their
business.
If you have signed up to speak, I will call your name in the order in which you signed up. If you
have not signed up and would like to speak, I will ask for additional speakers at the end of the
list. And we will ask those additional speakers to come forward at that time. Each speaker is
allowed three minutes. Let me repeat that, three minutes.
We respectfully request that members of the audience refrain from any indications of support or
opposition to a speaker's comments, as such outburst really do have the reasonable effect of
chilling the free expression of thoughts by speakers. Please, also, bear in mind that by appearing
at that microphone you are consenting to being video and audio recorded by RTD, as all of our
meetings are and are made available on the RTD website. So if you do not wish to be recorded,
then please submit your comments in writing.
Come to the lectern when I call your name. And again, you will have three minutes. If you have
materials, please provide those to our Board staff. And there are two names that I have on the list
who have signed up, which I am honored to recognize. The first one is Mr. Gary Van Dorn. Mr.
Van Dorn, if you would come forward. And please recall, you've been here before, you know the
drill. Give us your name and address and then you may address the board.
GARY VAN DORN: And three minutes, of course. Gary Van Dorn, District A. 625
Pennsylvania Street, Denver, Colorado, 80203. I normally come to this Board to speak on issues

pertaining to disability. The issue tonight is a little more delicate and a little more personal for
many of us. I had the opportunity recently to use the public facility at Union Station. To my
horror, there are no doors on the stalls.
And I think this is of great concern for those of us who would like dignity and privacy. I do
comprehend. I know that they were removed because of junkies and drug use there. There is a
solution that you can restore those doors and that we don't have to have that type of activity
going on in that particular area.
That does diminish the safety for everybody using Union Station. What I'd like to hear from Mr.
Genova is what RTD plans to do about restoring these doors and increasing security in that area
of Union Station. And I'm under three minutes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for being under three minutes. We appreciate that. And
just for the benefit of the public, it's not, during this public participation period, a dialogue. It is
not our custom to respond specifically, directly, immediately to questions raised. We do respond
to them ultimately.
So I won't burden our General Manager at this time with responding that we actually have
modified doors that are being reinstalled at the various restrooms, just to let you know that's
being done. But we don't respond to questions. And I'm sorry, there were other names on the list,
because I have two lists. And I apologize, I misread.
So we will get, also, after we go to this next speaker, we'll get to Steve Erickson, Jim Eshelman,
Brian Smith, John Thompson, and Paulo Sorozano. But first, it is my privilege to recognize the
Executive Director of the Denver Regional Council of Governments, affectionately referred to as
DRCOG , Mr. Doug Rex. Sir, you are recognized.
DOUG REX: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board, General Manager Genova.
Thank you for the opportunity to speak this evening. As the Chairman mentioned, I'm the
Executive Director of the Denver Regional Council of Governments. And this evening, I would
like to speak in support of agenda item 14F and pull agreement with DRCOG.
For those of you who are not familiar with DRCOG's Way to Go Program, it's a partnership
between DRCOG and the seven transportation management associations in the region. And its
purpose is to mitigate congestion and improve air quality. And the way in which we do that is we
encourage people, quite frankly, to get out of their single occupant vehicles and to choose other
modes to get around.
So we promote transit, ride sharing, which involves both carpools and band pools, biking. You
may be familiar with our Bike to Work Day Program. And walking, and even telework. We're
promoting anything and everything that will reduce the number of cars on the road. It really is
about offering people choices.
And one size does not fit all. Vanpool is a very important part of this mix, so we believe. The
typical vanpool group is traveling a longer distance, who work roughly the same schedule and

have similar origins and destinations. I would like, in the minute and bit that I have left, just to
speak to a couple of items that came up during the Operations Committee meeting, first related
to accessibility.
And let me say this. We listened carefully to discussion last week, and we're committed to
raising awareness of the ADA accessibility in our vanpool program. It's an option we want to
make certain people know about. We've already made some changes to our Way to Go web
pages, but my commitment to you is to follow through with some of our other materials and look
for opportunities in all of our communications. We can and will do better in getting the word out.
The second related to, perhaps, the idea of replacing van pools with disruptive and innovative
technologies. First, I just want to clearly point out that we are fully committed to exploring any
and all options to help move people around this region. Both of our organizations, both DRCOG
and RTD, have conducted pilot programs and campaigns, working closely with Uber and Lyft,
which can be a great complement to transit service.
It was DRCOG in the Way to Go Program that brought Google carpool, which is actually Waze
Carpool, to the region several months ago. Our staff and some of our Board Directors personally
participated in the press conference at Google offices up in Boulder. But I really hope you'll
understand that van pools are the perfect choice for a certain group of commuters.
Back to my earlier statement, one size does not fit all. And I personally believe we, as a region,
need to be giving commuters as many viable options as we can that help them choose not to
drive alone. Just as our Way to Go partnership wholly supports transit and has conducted many
campaigns in support of ridership, we hope you all agree van pools makes sense. So thank you
for your time, your continued support, and happy holidays. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Very much, Mr. Rex. We appreciate that. And I did read other names to you
as people who might be speaking. I did that as a teaser so that you would feel delighted when I
tell you there's only one of them who's going to be speaking, and that's Paolo Solotano. So Paolo,
if you would come forward, please. And again, recall, give us your name and your address, and
then you have up to three minutes, sir.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Paolo Solorzano, Aurora, Colorado. Just here again, again. Longtime
Denver resident here. Been depending on public transportation. I'm here. I'm trying to work with
some nonprofits a little bit, but we haven't been getting through. Nobody has.
Yeah, again, I've been trying to get through to you guys for two years, just the whole
organization. You guys have got a lot of bad PR. It's all of the things I've been talking about, that
I've been trying to tell you and everybody else here. It's horrific, right? The PR is not good. The
FRA is trying to shut you guys down. Well, possibly, whatever.
I've been trying to talk to Christina Z. She's your community outreach. She stopped calling me
again. It's kind of typical of what happens here.

But several things. I've wanted to ask about the suicide on the 11th-- on November 27th. She
stopped calling me right after that. I've had some concerns about the light rail before I've called it
in, the first time I remember about a year ago. I got feedback, ID numbers, and all that.
Doors closing too early. I know there was another incident on-- when was this? 7/11/18. A guy
was dragged on the light rail through the bicycle. I think I might know why that might have
happened. The doors close a little earlier than 10 seconds a lot.
So anyway, I don't know if you guys want to talk to me about some of this stuff. I think people
are getting hurt out there.
We're not getting to appointments. That's a big thing, for sure. A lot of lives being wrecked out
there. Mine, potentially, got wrecked a few times. So I don't know. I mean, right now I guess I've
got some security issues as well. I've had some conversation with some security officers out
there. They are really not feeling it either, communication out there, a few of them that I've
talked to.
I've yelled and screamed at a few places, light rails. Nobody gets there. Help me, help me, help
me. Nothing. I've talked to Steve M. on Security. I've gotten some deferring answers about who's
supposed to be where, security-wise, all this and that.
Yeah, so I just want you guys to start talking to me about this stuff. So far, I've just been
dismissed. So yeah, that's why I get angry. And it's very chilling. It's very chilling when you get
dismissed over these really, really, really-- they're just concerns, man. So please, get back to me,
all right. Please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for your comments, Mr. Solorzano. We do appreciate
that and we will follow up on each and all of the comments that have been raised this evening by
anyone.
Our next item. I'm sorry, is there anyone else? Ah yes. OK, Director-Elect. Director-Elect
Malpiede, please come forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair, and thank you Board of Directors. I'm going
to be talking to you tonight as the Executive Director of the Northeast Transportation
Connections.
DOUG TISDALE: With your name and address, too, for the sake of the record.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: My name is Angie Rivera-Malpiede. I live in Denver on 2365
West 32nd Avenue. So I am here tonight to speak to you as the Executive Director of NETC. We
are a nonprofit organization that promotes the use of alternative transportation methodologies,
walking, biking, carpooling, vanpooling, transit. You name it, we're out there looking at first, last
mile solutions.

I want to talk on behalf of support for the vanpool program. I currently serve residents from Inca
on the west to Tower Road on the east, and from 11th on the south to 64th on the north. So we
serve the entire Northeast quadrant of the city. And we are utilizing vanpool programs for
residents in Globeville, Swansea, Elyria, and Montbello, and they are working extraordinarily
well.
They're using them as a first, last mile connection from train stations. They're using them as bus
connections. And they're being served in a community that doesn't usually get to utilize these
kinds of services. So wholeheartedly, I would encourage you to support a vanpool program
because it really does serve the entire region. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director-Elect. We appreciate that and we look
forward to working with you up here soon. Are there any other members of the public who
would like to speak at this time? Thank you very much. No one is indicating so we will move on
to agenda item number 8, the committee reports. Please note that the committee minutes were
included in the Board packet, all of which is available to the public on our website.
And we'd now like to ask if there are any questions from any Director relative to any of the
committee reports that have been submitted. If not, those committee reports will stand as
submitted and become a part of our permanent record. Those include planning capital programs
and Fast Tracks Committee, as chaired by Director Lubow.
The Executive Committee is chaired by myself. The Government Relations Committee is chaired
by Director Solano. The Civil Rights Committee is chaired by myself. The Operations and
Customer Services Committee is chaired by Director Deadwyler. The financial Administration
Audit Committee is chaired by Director Mihalik. And the GM Oversight and Performance
Management Committee chaired by Director Walker. Those reports stand submitted.
Next agenda item is relative to the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Update. Chair Jeff Walker of that committee is not available to be with us here this evening he
has authorized to advise that he has no report at this time on the GMOC committee.
The next item, therefore, is agenda item number 10. It's the approval of the board meeting
minutes for the November 27, 2018 Board meeting. May I please have a motion to approve the
minutes?
KATE WILLIAMS: Motion.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion that I noticed from Director Williams and I have a second
from Director Deadwyler. Is there any discussion on that motion? Hearing none, if you would
now please vote, Director Williams, as the movant and the Second, Vice Chair Deadwyler as the
second. Please vote. And by a vote of 12 in favor, none opposed, with three absent, that passes
unanimously and those Board meeting minutes are approved.
We turn then to the Chair's report. I'll give you just some highlights because there's much that
this Board does, and it falls upon your Chair to share some of that information with you. But

believe me, if I shared everything that each of these hard-working directors did, these would be
very long meetings, indeed.
During the week of our last Board meeting for example, in November, Director Walker and I,
along with General Manager Genova and a number of members of our staff, attended the
American Public Transportation Association's Industry Leadership Summit in Washington DC,
at which time we also had an opportunity to meet with the deputy administrator of the Federal
Railroad Administration.
On Wednesday, November the 28th, Directors Catlin and Solano accompanied legislators and
representatives of Brandeberry-McKenna Public Affairs on a tour of some of RTD's TOD. That's
Transit-oriented Development, TOD-related developments.
On Thursday, December the 6th, Director Folska-- well, Director Folska and Vice Chair Menten
and I attended the Metro Mayors Caucus and Metro Area County Commissioners Regional
Reception held at the Central Denver Library, along with Director Catlin was there also. And
there were a number of Directors-Elect who were present at that time as well, and we were very
pleased to see all of them.
We did, also, during this last term since our last meeting, attended and participated in the
General Managers Forum held at the Tivoli Turnhalle on Friday, December 7th, and also the
Leadership Academy Graduation held on Thursday, December 13th. And if you want to be
inspired, if you want to be motivated, I advise you talk to some of the graduates of the
Leadership Academy. They are phenomenal people.
In terms of upcoming events, Director-Elect Geisinger and I will be attending the Commuting
Solutions Legislative Breakfast at the Lionsgate Event Center in Lafayette on Wednesday,
January the 9th.
And not to steal his thunder, but we also have been somewhat busy over the past couple of
weeks. Because on Friday night, we filed a document with the Federal Railroad Administration.
And we are very pleased to have been able, timely, to respond to the FRA in conjunction and
collaboration with our concessionaire, Denver Transit Partners, in responding to the FRA relative
to the concerns expressed over certain anomalies.
And I am pleased to say that Director Genova also reported to the public today at a media
conference held in that regard. If I have excluded something that you did, Directors, I apologize.
Please feel free to chide me later or to speak up when we get to other matters. And with that in
mind, I will recognize Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm not chiding at all, but I need to correct the fact
that I was unable to attend the TOD event that Director Solano attended. I had a family funeral to
attend to so I was called away at the last minute. So I was not able to attend. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for the correction. We appreciate that. But as I said, there are so
many things, ladies and gentlemen, that these Directors do that we do not report upon. Because I

said, it truly would burden this meeting and this record. Nonetheless, you should appreciate how
dedicated and committed this Board is.
At this time then, it is my distinct privilege to acknowledge for the General Manager's report, our
General Manager, Dave Genova. Please share with us your report, Mr. Genova.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And likewise, you have my full report in the packet,
so I'll just hit a few highlights. A couple of them that I'll mention, the Chair did speak to, but I'll
talk about them in a little bit different way. The APTA Leadership Conference and Summit, I
presented on a panel on value capture around what we did with Fast Tracks in Denver Union
Station.
I also moderated an executive safety and security roundtable for Leadership APTA, and that's
always great to interact with the Leadership APTA folks. It's a great group every year, and they
ask a lot of good questions and a lot of good follow-through from them.
We did have the State of the District to the Board that I presented on Tuesday, December 4th.
And that slide deck, for people that were not able to be here that night or did not attend, is
available on the hub. And if it's not already on the website, it will be. And then a few days later, I
presented the GM Forum, which is, really, an employee facing event to talk to employees about
the year in review and what's currently happening and where we're headed, and that's a
completely different presentation.
So it's not the same slide deck at all as the State of the District. So if you're interested in that, that
is also available on the hub. And we did film that as well. That's available on the hub. And I've
also had some external requests for that, so if it's not on the website, it will be on the website
shortly.
And I want to thank Chair Tisdale for coming to the GM Forum and also addressing employees.
That was very, very valuable. I had a meeting with Denver Mayor, Michael Hancock, as we meet
about quarterly. A good discussion, particularly very interested in some of our updates, including
FlexRide and some of our upcoming fare changes.
The Chair mentioned the Leadership Academy Graduation, and I will just say that we had two
groups present their projects and they were just outstanding. And they bring such great value. It's
a lot of work, but it's not just a group project and then do a presentation. We actually use this
work to improve the district, and these two presentations were definitely very good and we will
be using that information.
On Monday, December 17th-- I guess that's just yesterday-- I had a conference call with the staff
of our US Congressional Delegation. I'm really giving them an update on the University of
Colorado, A-line, the B-line, and the G-line in reference to where we stand in reference to the-I'm sorry, the Federal Railroad Administration correspondence and our submittal of our action
plan. So that was a good briefing. And we continue to keep them informed as best we can.

The Chair mentioned that we did get our plan in. The deadline was December 15th, which was
Saturday. And we submitted the plan Friday evening. And I really want to commend the DTP
team and the RTD team that worked in a collaborative effort for weeks. A number of iterations
of back and forths with the plans and red lines to really get the plan where it is, or where it was
on the day that we submitted it. It was a lot of work and a great deal of collaboration to get it
there, and I think we have a good plan.
And speaking of that plan, I've been invited by the FRA to go to headquarters. I'll leave
tomorrow, and I'll be meeting with FRA headquarters team on Thursday afternoon to discuss and
brief on the plan. I feel that that's a very positive step. We offered to go and present the plan, or
talk about any clarifications, or anything, and so I was glad to receive that call yesterday.
So I'll be there, along with a couple representatives from Denver Transit Partners. And we will
have Henry Stoppelcamp will be calling into that, as well as the Chair has expressed his desire to
call in and expressed the commitment on behalf of the entire Board. So that's on Thursday and
I'll be back in the office on Friday. And of course, what I can share from the meeting, I will share
from the meeting, but I don't want to get out in front of the FRA, but I'm looking forward to
meeting with them.
This afternoon, I did a media briefing. As the board knows, we've been receiving a lot of
questions and requests from media outlets and stakeholders. So I just decided to call a briefing
today and try to address as many people as we possibly could at one time. It was about a 30
minute session. I presented a summary of exactly where we are on the plan, and on the
University of Colorado A-line and the G-line, in terms of the quiet zones and the remaining
activities and occurrences that we need to get done for quiet zones and to get the opening of the
G-Line.
And I will make that summary briefing available and we'll post that, along with-- oh, I should
mention, as I informed the Board on Saturday, or on Monday, I believe, the plan is on the RTD
CORA website. We just recently activated the CORA website to manage these kinds of requests.
It's a great tool for us. We had CORA requests for the plan before the plan was developed, so we
decided that we would post it on that site.
And we're considering even moving all of the information related to updates on the Eagle Project
to its own landing page, where we'll be posting regular updates and things. So that information is
available publicly, and I know a lot of people have taken advantage of reviewing the plan. And I
know people are reading it because they're asking us a lot of good and informed questions,
including the media, the media teams, today.
And then lastly, I just want to mention, on the Gold Award, that really belongs to the team, our
great security team, and all the team of RTD employees that are so focused on security, and all
the different layers we have, and everybody following rules and procedures and making security
and safety first and foremost. And this is the third time, by the way, that RTD has been selected
for the Space Award. So that's a great accomplishment by the RTD teams, so I want to thank
them. Thank you. That concludes my remarks and I'm happy to take any questions, Mr. Chair.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. General Manager. Director Folska, you are
recognized for a question.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Thank you, Mr. Genova, for that update. I
really appreciate it. Last night, Kyle Clark on Channel 9 News, on that program Next-- I think
it's at 6:00 PM-- he reported a few things. One of the things that I thought was kind of interesting
is he said that part of our PTC problem has to do with the skyscrapers around Union Station.
What is that?
DOUG TISDALE: General Manager.
DAVID GENOVA: Mr. Chair, thank you. So we have a lot of communication that occurs
wirelessly between a lot of different equipment, between the trains and the infrastructure,
between infrastructure and the grade crossings. And so DTP has identified in the plan that there's
some opportunity to improve that connectivity. And so that's one of the things that is in the plan.
There's a variety of things in the plan, and as I talked in the media briefing today, it's a lot of
things that are going to come together to make incremental improvements. It's not just one thing
or another. But that is the one thing that, interestingly enough, we did receive a few questions on.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Mr. Chair, may I have one more question?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, indeed, Director.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Mr. Genova, regarding the safety and security of the people using Union
Station, I wanted to remark that when we were at-- some of us Board members-- the Metro
Mayors Caucus Reception at the main branch Denver Public Library, I did have an opportunity
to use their facilities, and I did notice, immediately, that the stall doors in the bathrooms-- which
happened to be, I believe, in every bathroom at that library-- cut in half. I mean, the mice will not
even have a door. I'm not sure what they're for except hanging a coat on, maybe.
It was obvious to me-- and it's not just what happens at Union Station, or at Civic Center Station,
or the Denver Public Library. It's happening at DIA and many, many other public facilities. This
nation is facing a crisis with opioid and fentanyl. I don't all those drugs, but a big crisis. And
Denver is doing something about it. I don't know if that's going to work or not, but at least we're
trying to do something.
So I think that's a sign of the times. I also understand that our facilities at Union Station were
stopped up with needles, that people going in and their flip-flops had been stabbed, and their
feet, by needles. And you can jump in anytime and tell me I'm wrong if I have heard incorrect
information. So it's a public health and safety crisis in this nation, and we're not exempt from it.
Everybody is suffering. Everybody is struggling. And I think we need to come together as a
community to try and resolve it, and not point fingers at RTD for being idiots.
But I've received emails saying that that's what we are. I guess that was just to me, but on and on.
We need to come together to try to support each other and solve it. And addiction is like a

cancer. I mean, it happens to be a big problem. And we don't throw people who have cancer, and
they're dying of that, just out in the street. So I think we need to look at our community in a
holistic way. That's all. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. General Manager, any comment on that?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, I just will say the public restrooms are challenging to manage. We've
learned from all of our different locations that we have, and our design criteria around them, we
try to improve them as best we can, new facility to new facility. We've modified the doors at
Civic center Station, and so they're not quite a half door, but they're modified. They still provide
some privacy, but then some better visibility.
And I believe the Chair did mention we do have new doors on order at Union Station because the
doors that were there had been severely damaged and vandalized. And so we needed new doors,
anyway. And so those are on order. They should be in first part of January. And then we will
modify those as well. It's interesting that somebody, one of my colleagues, saw some of the
coverage and connected me with-- she said, I think you should talk to the Denver Public Library
and see what they're doing.
So we've been engaged back and forth. And they said, well, if you come up with any good ideas,
let us know as well. So we will work with our colleagues around and try to come up with the best
solutions we possibly can. But it is a challenge and we put a lot of resources towards keeping
those facilities maintained.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: In England, they call it spend a penny. In the old days, when pennies were
something, or a pence. You had to pay. So I'm going to go spend a penny. I got to go. I
remember we used to pay to use the toilet, maybe a nickel or a dime.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. We appreciate that. And Thank you,
General Manager. Madam Vice Chair, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. And I did want to provide this feedback to you, David,
especially since this topic has come up on the heroin, the fentanyl. I had good conversation with
Mr. Meader today about the changes we are making at the bathrooms. So to those who have
approached us by email or during public comment, there are things in the works, so it will move
forward.
But having looked into this subject, and now having read far more than I ever wanted to know
about heroin and manufactured opiate, and having watched Denver city council come to their
decision about laying the groundwork for supervised injection sites, and now just waiting for the
legislature to approve that, the reason I bring this forward.
There is direct connection, is that Denver City Council wanted to make sure the supervised
injection sites will be very close to public transit for the convenience of the clients. So I bring
that to your attention, having now spent eight hours watching how that proceeded and doing all
of my homework. But I think it is a concern, and I still don't quite understand all of the fentanyl.

Mr. Meader's going to help me dig a little bit more into that, since neither of us have had to
intimately understand that that well.
But I have concerns about our security officers and other passengers. And so when the City
Council is seeing this as supervised injection sites as the most humane way to deal with it, and
making sure that our services are there to get somebody to and from, that gives me concern. And
I lean pretty far libertarian, but I've got concerns about that. So that's all I wanted to bring up
since it seemed to be a topic. And thank you so much for the press conference today. That was
helpful. Thank you.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madame Vice Chair. We appreciate the observation. Chair Hoy,
you are recognized, sir.
LARRY HOY: Thank you. I never thought I'd spend one of my last meetings talking about
public bathrooms. But I do need to say this, that RTD is taking a lot of flak for that. And we
didn't create the junkies. We aren't in charge of finding them. We aren't in charge of dealing with
all those drugs. We just have bathrooms.
The other thing I'd like to point out, though, that is more to the point is until we opened Denver
Union Station, the station was right here. And we didn't have doors on those bathrooms. So we
built a nice, fancy station and we put doors up, and now we're being chastised because we're
back to where we were, which was acceptable when it was Market Street Station. So just to
remember all that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: General Manager, comment.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, just to add, the previous Civic Center Station was the same way. We
did not have doors there, but in the rebuild, of course, since it was a new facility, we put them in.
DOUG TISDALE: One of the more interesting subjects, as Chair Hoy points out, that we could
spend time on. But nonetheless, important, and we are happy to address it. Are there any further
questions for General Manager, or can we move on to the next agenda item? Seeing no
questions, we'll move on to the unanimous consent agenda. We have three items on the
unanimous consent agenda tonight. They are noted as agenda items 13, Actions A through C.
They relate to the annual audit plan of 2019, the approval of ERP licenses, and the approval of
planned changes to these salaried employees' pension plan, information on all of which and
detail relative to the motions is found on our website in the Board packet. If anyone has a change
to or any questions on any of these items, please feel free, at this time, to advise the Chair.
And of course, we will be happy to pull the item from the unanimous consent agenda for
discussion under our recommended action agenda item. Is there a request to remove any item?
Hearing none, may I please have a motion to approve items A through C on the consent agenda?
OK, I'm sorry. Sometimes my hearing, challenged.

OK, so I have Director Solano as the movant and I have Director Catlin as the second on this
motion. Is there any discussion on the motion? Seeing none, would you now please vote,
Director Solano, as the movement, Director Catlin as the second? And if the rest of you will then
cast your votes now. By a vote of 12 in favor and three directors absent and not voting, it passes
unanimously. The unanimous consent agenda is approved.
We turn then to agenda 14. That's the recommended action portion of the agenda. There are six
recommended actions on tonight's agenda. They are listed under agenda item 14 Actions D
through I. We'll begin with the first.
Action Item D, approval of 15L root improvements contract is recommended by the planning
capital programs of FastTracks Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to execute the contract for the 15L
route improvements with Jalisco International, Inc. in the dollar amount of $8,690,000, subject to
evaluating a bid for being responsive and responsible in Colorado Department of Transportation
approval.
Funding for the contractors included the 2019 adopted budget for the Colfax Transit
Improvements Project. Any changes to the contract amount and performance to be made in
compliance with the RTD procurement manual and agreements governing the grant funds.
Recommended action supports the General Manager's 2018 goal, core goal 1, successful delivery
of transit services. May I have a motion? I have a motion from Second Vice Chair Deadwyler
and I have a second from Director Williams. Is there discussion on the motion? Director Broom,
you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just had a question as to the source of funding. Where did
the $8.69 million come from?
DOUG TISDALE: And General Manager, if you could respond to that or delegate someone who
could.
DAVID GENOVA: I'm going to ask Heather McKillop, our CFO.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So it's grant funded with a local RTD match.
BOB BROOM: And what was the percentage of match from RTD?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Was that an 80/20? I think it's an 80/20, so 80% federal, 20% local.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any further questions that any Director has concerning the approval
of 15L route improvements contract? Hearing none, let's proceed to a vote. Director Deadwyler,
you are the movant. Director Williams, you are the second. If you would please vote, and if the
rest of you would then cast your votes as to this item. By a vote of 12 in favor and no Director
opposing and three members being absent, the item is passed unanimously.

We then turn to action item-- requested action item E, approval of contract extension and
increase for Jacobs Engineering for FastTracks Program support consulting services. It is
recommended all planning capital programs and FastTracks Community of the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to Jacobs
Engineering for program support consulting services for FastTracks to extend the contract
completion date from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020, and to increase the contract not
to exceed amount by $1,200,000 to a total of $192,623,336.
Funding for this contract included 2019 adopted budget for the FastTrack Capital Program and
specific projects where programs support, consulting support would be utilized. This
recommended action supports General Manager's 2018 goal, core goal number 1, successful
delivery of transit services. May I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Move.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Broom and I have a second from Director
Williams. Is there discussion on the motion? I do not see anyone in the queue. I'll wait, count of
three. There is still no discussion. Let us then proceed to a vote. Director Broom is the movant.
Director Williams is the second. And the rest of you may now vote. By a vote of 12 directors in
favor and none opposed, with three Directors being absent, the item passes unanimously. Thank
you.
We turn then to recommended action F as in Frank. That's the approval of increased contract
authorization to Front Range Systems consultants for FastTrack systems engineering consultant
services. It is recommended by the planning capital programs of FastTracks to the RTD Board of
directors authorizing General Manager to approve the contract amendment FRSC to extend the
contract completion date from December 31, 2018 to December 31, 2019 and increase the total
contract amount by $1,743,739 for total contract authorization of $72,726,498.
Funding for the scope is including 2019 adopted budget for the FastTrack's capital program in
the specific projects where FRSC support would be utilized. This recommended action supports
the General Manager's 2018 goal, core goal number 1, successful delivery of transit services.
May I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Move.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Williams. I have a second from Second Vice
Chair Deadwyler. Is there discussion on the motion? Waiting for any indication of discussion.
Seeing none, then we will proceed to a vote. Director Williams is the movant. Second Vice Chair
Deadwyler is the second. Please vote. All the rest of you, now vote. By a vote of 12 Directors in
favor and no Director opposed, with three being absent, the item is passed unanimously.
We turn to recommended action Item G. That's the authorization for acquisition of property for
the North Metro Maintenance Facility. It is recommended that the planning capital programs of
FastTrack Committee that the Board of Directors pass the attached property acquisition and
resolution, certifying certain properties necessary for the North Metro Maintenance Facility and

authorized staff to proceed with all the requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.
This recommended action supports General Manager's 2018 goal task, goal number 1, successful
delivery of transit services. May I have a motion?
PAUL SOLANO: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Solano and I have a second from Chair Hoy. Is
there discussion on the motion? Pausing. No discussion is requested on this motion. Let's
proceed to a vote with Director Solano as the movant and Chair Hoy as the second. And if the
rest of you would now please vote. By a vote of 10 Directors in favor and two Directors opposed,
those Directors being Vice Chair Menten and Director Mihalik, and three members being absent,
by a vote of 10 to 2, the item is passed.
We turn then to recommended action Item H. This is the purchase of 14 45-foot ultra-low sulfur
diesel intercity Flatiron flyer buses. It is recommended by the operations customer service
community the RTD Board of Directors authorize General Manager or his designee to authorize
the purchase of 14 new 45-foot intercity buses for Flatiron flyer services from Motor Coach
Industries for a price not to exceed $634,715.17 each and one spare engine, and after treatment,
$447,987.
The total cost of the contract is $8,933,999.38, satisfying General Manager's goals, core goal
number 1, successful delivery of transit services. I hear from Second Vice Chair a motion, and I
hear a second from Director Hoy, Chair Hoy. OK. So I have Deadwyler and Hoy. And I note that
in the queue, Director Broom has signed up. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just had a question about refueling of these buses. They
requires special fuel. I guess it's real low sulfur diesel fuel. How many places do we stock that
kind of fuel? And do we have other buses in our fleet to use that type of fuel?
DOUG TISDALE: General Manager Genova, you're recognized.
DAVID GENOVA: Director Broom, I believe all of our diesel fleet uses the low sulfur fuel.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any further comments or questions relative to recommended Action
H? Seeing none, if we could proceed to a vote. Second Vice Chair Deadwyler, you're the
movant. Chair Hoy, you are the second. And if the rest of you would then please vote. By a vote
of 11 in favor and one Director opposed, and the one Director opposed is Director Folska, and
three directors not present and voting, the item is passed, noted with a vote of 11 to 1.
We turn then to recommended action Item I, and that's the vanpooling agreement with a DRCOG
for 2019. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the general manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
enter into an agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments to provide RTD

financial support and expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program in the Denver
metropolitan area.
This agreement is for calendar year 2019 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $780,000.
General Manager's goals serviced by this is task goal number one, successful delivery of transit
services. May I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Move.
DOUG TISDALE: I have Director Solano as a movant and Director Williams as a second. Is
there a discussion on this matter? I'm pleased to recognize Director Folska first in the queue.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. In the past, I was not in support of supporting
the vanpool because a couple of things, really. The fare increase for people with disabilities that
are subject to using our paratransit, that's going to go up to $10 round trip. And the rationale for
that is we can't find $300,000 to keep it as it is. I think even keeping the fares as it is is too high,
but I would accept that.
So far, I don't know what's going on with that and I'm very troubled by it. I do appreciate what
DRCOG does. I do support what DRCOG does. I always have. I think they do a great job. The
other thing that I found troubling through this discussion about DRCOG-- it was very great for
the CEO, Mr. Rex, to come out and talk to us tonight about creating communications that are
accessible. I didn't realize they weren't so now I'm going to add that to the list.
But it concerns me that vans are not accessible. And this is tax dollars that are going to pay for
these vans. They should be accessible, like every other thing. The ADA is well established law.
The rules are there for the last 27, almost 28 years. I think it's very remiss on the part of DRCOG
to have let this go unnoticed.
I will support this tonight, but I want to see some real action in the first quarter of 2019, that
some vans, some effort, some real action towards solving that problem is done. And if not, then
somebody is going to probably take some action about that.
Then there is the matter of Miss Monica Peritt, up in Broomfield, which is maybe Director Hoy
or Director Lubow's district. I'm not sure. But if our paratransit can't help them, it would seem
that since there are 15 or so people coming from different places to go to work, just like they do
elsewhere within the DRCOG district, it seems appropriate for that to happen.
So I would hope someone can try and solve that problem so that older adults who have
developmental disabilities can have a meaningful, productive life. And that problem is going to
be accelerated. It isn't going away. So it needs to be addressed actively, along with our aging
population. So with that, I will be in support of it tonight, but I'm really hopeful to see some
meaningful action in the coming year. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. We appreciate your comments.
Director Catlin, you are recognized.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. For the fourth time, I will be in support of this, and
I won't repeat the reasons that I've cited previously. But I would like to acknowledge Directors
Menten and Mihalik with regard to their observations, that with some of the more microtransit-or whatever you want to call them, the alternatives, the on demand programs-- that we honestly
take a look at this in the next year and just see how we can best leverage those opportunities and
with the vanpool. But I would be opposed to pulling the rug out from under a DRCOG program
that has been proven to be pretty successful. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. We appreciate that. Any other Director who
wishes to comment? The Chair will simply second the observation made by Director Catlin
relative to the merit of the observations made by Vice Chair Menten and Director Mihalik
relative to exploration next year relative to various options for microtransit, and so forth, so that
this board can always feel that DRCOG is providing them with complete and quality information
relative to the viability and the validity of the program that we support, because it is our privilege
to collaborate with DRCOG in these efforts.
Any further comments, questions at this time? Then if we may proceed with a vote, I have
Director Solano as the movant and Director Williams as the second. If you would all please now
vote. And I report that by a vote of 10 Directors in favor and two opposed, being Directors of
Vice Chair Menten and Director Mihalik, and three directors not present, that the matter passes
by a vote of 10 to 2. That's the end of our recommended action items now.
The next item that shows on our agenda is executive session. That's always placed there as a
precautionary matter in case we should have the need for an executive session. There is no need
for an executive session this evening so we'll move on to old business, and ask, is there any old
business that any Director wishes to bring forward at this time?
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: Hearing no old business and having leeway in how we address these things,
in any event, we turn to new business. And I will ask if there is any new business from any
Director. And I would recognize as a Vice Chair Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. And this is directed to General Manager Genova. With
regards to the Gold Line, and there was a question today from one of the audience members-actually, I'm sorry, it was Director Anderson-- talking about the revenue service operation and
the quiet zones.
What I'm wondering is, if we were to-- you're supposed to stick around. With the G Line, if we
were to have limited service with horn operation-- and the way the agreement reads now in our
interpretation, if we were to suggest to the public, and to the parties that are involved with this, to
operate this line under revenue service, under limited hours with horns going, which parties
would we need to involve? Could that even be done?
DOUG TISDALE: General Manager Genova, if you can, please give us your best response.

DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Well, the very first conversation that we would need
to have is with the Federal Transit Administration, being that that is where the process by which
our environmental documents get approved and signed off on. So we'd have to consult with them
to see if there's any opportunity in that regard. I think the challenge in identifying who we would
need to talk to on a stakeholder basis is very difficult.
Because let's say we do all kinds of outreach and people contact us and they say, yes, fine. I'm
fine. All it would take would be one person that could file a suit and be problematic for us. So
while it's something that I think is interesting to explore, I think it would be challenging to do.
That's not to say I'm opposed to it, but it'd be quite a process for us. We might even have to do
some kind of a mini-environmental process, if we are looking for stakeholder agreement.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So just in a perfect world, then, first of all, but start with FTA. And
the next step then would be those community members who live within a certain proximity to it.
Would there be other agencies? Since the horns would still continue to go, would there be other
agencies?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, again, the main agency would be the FTA. But that is something I'd
have to look at through conversation. But I will say a couple of the things that I mentioned today
on the waivers for constant warning time I find encouraging. One of those is the fact that we
submitted the information for the waiver request for constant warning time on the G Line Great
Crossings for Arvada and Wheatridge.
And the FRA has already posted that in the federal register just last week on December 13th, and
the comment period closes for that on January 28th. So I consider that a very positive step, that
the FRA actually put it in the federal register for the notice period. And so that is good. And then
we just received the last bit of documents we needed from Adams County. And I don't know,
Ralph, if you know if we got those submitted today or not.
RALPH ASPHAUG: I do not know. This is Ralph Asphaug, General Counsel. I don't know, but
we can check on that and let you know.
DAVID GENOVA: So we will be submitting, hopefully this week, if we haven't already, the
waiver application for constant warning time for those crossings in the G Line that are in Adams
County. And so as I said, I think with that process already rolling with the notice in the federal
register, I would think that we would be able to get there, given all the other things that we to do
on the G Line yet.
NATALIE MENTEN: It's hard to keep the mind from going to a plan B, as Mr. Martin out on
the east side of town continues to ask us, what is your plan B? And way back when he started
having those questions, I thought, well, don't worry about it. We'll have a resolved by then. We
don't need plan B. But then we keep going and it's like, well, all right. So thank you for the
answer. That's it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madame Vice Chair. We appreciate that. Director
Williams, you are recognized for new business.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. This probably should have come under old business. Last
week, I made a movement that we change the Executive Committee elections. But I have since
had several enlightening conversations on the subject as to why that happens when it does, so I'd
like to retract that concept. And if anybody wants to talk with me about it further, I'm happy to
do that. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And we're happy to recognize that as new
business, so thank you very much for sharing that. Chair Sisk, you are recognized, sir, for what
may be the proverbial last word.
CHARLES SISK: It will be the last time. Maybe old business, and I'll look in a mirror there and
maybe new business. But I know this is this holiday season. Certainly wishing a belated Happy
Hanukkah and a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to each and every one of you and your
families. Enjoy the time. It's special time. And then I'm reminded, and I am showing my age,
Huntley Brinkley. Good night, David. Good night, Chet. So be it.
[LAUGHS]
DOUG TISDALE: And that's the way it is.
[APPLAUSE]
Well, we thank you very much for that comment as well, Chair Sisk. Are there any other
Directors with anything that would qualify, even close, to new business? All right, well, then I
will rise to a point of personal privilege and just say, once again, the tremendous thanks and
appreciation of the Regional Transportation District and this Board and our predecessor Boards,
with whom some of you served, for your service.
And a moment now, also, to say that we are delighted to welcome the incoming Directors, the
new faces. And one who is a carryover, but still is sort of a new face, but now kind of not so new
as some of the others. But Director-Elect Buzek, Director-Elect Cook, Director-Elect Guissinger,
Director-Elect Lewis, Director-Elect Rivera-Malpiede, Director-Elect Whitmore, we look
forward to having you. And Director Catlin, we are more than delighted to have you back. But it
is time to wish a hearty hail and farewell to our departing Directors, whom we have been so
privileged to work with.
Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the record, there is no further business to come before this
Board. This concludes the Board's business in regularly scheduled meetings-- I always add a
caveat-- for calendar year 2018 and at the hour of 7:14 PM Mountain Standard Time. And I
would entertain a motion to adjourn.
I have a motion to adjourn. I have a second on that. Is there a discussion on the motion? No
discussion. Anyone and all those in favor, indicate by saying aye. Aye. Are there any oppose?
There are none. That passes unanimously. We stand adjourned. Thank you.

