2023-01-26
Executive Committee Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, OK, great. The Thursday, January 26 Executive Committee meeting will now
come to order. We're convened as of 10:00 AM January 26. I would respectfully ask everyone attending
the meeting to unmute yourself unless you are recognized to speak if you are remote. Thank you for
joining us at this meeting.
Please note that, until further notice, the official meeting of the RTD Board of Directors will be held
remotely via Zoom and audio-video recording, although we are going to discuss that today. The meeting
recording, along with the unofficial meeting minutes, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website. Go to rtd-denver.com, and livestream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I will now call roles. I know First Vice Chair Catlin will be here shortly. Second Vice Chair Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Secretary Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am Chair Guissinger. I am here. Other Directors in attendance? I know that
Director Tisdale is on the phone. Is there anybody else on the Zoom? I don't see anyone. I'd like to open
public comment. Do we have anybody who is signed up for public comments?
SPEAKER: There are no emails, and Jillian will let us know if there's anyone in the queue to speak.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is anyone in the queue, Jillian.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: There is no one in the queue at this time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I'm going to save us the instructions. And no emails? So with no participants in
the queue, we will close the public comment period at this time.
I'm going to make a slight change to the order of the agenda and move to the recommended action next
before the January agenda review so that if those items pass committee, they can be included on the
January 31st Board Agenda. There are three recommended actions on the agenda today. The first one is
the zero emission policy.
BOBBY DISHELL: Move to postpone to a date certain at the April Board meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'd rather read this. We have a second to postpone to a date certain.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second.

LYNN GUISSINGER: We have a motion and a second to postpone this, and I think the reason is because
the ZEV committee has not finished its work and pass this at this point, right?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I think the discussion that was held those had [INAUDIBLE] meeting-- and I'll
preparing a written report-- that was held yesterday was that one of the big-- taking the learnings from the
first roundtable, we're having another roundtable next week. So it certainly was not prudent. The entire
purpose of pushing this to January was to be able to have the second roundtable before we voted. This is
now coming in February.
And we're working with staff as well on bringing forward certain questions, timing for scope of work for this
week transition plan, which is also a pretty critical element to being able to make policy that we can at
least have a bit more analysis on. So that's the reason for pushing it out to April is to allow time for the
second roundtable for the scope of work for the fleet transition plan and to then be able to come forward
to the entire Board with the more well-baked, well-studied plan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Could I just make a comment-- and I'm all for having a full discussion when the
committee is ready, but when you add all those attachments in it makes it really awkward to scroll through
our agenda. What about just having the links?
BOBBY DISHELL: That's fine with me. No opposition on my end.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. There's Peggy.
PEGGIE CATLIN: I apologize.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No problem.
BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE]

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, just for the record, First Vice Chair Catlin has joined us, and Director Whitmore
is on the phone [INAUDIBLE] online. Hi.
PEGGIE CATLIN: Hi.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Welcome. So we have a motion [INAUDIBLE] oh, and Director Guzman has also
joined us. Great. Thanks, everyone. Director Dishell made the motion, and Director Sloan seconded, we
will postpone the committee's recommended action to a date certain in April Executive Committee and
Board meeting. All right, are there any no votes on this item? That is five yes votes and zero no votes and
no abstentions. Motion passes
The next one-- these are both kind of hot off the presses. Michael and I have been working together on
some of these, and Debra. Approval of a proclamation for Zero Fare for Better Air Initiatives-- for Board of
Directors to approve the proclamation recognizing contributions to the successful Zero Fare for Better Air.
Do we have a motion?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

LYNN GUISSINGER: There are lots of motions. I heard Director Catlin as the movement and Director
Davidson has the second. Is there discussion on this item? I have a little bit, but anyone else?
BOBBY DISHELL: I have a question-LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure.
BOBBY DISHELL: --which is there a reason financial stewardship is not-- or forgot the exact term we use- responsible use of public funds is not included as one of the teaching priorities that we're fitting by
acknowledging the proclamation of getting state money to be able to provide free transit?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, if I may.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure.
RA JOHNSON: So holistically, when we first embarked on this endeavor, the whole aspect behind it was
community value and customer excellence, recognizing at the time in which we pursued this endeavor,
we had no understanding where we brought this forward to all relative to financial success. That wasn't
identified. But as we go forward, quite naturally, as we're good stewards and we have to share
responsibilities, that's more or less inherent.
So I would say that was something that we didn't overlook holistically, but the primary priorities were
focused on community value and customer excellence, but totally admittable, as we look at it holistically
because in reference to the money that we were able to garner from the state of Colorado, we handled
those monies in a very prudent fashion. So your point is well-taken, but I yield that to the committee
holistically to make that decision.
BOBBY DISHELL: I was just curious. I don't feel passionate enough to add it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Discussion item is something we would all agree, so I think that's fine. On the
proclamation itself. I hope everyone-- I hope we will pass this, and I hope everyone is OK if there are
some minor changes. For instance, we name a lot of people and a lot of groups. And I want to-- the
purpose of this is to read it at the party that's being put on by the Transit Alliance next week. We would
pass it on the 31st, And I would read it the next day.
So I just want to run it by-- mostly, what I have in mind is if we've missed anyone that we should be-- like
one of those groups. So I need to run it by Danny Katz to kind of put that together. It might be some other
little changes. There's one suggestion of a little bit additional language in the proclamation part, but I think
as long as you're all OK with passing it with some minor changes being made. All right, do we have any
no votes on this? With five yes votes and zero no votes and zero abstentions, that motion passes.
Our last recommended action is the ozone season transit grant program flexibilities, whether the Board
will support HBS 23-1101. The motion is for the Board of Directors to adopt a supportive position on HBS
23-1101 ozone season transit grant program flexibility. Do we have a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I hear Director Davidson as the mover and Director Sloan as the second. Is
there discussion on this item? And I'd like to ask Michael to address it briefly, if that's OK.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Ok to address the Board?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's fine.
MICHAEL DAVIES: I can stand here Chair, under the committee, Michael Davis Government Relations
Officer. Please bring before you all a consideration of the adoption of the support position on HBS 231101 ozone seasonal transit grant program flexibility. This bill was just introduced a couple of days ago.
Ultimately, House Bill 23-1101 amends provisions of Senate Bill 22-180, which was the bill that created
the grant program and funded Zero Fare for Better Air in the summer of 2022.
Two main provisions in this bill, and what we think is a benefit to RTD-- one, it allows funding for grants
received in 2022, but unspent, to be rolled over and available for funding in 2023. And the second and
very important provision is that it removes the 20% local match requirement that was specifically only
applicable to RTD from the Energy Office's grant program. And so this bill removes that requirement and
puts us in parity with all the other transit agencies throughout the state of Colorado-- just starting to see
that as a big benefit. And with that, I will stop and happy to answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, discussion questions, anyone?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Just one question-- awesome job. This is great. Are there any remaining risks,
questions, concerns with the mechanism of funding before this comes before the state? Is there anything
that's still being ironed out in terms of the funds being rolled over?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah, there is a discussion, I think, with the bill authors to look at some of the
language and potentially maximize a little more of that unspent money, the difference being a grant
received and eligible grant funding in the summer of 2022. And so we'll certainly be continuing to have
that discussion with bill authors and supporters if bill authors want to make this even more attractive to
our need and create more flexibility for RTD to make decisions in the future.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, great, thanks. So given that we didn't expend all of it, and we're looking to roll
over, I'm sure we're adjusting what the implications are to us from a financial standpoint. Any risks in
terms of undershooting, overshooting as we go to potentially two months here?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, madam Chair-- there's always the potential of risk. And so as we look at this
holistically, working in tandem with our CFO, we are looking crossdepartmentally at what those might be.
The risk, I would say, at this juncture are de minimis in reference to the information that I currently have.
One aspect to which Micahel Davies was referencing, as we look at the bill language and things going
forward, we weren't able to utilize these grant dollars for marketing purposes and things of the like.
And that's something that we want to ensure that we can do going forward as well. So when you think
about promoting the program well in advance to encourage the potential of more transit usage, that's one
aspect and of itself. So there could be more monies that the agency expands, i.e. RTD. So that's what I
meant by the de minimis aspects of the financial implications.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK that's helpful. Thank you for characterizing that. Thank you, Chair.
BOBBY DISHELL: Would the rolled over funds also be exempt from the match?

MICHAEL DAVIES Yes.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. And I think, my only externally recommended action is something everyone in
here knows. Policy can change quickly and especially at the state house. It's not always in the way that is
in support of motions. So to the extent we can caveat our support that it's, as currently drafted, furthering
certain intent, I feel like that's important, versus a blanket, we support it. We support it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I'd like to-- Michael, thanks. My only concern with that is there is a little bit of
language that we want to try to change. So I-- we can always bring it back. And we can bring it back
even, if we don't have a Board meeting looming. I guess, I would prefer to have it-- have a motion passed
with the understanding that we have a little bit of language still to work on.
BOBBY DISHELL: So we don't support it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, we do support it. We could change the motion and say we support it with the
potential for amendments to achieve what we've-- which is rollover of those funds and take away the
20%. [AUDIO OUT] Would you prefer that?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I just-- because that way, if someone else is picking this up, another
government affairs person picking it up, I want to make sure that they see that our support is contingent
on-LYNN GUISSINGER: Getting the right-- I think that's a good point. Do we have a motion that would
amend this to say that we support this and support-- I don't know how you want to say it. But that we
expect to be making some minor change to the language or support an Amendment to the language to
achieve the goals of rollover and the 20% on [AUDIO OUT] Good with that?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Sure, just to support a potential Amendment that would allow greater flexibility with
[INAUDIBLE] dollars from 2022.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I will-- I'm good with whatever language you all craft based on that discussion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Well, if I can try to draft a recommended action in front of me, if I
haven't lost this here. [AUDIO OUT] I turned the page too quickly. For the Board of Directors to approve
the proclamation recognizing contributions to the successful zero-SPEAKER 2: No, no, no, no, no.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, sorry. Just for the Board of Directors to adopt a support position on HB 23-1101
Ozone Season Transit Grant Program Flexibility with the Amendment to allow-- to support changes to the
language that allow more flexibility for additional revenues. Is that [AUDIO OUT] you're looking for?
MICHAEL DAVIES: I think that's clear direction to me. [AUDIO OUT] you have something?
SPEAKER 2: I would say with additional flexibility that is in support of RTD's goals.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.

SPEAKER 2: Just holistically because then that captures the financial aspect that we talked about that
Director Dishell mentioned previously with the proclamation.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So do we need to vote, I think, on the Amendment first, right?
SPEAKER 2: If you could get a second on the motion to amend.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're making motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I hear Director Dishell, Director Davidson. Did you have something to say?
PEGGIE CATLIN: I was-LYNN GUISSINGER: [INAUDIBLE]
PEGGIE CATLIN: No, I think it's fine. I just wanted to make sure that something didn't happen down at
the state house that would result in RTD incurring any more expenses. [AUDIO OUT]
SPEAKER 2: --in RTD's goals because our goal is not to incur any additional expenses. Moreover, we're
looking for that entire the 20%. Previously, I don't think would be advantageous because something could
come back in as a 10% match. Though, we're moving that holistically that achieves our RTD's goals,
right?
PEGGIE CATLIN: So I don't suggest amending the Amendment at all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Do you have what you need for the Amendment? OK. Are there any no votes?
[AUDIO OUT]
ERIK DAVIDSON: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, the Amendment passes, zero no votes, five yes votes, no abstentions.
Then we have the original motion with the Amendment. Are there any no votes on that? There's
discussion. You need further discussion first?
BOBBY DISHELL: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any no votes? All right, the motion with the Amendment passes, and five yes votes,
and no votes, and zero abstentions. All right-TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, if I could.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.

TROY WHITMORE: Just one thought, I would assume with the passage of this motion-- well, probably
from the full Board, we would give the instructions-- and this is a Michael question-- to our lobbyists to put
us down on record with the Secretary of State as support with amend. That way, we're on the record as a
supporter for all to see at the Capitol.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good thought, thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: OK, thanks. That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, January Board meeting agenda review, the next item on the agenda is the
Board meeting review. As noted earlier, the zero emission policy was postponed to a date certain. So that
will be removed.
And the other two recommended motions will be on the agenda. And this-- the first Northwest Rail Peak
Service Study Community Engagement session is scheduled for the same evening and time frame. And
that's the one in Boulder. The other one is in Westminster.
So I worked with the General Manager and the Board Office. And everybody is OK with moving the Board
meeting time to 6:00. So I can just-- it starts at 5:00.
It's up in Gunbarrel. I can get up there for 30 or 40 minutes at the beginning. And I think that's important
because there are a lot of people that will be attending that, I think.
So to kick off the community engagement period, seeing that's a good thing to do. Is there a motion to
move the January Board agenda as amended to the Board meeting on January 31? So we're starting with
6:00. But I'm also asking about the whole agenda, if you have any comments.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I had a question about the whole agenda, if we're talking about agenda, which was, we
have as a discussion item today, the in-person versus virtual. But we don't have that as a discussion item
on the agenda for the whole Board. And I know-- I think that would just be good to discuss what we
discussed here with the full Board.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
ERIK DAVIDSON: [AUDIO OUT] want to get out in front of today's discussion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Can we add that?
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything else?
BOBBY DISHELL: I think, depending on public code of conduct conversation goes, if the-- deciding what
the Board's role is there, depending on the outcome of that conversation, that may be an appropriate
discussion item. [AUDIO OUT]

Actually, I think either way, the full Board probably wants to-- based on calls I've gotten. I'm sure some of
you guys have also gotten calls from our colleagues. It sounds like the full Board wants to discuss it either
way. So probably make sense to throw it on there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That would be good.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, good call.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think, the other thing that we have on here-- or on there, so the-- need to do an
Amendment to this I guess to-SPEAKER 3: Oh, I think you can just ask for a motion to adopt as discussed and so, to add those two
discussion items.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, so the motion, if adopted, the agenda item and the discussion items on the
code of conduct and on-SPEAKER 3: And moving the meeting to 6:00.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And moving the meeting to 6:00 and when they're-BOBBY DISHELL: And striking zero emission and relettering.
LYNN GUISSINGER: But what was the one you raised?
ERIK DAVIDSON: In person, versus virtual discussion item.
LYNN GUISSINGER: In person, versus virtual, so add those two, OK. Motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: I think we also-- if we're voting on it as drafted in here, we also need to strike the zero
emission policy from the agenda.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's in there. Let's see. Yeah, let's just see in the discussion, yeah, OK.
SPEAKER 2: Madame Chair, if I may? Recognizing, we're going to have a discussion and pursuant to the
conversation that you and I had, it's more or less about customer and public-facing policies, i.e. The code
of conduct as an example holistically. And so, qualifying it as such as the code of conduct prior to having
the discussion and agenda-izing it, I would ask, can we table this matter relative to the agenda to ensue
with the discussion for clarity sake because it's holistic in that frame when we say customer and public
interfacing policy?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So you want to table it?
SPEAKER 2: I want to table the agenda adoption for the Board meeting on January 31 at 6:00 PM, so
there's clarity about what will be discussed holistically with the full governing body, pertaining to customer
and public-facing policies.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So we'll-- we're going to wait on voting on the agenda until-SPEAKER 2: So we can clarify the topic.

BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, run through discussion items.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That makes sense.
SPEAKER 2: Thank you very kindly for your consideration.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That is fine, great. Discussion items, we now have five discussion items, a lot going
right now. I think we may have-- may be adding something to those. And first item was the Government
Relations report. Michael Davies, take that away, please.
MICHAEL DAVIS: Sure. Hi, Chair. Members of the Committee, Michael Davies, Government Relations
Officer. I have a very brief Government Relations report for you and happy to answer any questions at the
federal level.
The good news is that federal funding is funded all the way through the fiscal year now. That is a product
of the omnibus bill passing in late December. And so, that means that grants that go out for competitive
solicitations on transit-related competitive grants, that will be administered by FTA.
And it's just good news that it goes in a regular order that is predictable to an agency. And we can look at
those opportunities. So that's good news.
It's been a slow organizing the committees on the House side in Congress, still not in clarity on the
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. And that's the one that, of course, we're watching and
seeing if any of our members here in Colorado join. Representative Pederson did get it on the Financial
Services Committee.
So that is a committee of high profile in Congress. But that certainly is a-- takes one of those lawmakers
that doesn't have committee assignments previously and makes that known. So we're certainly watching
what Representative Caraveo ends up on.
And then, moving to the state level, certainly, looking through all of the bills, hundreds of bills already
introduced, looking through and making sure that we are tracking closely and have a good understanding
of how those bills may impact the agency or if they cross over into transit-related issues, obviously, House
Bill 23-1101 does cross over. And we'll track that closely and work in accordance with the Board support
an Amendment position. And, overall, I'm going to be producing, similar to last year, a legislative tracking
chart that allows you all to see from a week-to-week basis of where those bills are moving. And we'll get
that produced and out to the Board as soon as possible.
And then, just quickly touching on the local level, planning with the subregional service councils and this
is in coordination with the planning department. We have another round of those meetings coming up
and, during that same time frame, are looking to do a local elected official meeting. And this is-- largely,
will be in conjunction with those SSC meetings and talking about some of those same topics.
But as we've all talked about, it's something that RTD does on a regular basis is to hold those local
government elected official meetings and get that direct feedback. So we're in the process of planning
that one for the first quarter here as well and happy to answer any questions.
SPEAKER 2: Madam Chair, if I may just add something to the report. I want to qualify for everybody-- and
thank you very much, Mr. Davies for the report in relationship to the federal fiscal year. We want to qualify
that is quite naturally October 1 through September 30 because this organization operates on a calendar

year. And then, there's the fiscal year that commences July 1. So I wanted to provide that clarification as
relates to the funding. And we make adjustments accordingly.
And to the latter part of the report that Mr. Davies gave in reference to the elected officials meetings, I
want to ensure that you all are aware that we'll be working in tandem with you. And we disseminated just
yesterday information pertaining to a local government elected official survey that provided some insight
into a small snapshot of electors' perceptions, and opinions, and attitudes towards the engagement. And
we will be working in tandem with our local contractor on the Government Relations side to ensure that all
of you are engaged. And so, I just wanted to add that information so you're cognizant of that fact as we go
forward. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. [AUDIO OUT] discussion, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: So is there a risk? Or do we need to be doing contingency planning if-- due to a failure
to raise the debt ceiling? Is there a risk that some of those FTA grants may be ones that the Fed decides
to call back? Do we need to be thinking through alternative options, if we're relying on federal funds that
may not be there? Or is that money separated out distinctly enough?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Because much of the federal money comes through the highway trust fund, it really is
a dedicated fund that is locked. And so, that is the good thing of having a highway trust fund. And that is
the bulk of federal money. I think, on the competitive side of funding, that's certainly something to watch
but no indication right now that that would be a risk that we need to seriously contemplate.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [AUDIO OUT] Chair Captain.
PEGGIE CATLIN: I was going to-- I appreciate your comments about the engagement with the Board. I
received some comments and concerns from folks in districts, in my district about a lack of
representation. And really, they-- we only have the County commissioners. So there are-- a lot of the
those communities up there don't have city councils and that kind of thing. And so, there was some
concern that, for the subregional councils, that there was only one representative.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Andy-PEGGIE CATLIN: And he left.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [AUDIO OUT]
PEGGIE CATLIN: No, this was from the staff level.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, oh.
PEGGIE CATLIN: And so-LYNN GUISSINGER: That was Steve Duran?
PEGGIE CATLIN: Yeah, and they've-- there seems to be a void, I guess, in wanting to make sure that we
reach out and engage a little bit more broadly. I talked to Jim Webster about [INAUDIBLE]. But--

MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah, certainly, thank you for mentioning it. It's certainly something we're aware of.
Our contractor that helps us out on the Subregional Service Councils is definitely aware of. And I think,
we're exploring options of how we engage some of those community organizations that can do that work
to get out to some of the smaller mountain towns that you represent and make sure that they're-- if they
can't actually attend our meeting, that their voice is at least represented through something that can. AndPEGGIE CATLIN: There are some groups that are trying to get organized. That-- They don't have
standing like a city council. Native is a well-oiled machine up north. But these communities just don't
really have that capability. So-LYNN GUISSINGER: You have something to add?
SPEAKER 2: Yeah, I just wanted to add. So yes to Michael's point, conversations have ensued, as well
as with our planning team as well, in recognizing the concerns that are raised holistically, that we are
adjusting and modifying. And as relates from the staff level, trying to ensure that there is coordination
garnered to address that going forward. So it-- for lack of a better phrase that's not coming to mind, it
could be a one off.
We're going to ensure, and we have a commitment to make it happen that we get those voices
holistically, even if it's not in that traditional form of the Subregional Service Council because those
mountain towns may not have the staff. But we will ensure that we're engaging in a meaningful way and
deduce what might be most beneficial.
PEGGIE CATLIN: OK, thank you.
SPEAKER 2: You're welcome.
PEGGIE CATLIN: And then I did hear-- Congresswoman Caraveo expressed some interest on some
broadcast I was listening to of being on the [INAUDIBLE] Committee.
MICHAEL DAVIES: We hope for an interest in [INAUDIBLE], heard loud and clear by leadership in
Congress that puts her on that committee.
PEGGIE CATLIN: Anyway, that was a [INAUDIBLE]. That was a good trip that she was interesting in that
[INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have a couple of comments on this. And one of them gets to the retreat, we can
talk more about it at that point. But in one of these, I discuss the OGM with Michael Davies.
And one of them just came to me this morning, which, if we're going to shift to having our local and state
lobbyists start coming to the meetings, especially during the legislative session, Michael, I think we'll still
do the federal and introduce the lobbyists. And then-- well, I think we need more of a relationship, the
Board members generally, with the lobbyists. Michael is doing a great job on all of these things. But I
think that gives us a little better sense.
And then, one thing, I don't know if this is a retreat, maybe, a retreat topic, maybe, something else we put
together. But I would like to see-- this is my thought, obviously, up to the Board. But I would like to see
each Director working with Michael, and with Jen Webster, and Jennifer Brandbury, and all of us to come
out with an action plan for engagement so that we have in mind which city councils-- some of us-- I know

Treasurer Dishell has, what, four cities in your district or something? There's four areas, counties, or
something?
BOBBY DISHELL: Denver, Englewood, Sheridan, Omar, Littleton-LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, gosh.
BOBBY DISHELL: --Jeffco, bravo.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, and it may be that somebody [INAUDIBLE] take Jeffco and wrap up, for
instance. And you don't have to do all of that outreach. But I think, it would probably help if we put
together-- and I apologize.
I like to talk about these things in advance with Debra and Michael. But they just came to me this
morning. And we can talk about it, if that's what everybody wants.
BOBBY DISHELL: I just got some feedback via email that folks are having a hard time hearing us. So
folks can try to lean in. I think it's these mics when we're talking, to make sure that everyone can hear.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't think I can turn those up.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, sorry about that, Director Tisdale. All right, thank you for the report. And next
item is the Board's role in deciding customer and publication policies, like the code of conduct.
And I'd like to open this up for discussion. We might start off with Miss Johnson. I think it would be good
to talk about the code of conduct in particular and then what your questions are after that. And it may be
that we're just teeing this up for a Board discussion or a retreat topic. We can decide in a few minutes.
SPEAKER 2: Sure, thank you very kindly, Madam Chair. And I appreciate you agendizing this item. And I
want to share, for the Executive committee's edification as relates to the code of conduct in particular, I
qualify this as customer and public-facing policies because there is some confusion as it relates to the
role in which I play.
And I thought it would be prudent that we have a collective discussion because I'd like you to know, as we
looked at the code of conduct holistically, that I was not doing anything in reference trying to shut out the
Board and had conferred previously with the immediate past Chair on a path forward, recognizing that we
did have an e-bike policy, for instance, which is customer and public interfacing, in which I apprised the
Board in the same manner that did not come to this body. So the point of the matter of me putting it here
was to ensure that there's an understanding, collectively, about the expectation as we look at some
policies because we have a myriad of them that would be qualified as customer facing and public facing
as well.
And I thought it would be prudent to have a discussion relative to what that is as we go forward because,
if you would take an opportunity to look at various elements that would be qualified as a policy, per se,

that don't come to this Board for action from a regulatory compliance vantage point, we have a
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise policy in which we said race conscious, race neutral goals. We have
a Equal Employment Opportunity policy that falls under Title VII at the federal level, that doesn't come to
this Board. And those are both customer and public interfacing.
And so, after having some discussions with the Chair, totally amenable if that's the Board's desire but,
holistically, it's not just about the code of conduct. It's about discerning what those policies are because,
in some instances, it seems as if there's not clear parameters. And I just wanted to seek out the rules of
engagement.
And as we've talked about with-- not with the newer Board members but, in November, when we were at
the performance committee and I was seeking some guidance relative to what might that be, this may be
a topic that we could explore more holistically during a retreat. I couldn't think of it-- during the retreat.
And so, want to be clear that I'm totally open to bringing the code of conduct full circle to the Board. And
we can outline what the path forward is with that so there's engaged discussion, since that's why I was
trying to be very transparent and providing those elements to you.
There was a time and place when I first got to the organization, recognizing we were in the height of
COVID, that this organization was cited by the Colorado Public Health and Environment. And we received
a citation because we weren't adhering to COVID Protocols. And within my authority as the General
Manager and CEO, modified that code of conduct previously so, operating under that vantage point, went
full steam ahead. So I just wanted to put that out to this committee, recognizing that I am not trying to
usurp any responsibility that this body has holistically.
But then, again, wanted to ensure that the conversation was holistic and that I wasn't just engaging with
one member of the Board, per se, as we go forward as I report to all of you collectively. And wanted to put
that forward, so more than happy to engage in a broader discussion and as it relates to the code of
conduct, recognizing that I did go back and actually read through a myriad of different things where it was
cited by a previous Board that that should be brought back. More than happy to do so and, potentially,
have discussions about why it may or may not be germane to continue that practice as we go forward,
recognizing the subject matter expertise in reference to our legal services and our qualified and postcertified police department. Thank you very much for the opportunity to share that information with all of
you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I see that Director Ruscha has joined us. And I'm going to
call on you in just a minute.
I had a conversation with Second Vice Chair Davidson with, I think, a suggestion from him that makes a
lot of sense to help define. As I understand, you're looking for guidance on what to bring forward and-SPEAKER 2: Right, so we don't get in these precarious situations, where it appears as if I'm trying to do
something under a cloak, which is not the intent.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I think it'll be iterative. We changed the authorization a little bit. Do you want to
just lay out what you would suggest? Or I'm happy to.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, sure I can comment on that. So just even before I do a couple of things, first of
all, thanks for recommending we don't agendize the discussion on this. I think this would be a great
retreat topic, rather than something that we go to the Board on the 31st on because what I hear in that is

that we need to be-- the Board needs to have one voice on what we want to hear, as opposed to 15
different members being interested in different policies.
I think, what I discuss with the Chair as a potentially good starting point until we can get that clarity is any
policy, even if it's customer facing, if it's come before the Board at the last iteration, has come before the
Board and passed that, by default, it would come before the Board again. I think the worst reason to do
something is just because that's what we've done before.
So if there is a reason that that really should not be decided or voted upon by the Board, then, I would
suggest that we actually discuss that when those policies come forward.
So let's call it policy A to take this particular one out. That has passed before. It's public and customer
facing or something else that might be potentially operational. But it came before the Board.
By default, let's bring it before the Board again. And then, if you believe, as our General Manager, that
that really shouldn't have come before the Board because it's more of an operational item, we can bring it
forward and then perhaps have that discussion as to why, maybe, that would fit.
I think, maybe, what we would owe staff at the-- and maybe this is a retreat topic-- is figuring out how to
draw some clear lines. And we've talked-- there's some things, I think, that might be a little bit murky right
now. But I know for sure that what's-- the current policy at hand, what's causing people to be interested is
this was pretty high profile.
There were some things that changed out of an unfortunate situation to the agency. And that gets a
variety of stakeholders involved, elected officials involved. There may be some lines we can draw to
determine some minimum level of engagement. I don't know what that looks like sitting here. But it's
something we could probably discuss.
So just to summarize, I think we need to come up with some kind of clarity for staff. I think this is a retreat
topic. In the meantime, my suggestion is, if it's come before the Board before, bring it again. And then
bring forward a discussion as to why it should or should not continue as such.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, let me see if Director Ruscha is still there. I can't see you Director Ruscha or
see if your hand's still up. Are you still there?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes, I'm still here. And I was actually just going to-- I was
going to say, essentially, what Director Dishell just said in that, if we have a history of voting on a policy or
discussing a policy in the public forum, such as code of conduct, that we keep it as such, unless there is
sufficient reason to remove it from our purview.
And that's something that can also be discussed. So I guess, I'll just chime in to say that I think Director
Dishell brought up a good point. And I would concur.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Thank you. Just to keep the record clear, that was Director Davidson.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, I am sorry. You guys look very tiny from my screen. and Director Dishell and
Director Davidson got a little bit-- I apologize. But in which case, I concur with Director Davidson. Thank
you for that correction.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, no problem. Thank you. Other discussions? Director Dishell.

BOBBY DISHELL: Great to be confused with Director Davidson.
[LAUGHTER]
It's a true honor. I think, one thing that we may want to consider for retreat is, if we're going to genuinely
reevaluate this and we want to provide genuine direction to the extent we have a list of the policies, just
provide them to the Board. And provide them to the Board prior to retreat.
And we can just not necessarily amending each and every policy. But at least, can then-- at least we then
know, hey, here's the universe currently existing policies.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Correct.
BOBBY DISHELL: Let's talk about what should come before the Board and what shouldn't. And, also,
let's talk about what's not there. And I know, Director Sloan, and I, and others have had discussions about
a sustainability policy, a coordinated effort in that regard.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's a really good idea.
BOBBY DISHELL: And that way, we at least know the universe because I can [AUDIO OUT] be honest
that I certainly do not know every policy that exists in this agency and how far up and down they are. And
if I were to guess, there's probably management teams that have policies that are about, this is how we
answer the phone in our call center, right? Good to know it exists, probably, not one that needs to come
to the Board. So I think that would be, probably, really helpful.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. I [INAUDIBLE] Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And that brings to mind the fact that there are policies that
are not necessarily customer facing that we might want to review. And an example of that might be the
orientation procedure for new Board members because that is inherent in the Board's relationship. And I
believe that could be listed as one of the policies that the Board would have input on.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [AUDIO OUT] good thoughts. Good thoughts. I can't see everybody who's on line
because we're mostly seeing ourselves. So is there-- I know Director Tisdale is there. Is there anybody
else else? Oh, he does have his hand up. I open on up. Director Tisdale, Are you muted?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Can you hear me now?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We can.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, Thank you. I appreciate that. And I very much appreciate the opportunity to clarify
this. And I appreciate General Manager's statement that we will now have this code of conduct go through
the committee process, as it has done in the past.
And I guess that goes through the Operations Committee for such changes. And I think that's exactly as it
should be. And that's excellent.
I think we do need, in this particular regard because we've had two emails, I think, to all staff. It wasn't just
to the Board but to all staff saying that these changes to the code of conduct would go into effect on
February 5. Obviously, they will not go into effect on February 5. And it might be helpful just to have some

clarification to RTD staff who otherwise are operating under a couple of clear emails that said these will
be, in fact, in place as of February 5.
The broader question that I have is, I'm trying to understand the notion of customer-facing policies. And
how it is that customer-facing policies are something that somehow, it might be believed, that the Board
should not be engaged in. Whereas, I would think that that's one of the key things that the Board should
be engaged in, as the elected representatives of all of the customers of RTD.
And I was hoping that, perhaps-- and maybe this is not the time. And I'm not trying to create a huge, long
discussion here. It may be that this is something that could be discussed at the retreat very productively.
And it would be most helpful to have that. But, maybe, we could just footnote that and say, let's have
some understanding of what is a customer-facing policy. And why is it that a customer-facing policy is
something that, perhaps, Administration doesn't believe should come before the Board for approval?
But to summarize, thank you for making clear that this has to go through the Operations Committee and
come to the full Board for discussion. Second, we need to have a clarification that these changes do not
go into effect on February the 5. And number three, that the retreat could productively address the
customer-facing policy discussion and give some clarity on that.
In the meanwhile, I support what Second Vice Chair has suggested relative to an operating ethic, which
is, if it's come before the Board in the past, it comes before the Board again. And if there is some concern
on the part of General Manager or others that it should not, we could have a discussion at that time
relative to such matter. Thank you very much, Madam Chair and committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Would you like to respond, Miss Johnson?
SPEAKER 2: Yes, just for clarification's sake, this code of conduct is not going into effect February 5. So
whatever communique that was being referenced that was disseminated to employees, I have addressed
that when I had a conversation with the Chair just last Thursday when I recommended to her that we
have a discussion here in this forum. But recognizing that this conversation needed to ensue, before I
made that well known, I did share with members of the leadership team that would have a large role in
rolling this out that things had been halted until they heard from me otherwise. So for the record, I wanted
to clarify that nothing is going into effect February 5. Thank you very kindly.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Yes, Treasurer Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Have we coordinated with ATU on this, on developing the policy? It'd be great-PEGGIE CATLIN: The code of conduct?
BOBBY DISHELL: The code of-- excuse me. a code of conduct. It'd be great to have their voice on here
as well, if we-- depending on the level of coordination.
SPEAKER 2: Madam Chair, if I may? So recognizing that two thirds of our workforce are representatives
by 18-10-01 and, quite naturally, are represented by 10-01. And they're RTD employees first and
foremost. In reference to modifying the code of conduct, this was done with employee input, relative
specifically to our frontline employees from a supervisorial vantage point, as well as those that are
working out on the right of way because they often have been caught in precarious positions where they
have been assaulted.

So yes, there has been conversations. And not to mention that RTD has a committee that's called the
Assault Committee, in which Michael Ford leads in conjunction with the Chair, the Present of ATU, and
now the Secretary. I maybe have the titles wrong. But it was the former Vice Chair of ATU.
And that committee meets on a biweekly basis. So yes, this was done quite naturally, as we're trying to
provide a welcoming and supportive work environment for the vast majority of our employees here at the
Regional Transportation District. So thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you and hopefully, one day, this committee doesn't need to-- that specific
committee can be retired.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, [INAUDIBLE]. It's not-BOBBY DISHELL: But until that, thank you.
PEGGIE CATLIN: Or at least renamed.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So I think that there's some good ideas here. I think this is starting to give good
feedback that, if it came to the Board in the past, it comes to the Board. Or we'd at least have the
discussion with the Board about whether-- if there's reason that you don't think it should.
And I like, also, treasured Dishell and Secretary Sloan's suggestions of looking at specific policies, to the
extent we can, because the more we talk about it up here, the less definition we're giving. And so, I think
that that's good suggestions too. And it sounds like people are inclined to make this a retreat topic, rather
than something to bring up in the agenda this time. So we will not add that to the agenda. everybody
good? Yeah, just Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGIE CATLIN: From a mechanics standpoint, we have policies that-- we have recommended actions
that the Board has taken. And I'm assuming that you're saying that the Board has acted on something,
whether it's policy related or budget related, that it should come before the Board again. That's going to
take some administrative work to go through previously adopted Board action to figure out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think most of these-- I think that's possible. But I think most of these that the Board
Office has a lot of. And some of us who've been around a bit have had the memory. And John McKay, I
know, works closely with-PEGGIE CATLIN: I-- that's the place to start, though, anything that has been previously adopted by the
Board.
SPEAKER 2: If I may, Madam Chair, I would agree with that holistically because there's some things that,
to the point that Director Dishell made reference to because here, as a matter of doing business from an
administrative and operational standpoint-- and when I use operations, I mean the day to day. I'm not
talking about transit service delivery. That we do have standard operating procedures.
And, oftentimes, there's the big P, as our General Counsel will say, when we confer and then the little p
as we go forward because we may have a policy in relationship to utilizing non-revenue vehicles for
employees that need to get from one worksite to another. That wouldn't come to this Board, in my
opinion, because that's the day to day. And we need to ensure that one can get from one to work location
to another when they're making relief, to provide service to our broader region.

And so, recognizing what first Vice Chair Catlin was referencing that there are some instances that there
may not be policies. But they're recommended actions. And I would yield my comments to be further
confirmed by our interim Executive Board Manager, recognizing that these things are tracked. And we
should have a repository, and, holistically, that could be the springboard for garnering a better
understanding of what might be a policy, big P or little p, as we go forward in reference to what it is that
we do holistically as a organization.
PEGGIE CATLIN: And so, I guess to that point, there could be some recommended actions that really
didn't need to come before the Board. And that's why-- in the way of culling some of those out, we could
do that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we will move that forward as a retreat discussion. The timing is Executive
Committee meetings. I want to do this really quickly because I know this-ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm very sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --Director Davidson has to leave. You have a word conflict on the fourth Tuesday?
BOBBY DISHELL: For the third. Usually, yes, I usually-- the fourth Thursday of the month, I typically have
a conflict from 12:00 to 1:00.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, so if it falls on the fourth Thursday, maybe, we'll move it-BOBBY DISHELL: Well, theirs is the last Thursday of the month, which I'm off the fourth Thursday of the
month.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So your conflict is just the last Thursday of the month?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, can we work on that and could come up with a proposed change in the
schedule so we're-- we move it up, maybe, a week or something? We'll have to figure out, maybe, a move
it to a different day. It-- does noon work for people? Somebody said it wasn't great. Was that-BOBBY DISHELL: They're not-- noon works, other than that last work conflict. I think-- I know Director
Davidson. And mornings are better on your end. Mornings are also generally better on my end because it
means that my day has not been hijacked by whatever comes in around 10:00 or 11:00 AM that requires
attention to be honest.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, I don't know that-- I'm very sorry that I have to leave for a urgent matter. But
maybe this is something we could pull a little bit. I think, definitely, my preference is always get it
standing. Get it predictable. And get it early so that I can, as you said, manage our days accordingly.
But I'm happy to defer to what the other Board members think as well. And, maybe, that's something we
can capture in polling or something of that nature.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, but we're just polling this committee, right?
SPEAKER 1: Yes

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And pulling those staff members as well?
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
SPEAKER 2: Thank you. It'd be a bummer if we didn't attend.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, it would be a bummer. We wouldn't do that. And then, and next thing I'd like
to talk about is in-person meetings.
I have to wait for-- well, I'll just say that Tai-Shrae and I have talked about-- there were a couple of things.
We moved our meetings to make them-- there was one that didn't comply with the bylaws. And so, she's
going to send that back out. So I'm not going to go through all that now.
I'd like to talk about the retreat and the possible study session. In-person meetings, I'm going to jump
ahead in the-- talk about this. And I guess, the one thing that I feel strongly about is, it's not a choice. We
either are in-person-- wait, I would say that with exceptions.
It's either an in-person meeting. Or it's a remote meeting because, if you make it a choice, it's very easy
to say, oh, I'm just going to stay home. And I think it's important to have-- this is not my decision. But
that's the one piece that I think, judging from other places, that that makes a difference.
That said, if we make it an in-person meeting, and you're out of town, or you're sick, or you can't make it
for some reason, I think we always should have that Zoom option. And I guess, just to throw something
out there, we have 10 meetings a year. I would suggest that we do every other Board meeting in person.
That makes it five times to come down to the office for a Board meeting.
And I would also suggest-- one idea is that-- it has come up, was that the months that we have in-person
meetings, we do the two standing committee meetings and the Board meeting in person. And the other
months, they're all remote. So I don't think I've had a chance to talk to about that either which I usually
like to do in advance.
But this is, really, a discussion, I think, for the full Board. So we could add this to the agenda. But
comments on that, concerns, do you have any concerns with that sort of schedule?
SPEAKER 2: No, I-- from my vantage point, I think this is up to you all collectively to decide, recognizing
that we do have to be cognizant of the engagement relative to a safety vantage point, public safety, public
health because we do have outbreak sites. But aside from that, I don't have any concerns because,
generally, most of us here are taking the meeting in our office anyway. So we're physically here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
SPEAKER 2: So that's all I have to offer at this other point.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Other thoughts?

SPEAKER 1: I would add a caveat that we will keep Zoom no matter what, if it is in person, just for public
transparency and accessibility. So we will keep Zoom no matter what, if it's in-person or remote.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Good point. All right, it looks like you-ERIK DAVIDSON: [INAUDIBLE]. I'm very sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Yeah, no, thanks. Yeah.
ERIK DAVIDSON: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good luck.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Let's see. Maybe, we'll start with the screen here. Director Ruscha, I see
you first.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I-- a little bit of feedback, it's still pretty hard to hear the
meeting on Zoom. And closed captioning is not always 100% accurate, which I think is a good segue into
my next point.
This is a working Board, in that, our members are actively engaged in policy, and discussion, and the
work of the organization. But our Board of many of us still have our day jobs. And so, I would just like to
put out there, when considering standing committee meetings and executive meetings, that we try to
make them as accessible as possible, both in allowing people to Zoom in remotely and having clear audio
and visual, as well as the time of day that they're scheduled.
Of course, voting members should have priority in setting the time. But I think that the more we can
increase accessibility for our fellow colleagues, as well as our constituents, members of the press, and
then the public who would like to tune in, we should do so. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good reminder. Thanks very much. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, appreciate that. I would-- and I know we'll discuss it at the Board
meeting. So I won't take a lot of time now.
But I would note that I am not aware of any other governmental body in the state of Colorado that
continues to hold virtual meetings. Every governmental body is meeting in person. And I think that, given
that, we need to have a strong rationale, if we're going to say that we're not going to do that.
And I recognize, there might be a few outliers or exceptions. But I would submit that, if one did a survey,
one would find that, undoubtedly, 80% to 90% of all governmental bodies are meeting in person. Every
city council with which I interact is meeting in person. The legislature is meeting in person. The County
commissioners are meeting in person.
There may be some other organizations that are not. But I think the governmental bodies, particularly with
which we interact, are meeting in person. And they're all a little surprised that we are not.
I understand the concern about hybrid. People find an easy excuse. But we always used to have
telephone participation in Board and committee meetings before the pandemic struck and the lockdown
was imposed. And people did not abuse that. Generally speaking, they showed up.

I'll stop there because more of it should be said on Tuesday night. But I did want to just open the door to
say, are there circumstances of which I am not aware where people think that there are lots of
governmental agencies meeting virtually at this date? Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, we have a different proposal there, Treasurer Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I would just say, I think the primary state body which regulates this agency, the
Public Utilities Commission, at least, on the Energy Regulatory side is still meeting virtually. My
understanding is that, for the transportation side, they're also meeting virtually. I think, the other thing I
was going to say is, it's clear that our current technology even sitting here today is not there.
I also, if I recall correctly from passing the November-- the budget we passed last year for this year's
budget that the Board has a pretty sizable discretionary fund. And if this is really a priority for us, is there
a reason we can't invest the resources from that discretionary fund to increase accessibility, to operate
our systems and to have a 21st century Board set up?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Better microphones and things, is that what you're saying?
BOBBY DISHELL: Better microphones, better videos, there's-- what are they called? Not to use a
particular brand because it's open and fair. But there are 360 cameras that work great that track people.
They're called owls. I don't know if that's a brand or a device description.
But we're just-- we're so far behind. And we have the money in the budget. And so, if that's the issue,
then, it would be great-- I don't know if that's a recommended action from us or from staff to get it done, to
appropriate those funds. But it seems like we should.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I would tend to agree. If people are having trouble hearing, maybe, we can
explore that and see what some better options are so that that issue goes away. The Board meetings will
be down in the main room in the basement. We're all up on the dais and all of that.
I'd prefer to see the committee meetings, to the extent they're in person, to be in this room. I think it's a
better conversation. But I think that's a good recommendation. Secretary Sloan, did you have something?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I wasn't planning on-LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, OK, I thought you had your hand raised.
MARJORIE SLOAN: But yeah, I think you are correct that the easy choice would be just to go down the
hall. So we should specify some meetings that the priority is that we are there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, that's the way I feel because the RAC meets is a hybrid. You come or don't
come. But it's very easy and 4:30 to say, oh, it's pretty sweet here at home.
So it looks like Director Ruscha has her hand up again, unless it's still from before. Anything to say, to
add Director Ruscha? Or is your hand still from before? OK, I'll assume that's a no.
All right, well, I guess, we'll take this conversation-- we've had a-- I made a recommendation. And Director
Tisdale made a different one. And what should we do? Should we take this to the Board and see where
we end up?

BOBBY DISHELL: My proposal would be, take it to the Board. Let's have a discussion. Let's identify three
to five options and just do a ranked choice vote-LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: --and just democracy rules. And that way, with ranked choice voting, you can still end
up with a second place choice, instead of a fifth place choice, if it's clear that everyone agreed on three
but not one or two. So that would be my suggestion.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And with ranked choice voting, it is really good. But we need to know the options for
having the Board meeting set up and easily accessible to all. And I know that has been an issue in the
past. [AUDIO OUT] to that?
SPEAKER 1: So can you elaborate on your question? What a-- so I answer correctly.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Well, as I understand it, there were a lot of difficulties that staff encountered in
making sure there was internet access from the Board meeting room.
SPEAKER 1: So during COVID, which we're still doing, we've been working on the RTD conference
rooms. We've had some test meetings. We've had some issues with sound, with Zoom, with having a
delay in the room.
We're hoping to have everything ready to go for the February meeting cycle. However, this room was not
included in that rehab. So we need to figure out what we need to do for this room, to get this room up and
running.
There are probably some quick fixes we can do with the OWL camera. It might be beneficial if you each
brought your tablet so you could have your camera facing you, so you could each be on the screen as
you're speaking. So the Directors are going to have to take some ownership in bringing their devices for
the smaller committees, if they're going to be held in here so that we can take care of that.
But for downstairs, you have a touch screen. You have a microphone. All that's integrated into the room.
Whereas, this room does not have that capability. Or it doesn't have those functions currently.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And what I'm saying is, if there's going to be a ranked choice voting, people ought to
understand what each option means.
SPEAKER 1: Right, so I could work with the Chair to come up with some of those options that we can
distribute before next Tuesday. So the full Board can see what options are available.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Or, potentially, we'll just do it after next Tuesday. If we do the ranked choice voting,
come up with the options in the meeting.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, that was my thought, was come up with options in the meeting on Tuesday at
the Board and then vote-LYNN GUISSINGER: Something like that, OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: --by email or by survey.

LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, retreat, I'm losing track. We have so many discussion items. I'm not sure if
this is on our agenda right now. But let's see.
PEGGIE CATLIN: I think it is.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I thought so. It looks to me like March 25th, I think, was the date that most
people chose. And I don't know. I didn't pick up that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I think it's the 25.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it's the 25 because the one before was the 18. Which Second Vice Chair
Davidson had a no on, if he can change that. I know, I talked to a few.
Director Whitmore and it's not good for you. I don't know if you might be able to Zoom in for a couple of
hours. Or but it looked like that was the best for most people.
TROY WHITMORE: It's not good for me. I've got a pretty heavy duty family commitment. So I'll hate to
miss it. But, maybe, it'll switch.
But I've got people coming in from out of state to empty out my in-laws house and spring break week to
where we have some extra time. Truly unfortunate, I will hate to miss it. I'll see what I can do. But family
comes first, sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure, OK. Yeah, I'm sorry about that too. It didn't look like there were any dates
listed. It looked like all the other dates had more people that were unavailable. So I guess, that would be
our first shot.
We need to get a scope of work out to a-- out to potential facilitators. And we had last year's that
[INAUDIBLE] sent out to the Executive Committee, maybe, to the Board. I can't remember.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: That;s the Executive Committee [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: --last week. Some of those issues are the same. But I think, hopefully, our goal
would be to come to more specific role in terms of the policies, more specifics in terms of engagement of
the Board with their local communities and the legislature for specifics, so that we're really leaving the
retreat with some specifics.
And I guess, maybe, we should send that scope of work out to the whole Board, if you would, and just ask
for comments. I might take another crack at it-- a crack at it first and ask for comments pretty quickly, so
we can get that posted, OK? [AUDIO OUT] --any hands on the wall there. [AUDIO OUT]
TAI-SHRAE PARISH:: [INAUDIBLE] agenda at the minute?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, is there a motion to approve the Board agenda?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do we have a clear Amendment?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Are we taking off-- sorry, the discussion item around the code of conduct and policy in
general?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's coming off. The ZEV is coming off. And-TAI-SHRAE PARISH: We're adding the discussion about in person and re-mote meetings.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right, yeah, great.
BOBBY DISHELL: Move to adopt the agenda as discussed.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [INAUDIBLE]
BOBBY DISHELL: Changes as discussed.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do we have a second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I hear Director-- Treasurer Dishell and Second Vice Chair Davidson as a
second. Any no votes? All right, we have five yeses, zero noes, and zero abstentions. Is there anything
else on our schedule here? Other matters?
BOBBY DISHELL: I have one quick other matter, which is conferences. I know, in the past-- or my
experience in the past has been, people just go to the conference that they feel compelled to go to. But I
think there's some real opportunity to be a bit more strategic about, do people want to go to conferences?
Which conferences do they want to go to? Do we want to send people by themselves? Do we want to
make sure people are going in twos?
Because, while it's all still, from my perspective, agency money, public money and we-- to the extent
we're making those large expenditures, we should be yielding the benefits. And so, from my perspective,
it'd be great, whether it's Davies or it's Johnson to strategize because my understanding is staff, generally
speaking, attend most of these conferences as well, some of the conferences as well. And I think, having
a coordinated approach could really increase what we're getting out of them.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I think we keep overlapping with retreat items. And, again, I think that would be an
excellent discussion. And I've been thinking about the retreat, that we should have an internal procedural
part and then outward-looking policies. And that would be part of the relationships that we have as a
Board.
BOBBY DISHELL: I think Tai-Shrae or someone else can keep me honest. But the only conference for
which there might be a financial consequence for waiting on would be one of the fly ins. That price goes
up on the 27.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The legislative one, it goes up tomorrow.
PEGGIE CATLIN: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: After legislative conference.

BOBBY DISHELL: It was one of them. But right, there's that. And then, there's Accelerate Colorado fly in.
We probably don't-- we should have people at both. But, maybe, it's the same people. Maybe, it's not. Do
we-- is that-- do we know who's going to that, APTA fly in?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Accelerate, I think, was Paul Rosenthal and-SPEAKER 2: I have no idea.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Director Whitmore last year.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Whitmore went last year.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Broom said he wanted to pay the fee to go this year. Do we have anyone-- I
guess-LYNN GUISSINGER: Legislative Conference?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: For APTA legislative, it's Director Tisdale and Director Whitmore so far.
PEGGIE CATLIN: I talked to the Chair. And I think, both of us would probably like to go.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I need to decide today.
PEGGIE CATLIN: And then-LYNN GUISSINGER: Then just going with [INAUDIBLE]
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: For Accelerate Colorado, we have Director Rosenthal and Director Whitmore
penciled in as a potential attendee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Miss Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would just say, that would be helpful because, oftentimes, I don't know who's going
to a conference. And I get invited [AUDIO OUT] speak on various panels and things of the like. And I
know that's up to you all. But professional courtesy, we-- to be able to understand, so if there's something
that I want to ensure that you know about or want to introduce you to other individuals with like
mindedness on a certain issue, that would be helpful.
And then, to the point, like with Michael Davis, Accelerate Colorado, don't know if we need staff
participation. But there's a myriad of different conferences. And I know, oftentimes, people have a laser
focus on APTA and the Leeds conference. But there's a myriad of things that are happening during that
same week as well, right?
And as you know, Madam Chair, in reference to that week, there's a lot of different things. There's APTA.
There's the Conference of Minority Transportation Officials. There's the Women Transportation Seminar
policies.
It's done intentionally to capitalize when people are there. And so, it would be helpful having a discussion
at the retreat. And that's just for my own edification so we, as staff, can better support because I know it's

funneled through the Board Office. But I had no understanding of who was attending at the Leeds. So I
appreciate you broaching that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
BOBBY DISHELL: So are there any-- other than APTA Live, which probably goes up tomorrow, are there
any other key financial decisions that we would need to make on conferences between today and March
25-ish?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Not to my knowledge, I can't think of anything.
BOBBY DISHELL: There's no February conference? There's no March conference, I don't think?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: March is APTA Legislative [INAUDIBLE].
BOBBY DISHELL: Great, thanks, we can wait.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, other matters? We talked about a study session of February 21. I think, our
CEO will be on a plane that night. So that doesn't work out
So we could look at another one. Or we could look at the agenda for the February Board meeting and see
if we want to spend a little time. I don't have a clear plan for it.
It was an idea for preplanning for the retreat. And we have a lot of good retreat topics that have come up.
So I think there's probably some value in that, but any comments on that?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I love the idea of combining-- I know it could lengthen out the February meeting. But-LYNN GUISSINGER: You like that idea?
ERIK DAVIDSON: One meeting in favor of multiple.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree.
[LAUGHTER]
All right.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That's be good.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, that's my thought too.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, all right, motion to adjourn.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right, we're adjourned. Thank you, everybody.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

