Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on December 9, 2008
Page 1 of 7

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

December 9, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee Meeting held on
December 9, 2008 in Rooms R, T and D
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

Juanita Chacon, Daryl Kinton, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, Neil Quinlan,
Barbara Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Carolyn Conover, Larry Buter, Scott Reed, Ron
Dodsworth, Dave Genova, Brian Matthews, Marie Christensen, Cal
Shankster, Jeff Becker, Bill Porter, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee, John
Perry

Others Present:

Matt Cohen, Jack O’Boyle, Tom Tobiassen, Jeff Leib, Kevin Flynn, Bruce
Behncke (Veolia),

Call to Order:
I.

Chair Bruce Daly, Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck, Bill Christopher, Bill
Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Chris Martinez, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer

****
Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 6:14 p.m.

Recommended Actions
a. Extend Expiration Date and Increase Funding for Veolia “Group 16” Fixed
Route Contract
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to amend the
Veolia “Group 16” fixed-route service contract (14-DH-004) to extend the term
of the contract from the current end date of August 2009 to a revised contract
end date of January 2010 and to increase the contract amount by
$5,419,000.00 to increase the amount authorized from the current amount of
$63,401,878.00 as approved by the Board of Directors on November 14, 2006,
to a revised contract amount of $68,820,878.00.
Motion:

Director Kemp made
a motion for full

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on December 9,
2008
Page 2 of 7
approval before the
Board at the
December 16, 2008
Board Meeting.
Second:
Vote
On Motion:

Director Brohl seconded
the motion.
The motion passed
unanimously.

b. 2008 Year End Budget Transfer for Group 19 Fixed-Route Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer in the amount of $325,000
from the “Group 18” (contract 15-DH-004) fuel budget to the “Group 19”
(contract 16-DH-007) fuel budget. It is also recommended that the General
Manager, or his designee, be authorized to amend the existing contracts
accordingly.

c. 2008 Year End Budget Transfer for access-a-Ride Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize budget transfers in amounts not to exceed
$550,000 in total from the MV access-a-Ride budget and contract (contract 17DH-007) to the CUSA access-a-Ride budget and contract (contract 17-DH-026)
to fund the costs associated with CUSA service and fuel expense. It is also
recommended that the General Manager, or his designee, be authorized to
amend the existing contracts accordingly.
Motion:

Director Ruchman
made a motion for
full approval of these
two items before the
Board at the
December 16, 2008
Board Meeting.

Second:

Director Brohl
seconded the
motion.

Vote
On Motion:

The motion passed
unanimously.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on December 9,
2008
Page 3 of 7
d. Budget Transfer for Additional Automatic Vehicle Locator/Mobile Data
Computers for access-a-Ride
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer in an amount not to exceed
$450,000 from the vehicle acquisition budget to the Route Match project
budget and contract (contract 15-DH-009) to fund the costs associated with the
acquisition of additional automatic vehicle locator (AVL)/mobile data computers
(MDC’s) and redundant radio based controllers (RBC’s) accommodate the
increase in access-a-ride fleet size since the original contract with Route Match
was exhausted. It is also recommended that the General Manager, or his
designee, be authorized to amend the existing contract accordingly.
Motion:

Director Ruchman
made a motion for
full approval before
the Board at the
December 16, 2008
Board Meeting.

Second:

Director Christopher
seconded the
motion.

Vote
On Motion:

The motion passed
unanimously.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on December 9,
2008
Page 4 of 7
II.

Update on COBUS Progress- Ron Dodsworth, Assistant General Manager Bus Operations,
gave this update. The extension of the Union Station project justifies adding several
buses to the mall shuttle fleet. There are no domestic manufacturers of the mall bus.
There will be an RFP for the new bus; this will not be a sole source procurement. COBUS
has the closest match to the specification that the District needs for mall service.
However, there are problems with the COBUS, it is not used in a standard transit
application anywhere in the U.S. It is not EPA certified even though it exceeds EPA
certification. The EPA would not grant a waiver. It has some issues with NISA
requirements, the way wheelchairs are secured, and the exits are electrically controlled.
COBUS is willing to work on these issues but not willing to invest in the 5 mile an hour
bumper. COBUS is awaiting the NISA decision on a waiver regarding the bumper. The
District is going forward with the RFP and then the award of the contract will be
contingent on COBUS receiving the waiver. COBUS uses a diesel engine and the District
wants to see how the public responds to it. The initial purchase will be for three buses
and the money is in the FasTracks budget. There will be an option in the contract to
purchase more. Mr. Dodsworth is hopeful that there will be recommended action in
January of 2009. The optimistic time frame would be delivery in October of 2009.
Director Martinez wanted to know how we would get public feedback on the new
buses. Cal Marsella responded that the major stakeholders would give feedback as
well as rider surveys.
Director Christopher asked if there was a hybrid option with the COBUS which Mr.
Dodsworth responded that there is not. Director Christopher wanted to know what
the option would be if the safety requirements are not met by COBUS?
The COBUS has lower emissions with diesel then the hybrid CNG mall shuttles. The
District will monitor the specter of emissions.

III.

Quarterly Reports – Bruce Abel introduced the reports. The District continues to
operate below budgeted hours for paratransit services. RouteMatch has helped
reduce costs by 5%. He asked for questions regarding the reports.
a. ADA – Director Brohl observed that access-a-Cab almost doubled and
wanted to know the reason. The subsidy was changed in the access-a-Cab
program at the beginning of 2008 and that has helped increase the ridership.
Director Brohl asked about call numbers, there are less calls taken but longer
calls. The Route Match training is responsible for some of the length of calls.
Director Brohl suggested putting the explanation in the report so the Board
understands.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on December 9,
2008
Page 5 of 7
Director Christopher asked about revenue miles going up 7 ½% much more
than passengers or revenue hours. Mr. Abel said that the District is studying
this and trying to figure out where this is coming from. Since the advent of
RouteMatch, staff is seeing longer trips. Staff is trying to disaggregate how
the number of trips from the length of the trips relates to the overall mileage.
Cal Marsella said that with more people using access-a-Cab, they are using
access-a-Cab for shorter trips leaving the longer trips to access-a-Ride.
Director Daly followed up on Director Brohl’s concern about phone calls and
the average speed and average length because is so much longer than 2007.
Bruce Abel responded that the third quarter 0f 2008 consisted of July –
September which is when Route Match was going live and the challenges
that were encountered at this time. Stabilization occurred in
August/September and the next quarterly report should reflect this.
b. Fixed Route – Director Kemp pointed out that preventative maintenance
keeps road calls down. Have there been some real items identified in the
QC? Delay in the replacement of vehicles for Veolia. Director Kemp wanted
to know if it was because of turnover and Carolyn Conover said there are not
seeing a lot of turnover at either First Transit or Veolia.
Director Daly said that the excuses for why Veolia is running late are not
valid as all operators face issues with strollers and increased passenger
loads. Carolyn Conover said it was not an excuse but a factor in why Veolia
did not meet the goal for Local On-Time Service.
Director Daly mentioned that he appreciated the charity work on behalf of
the contractors.
Director Christopher wanted to know if a contractor doesn’t meet a goal if
there are liquidated damages. Cal Marsella said it depends on the problem.
The District works closely with the contractors to help them meet their goals
and to work on problems. Liquidated damages are tracked and have been
trending downward.
Director Kemp mentioned touring the Longmont First Transit Facility and
gave kudos to their operation for helping the District become the #1 Transit
Agency.
c. Special Services – Director Martinez said that he was very happy with the
growth on the Gateway call-n-Ride and adding the Sunday service and the
possibility of fixed route service.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on December 9,
2008
Page 6 of 7
d. Security – Dave Genova, Assistant General Manager, Safety, Security, and
Facilities, gave this update. Cal Marsella asked Mr. Genova to speak to the
undercover fare inspections. Police officers identify themselves to the
operator when they get on the bus and sit very close to the operator. The
bus operator will give the officer a signal if the passenger is not paying the
full fare or evading fare. The passenger is taken off the bus and run through
the database. If the passenger is not in the database, they receive a warning,
if they are in the database, they receive a citation.
Director Martinez asked about 30/Downing and 10th/Osage sweeps and
wondered if there were a lot of students evading. Mr. Genova responded
that at the time of day that the 10th/Osage sweep was going on, it was prime
time for student travel.
Director Busck wanted to know how many Wackenhut officers are working
each day of the week, shift hours, how many DP officers we have working,
hours, how many RTD fare inspectors we have, security staff – who checks
that these people are working and how do we do that? Director Busck
expressed some concern over having an organization to self-regulate. Staff
will get this information to Director Busck. Mr. Genova did say that the
security contract is structured with a strong supervisory element.
Director Daly wanted to know why the jump in overtime hours in September.
Mr. Genova thought this was due to turnover issues with officers.
Director Elfenbein commended RTD for how they handle big events with
large crowds such as the Parade of Lights.
IV.

Route Match Update – Bruce Abel felt this was covered in the quarterly report. The
pilot deployment of the AVL/MDTs is ongoing. Larry Buter talked about his test drive
with the AVL/MDT and how good the benefits will be.
Director Christopher wanted to know when the full deployment of AVL/MDTs will be
completed and Bruce Abel said it should be about four months.
Director Martinez emphasized the importance of prior to a cutover, staff doing a
better job to prepare the Board for what they might anticipate during the cutover so
that they can better manage the complaints and feedback that they receive.

V.

2007 Fixed Route Service Performance Review – Bruce Abel introduced this item.
The first conversation regarding service changes in 2009 will start in January. Jeff
Becker reviewed the Service Performance 2007 report. Bill Porter passed out a sheet
on 2007 productivity of routes and gave an update that some of the Routes are now
doing better and that seven of the routes that are on the sheet have been cancelled.
A copy of this sheet is available for viewing in the Operations and Customer Services
Committee meeting minute notebook.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on December 9,
2008
Page 7 of 7

Director Tayer wanted to know what is being done regarding outreach to the public.
Jeff Becker said the services that are being examined will be placed on the website
and emails will go out to all public entities. Director Tayer said that outreach before a
route is on the cancel list is crucial. Bruce Abel talked about the different tools that
staff goes through to help the troubled routes; reaching out through advertising, the
“endangered species” list being sent to the public entities, etc. Director Tayer asked
that when a route is going to be cut that all the outreach efforts be listed in the Board
Report so that the Directors have this knowledge when fielding calls from
constituents.
VI.

Update on Mandatory Overtime in Longmont- Bruce Abel asked if there were any
questions on the memo distributed in the board packet and there were none.

VII.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

VIII.

Next Meeting Date - This next meeting of the Operations/Customer Service
Committee will be determined at a later date.

IX.

Adjournment - Hearing no objection, Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 7:55 p.m.

