Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Tuesday, April 3, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
5:29 PM
5:02 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

5:27 PM

Peggy Catlin
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Remote

5:08 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:10 PM
5:29 PM

Judy Lubow

Committee Chair

Present

5:15 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:02 PM

Ken Mihalik
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District G
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:42 PM
5:28 PM
5:06 PM
5:11 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Present

5:24 PM
4:53 PM

Director Deadwyler participated via phone. Director Mihalik arrived late.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, Gina Callahan, Ignacio
Correa-Ortiz, Lou Cripps, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Bob
Grado, Dave Jensen, Phil Lidov, Doug MacLeod, Nate Malone, Robin
McIntosh, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike
Meader, Allen Miller, Ed Neuberg, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed,
Richard Rost, Zamy Silva, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark
Tieman, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Shelly Cook, Mike Dino, William Gross, Navy
Hall, Anne Herzenberg, Rick Pilgrim, Chris Primus, Isaac Stacey, Dan
Stitt, John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan Wagner

Committee Chair Lubow discussed RTD’s safety procedures in case an emergency
occurred.

B. Recommended Actions

• Construction Award for IFB 37-DE 001. East Metro HVAC and Building
Automation Controls Upgrade Project
It is recommended by Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
award a contract to JCOR Mechanical Inc. in the amount of $2,840,224 for
the East Metro HVAC and Building Automation Controls Upgrade Project. It
is further recommended that the General Manager or his designee be
authorized to transfer $551,222 from the Base System Contingency funds
to the East Metro HVAC and Building Automation Controls Upgrade Project.
Funding for the contract and the transfer are included in the 2018 budget.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goal - Task
Goal #3 – Asset Management/State of Good Repair.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 17, 2018
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital
Programs & Facilities, stated that this action item was for the
State of Good Repair (SOGR) for the East Metro Facility. He
highlighted that this action would transfer funds from the Base
system to Capital Programs. He said that this year staff set up
a contingency fund for projects that go over the bid amount

for heating, cooling, and utilities. He noted that the
contingency fund was the source of the funds and that staff
was asking for the transfer in order to make the project whole.
Robin McIntosh, Senior Manager of Facilities, said that he was
the engineer supervisor at East Metro in 2006 and 2007 and
the two HVAC’s on the drivers’ end were bad then. He
commented that staff had packaged a few jobs with the latest
bid and they felt this was a very important project and would
appreciate the Board’s support.
Richard Rost, Facilities Engineering Manager, said that the bulk
of the work would be to replace six Supply Air Units (SAU).
He noted that RTD only received two bids, which was an
indicator of the high demand for this type of work, and stated
that the difference between the two was around $500,000.
Director Broom noted that staff was taking $551,000 from the
contingency account and asked how much money that
account had for future issues.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that the contingency fund had $5
million dollars.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
AWAY:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 0]
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Catlin, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Menten, Mihalik
Deadwyler

Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short Elliot Hendrickson (SEH),
Contract 16 FO-017 - Contract Amendment #2
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend
Contract 16 FO-017 with SEH to allow for additional architectural /
engineering design services in the amount of $2,000,000 for a new, not-toexceed Contract amount of $2,603,096.91. Work is administered on an asneeded, work order basis. Funding for this Contract will be included in the
individual approved project budgets.

This Recommended Action supports two of the General Manager’s 2018
goals. 1- Core Goal #1 - Successful Delivery of Transit Services. 2 - Task
Goal #3 – Asset Management/State of Good Repair.
Motion:

Director Walker made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 17, 2018
Board Meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
REMOTE:

Mr. Stopplecamp explained that this action item was for a
work order contract. He said that two years ago RTD had two
on-call firms: one for facilities and one for engineering. He
commented that, when the two departments merged into
Capital Programs, staff discovered that they only needed one
on-call firm and were using Short Elliot Hendrickson (SEH)
from facilities. He noted that SEH would be able to assist with
the Maintenance of Way facility for the North Metro Line as
well as other upgrades.

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Catlin, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow,
Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Deadwyler

Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Acquisition of Additional Property Rights (Permanent Easement) – North
Metro Commuter Rail Project
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the Board of Directors pass the attached Property Acquisition Resolution
certifying property as necessary for the construction of the North Metro
Commuter Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal
process under state eminent domain law. Funding of this acquisition is
included in the 2018 Adopted Budget for the North Metro Project.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goals Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move this item
to the full Board at the April 17, 2018 Board
Meeting.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Stopplecamp commented that this action item related to a
piece of property on the North Metro corridor near 104th Ave.
He said that staff was asking for a permanent easement on a
piece of property adjacent to RTD’s for drainage and stated
that the property was currently being used for storm water
retention. He noted that this was not part of the original scope
of the corridor, but the property owner, the City of Thornton,
and RTD have all agreed that this land should be used for RTD.
Susan Altes, Senior Manager of Property, noted that this
would be a slope easement.
Director Hoy said that for clarification there would not be any
improvements to the land as it was currently used for storm
water retention.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that there would not be any
improvements, but there would be a few modifications.
Ms. Altes stated that this action would cover work for grading
purposes and slope.
Director Hoy noted that he did not see anything in the Board
Report that related to cost. He said that staff was asking the
Board to spend money based on a future appraisal.
Director Menten asked if this property was at the northwest
corner of 104th and Colorado.
Mr. Stopplecamp commented that the property was located on
the southwest side of 104th Ave. and Colorado Blvd., just
west of RTD’s tracks.
Director Menten inquired as to who owned the property.
Ms. Altes remarked that the property was owned by Settler’s
Chase Master Association, Inc.
Director Menten asked if this property or any of the
surrounding properties would fall under the 50% special
evaluation rule.
Ms. Altes explained that staff had not identified any special
benefits to offset damages.

Director Catlin inquired if this action would impact the
drainage characteristics of the current storm water retention
pond.
Mr. Stopplecamp said yes and indicated that was why the
easement was needed.
Director Mihalik stated that he would be a no vote for this
item. He said that he understood it was for drainage, but he
would like to keep this open for discussion at the Board
Meeting.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 2]
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Catlin, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Menten, Mihalik
Deadwyler

Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED.

• RTD Director District Precinct Assignment
It is recommended by the Planning, Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the revised Director District
boundary between Director District E and Director District G so that all of
Arapahoe County Precinct Number 234 falls within Director District E, which
has a lower population than District G.
This recommendation addresses General Manager 2018 Core Goal #3:
Strong Financial Management: Oversees operating and FasTracks budgets,
ensures compliance with local, state, and federal reporting, and development
of financing plans for future projects.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 17, 2018
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning,
introduced Chris Quinn, Planning Project Manager, to introduce
this item.
Mr. Quinn explained that this precinct had been adjusted by
Arapahoe County and was now located in two RTD Districts,

E and G. He said that staff recommended that the precinct be
allocated to District E since its population was less than
District G’s.
Director Broom stated that his assumption was neither
Director from District E or G lived in that precinct.
Mr. Quinn said that was correct.
Director Solano asked if RTD needed to consult with the
Secretary of State for this change.
Mr. Quinn said no, RTD did not.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Catlin, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow,
Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Deadwyler

Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• 16th St. Mall
Mr. Van Meter said that he, along with Susan Wood, Planning Project
Manager, and Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineering Senior Manager,
would provide a brief update on the alternatives analysis and the
environmental assessment for the 16th Street Mall.
Ms. Wood stated that when staff last updated the Board on this project,
they were near the end of the environmental alternatives process and the
environmental assessment. She noted that, since that time, a recommended
preferred alternative had been selected, and to recap that selection she said
that the alignment of the transit way would be shifted, the wide center
median between Tremont and Arapahoe would be removed, and the current
pattern and materials would be kept. She said that the granite pavers were
part of the original historic design, which made the mall culturally significant.
She remarked that RTD was not supportive of granite, but the stakeholders
have indicated that it was important to keep granite for the transit way and
sidewalks.
Ms. Wood added that RTD had two grant funds allocated for this project
that totaled $15 million dollars and explained that the $15 million would be
RTD’s maximum contribution to the capital program costs. She further

added that RTD reviewed potential future maintenance costs for the mall
with the intent of minimizing RTD’s impacts for operations, but those
discussions were still ongoing.
Ms. Wood explained that the next steps were to have the final draft of the
assessment reviewed by the Federal Transportation Administration (FTA).
She commented that the assessment would be released to the public in
June, which would then begin the 30-day public comment period. She
stated that staff would come back and update the Board again on June 5th,
and then at the Board Meeting on June 26th, staff would ask the Board for
permission to release the environmental assessment for public review.
Ms. Wood commented that once approval was granted by the FTA, by late
October or early November, a notice to proceed for final design and
construction would begin in 2019 and the project should be completed by
2022.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked what RTD’s maintenance costs would be with
the new design.
Ms. Wood explained that there are still ongoing discussions regarding what
exactly the maintenance costs would be. She said there was a lot of detailed
work underway to get to that point but it was still in progress.
Director Folska, Ph.D., inquired what the maintenance costs would be if the
transit way were changed from granite to concrete.
Ms. Vishwakarma explained that the 16th Street Mall was a different type of
street. She remarked that, if it were a normal roadway or a rural highway for
example, Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) would say it would
cost $700 per year per lane mile. She commented that the 16th Street Mall
was not a rural highway and it had different conditions attached to it. She
noted that at the heart of the discussion was the historic designation and
mindset people have about the mall and how it should appear. She stated
that there were a lot of numbers out there and the consultant team put
together a few projections and estimated that the maintenance costs of the
new design would be $85,000 to $310,000 per year.
Mr. Van Meter stated that staff was very clear on the capital costs and the
capital costs commitment. He reiterated that RTD’s stance of minimizing
operating and maintenance cost exposures and operating impacts through
the maintenance process. He said that at this time, staff does not have
confidence in the exact numbers and costs, but they are not at that point in
the process yet. He noted that staff would have the ability to provide more
information to the Board in June.

Director Folska, Ph.D., asked what the capital costs were estimated to be.
Ms. Vishwakarma stated that the project consultants estimated the total
cost to range from $76 million up to $137 million for the project at that
time.
Director Anderson said that RTD served many different communities. She
stated that she was looking forward to the environmental assessment and
public process with the culturally significant location and added that
everyone should be sensitive to those cultural and historical places while
also minimizing costs.
Chair Tisdale commented that, relative to the environmental assessment
process, the environmental assessment proceeds with the conclusion that
granite pavers would be used in lieu of patterned concrete, but he pointed
out that the current assessment had language which stated that granite
pavers were proposed in this assessment, and subject to an IGA to be
entered into between the parties. He said that it was clearly understood that
RTD did not say by joining in the environmental assessment that it would
assume the cost of maintenance associated with the project, or the
additional costs for capital construction at the onset. He noted that this was
an important clarification should the issue arise in the future.
Director Williams remarked that it appeared that RTD was liable and had
agreed to 20% of the total project costs, assuming the project cost $75
million. She asked if RTD was in the same position in terms of maintenance,
or if RTD was responsible for all of the maintenance costs.
Mr. Van Meter said no. He commented that the maintenance portion would
not fall solely to RTD but noted that it had not been finalized or determined.
Director Williams asked if there was a proration based on stakeholder
involvement.
Mr. Van Meter said that staff needed to look at various ways to divide the
maintenance costs equitably, and fairly, while also minimizing RTD’s costs.
He stated that there was no formula to fall back on, but staff was trying to
figure out how that would work.
Director Broom inquired whether there was a current formula in place for the
existing mall or whether RTD paid for all of the maintenance costs.
Mr. Van Meter explained that RTD only paid maintenance costs for the
transit way and noted that, in the past few years, the City and County of
Denver had contributed $300,000 on an annual basis to support those
efforts.

Director Broom asked if RTD’s past maintenance history costs would be
used to determine future maintenance liability.
Ms. Vishwakarma said that one of the project’s key objectives was to
minimize maintenance costs.
Ms. Wood added that the purpose and need for the project included a need
to decrease the frequency and cost of maintenance. She noted that RTD had
been very clear in meetings that the agency needed to reduce its
maintenance costs.
Committee Chair Lubow said that when staff first presented this information
to the Board the figures for the different alternatives were quite drastic. She
said that she would like to hear how much it would cost if the transit way
was concrete, and she would like to see the alternatives comparison again.
Ms. Vishwakarma said that information would be provided to the Board once
staff had better numbers.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked if the reason RTD was maintaining the 16th
Street Mall was because RTD was an expert at maintaining roads, and asked
if the City of Denver was unable to maintain their vast system of roadways.
Ms. Vishwakarma stated that RTD had historically maintained the 16th Street
Mall roadway, which is covered in granite, and that was where RTD’s
expertise lies.
Mr. Van Meter added that it was experience on this particular roadway with
its operationally unique challenges.
Director Archuleta asked if granite pavers would be used for the new design.
Mr. Van Meter stated that granite pavers were the recommended locally
preferred alternative. He noted that the final decision would not be made
until further along in the process, but granite was the recommendation. He
added that because of that recommendation, RTD was stressing and
emphasizing that the agency’s maximum capital contribution will only be
$15 million, and the agency’s intent, desire, and direction is to minimize
future maintenance costs.
Director Archuleta asked why staff was going to use granite pavers when
the Board had specifically requested a different material.
General Manager Genova said that granite pavers would be used because
that was what the process selected, not RTD staff. He noted that when this

environmental process was applied, the outcome was the locally preferred
alternative.
Director Deadwyler stated that she had concerns with using granite pavers
as they could become slippery and cause injuries.
Ms. Wood explained that safety was a concern addressed in the
environmental assessment. She said that the new pavers would have a
different surface, but maintenance would be needed to keep them clean and
rough and added that the new pavers would have a completely different
texture and texturing process.
Director Broom asked if the mall redesign would allow buses to shift from
one side to another in case of an accident.
Ms. Vishwakarma said that was indeed a consideration, but she would know
more once the design process began.
Director Menten asked if the primary stakeholders RTD spoke with were the
City and County of Denver, the Downtown Denver Partnership, and the
Historical Commission.
Ms. Wood said yes but noted that RTD was also talking to the business
community, the general public, and people who work and live downtown.
Director Menten inquired as to which of the primary stakeholders wanted
granite pavers.
Ms. Vishwakarma said all three.
Director Menten asked whether RTD could use the $15 million for something
else, such as paying off debt, if the agency did not come to an agreement
on the environmental assessment.
Ms. Wood said no, and explained that the funds were awarded for the
rehabilitation of the mall and the transit way.
Mr. Van Meter commented that the scope was very clear and defined, and
RTD’s only alternative would be to return the grant funds.

• State Highway 119 Bus Rapid Transit
Mr. Van Meter stated that Chris Quinn, Planning Project Manager, would
present this item to the Board.
Mr. Quinn said that the intent of the State Highway (SH) 119 project was
to:







Identify preferred alternative, including:
o Alignment and physical improvements
o Service/Operations plan
o Ridership
o Capital cost
o Operations cost
Complete National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) review to
determine impacts to natural and human environment
Complete preliminary engineering (PE) to determine capital cost
Position RTD for eligibility to apply for federal and other grant
opportunities

Mr. Quinn explained that the NEPA/PE process began in August of 2017 and
should finish by December 2018. He noted that the process included:
 Project Purpose & Need
o Scoping
o Project goals and objectives
o Evaluation criteria
o Alternatives Evaluation Tier 1 – Technology Comparison
 Existing Conditions
o Existing transit ridership
o Traffic
o Pedestrian access and bicycle routes
o Travel Patterns
 BRT Alternatives Development
o Route alignments
o Configurations
o Stations
nd
 2 BRT Alternatives Refinement
o Route alignments
o Configurations
o Station Locations
o Refined Service Plan
o Refined capital costs
o Refined O&M costs
 BRT Alternatives Evaluation Tier 2
o Route alignment
o Configurations
o Station Locations
o Ridership total and by station
o Initial capital costs
o Initial O&M costs
 1st BRT Alternatives Refinement
o Route alignments
o Configurations







o Station Location
o Initial Service Plan
BRT Alternatives Evaluation – Tier 3
o Route alignments
o Configurations
o Stations
o Ridership – total by station
o Environmental Studies
rd
3 BRT Alternatives Refinement
o Route alignments
o Configurations
o Stations
o Refined Service Plan
o Refined capital costs
o Environmental Studies
Preferred Project Definition
o Route alignment
o Configuration
o Stations
o Final service plan
o 30% Design
o Capital and O&M costs
o Financial Plan
o NEPA Clearance

Mr. Quinn said that the status of the project was as follows:
 Purpose & Need: Finalizing
 Existing Conditions / Data Collection: Complete
 Tier 1 Alternatives Development: Complete
 Alternatives Development Refinement: Complete
 Tier 2 Alternatives Evaluation: In process
o includes:
o Route alignments
o Station locations
o Ridership modeling
o Initial Capital costs
o Initial Operating & Maintenance costs
Mr. Quinn noted that the project alignment analysis identified:
 All alignments assume SH 119 as trunk line
 Potential termini for Boulder include:
o Boulder Transit Center
o Boulder Junction
o CU East Campus
o East Arapahoe Road



Potential termini for Longmont include:
o Main Street at SH 66
o First and Main

Mr. Quinn added that the public meeting schedule included the following:
 May 2018 – Review analysis of initial BRT options; develop
refinements
 September 2018 – Review locally preferred alternative (LPA)
 December 2018 – Review preliminary engineering plans, capital and
O&M costs, strategies for implementation
 February 2019 – Review Environmental Document
Director Anderson asked if the federal government had decided what
actually qualified for BRT funding.
Mr. Van Meter said yes and added that there was a definition for capital
investment grant programs. He said that for projects under $300 million
there was more flexibility and with this study those conditions could be met.
Director Sisk stated that he had attended several presentations where Mr.
Quinn presented at which the audience was less than welcoming. He said
that Mr. Quinn served RTD and its constituents well and noted that he
always stayed on point and continued to be assertive and factual.
Committee Chair Lubow asked if there would be an analysis of the cost
involved to add more bus service.
Mr. Quinn said yes, and noted that staff would be analyzing the additional
service hours for RTD as well.
Committee Chair Lubow asked if that would be considered an alternative.
Mr. Quinn stated that currently, RTD offers the BOLT and the J. He said that
the current discussion was to incorporate those two services into a new set
of services.
Committee Chair Lubow commented that she would like to see more public
input. She said that there was an issue with US36 and the P3’s and the big
elephant in the room is the Northwest Rail’s lack of completion. She added
that she was leery of going overboard and creating new service that would
make rail harder to get.

• Mobility Choice Blueprint
Brian Welch, Planning Technical Service Senior Manager, stated that this
would be the first of four presentations made to the Board. He stated that
one of the themes emerging from this project was the need for agencies to

protect the public interest. He commented that Mobility Choice was intended
to be an ongoing process that would manifest itself in a variety of programs
and projects.
Mr. Welch noted that technology trends included:
 Enabling Technologies
o Fiber optics
o High-speed cellular
o Computer processing power
 Safety
o Connected vehicles
o Self-driving vehicles
o Pedestrian warning systems
 Monitoring and Detection
o Radar
o Lidar
o Cameras
o Artificial Intelligence Image processing
o Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID)
 Operational Optimization
o Managed Lanes
o Transit Signal Priority
o Adaptive Signal Harmonization
o Microtransit
o Platooning
 Mode/Travel Demand Change
o Ridesharing
o Dynamic Tolling
o Bike Sharing
Mr. Welch explained that the study would:
 Analyze travel trends and technologies in the Denver metro area
 Get ideas from local residents and organizations about how
technology can help create a livable community
 Explore & evaluate different combinations and types of technologies
and how they increase mobility
 Find ways that regional public agencies and the private sector can
work together to fund and implement technologies
 Align transportation investments of multiple public agencies
strategically
Mr. Welch commented that the strategy components included:
 Technology Transformation
o On Demand
o Shared
o Electric





o Driverless
o Connected
Mobility
o Policy
o Programs
o Pilot Projects
o Funding
Livable Community
o Health and Wellness
o Social Equity
o Environmental
o Urban Form
o Economic Vitality

Mr. Welch stated that the expectations for the blueprint were:
 Collaboration of CDOT, RTD, and DRCOG policies, programs, and
transportation investments
 Pilot Projects with private sector partners and continued participation
of the business community
 Identifying potential for efficient technology-leveraged investments
Mr. Welch explained that currently, the blueprint status was:
 Technology Status
o Technology Readiness Self-Assessments
o Technology assessment/gap analysis for Denver Region and
Comparison Cities
o Literature review to identify potential scenario inputs for
technology adoption
 Mobility Status
o Baseline forecast (year 2030) reflecting the probable changes
without policy intervention
o Compilation of Denver region agency policies and programs
o Review of select peer cities policies and programs
o Issues identification and vision/problem statement
 Community Status
o Digital engagement underway
o Analysis of ethnography interviews
o Selection of Global Thought Leaders
o Metro Ambassador outreach kick-off
Director Folska, Ph.D., commented that the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Scott Pruitt, was going to be rolling
back emissions standards. She asked if there could be a consensus of what
that level of air quality should be for 2035 and suggested that should be the

driver for density on the different technologies that would be available to
transport people.
Director Menten whether Mr. Welch meant to imply that government
agencies would intervene with the public sector.
Mr. Welch commented that a better term would be “proactive”.
Director Menten commented that either “intervene” or “proactive” could also
mean being disruptive to the private sector that might offer a better
alternative.
Mr. Welch remarked that he did not see it that way. He said that Mobility
Choice would find opportunities for partnership, but it would not tell people
how to design their cities or what they should or should not do. He said that
it was more of a proactive stance than reactive.
Director Walker commented that the week before he was at the American
Public Transportation Association’s (APTA) Legislative Conference and all of
the talk there centered on autonomous vehicles. He said that since then
there had been an accident in Arizona and another in California. He inquired
if those incidents changed the discussion about technology being used to
move people around.
Mr. Welch explained that this was part of the hype cycle. He said that some
technologies receive hype and great expectations, and sometimes that hype
is fulfilled and other times there is a downhill spiral and everyone is brought
back to reality. He stated that, in terms of autonomous vehicles, there are
significant challenges ahead.
Director Walker asked if Mr. Welch was familiar with the RoadX project.
Mr. Welch said yes, and commented that CDOT was looking at practical and
realistic technologies and stated that connected vehicle technology has a lot
of promise ahead.
Director Sisk stated that he was excited about the Mobility Choice Blueprint.
He said that it could be an amalgamation between the public and private
sectors. He added that Rick Pilgrim was in the audience, a top expert in the
nation and a member of the Mobility Choice Team. He said that he was
reassured that this was money well spent.
Director Anderson commented that the APTA Board of Directors was
currently looking at this very issue. She noted that all forms of
transportation were subsidized by some form of government, and how we
incorporate these new forms of technology is exciting and important.

Director Catlin said that this topic had been a part of the national dialogue
for a number of years, and since it was a national dialogue, she would
caution against being so metro Denver focused. She said that it was
important to review the broader picture.
Committee Chair Lubow remarked that, while this was an exciting and
timely project, she was concerned with paying for this and wanted to ensure
there was enough public outreach so that the public was not left behind.
Mr. Welch noted that there would be forty project ambassadors to ensure
that there was an exhaustive and thorough public approach.
Director Folska, Ph.D., inquired if any youth councils were part of the
ambassador group and if there was anyone outside of the district
participating.
Mr. Welch stated that the youth council information would be provided to
the Board but noted there was not anyone outside of the district
participating.
Director Solano asked if other cities were contacted both nationally and
internationally.
Mr. Welch said yes.
Committee Chair Lubow asked if local universities had been contacted as
well.
Mr. Welch stated yes, and noted that there were multiple opportunities for
Mobility Choice to engage with the academic community on this study.
Committee Chair Lubow asked that the Board be apprised of upcoming
Mobility Choice events.

D. Other Matters
Chair Tisdale stated that he wanted to take a straw poll. He said that Ms. McKillop
had pulled together the opportunity for the Board to use the MyCard as
complementary passes instead of the paper passes that were normally distributed.
He noted that the MyCard would allow staff to monitor how many passes were
used and what types of rides were utilized. He commented that the system was
ready but he wanted input from the Board first. He remarked that each Board
member would still be allocated 15 passes a month, for a total of 180 each year,
and each MyCard pass would be pre-loaded with $9.00.

Ms. McKillop said that staff’s thought was that the $9.00 would get someone out
to the airport. She commented that the MyCard pass would work differently than
the current paper pass, which was only a one-way ticket. She noted that staff
intended to track the usage of the MyCards, which they could not do with the
paper passes.
Director Hoy stated that, with all of the controversy about giving away free rides
and cutting down on paper passes, this option would actually give away more rides
than the paper passes.
Ms. McKillop said that was a potential outcome, but at the moment, staff did not
know the exact dollar amount of what RTD was giving out with the free ride paper
passes.
Director Solano asked if the MyCards could be reloaded.
Ms. McKillop said yes, and noted that if someone were to register their card, they
would also have money protection. She remarked that the instructions for
registering cards would be passed out with the cards.
Director Tisdale noted that there were three Directors that were a no, or in doubt
about the process, but the balance of the Directors were in favor.
Director Catlin explained that, since she was new, she had no comparison and that
was why she was unsure about the new proposed process.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 5, 2018
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 7:18 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

