Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on June 14, 2011
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

June 15, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee Meeting held June 14, 2011 in
Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Brohl; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Deadwyler,
James, Malpiede, McMullen, and Tobiassen.

Directors Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, O’Boyle, Riley and Tayer.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Bill Bell, Larry Buter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Libby
Cox, Bob Downes, Sherry Ellebracht, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, Terry
Howerter, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Barbara
McManus, Tony McCaulay, Anthony Menendez, Bob Mickelson, TaiShrae Parish, Dan Pearsall, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff,
Stephen Reilly, Steve Ruim, Jeanette Scarpino, Daria Serna, John
Shonsey, Chris Sills, Greg Smith, John Stark, John Tarbert, Christina
Tubb, and Mike Washington.

Others Present:

Chris Cruz – Celina Inc., Chuck Easterling – DTP, Stan Gronek – ATU
1001, Robyn McVicker – Urban League, Chris Robertson – Urban
League, and Katrina Wert – CCD
****

Call to Order:

Committee Chair Brohl called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Director Brohl explained that she had the privilege of introducing the
WIN program to Congress, the FTA, and the Federal Highway
Administration last year, and this has been something she has been
passionate and committed to. On June 9th an email was received
indicated that the WIN program was awarded $486,465 – the largest
grant awarded in the Innovative Workforce Development Grants
Program.

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on June 14, 2011
Page 2 of 3

Chair Kemp added that the Directors currently in Boston for the Rail
Conference reported back informing the Board that RTD received 4th
place overall in the Rail Roadeo as an agency for all rail operators in
North America.
I.

Update – Outreach Efforts
Christina Tubb outlined the following points for the expansion of the Outreach
Efforts/program. This scope is for the next 6-12 months.


Outreach Tracking
The numbers tell us where we need to place our efforts, the most used and
effective communication method, the biggest challenges faced, how we should
respond to the business community, how proactive we are in our communications
and where we can strengthen our customer relations.



Modes of Communication
Current communication modes are telephone, email, faxing, meetings,
workshops/training, online networking, the RTD website, and the newsletter.



Upcoming Workshops
These are workshops that the business community has indicated that they would
like to attend:
 Sub Contractor Training: Prompt Payment and PRISM
 Garage Project Partnering Session
 SBE Orientation (recurring monthly)
 Proposal Development and Submission
 Bonding

Director Malpiede inquired if this presentation could be published on the website, and
if can we also show the definitions of the different acronyms displayed. Carla Perez
indicated that yes, we can make that happen.
Director McMullen asked what Form E2 assist represents. Christina Tubb noted that
form E2 is a paper form that subcontractors submit to us notating payments that
have been received from the prime contractors. The E form is received from the
prime contractors notating payments made to subs in which we then compare the
two separate forms from both subcontractors and primes to ensure accuracy of
payments made.
Director McMullen further inquired about the 225 Corridor which is an SBE corridor, if
and or how have we have begun to alert potential contractors about this project.
Christina Tubb explained that the goal had not been set on this project but once the
goal is set in conjunction with CDOT we will be reaching out to the community.
Director Tobiassen noted that very small businesses have indicated that they would
like to be part of the program, but that they find it challenging to complete all
necessary paperwork, and the training which is usually held during business hours

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on June 14, 2011
Page 3 of 3

and inquired if other training options were available. Christina Tubb noted that
training sessions will rotate, and there will be more sessions available in the evening
hours.
Director Anderson requested to know the average length of time between submittal
of invoices to payment made for RTD for the DBE/SBE office and also wanted to
know the percentage of paperwork submitted incorrectly. Christina Tubb indicated
that this has been an issue, and we are working on educating the different subs
regarding the submittal of forms to ensure that they are completed correctly so that
the subs can receive prompt payments.
Director Deadwyler noted that one of her constituents submitted her invoice in
January, but didn’t receive their check until last week and inquired to know if there
were any standards that the prime must follow when paying their subs. Michael
Washington explained that we typically require the prime to pay their subs within 7
days; however some primes are paid by milestones and that would affect how their
subs are paid.
II.

Questions and Answers
Director Deadwyler asked if there was more information available regarding the 5
pillars presentation that was previously presented to the DBE committee. Carla Perez
noted that the presentation tonight regarding Outreach was one of the 5 pillars and
the plan is to present one pillar at each meeting over the next few months.

III.

Other Matters
 Chair Kemp added that the Board is extremely proud of the WIN program and also
the successes from the past few days including funding that has been approved
for the various corridors.
 Director Malpiede has been appointed by Mayor-Elect Hancock to join the
committee to select the new Chief of Police, and Carla Perez has been appointed
to the committee to select the new Director for Public Works.
 Director Ken Riley has been accepted into the prestigious Harvard Kennedy
School Senior Executives in State and Local Government program.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – July 12, 2011

V.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 5:57 p.m. to the Operations and Customer Service Meeting

