Mar 12 2019 0530 PM Operations & Customer Service
Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: We're going to start in just a minute. We're missing a couple people here.
Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The Operations & Customer Service meeting will now
come to order. Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Boards of Directors are digitally
recorded and will be captioned and made available to the public via the Board's website.
At RTD, safety is our core value. I'd like to begin this meeting with a brief safety review. If we
have a medical emergency and 911 needs to be called, I will ask our RTD general counsel-- there
he is-- to make that telephone call. Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully
requested to assist. If needed, there's an AED, an automatic emergency defibrillator, in a glass
case located just outside of this room on the wall to the right.
In the event that we must evacuate the building for fire or any other emergency, please calmly
exit out the door you came in at the back of the room. Go up the stairs to the first floor, around
the security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be there to
assist you. Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an evacuation will be assisted by
RTD staff.
While we take every precaution to ensure the security of our passengers, vehicles, and facilities,
we rely on both staff and the general public to be aware and alert to any suspicious or dangerous
activity on buses and trains, and around station stops and platforms and in this area as well. As
such, I would encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD Transit Watch
app, which allows its users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate directly
with RTD transit security personnel on a real-time basis in the event of an emergency situation.
The Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple App Store, who are not
paying us to say that.
Thank you. OK, are we going to just go right to recommended actions, I think, tonight? And it
looks like we have some staff here who are going to assist me in that. Let me get down to where
I need to be. I'll read the first recommended action of the evening.
It's recommended by the Operations & Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the May 2019 service change package as revised and summarized in attachment A,
resulting in an annualized base system cost of approximately $241,000, and a FasTracks cost
impact of $4,745,900, and further to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.
Do we have a motion on that? Do we need one?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.

- Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. How about some discussion? OK. Do we have people here
who'd like to speak to this?
MICHAEL FORD: Sure. Michael Ford, COO. And just to give a little highlight, I also wanted to
incorporate the goals for the General Manager. Goal Core #1, successful delivery of transit
services. And Task Goal of Fiscal Sustainability should have been included. I don't think it was.
So I just wanted to note that for the record.
We had come to the Board about a month or two ago to talk about the proposal of the service
plan for May of 2019. Since that time, we've had four public meetings, from February 11 to
February 22-- or 21, excuse me-- in Lakewood, West Denver, Blake Street, in rooms T and D,
and the City of Golden. We obviously took a lot of input from those meetings. So we just wanted
to just re-emphasize that.
One other thing I'd also offer is, in these meetings that we had, we actually brought in our
communication and marketing folks. So we just didn't talk about service planning. But in being
sensitive to our improved and enhanced communication to our public, we provided other
information relevant to RTD. And we're planning to perfect that as we continue to go along. So I
just wanted to make that notation in our meeting process.
There are some highlights in the packet, in terms of some of the recommendations going
forward. You'll note that the Route 33 was rescinded, and we'll be looking at that later on this
year. The reduction in service on the W Line, going from 15 minutes to 30 minutes on Saturday,
and the Free Metro Ride going from 15 trips per hour to eight trips per hour. So just wanted to
emphasize that.
And I'll turn it over to Jesse if there are any other comments he would like to make.
JESSE CARTER: Only one other note that I would add is that we are in receipt of a resolution
from the City of Golden City Council in opposition to the W Line change. That resolution came
after the Board paper was completed. But we are adding it to the file for this service change. And
with that, I'd like to open to any questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten, I see you up there.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So let me understand, are we still going forward with the
original proposal on the W Line?
MICHAEL FORD: That is correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, it's not changing from that original position.
MICHAEL FORD: That's correct.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK, thanks. One other item that if you could send to me-- I really don't
know why the rest of the Board would want this, but if you want it, OK. Can I get the 16L
alightments and boardings for just the Golden portion?
JESSE CARTER: So just within the City of Golden.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
JESSE CARTER: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: Please.
JESSE CARTER: Will do.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. That's it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: I don't remember for sure the name of the route. Seems like it was Route 225.
But the last time we went through this process, we had one route where we had a lot of
opposition to the change. And the route was to serve kind of a multifamily area, but it had to go
through a single-family area in order to get there. And I just wondered, was that implemented,
and how is that going, and have we gotten any complaints?
JESSE CARTER: Sure, inasmuch as I can go into the complaints that we've received. That route
was the Route 228. And it was implemented to serve a senior and low-income housing
development called Kestrel. That service started January of this year. It is in place as was
described to the Board. And so far, we have had meetings and responded to complaints from the
neighborhood that's adjacent to Kestrel.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook?
SPEAKER 2: Thank you, Madam Chair. Quick question, or actually, a couple along the-- and
about the elimination of the Sheridan routes. I can't tell because the dots are pretty close together.
Do you retain a stop at 76th and Sheridan near the Kaiser facility, and there's also a senior
complex across the street? Just wanted to make sure we weren't also eliminating that.
JESSE CARTER: No, that was not on the initial list for elimination.
SPEAKER 2: OK, great. And then I assume the couple added in farther south on Sheridan were-I know Director Rivera-Malpiede was concerned about the talking library. Are those, I'm
assuming, being added--

JESSE CARTER: Those are-- after further review and talking with the talking library, we looked
at the stops and their location. And the sidewalk is in an odd position, where water kind of drains
into them and makes them not usable during certain times of the year. So we needed to retain the
stops that were on both sides of the library.
SHELLEY COOK: Great. And if I may, one quick additional-- the letter on behalf of the
Children's Museum from Mike Yankovich. I couldn't tell a Route 10 change. I wasn't clear about
what that was referencing.
JESSE CARTER: The Route 10 change actually occurred in January. So they were responding to
a permanent change that was made to the route. There's a lot going on with that particular
change. We were trying to come into compliance as far as restroom use for our operators. And so
we've made some changes on the Route 10 to accommodate that. So there is a General Manager's
response request in for that, and we'll be answering it further.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Sorry. I just wanted to say thank you. I really appreciate
that you all had the opportunity to get input from community and then come back to us and say,
based on the input that we heard from community, we are making these changes. I know I don't
always celebrate all of you all, so I just wanted to say thank you for that, because that's really
important, that we are connecting with communities, making decisions based on that input. So
thanks.
JESSE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Jesse, at the end of the 0 Route in Highlands Ranch, do
you think we can add some more security down there? I've heard from some drivers that it's a
challenge to get people off the bus at the end of that line.
JESSE CARTER: Unfortunately, that's a task that's beyond my pay grade, for sure. But let me
refer that to-MICHAEL FORD: I can definitely look into that and work with our Security Chief Operating
Officer on some strategies and tactics around there.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Seeing no one else in the queue, I'm going to speak for a minute. I'd
like to thank you all, Michael Ford and Jesse and the whole group, for a really well-done

package of information. More than I maybe wanted to get at one time, and I'm sure the other
directors feel the same. But really indicative of a good deal of work, and thank you for that.
Seeing nobody else wanting to speak, do we need to take a vote on this?
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, I'm sorry. Hello, Director Lubow! How'd you get there?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I was late. Thank you. I was just wondering, did the comment from
the woman who is Executive Assistant at the Children's Museum get discussed?
JESSE CARTER: Actually, yes. It was attached to the Board paper. It was also sent by way of
General Manager's response, and we're responding to that as well.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, so it's being addressed?
JESSE CARTER: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much. That was all. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Last call. OK, so we move to-- are we going to vote for this
recommended action? And that be the mover and the seconder first? Doug was the mover. Let's
have Bob do it. He just is going to get-- there we go.
OK, we're waiting for a count. If we don't get an electronic count in a minute, we can go to a
hand vote. There we go. This vote, this action, recommended action, passed committee with 14
yeses, no nos, no abstentions, and one no vote from Director Malpiede, who's away. So it will
move on.
OK, what do we have next? I think we have a recommended action that isn't a recommended
action. It's for information only, and those are service change proposals. So I think that we don't
need to do anything besides see if anybody wants to talk about it. Correct, Michael?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, we actually have two informational items, and I'll pass it on to Jesse to
speak to.
JESSE CARTER: OK, these are what I would term temporary service changes. They're
temporary because the changes that we're making aren't something that we want to retain. We
know we need to modify them further to make them more or less sustainable, the first of which is
a move of all operations at Applewood Village, which is at 30th and Youngfield.
Routes 28, 32, 38, and 44 have served Applewood for quite some time. However, that
development is being redeveloped, and we are losing both access to the current terminal and
access to restrooms for our operators. So we are going to temporarily move to Ward Road Parkn-Ride, the former Ward Road Park-n-Ride, which I want to say is about a mile and three
quarters away from the current location.

Second is the Route 225. We have a situation in which we've routed the 225 up a street that
we've heard a number of complaints concerning both safety and being able to enjoy the-- or have
peaceable enjoyment of one's home. And we've made some changes more recently to move it
over to another street, and received the same type of complaint. So at this point in time, we'd like
to extend the route over to Lafayette Park-n-Ride, which will take away our need of actually
turning around on those streets.
However, in the future, what we want to do is take a look at not only the Route 225, but also the
Route 209 in the area, and come up with an operation that is a little more fiscally responsible. So
with that, that's-- we wanted to update you, and we will be bringing forward these changes in the
upcoming August 2019 service change.
KATE WILLIAMS: Are there any questions or discussions on that? Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I just have a quick question. Do you ever engage your
bus operators in conversations when we're thinking about temporary changes? And if so, how?
JESSE CARTER: Absolutely. We have what's called a Run Board Committee, in which we meet
with the leadership of the union that represents our operators. And we share information on a
regular basis there. We're actually increasing the number of meetings that we're having with
them since January. So we have one coming up in March 19. So we'll talk about that even
further. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I was involved in this Route 225 change, and also the 228 that Director
Broom just asked about. And I want to say, first of all, I was getting the complaints about Talbot
Street and then about Inca Street, and Jesse and his team got right on it, fixed the first problem, it
created the second problem, fixed that problem. And so I really appreciate that.
With respect to 228, it ended up in some litigation. We were able to get that dismissed. And
Jesse and I met with them last week and are still trying to see if there's a solution, as he said. So
thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So regarding the change of the Applewood Village issue, I
know that in many cases, when we have a service change proposed-- stop, change, something
like that-- we've got the yellow sticker up on the sign. And for the regular user, they may not be
spotting that.
Would there be a signboard? Would the driver be making-- as best as possible, telling each
passenger, especially if they're sight-impaired and wouldn't see a signboard, all of those will be
in place?

JESSE CARTER: Right. Because this change is so large at Applewood Village, we're thinking of
doing something a little more extensive with marketing, and putting an onboard flyer for all the
customers, because it does change quite a bit. And there are a lot of people who make
connections between those routes at that particular location. So we want to make sure that they
understand what's going on and why.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. That's what I wanted to hear. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Seeing nobody else, I think we can move on to the rest of the updates.
And I'd like to remind everybody that we have had this information, and it's been available for a
number of days. So we're hoping that if you had questions or discussions, that you have had them
with staff prior to this meeting, and so that we can move forward with this meeting. So let's go to
the-- who's coming up here to talk to us next?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: This is Jannette Scarpino, speaking about the fourth-quarter
performance report. We measure our performance against our mission statement criteria that we
have quantified, and these are our KPIs, key performance indicators, on a year-to-date basis for
2018-- that is, the full year. And as noted in the Board report, which I think is self-explanatory,
I'm just going to touch briefly on our exceptions.
Our regional on-time performance, 3.1, is a little below goal of 92%. However, we are revising
this goal to 88% in 2019. The Board approved that late last year.
Our ADA on-time performance is below our goal of 96%. But again, this goal was revised to
86% in 2019. And we will be measuring passenger on-time performance, so a slightly different
methodology in this measurement.
The decline in ridership that we're seeing is a little bit better. It is reflecting the national trend.
It's primarily in fixed-route. But we saw a little bit of an improvement in 2018.
Our fare revenue increased-- though it increased, and it increased 2.7% in 2018 over 2017, it was
just shy of our goal of 3%. Our bus operator vacancies and mechanic vacancies continue to
plague us, due to the difficulty in hiring for these positions, given the strong economy. So I'll
stop there and try to answer questions, if there are any.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Jannette. Regarding the ADA paratransit
Access-A-Ride KPI, can you talk a little bit more about the details of the customer versus the
driver, how you're evaluating on-time?
MICHAEL FORD: I think-- maybe I'll have somebody come up with me, though. There's two
different sets of standards that we're trying to separate out. One was the contractor's on-time
performance, and then the other one was the actual customer experience. So we want to separate
that out.

And there was a window that they had to comply with to be on time. So we took that out when
we looked at just the customer experience. So we wanted to make a distinction between where
the contractor's on-time performance was, and what the customer actually experienced. So that's
the distinction.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So it's not the customer, if they're on time? It's their experience of that
person. Because I know sometimes it's difficult to know where they're picking you up. I know
there's different doors and what have you, and then there's weather and that kind of thing.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ford, could you give us your name?
MICHAEL FORD: Sorry. Michael Ford, COO.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's all. Thank you, Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Seeing nobody else with statement at the moment, we're going to move
on to the next action, which is service availability, I think.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, we have quite a few reports here. I'm going to have Fred Worthen speak
to the different reports. Again, we're happy to go through them all. But we're also happy just to
entertain questions as well. But I'll let Fred go.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry, we're not accepting it without Gina Callahan. No, I'm just
kidding. I'm kidding.
So yeah, if you'll just identify yourself, we'll run through these. If there are questions, Directors,
please feel free to indicate that you wish to speak. And we'll try and keep this moving Thank
you.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am. I will keep this very brief. Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus
Operations. With regard to service availability, we provided just over 99.4% of our scheduled
bus service last month, despite three extreme weather events, and also we had several unplanned
rail and bus bridges that impacted our service. However, we still continue to see upward trends
on delivery. Our lost service hours, as compared to February 2019 versus '18, are down 56%.
And our year-to-date lost service is down about 66%.
Just a couple of other quick bites, we have added 14 drivers to our headcount this year. We have
40 operators in training. And also, as I said, we were working on our general repair, recruiting
vehicle maintenance mechanics. We currently have offers out to eight general repair mechanics,
which is very good news to us.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. That's good news. Thank you very much. Seeing no questions, how
about if we go on to special services fourth quarter?
FRED WORTHEN: That one's not mine.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Somebody is going to speak to this in just a moment. We could skip
ahead, if you want. I'm not married to this roll call here. When you find a page 124 of the 148
pages that we're looking at tonight, we'll talk about it. Why don't we come-- do you want to come
back to this one, Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, if we could.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. We can skip and go on down the line. I think what would be next
would be Access-A-Ride talking points.
OK. I'll tell you what. You guys tell me when you find one you like. And I'm easy, you know?
There's plenty of information here. Most of us have reviewed it at length.
So you tell me. Do you wanted to do contracted fixed-route-- Mr. Buter. Would you like to talk
about Access-A-Ride?
LARRY BUTER: Let me get my eyes on.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Anybody that had any questions on Access-A-Ride, this would be the
time to indicate.
LARRY BUTER: Well, quickly, we had increased the Access-A-Ride by 1.8% in the fourth
quarter of '18. That compares to '17, which was, I guess, around the same productivity, though
was down a little bit from 1.21 to 1.9.
The revenue hours provided by Access-A-Ride were 4.3 during the fourth quarter of 2018,
compared to the same time in 2017. And the on-time performance through the fourth quarter of
2018 was 95.86, slight decrease from the same time in '17. Passenger on-time performance for
the fourth quarter was at-- in 2018 was at 86.62, slight increase over 2017 at 86.52. I'm happy to
answer any questions or address any other comments that you might have.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you for that information. Do we want to go on down the line?
How about contracted fixed-route?
FRED WORTHEN: So with regard to our contracted fixed routes, all of our contractors met our
goals as a group. We did have one vendor, Transdev, that did not meet three of our goals.
However, we've been working very hard with the Transdev leadership to try and improve their
KPIs and their service deliveries. We did see significant improvement in the month of December,
and we expect that some of the adjustments we've made with the vendor will carry forward.
KATE WILLIAMS: Does anybody wish to speak to that? I have one question myself. Do I have
to click on here that I want to speak? Do you have a one-liner for us as to why you think
Transdev is having issues?
FRED WORTHEN: There were a multitude of challenges. They've gone through some
leadership changes, and we also had some challenges in their vehicle maintenance program.

They have recently hired a new maintenance manager. We also had their leadership come down,
including the President of Transdev, to work with us on some of the challenges.
I think they have put together a very good action plan on how to address these things. Staff is
closely monitoring them. Like I said, we're seeing tangible results, and we're going to continue to
make sure that they deliver as we require them to.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. That was exactly what I was looking for. OK, do we want to
back up to what we missed? Do we want to go back to special services, or service availability?
FRED WORTHEN: Sure. I can do the special services. With regard to special services, we
actually began preparing for the FlexRide services. In the month of December, we began
changing the brand and putting out information to our customers to prepare them for the change
from Call-n-Ride to FlexRide. We do see some trends that we're hoping will change. Ridership
has actually decreased on the FlexRide itself.
We also saw an increase in customer comments and preventable accidents. We attribute a lot of
those to our contractors have really been struggling bringing in new people. So they're going
through some of the growing pains of really getting people up to speed, getting them trained, and
getting them to perform at the level of expectation that RTD has.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. OK, let's see, where are we? We did service availability, special
services. We did Access-A-Ride, contracted fixed-route. I think we're down to customer
comment analysis. And I think, Mr. Worthen, that's you again?
FRED WORTHEN: That would be me again. Fred Worthen, AGM, Bus Ops. Customer
comments through the fourth quarter of 2018 showed improvement. We had specific comments-such as bus did not show, bus early, bus late, careless driving, fare dispute, and incorrect
information-- where we had decreases in customer concerns. We did have a couple of areas-such as discourteous operator, discrimination and proper procedure, and passed up-- where we
saw nominal increases over 2017. And we've been working with the contractors to address those
issues.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that report. No one wants to speak to that? How about if we
go to security statistics and fare inspection summary? And who's going to speak to that? Mr.
Meader, step up to the table, sir. Please identify yourself when you speak.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you. This is Mike Meader, Chief Safety Officer. And I would just ask
if you have any questions regarding the information we provided you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Seeing none, thank you. That was a well-prepared report.
MIKE MEADER: Great.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, and then we have one more. I don't know who's going to speak to the
drug and alcohol compliance.

FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. I'll follow Mike's lead on this one.
Drug and alcohol compliance, we basically look at our contractors to see that they're in
compliance with RTD as expected, and we had a 99.2% compliance. I'll be happy to answer any
questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, we're doing a good job here. Are there other matters that anybody
wishes to bring before this committee at this time?
OK, seeing none, I believe that we will move on. The next meeting of this committee will be
April 9 at the same time in the same location. And I think this meeting stands adjourned.

