Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2008, 12:00
p.m. (Corrected Copy)
Page 1 of 7
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

October 16, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 16,
2008 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp; Vice-Chair Martinez; Treasurer Tayer;
Directors Chacon and Ruchman

Board Members Absent:

Secretary McMullen. 2nd Vice Chair Busck had a family
emergency and had to leave.

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Paula Perdue

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:04 p.m.

I.

October

Board Meeting Agenda Review

Cal Marsella, General Manager reviewed the items on the agenda. There
were no major concerns or questions.
 Unanimous Consent
 Approval of Contract Amendment to PBS&J for Advanced Preliminary
Engineering of UPRP Track Relocation on the East Corridor
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that
the contract with PBS&J for the East Corridor Environmental Impact
Statement (EIS)/Basic Engineering be amended to add $1,100,000 to
the project budget. The contract amendment is required in order for
the consultant to prepare Advanced Basic Engineering design
documents for the relocation of freight railroad facilities necessary for
construction of the East Corridor project.
It is further recommended by the Planning & Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
transfer $1,100,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to
provide fully fund the 2008 portion of the contract amendment. This
action will accelerate funding originally programmed for final design in
2011 to allow for completion of final design document.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2008, 12:00
p.m. (Corrected Copy)
Page 2 of 7



Recommendation for Contract Award to Balfour Beatty Rail Inc. for OnCall and Specific Systems Construction Services
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a
contract to Balfour Beatty Rail Inc. (BBRI), the most qualified firm based
on the application of the evaluation criteria, in the amount of
$56,301,820 for an On-Call Systems Construction Services Contractor.
The work in this Contract includes providing new, retrofit, and
emergency construction services for the Overhead Contact System,
Traction Power Systems, Fare Collection Systems, Signal and
Communication System, and Trackwork construction services. Funding
for this contract is included in the 2008 Amended Budget, the 20092014 Transit Development Program, and the FasTracks Financial Plan.



Construction Agreement with Englewood McLellan Reservoir Foundation
(EMRF) for Earthwork at C470 & Lucent Blvd. on RTD property–
Highlands Ranch
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into a construction agreement
with the Englewood McLellan Reservoir Foundation (EMRF) in the amount
of $671,680.00 for the overlot grading of the Highlands Ranch RTD
property located near C470 & Lucent Blvd. This action is recommended
because it would: (1) provide convenient earthwork staging and grading
of RTD property; (2) better coordinate with and blend into the adjacent
development property; and (3) is very cost effective, saving RTD
approximately 50% of the cost



IT Contingency Work Order Contract Third Year Option
It is recommended be the Financial/Administration Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract amendment to exercise a third
one-year option with Ciber (Contract 15DK008) and to increase the
contract value by $250,000. This contract was originally awarded in
2006 to Ciber through the competitive bid process and totally separate
from the ERP effort. The contract allowed for an initial year plus four
one-year options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor.
The third option year will begin in April 2009.
IT’s Business and Applications Section is presently undergoing
reorganization to insure future skills and experiences are available to
support new technologies and software RTD has now implemented.
Until IT staff has been hired, contractors through work order contracts
like this one with Ciber are necessary. The 2008 Amended Budget

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2008, 12:00
p.m. (Corrected Copy)
Page 3 of 7
includes funds to support contractors while staff is being hired and
brought up to speed. It is anticipated the need for work order funds
should be reduced in 2009.


IT Contingency Work Order Contract Second Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manger to execute all
documents necessary to award Booz Allen Hamilton (Booz Allen) a
second-year option to a current contract for IT Technical and
Management Support Services (15DK004). This is an increase in the
not-to-exceed limit of $250,000. This contract was originally awarded in
2005 to Booz Allen through the competitive bid process. The contract
allowed for an initial-year plus four (4) one-year options to renew based
on positive performance by the vendor. With increased needs for Booz
Allen Services, IT requested the first option year be exercised and the
annual not-to-exceed was increased by $500,000. The second option
year addition of $250,000 requires Board approval. The second option
year is to begin on November 1, 2008, and remain in effect for one year
until October 31, 2009.



FasTracks PC Support Services Contract
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to award a 3 year contract, with two 1 year
options for consulting services (PC Systems Support). The 3 year
contract in the amount of $244,690 with an effective date of October
26, 2008, is to Technology Group (TIG). The vendor was selected
through the competitive bid process.
Director Chacon queried about the business case that is used to
determine when to use outside contractor help or when to do the work in
house. She stated there are some efficiencies and economies that can
come from doing the work in-house such as knowledge base, and
familiarity with RTD systems that needs to be put in this equation.



Station Area Master Plan Transfer Request
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,480,000
from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide initial funding for
Station Area Master Planning, Next Steps Planning and Corridor-wide
Planning to be reimbursed by a federal CMAQ Grant.



Salaried Employee Insured Benefits
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the 2009 plan Year Salaried Employee
Insured Benefits Budget and authorize the General Manager to enter into
a agreement with the Insurance Carriers.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2008, 12:00
p.m. (Corrected Copy)
Page 4 of 7
The total estimated cost for the 2009 Salaried Employee Insured Benefits
is $7,024,403, of which the District will pay $6,020,821 (85.7%) and
our salaried employees will contribute the remaining $1,003,582
(14.3%). The District contribution to the salaried insured benefits
budget is included in the 2009 Requested Budget.


Request for Approval of the 2009 – 2014 Transit Development Program
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors adopt the 2009-2014 Transit Development
Program (TDP).



Authorization to Accept SB1 Funding
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to receive grant funding in
the amount of $1,732,500 from the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT), Division of Transportation Development and pay
the required local match in an amount up to $742,500.



Approval of January 2009 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the January 11, 2009 Service Change
package as revised on Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of
approximately $445,600, and , further, to authorize the General Manager
to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.



Federal Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Legislative Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for
federal liaison services) with Patton Boggs LLP to exercise a one-year
option (February 1, 2009 through January 31, 2010) to extend Contract
No. 14-DX-001, at a cost of $240,000. Funding for this contract is
included in the 2009 budget.



Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military
should be extended from the presently approved date of December 31,
2008 to December 31, 2009. Utilization has been minimal to date and
this extension will have minimal impact on RTD.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2008, 12:00
p.m. (Corrected Copy)
Page 5 of 7


Recommended Action



Approval of Contract Amendment to Parsons Brinckerhoff for
Advanced Preliminary Engineering for Denver Union Station
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute a
Contract Amendment with Parsons Brinkerhoff (PB) for the
Advanced Preliminary Engineering Design and continued preliminary
design of Amtrak/Ski train and Commuter Rail access into Denver
Union Station in the amount not to exceed $5,000,000. The total
current contract amount, including previous amendments, is
$23,096,279. This amendment will increase the contract value to
$28,096,279.
This amendment is required to maintain the
anticipated Design Build (D/B) schedule.
It is also recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to transfer $3,300,000 from the FasTracks Contingency
Reserve to provide the full funding for the contract amendment.
This action will accelerate funding programmed in the DUS Budget
for 2009 to allow for the Advanced Preliminary Engineering Design
and continued preliminary design for the Amtrak/Ski train and
Commuter Rail access into Denver Union Station.
The
Contingency Reserve will be replenished from DUS project funds in
the 2009 budget.
MOTION:

Director Martinez made the motion
to move the October Board
meeting agenda forward for full
Board approval on October 21,
2008.
Director Tayer seconded the
motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:
II.

The motion passed Unanimously.

Travel for Term Limited Board Members
Chair Kemp shared that Director Christopher had requested a
review of the travel policy in light of the fact that many term
limited members were approved for travel during the last six
months of the year. Director Christopher was out of town and not
available to discuss his concerns but Chair Kemp thought the issue was
does the policy still have merit or is it needed.
The committee discussed the origin of such a policy and there was
general consensus that it still serves a purpose and as long as the
decisions are made based around fairness and continuity, the Chair needs

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2008, 12:00
p.m. (Corrected Copy)
Page 6 of 7
the discretion to make these calls or to bring to the Executive Committee.

III.

IV.

Appointment of Sub-Committee for Champion of Transit Awards

Discussion was held on how to select a sub-committee for the selection
of the Champion of Transit Awards. Various ideas and thoughts were
thrown out. Chair Kemp will make a determination on possible names for
the sub-committee.
Other Matters
 FasTracks Outreach—Cal Marsella reported the outreach meetings are
going well and there appears general public consensus to go back to
the ballot. Chair Kemp indicated that in his interactions with the
Downtown Denver Partnership and the Metro Mayors, there appears
a desire to just get it done.
Director Tayer shared that is what he also saw in the Boulder
FasTracks outreach but raised the question if perhaps we do not
have a full representation of the transit rider community. Cal Marsella
indicated other polling sources seem to support that the public in
general support this option.
Director Tayer also indicated that a concern he sees coming forward
is the hold harmless clause and if everyone’s share of the pie will be
equal and protected.
Director Martinez was adamant that proactive efforts need to be
made to educate our legislators about these issues so they will be
informed before mis-information has been given to them. RTD needs
to already have a comprehensive plan on approach regardless of the
outcome of the election. This issue will be discussed later in the
legislative meeting.
Director Chacon shared an idea for an informal meeting with the
legislators where RTD could host a brief briefing and allow the Board
and legislators to come together for an interactive, educational
exchange.


Director Tayer asked that RTD take a proactive approach with the
legislators in pursuing additional funding sources that may provide
additional monies as ridership increases other than the current tax
system. RTD needs to pursue a solution to the conundrum where
there is an increase demand for ridership but due to lack of revenue,
RTD may have to reduce service.



Director Chacon inquired about the process available for the trigger
back to the Board pertaining to the buying and selling of bonds
especially in extremely poor market conditions. Director Martinez
clarified this question to ask Cal if he could review the process that is
in place to see how the Board is to be notified or contacted under
extreme situations.



Director Tayer inquired about our revolving door policy when a key
employee leaves.
Cal Marsella responded that under the
circumstances, the former employee cannot work on an account or

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 16, 2008, 12:00
p.m. (Corrected Copy)
Page 7 of 7
issues related to RTD for 1 year. Director Tayer stated it would be
good for RTD to make it clear when discussing such contracts.
VI.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:15 p.m.

