2023-07-25
Board Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: --TD Board meeting-- ah. I will now call the Tuesday, July 25 RTD Board Meeting to
order.
We're convened as of 5:30 PM. And I respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you're
recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening, both in person and remote. As the Board has moved to inperson meetings for our monthly gatherings, please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board will
still be held remotely via Zoom, and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with
the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. You
can visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Director Harwick, could you please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance?
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it
stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Rosenthal, would you please read the land acknowledgment?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land
on which our buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other
contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our indigenous elders who
have traveled, inhabited and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations. May
this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity
of the native and all historically oppressed peoples, and recognize their current and future contributions in
the district as we move forward. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'll now call the roll. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Vice Chair Erik Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Treasurer Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha. Director Ruscha. I know she was planning to attend by Zoom. Is
she-SPEAKER: She's present, yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: She's present. OK. Thank you. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am Lynn Guissinger. I am here. With 15 present and zero absent, we have a
quorum.
There are no retiree awards for this evening. No retirees. The next retiree recognition will occur at the
September 26 Board meeting.
Next is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the Board. As
we have both in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments will go first, followed by those who
are participating remotely. In addition, I will ask that we take elected officials first, so that they can get
back to their business of governing.

For those attending in person, please come to the podium when your name is called. If you've not already
signed up to speak, and would like to do so, please approach the podium when I call for any additional
speakers. For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise
your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. If
you're dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to our rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.
Speakers, please begin your remarks by stating your name. And you'll have up to three minutes to
provide comments. Our first speaker tonight is the Mayor of Longmont, Mayor Peck. Please go ahead.
JOAN PECK: Thank you. Good evening Chair Guissinger and Board Directors.
[PHONE RINGING]
Naturally, I will start this way.
I'm Joan Peck, Mayor of Longmont. I'm here to advocate for a few things in support of RTD and your path
forward. First of all, please vote Yes to adopt the new fare schedule. I'm very excited about that.
Thank you for the partnership application that we submitted to RTD for the partnership in Longmont. The
dollars that that might bring will help bring local transit to Longmont to augment our RTD Free Ride
service.
I've been a Longmont City Councilperson for six years, and Mayor for two years. I'm here on behalf of our
community to ask you to restore our LX1 One Seat Ride Peak service to Denver. Longmont is a city of
101,000 people, and we have been waiting for the LX1 bus service to be restored.
I want to say we are not Boulder. Boulder County does not advocate for Longmont on this specific ask.
We are a totally different demographic.
We have a higher median income than Boulder. We have gained residents, whereas Boulder has lost
residents. US 36 and all the frequent flyer buses is all Longmont hears about. Quite frankly, it gets to be
annoying, because it doesn't always serve us. Please think out of the box on how LX1 can be restored
sooner than later.
I'm very excited that Boulder County received the $25 million raise grant for Highway 119 and other
transit projects. In the community presentations that we gave on Highway 119, the main interest in those
attending those presentations was the bike trail, not the road or the BRT. They're very interested in the
bike trail.

RTD's customers come from Longmont, Weld and Larimer County. They have to come through Longmont
to get to Highway 119, which of course, goes to Boulder. Some of the customers that took the LD and the
LX1 are in the customer count for Highway 119. Why aren't they in the customer count for the LX1?
We are left with no other choice but to go to Boulder. Not everyone wants to go to Boulder. They want to
go to where their jobs are in a one seat ride, which is Lafayette, Louisville, Broomfield. I understand the
predicament RTD is under because of the poor management of past Directors. Debra Johnson inherited a
mess, and then was struck with a two-year pandemic. I really feel for her.
RTD under Debra's management and her finance team is turning this around. However, it takes time and
money. To that point, I have raised the question of a possible transportation fee on events in the state of
Colorado, or at least in the Front Range. It would include ski tickets, professional sports events, Denver
Center for the Performing Arts, et cetera, et cetera.
We've gotten traction, or I've gotten traction, on the idea with state legislators, as well as County mayors.
And I would like input from RT Directors if you are willing.
Last but not least, please encourage BNSF to finish the complete analysis of the Northwest Corridor in
early 2024. The FasTracks vote in 2004 became a law when it was passed. It's not really an option. So
thank you for letting me address these issues. Good evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mayor Peck. We appreciate you coming down. Our next speaker is
Gary Van Doren.
GARY VAN DOREN: Hello. I'm Gary Van Doren. I reside in District A at 625 North Pennsylvania Street,
Denver, Colora-- [AUDIO OUT] --0203. [AUDIO OUT] --this annoying little button. There we go.
In principle, I support [INAUDIBLE] however, I do have a concern about budget. I always have and I
always will. RTD has long-term budget constraints. The pension plan is in serious trouble, and that needs
to be stabilized.
Also, what Mayor Peck brought up also as a concern-- my concern is with the reduced fare structure.
Where are you going to get the money from? Where is it going to come from?
Money, unfortunately, does not come from thin air or from imagination. It comes from hard work and fares
and other type revenues. And my fear is that over time, routes could be cut, or services for people with
disabilities up in Longmont could not get the bus up there if we want to go up there. And Mayor Peck is
right-- not all of us do want to go to Boulder.
So that is my concern. So if someone from RTD could contact me to discuss how the revenue is going to
be made up, I'd greatly appreciate that. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Van Doren. Please be sure-- I think they do have your email. I think
we're set to reach out. Curtis Chong.
[INAUDIBLE]

CURTIS CHONG: Good evening, Chairman Guissinger, members of the RTD Board. My name is Curtis
Chong. I reside in Aurora, Colorado. I believe I'm in District E. I am totally blind, and I have been living in
Colorado since the summer of 2018.
I would first of all like to say that I do hope that the RTD Board votes in favor of the new fare structure. I
understand Mr. Van Doren's concern about revenue and service cuts. But I sat on your Fare Equity
Panel, and I think the work is very good. So please do that.
I have 30 seconds to talk about the next issue that I want to bring up as a totally blind bus and train rider.
I hope one day that RTD will give serious attention to the voice quality that is in the buses and at the light
rail stations. As matters now stand, the speech synthesis that is used on the buses is often difficult to
understand, partly because of its pitch, and partly because of its emphasis. And it is not uncommon for a
noisy bus to make it impossible for a blind passenger to know where the bus is stopping.
At the train stations, it's even more embarrassing. Whatever speech engine you folks are using at the
train stations, nobody can understand them, even if they have super hearing like Clark Kent. I would hope
that the day will come-- and I'm offering-- I have worked with text-to-speech technology since 1980. And I
am now not working for somebody else. I don't want to work for RTD as a person who gets paid, but I do
want to contribute my expertise and my audio pickiness, as it were, to help you guys to pick better audio
for the systems that you do. And I thank you very much for the opportunity to speak today.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much, Mr. Chong. We appreciate your and other feedback. Is there
anyone else in the room that is wishing to speak tonight before I go to the remote attendees?
All right. Has anyone raised their virtual hand?
SPEAKER: Molly McKinley.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. McKinley. Welcome. Ms. McKinley, are you there?
MOLLY MCKINLEY: Yeah. Good evening, y'all. Sorry about that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No problem.
MOLLY MCKINLEY: Good evening, y'all. I'm Molly McKinley. I'm here tonight on behalf of the Denver
Streets Partnership. I'm here to express our support for the final vote on the updates to the fare and pass
structure.
I want to thank General Manager Johnson for her leadership on this effort. I know it's been a priority for
her since she started at RTD, and it's exciting to get it to the finish line tonight. I also want to thank Chair
Guissinger and Director Whitmore, who served on the RTD Accountability Committee, which
recommended that the fare and pass structure be simplified, and that the General Assembly repeal the
farebox recovery ratio to allow RTD to do so.
RTD staff deserves a lot of kudos for this undertaking as well, especially Carl Green and Annette Hunter,
who were champions for equity and community engagement throughout this entire process.
DSP strongly encourages you all to vote Yes tonight and approve these changes to the fare and pass
structure. And because y'all know I have to sneak in a few asks somewhere, I strongly encourage you to
continue to pursue opportunities to permanently fund free fares for youth, and to continue to deepen

discounts and expand access, lowering barriers to the discount programs for those who need access to
affordable transit the most. Thanks, y'all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Ms. McKinley. Is there anybody else online who has raised their virtual
hand?
SPEAKER: Richard Bamber.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Bamber, are you there?
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi there. Can you hear me?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We can. Yeah. Go ahead.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi there. Yeah. Hi, it's been another interesting and full-packed month. So a couple
of topics here. Firstly, light rail, good and bad.
We've sent a letter regarding the R line amongst a couple of other people. And we did get a very prompt
agency response. I think it came in about half an hour ago. And that's definitely an ongoing safety
discussion.
You know, I'd like to point out that the agency for light rail grade crossings does not provide highway
flaggers. They have to do this if it was a commuter rail crossing. We need to be clear of that detail and
clear that there are safety things ongoing for that.
The good part of the light rail-- Taylor Swift. You know, it was-- all we wanted was the agency to really
take it kind of seriously. There was communications. And that is despite an Empower Field that put out
travel advice that didn't even mention RTD. So we still need to encourage people to do that.
The operation seemed to go pretty well. It was fantastic. I had a walk down to Empire Field after one of
the concerts. I saw Stuart Summers. I saw Dave Jensen on the platforms, which was pretty unexpected
but very, very welcome.
And you know-- and there was a couple of little things we can-- you could all tighten up. But those guys
saw it. No need to talk about it here.
Fare study-- I'm going to echo-- yes, please, please vote and approve to it. It's great to have it finally over
the line. Lots and lots of hard work and certainly Greater Denver Transit, we're very grateful to the efforts,
particularly for GM Debra Johnson, Carl Green and all the other staff who have been involved in that.
The work doesn't finish here. There are some great deals in the fare study. Let's start swinging for transit.
You know, $5.50 round trips to Boulder and Longmont. The airport-- if you commute on RTD local bus
every day, you get your airport travel for free, under an $88 fare cap.
And there's-- you know, so lots and lots of deals. It's great to see the airport workers will soon be also be
paying the same as other RTD riders as well. Much simpler. So many good stories including an incredible
deal for low-income riders with [INAUDIBLE] disabilities and seniors. $27 fare cap a month.

One thing we'd like to talk about is smart cards. I think, clearly, all this sort of fare capping and magic sort
of math which the new FareStar system does-- you don't get to take advantage if you don't have a
MyRide card or a phone.
For the MyRide, the concern is that getting those distributed to particularly low-income residents who use
cash-- you know, I have a collection of smart cards from around America. You know, Chicago, New York,
Philadelphia, Miami, Atlanta. And then there's even Singapore and London.
All of these, I showed up at the local airport, bought from a ticket vending machine, and I had a choice of
using cash or credit or debit. We absolutely should expand the availability.
I understand, as in the fare study, King Soopers and Safeway are currently not going to have the MyRide,
and it's going to be a future thing to increase the retail availability of the smart cards, particularly at places
that take cash for low income people. I encourage the agency to carry on with that. And so we can
absolutely make sure that we truly got an amazingly affordable and equitable fare system. Thank you
very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Bamber. We appreciate you coming.
That's it? No one else? OK. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? All right. Not seeing anyone. We
will close the public comment period at this point.
Our next session-- our next part of the agenda is the external entities reports. This month, we have three
external entity reports.
The first report is from the Access-A-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee, or APAC. Ms. Julie Jennings,
please start when you are ready.
JULIE JENNINGS: Hi. My name is Julie Jennings. I'm a member of the ACPD and the APAC. We had a
joint meeting on July 11. I'll be summarizing the APAC portion.
The KeyRide software and mobile portal launch that's replacing Route Match-- RTD is reaching out to the
people who volunteered to do a second beta test on the mobile portal before they relaunch.
We had a report on the RTD Fare Study. The Board Committee reviewed the recommended fares and
programs, and hopefully, this evening, you will review and potentially approve that Fare Study-- that fare
restructure.
Call Center RFP process-- status update. The solicitation received two proposals from Transdev, formerly
First Transit, and from [INAUDIBLE]. During the July 25 RTD Board meeting, the Directors will consider
the best recommendation to award the call center contract to Transdev.
APAC members will then be given an opportunity to visit the call center, observe the operation, and offer
recommendations relative to providing staff some sensitivity training.
The Access-A-Ride new contracts vendors started on July 1. Three new vendor contracts started July 1,
with MTM, Transdev, for accessible vehicles, and Transdev On Demand for non-accessible vehicles.
The four previous vendors were MV, Transdev, Transdev On Demand, and Via.

Access On Demand services-- these are curb-to-curb services provided by Uber, Lyft, zTrip, and Metro
Transportation. It's on-demand, same day only. The voucher program does not allow scheduling in
advance. An Access-A-Ride customer can enroll in the program with RTD and then sign up directly with
the Access On Demand vendors' web-based service for one or more vendors.
There were some challenges at peak times, especially July 4 weekend. RTD has a large service area. It's
hard to ensure a vehicle is always in range.
If a vehicle isn't available, the customer has to call dispatch. There's dedicated dispatchers for Access On
Demand. The dispatcher will review the transit dashboard and see where available drivers are located, or
where drivers may become available soon. And they can advise callers to resubmit based on their data.
Customers must book the Access On Demand trip before calling dispatch, so that dispatch can see the
trip on their system.
There's been a problem with the acceptance of service animals. It's still an issue on Uber. Some Uber
drivers are dropping trips when they see an animal, before they actually arrive to pick up the customer. It
does not seem to be a problem with Lyft. RTD is aware of this ongoing issue and revisits it regularly. I
have an update. Post-meeting, the voucher now covers Uber Pet and this should alleviate much of that
problem.
Additional passenger protocols-- it was asked, can an Access On Demand rider bring additional people
on their ride. Typically, it's two people-- the the Access-A-Ride rider and a caregiver. As an update, WAV
rides wheelchair-accessible vehicles can now accommodate up to four passengers instead of two.
The airport pick-up and drop off curbside or Island 5 was a question asked. Curbside cannot be
requested in the Access On Demand web systems, but riders can text the driver directly, and the airport
allows pickup curbside.
UberWAV and paratransit vehicle drop off and pick-up [INAUDIBLE] is on level six only. All others are on
level five.
Access On Demand website information is working to be improved. RTD is improving their-- working with
their marketing team to improve Access-A-Ride website, improving the visibility of and access to Access
On Demand information. On a positive note, there were many satisfied customers with Access On
Demand. The Access On Demand ridership rose from 15% of all paratransit trips during the pilot to over
40% of all paratransit trips in June. Several members of APAC use the service regularly and greatly
appreciate it. Thank you for your time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Ms. Jennings. That's great feedback and we appreciate it. The second
report is from the Advisory Committee for People With Disabilities, or ACPD. Mr. Earl Lee, please begin.
EARL LEE: Thank you, Madam Chair. As you were just told, the APAC and ACPD had a joint meeting on
July 11. I think it was a very interesting meeting. I opened up with a discussion about the rededication of
Civic Center and the Gang of 19.
I wanted to make sure that everyone in the room understood the value and the importance of how the
disabled community-- RTD-- promoted what ultimately became the ADA that we now live by, actually. I
thought it was a very good presentation. And I hope that there are more like that in the future.

During that discussion, Director Williams showed appreciation for the comments. And one person, Joe
Beaver, being very familiar with the Reverend Blank, suggested that Civic Center be renamed in honor of
Reverend Blank. No discussion was continued after that.
The next point of business-- I apologize to the group for not insisting on more input from the ACPD group
in particular on the Respect The Ride program. I think that is a good start, but I think there are some
areas that could use some improvement. So I have asked the group to get back to me with anything that
they see within the-- I asked them to do a deep dive into the Respect The Ride and come back to me with
anything that they feel could be improved with regards to the disabled community.
We then got a update on elevators, which seem to be a continuing concern. In particular, one elevator
that is frequently down is the Englewood elevator, which is not an RTD-managed unit. However, RTD
gets blamed for it every time it's down. We were told in that particular instance that the elevator repair
company refused to service the elevator until the city of Englewood had the car completely cleaned. I
have to assume that it was similar to the restrooms at Civic Center.
It's just something we all have to live with. And we just continued to discuss the elevator situation, trying
to-- yeah. I'm trying to make the point of how important that these elevators are to those of us who use
wheelchairs-- not only to those of us who use wheelchairs, but also the elderly that have arthritis, or
people who are taking their children someplace in a carrier. There's a lot of people that really have a need
for these elevators, so I'm trying to-- we're trying to work through some of those issues.
Finally, we are excited to plan an orientation for some new members in August. And we'll give you more
information on that when we get to that point. But we're excited to see some new blood come into the
ACPD. And I think it will help improve our ability to provide good content to the Board. Thank you very
much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Lee. Our final report is from the Citizens Advisory Committee, or the
CAC. Mr. John Fussa, you are on.
JOHN FUSSA: Thank you, Chair Guissinger and members of the Board for the chance to update you on
the CAC this evening. Very briefly, the CAC held its July meeting on July 13.
And among the topics on our agenda were an introduction with Jack Kroll, who's new to the staff as
Executive Manager of the RTD Board Office. So we were pleased to meet him, hear about his
background, and look forward to working with him in the future and developing a strong working
relationship.
We also had an update from RTD staff on the Zero Fare for Better Air program and initiative. And that is
one that the CAC has had the chance to be briefed on, express our support, and we applaud the Board
and the organization for bringing that initiative back and expanding it from one month to two months. And
we look forward a few months down the road to hearing the results and potential impact of the expanded
two month effort this summer.
As well, on tonight's agenda, as you know, one of your big items is the recommendation for the fare
structure related to the system-wide Fare Study and equity analysis. The CAC had the chance and
benefited from presentations from RTD staff about that project and that initiative. So we're very thankful to
RTD staff and consultants for providing the CAC with updates, giving the CAC, myself included, the
chance to provide comments and input. And we applaud the Board and RTD for undertaking that effort.

And we very much support it at the CAC. And we urge the Board to vote to approve the recommended
fare structure [INAUDIBLE] of that project, and applaud your efforts in that regard. We think it will be a big
benefit to the district and all the users and stakeholders of the system and of the district.
We also have had prior discussion about RTD Subregional Service Councils. And as the Board and staff
know, that results and ties into the RTD Partnership Program with local entities. There was a Partnership
Program call for projects with a due date earlier this month in, I believe, July 7. Again, the CAC has had
the chance to be briefed on that effort by RTD staff. We applaud the organization and the Board for
undertaking that effort. We do appreciate in this era of scarce resources that there is some real money in
the Partnership Program call for projects, and applaud the Board's willingness to undertake that outreach
to your member communities.
And we've heard-- both at the CAC, it's been well received. I happen to work in planning and community
development in my spare time, and it's also been well received in the district at the local level. So kudos
to the Board and the district on that effort. And we support it at the CAC and hope that will be successful
in future years, going forward.
And then lastly, in July and at prior meetings, as the Board knows from Matt Appelbaum's update in June,
the CAC has been discussing with staff and consultants whether it's time to engage in a larger discussion
between the CAC and the Board, or a component of each body, about the CAC's mission, its role, and
how it might organize itself through bylaws. So this is a topic of, I think, substantial importance to the CAC
and its individual members, myself included.
We've been advised that the Board is both willing and able to engage with the CAC in a conversation
about the CAC's mission, role and structure, including bylaws, going forward. So we very much, as Matt
may have indicated last month, would both ask the Board to commit to beginning that conversation and
process as soon as possible. We would request that that begin, if at all possible, navigating schedules
and other competing priorities, that that conversation start in September. And the CAC thinks that it can-if it starts in September and it's a focused conversation, that that certainly can wrap up not later than the
end of the year. And we think it's very important for the future functioning of the CAC to be able to provide
input to staff and the Board where appropriate.
So I would request Chair Guissinger and Board members, that you commit to starting that dialogue and
conversation with the CAC in an appropriate manner to be determined by you, with input from staff and
hopefully CAC, by the end of September, so we can conclude it by December. Matt Appelbaum and I, as
co-chairs, also believe it would be most appropriate to structure that conversation with subcommittees,
because both boards are large. That would be a very large, perhaps unwieldy conversation. We would
certainly like to start that conversation, and recommend or suggest for your consideration a subcommittee
approach to get the ball rolling. And that's it. Thanks, Chair Guissinger. Thanks, members of the Board.
Have a good evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Fussa. And I was in conversation with Mr. Appelbaum this week in
texting, I guess. And we will be moving the conversation forward with the CAC in the near future. So
thank you all for coming, and thank you all for your service on RTD's committees. Those are all very
important committees to our functioning.
We're now moving on to our committee reports. Our TABOR ad hoc committee is the first one. Director
Broom, do you have anything you would like to report?

BOB BROOM: [INAUDIBLE] I don't have an [INAUDIBLE] committee report this evening. The only thing I
might suggest is that we ask our legislative lobbyists to either come before us or give us something in
writing about the impact that HH might have on RTD and on the taxing system in Colorado in general, so
that we could be better apprised of what impacts we might have to deal with going forward. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Broom. I've made a note of that. And we can talk with Mr.
Davies as well, and try to do that in the near future.
You know-- oh, there is-- I was just going to say, I can't see Ms. Ruscha if she holds her hand up. But
she-- I do see her now and her hand is up. Ms. Ruscha, did you have something to add to that?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I apologize. My video is not working and that should
be fixed shortly. I did want to concur with Director Broom that it might be advisable to see if HH would
impact future revenues, but I just wanted to just state, to my knowledge, the Board does not have a
position, or this body-- the policy body does not have a position on debrucing or other TABOR-related
matters. And that is something that might come before us in the future. And so I just wanted to put out
there, it might be something that we want to consider a study session on, so that we can discuss that as a
body, as it might come up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Well taken. I think we have been considering something along those lines.
Thank you.
Audit Committee Report. Committee Chair Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. The Audit Committee met on July 7 to review the 2022
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report, which is on the unanimous consent this evening. I want to
commend CFO Doug MacLeod. We received a clean audit. As you all may be aware, RTD is required to
be audited under both state and federal and contractual obligations. And this is our external audit, not to
be confused with our internal audit, who completed this for us.
Just wanted to read out for everyone's edification, a few really great statements from the audit, and
specifically related to management of the agency. During Fiscal Year 2022, GASB 87 was adopted, which
is a change to the accounting, or an implementation of the policy related to accounting, specifically
related to leases, of which RTD has many. There were no findings-- there were no difficulties
encountered in performing the audit. There were no disagreements with management regarding financial
auditing, reporting or other matters.
This is about as good of an audit report as you can get on the financial side. And so really want to
commend Mr. MacLeod and that entire team, and the leadership team, for working hard with our auditors
to generate a great report. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I think we all agree with that, that our Finance team and our CFO, Mr.
MacLeod, have been doing great work.
Committee Chair Tisdale, do you have anything to report from the Finance and Planning Committee?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The Finance and Planning Committee met on
July 11. And we had five different matters that came before us, all of which passed out of committee
unanimously, and four of which are on the consent agenda-- the one that passed out unanimously that
has been moved to recommended action in order to allow an opportunity for, quite honestly, because it is

historical, it is monumental, an opportunity for us to blow our horn, to acknowledge this and to announce
it, and to celebrate it-- and that of course is the fare structure. And we will not be meeting in the month of
August. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Operations and Safety Committee. Committee Chair Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. The Operations and Safety Committee met on July 12
virtually. We had no external entity reports. We had four recommended actions, and a very packed
meeting. Most of those-- I think all of those will come to the Board tonight.
The Title Six Service Equity Analysis, the September service changes, the Access-A-Ride call center
contract, and the-- OK, help me out here, Dan-- PTAS-- Public Transportation Agency Safety plan.
Following all of those, and some discussion on those, we had a really, really relevant HR update that the
committee appreciated very much. And we will note in closing that we also will not meet in August. Our
next meeting will be at the same time and the same location on September 13.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Performance Committee. Committee Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. If I may, I just want to update colleagues a little bit about
what's going on in the Performance Committee, and have a few requests.
The Performance Committee met on July 17. We had two discussion items. The first was adopting a
compensation philosophy. And the second was discussing our performance evaluation process of our
CEO and General Manager.
First of all, we reviewed a proposed compensation philosophy for the Board to adopt for the CEO and
General Manager position. I'd like to extend the committee's gratitude-- certainly my gratitude-- to Chief
People Officer Charlene Pileggi for her generous assistance in this matter with the committee in drafting
what I think is a very good compensation philosophy, as well as to our Executive Manager of the Board
Office Jack Kroll, for helping to consolidate all of the feedback that was heard from committee members.
We did have a discussion around this compensation philosophy. We made the decision for this to be a
discussion item, so that we could have some time to collect feedback on this. However, the thing we need
to be mindful of that is we absolutely need to adopt one in September. So by having this as a discussion
item in July, we haven't left time for a lot of revision. So this is where my request is-- I'd like to request that
the Board Office send the draft to all of the Board members here, and that if you have any comments,
concerns, or questions about it, that you please reach out to the Board Office and please feel free to copy
me as well to provide that feedback.
During the discussion, the committee felt very strongly that it had captured what our intents were in the
previous discussions. Director Guzman did have some very helpful input about incorporating our mission
a little bit more closely in the draft.
Beyond that, we did discuss the performance evaluation process. We had a good discussion with our
current CEO and General Manager as to where there are opportunities to improve this performance
process. Some of the themes that came up was creating an evaluation process that is more consistent,
that is more direct to the General Manager, ensuring that we don't lose things in translation, as happened
with anonymous feedback last time around, that we have some continuity across this process, that we
provide some additional structure, and that the committee garner trust with the General Manager by
making and holding commitments on the feedback.

We had a discussion around what that might look like. We generally agreed that we have our work cut out
for us for both a long-term view of what we might want to do in 2024 and beyond for the position. But we
do have to deliver a higher quality feedback process than we did last year with the weighted success
outcomes and values that were already adopted for the prior year.
Again, I would invite any Board members that have ideas or contributions or comments to make to please
reach out to the committee. We had a discussion around perhaps having more frequent engagement with
the General Manager, that the Performance Committee might meet on perhaps a quarterly basis. We
discussed monthly. We discussed twice a year, in addition to having our annual, more formal evaluation.
I just also lastly just want to highlight that something that has come up is that we have a little bit of a risk
in the Performance Committee [INAUDIBLE] reminds me of the work that we had to do on the Audit
Committee in that the Committee does turn over on an annual basis. And I think one of the reasons we've
had some false starts on our performance evaluation process is that we do restart the process with
sometimes new committee members each year.
I put that forward as something that we consider as a Board. It did come up at the Executive Committee
last week as well, and it was suggested that perhaps we have this discussion around other committees to
ensure that we have long-term working plans while we know that the current Board is in place.
So with that, thank you for allowing me to go on a little bit longer on the report. Again, please extend any
feedback. Let's use the month of August to get performance right. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair Davidson. And thank you all for your reports. Are there any
questions on the reports? Seeing none, I think.
We'll move on to approval of the Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports. The Board and
Committee Minutes were included in the Board packet. Director Ruscha has requested three
administrative changes to the June 27 Board Meeting Minutes. Those changes are inclusion of the full
text of the distributed amendments to the Code of Conduct and Suspension Policy, the addition of a
missing sentence to a motion to amend the Code of Conduct, and the inclusion of the several motions
and votes to conclude debate. As that will take staff some time to complete, I'm going to postpone the
approval of the June 27 Board Meeting Minutes to the September Board Meeting.
Not including the June full Board Meeting Minutes, are there any other corrections from the Directors for
the minutes to be approved this evening?
OK. Seeing none. Unless there is objection to considering the minutes, all at the same time, may I please
have a motion to approve the minutes for the following meetings-- June 26, 2023 Performance
Committee, July 7, 2023 Audit Committee, July 11, 2023 Finance and Planning Committee, July 12, 2023
Operations and Safety Committee, July 17, 2023 Performance Committee, and July 20, 2023 Executive
Committee.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have a motion from Director Williams and a second from Director Rosenthal. Is
there any discussion on this motion? I'll now call for the vote. Are there any no votes? OK. Seeing none
with 15 Yes votes and 0 No votes, and 0 abstentions. The motion passes.

OK. The next item-- Sorry. My computer has shut down. Give me just a minute.
SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: I know. I'm just getting to it. The next item is the Chair's Report.
First and foremost, we are, well-- at least first, we are almost halfway through our Zero Fares for Better
Air Program that extends through July and August. Anecdotally, I'm hearing lots of people who are loving
it. The buses seem like they are busy and we appreciate the efforts of the Governor's Office and the
legislature, and the Colorado Energy Office, and working with us here at RTD to help lower the ground
level ozone that peaks out in the summer months.
So all of those who are here listening or elsewhere listening, I encourage you to take advantage, ride the
bus, ride the train, ride Access-A-Ride. Everything is free through August 31.
I secondly would like to repeat the comments, I think, from Mr. Bamber, earlier, about the Taylor Swift
concert and the Rockies game. I know that Mr. Dave Jensen and Stuart Summers were both out there till
late at night along with many other staff. And huge job, huge coordination, great job and thank you. I see
people wanting to clap.
[APPLAUSE]
So.
Thanks. As Mr. Earl Lee mentioned, on July 6, our GM CEO, Ms. Johnson, and I spoke at the
rededication of the plaque at Civic Center Station in honor of the Gang of 19 and Reverend Wade Blank.
Directors Rosenthal, Williams and Guzman attended. I don't think I missed anyone. But if I did, let me
know.
This celebrated in 1978, RTD had ordered 250 new buses that were not wheelchair accessible. And
Wade Blank had been an activist, a community organizer. He had marched with Reverend Martin Luther
King. And he was working here with Heritage House, with the members of the disability community. And
together, they decided to put on a very public protest where they surrounded-- this gang of 19 surrounded
a bus so it couldn't move for 24 hours.
And over time, that turned RTD around to being a real leader in accessible vehicles. And ultimately, this
movement led to the passage of the ADA and the change in disability protections in many areas. So that
was a really-- I thought it was a really great ceremony, and an opportunity to recognize that history and
the successes.
At our Executive Committee meeting, we discussed the fact that we need to update some of our Board
Guidance Documents. The Board operating guidelines say they'll be reviewed annually, and some review
is due.
So we talked specifically about a couple of possible changes. One was to set a length of time that a
Board meeting would last, unless the Board votes to continue. That probably would be set at something
like 4 and 1/2 or five hours. So a meeting that starts at 5:30 would end at 10:00 or 10:30 unless the Board
votes to continue.

Another thing that came up briefly was how amendments should be-- if there are multiple, should be
presented perhaps 24 hours in advance. What the consensus was, I think, coming out of the Executive
Committee was, let's have a conversation. So we are due, I think, for a study session workshop, and
would like to look at this. I think we will be looking at other parts of the guidance-- the operating
guidelines, just to review as we are required or suggested to do.
And tomorrow, I believe the Board Office will be sending out a Doodle poll to all of you to see if we can
schedule something. It would be probably mid-September or mid-October on a Tuesday or Wednesday
night, when nothing else is scheduled.
We also-- we have some language that we've been discussing from Directors Williams, I believe
Rosenthal and Tisdale, to underscore and work with the process of sending all requests for documents
and information to the Board Office. And the idea is to make sure that we're getting everything recorded
and organized. I think-- I really appreciate you moving that forward. You know, after talking about it
somewhat, I think we would like to do-- and again, I'll be working with our Board Office-- is work with
APTAconnect, which lets our Board Office talk to APTA people all around the country. Director Tisdale,
I'm sure, could explain that very well.
And learn a bit about best practices for handling these requests. And also, we'll look at the best way to
take advantage-- we have good Salesforce system. The best way to take advantage of our technology in
this process. So stay tuned. All of those issues will be coming back up in September for full Board
discussion.
That's all I have. We'll go to Ms. Johnson's report unless anyone has any questions or comments. Ms.
Johnson, our GM CEO Report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly, Madam Chair, and good evening to all of you that are
assembled. As introduced, Debra Johnson, General Manager and Chief Executive Officer.
This evening, I will share with you information centered around the agency's strategic priorities.
Regarding community value, I will discuss meetings and events in which I attended since the last regular
Board meeting, included an event hosted by the Federal Transit Administration regarding bus automation,
the Conference of Minority Transportation Officials 2023 Meeting Conference, my attendance of Mayor
Johnston's inauguration and other activities in which we've engaged with the administration, an APTA
Awards Committee deliberation meeting.
Also in relation to community value, I will share information regarding a transit asset management best
practice review meeting. RTD's participation in an interest conference with the Office of the State Auditor
regarding customer excellence. I will discuss-- now I won't, because we've already talked about it, but the
Gang of 19-- we heard from Mr. Lee, the Chair of the ACPD, as well as from Madam Chair, just a moment
ago.
But speaking to employee ownership, I will touch upon the incredible efforts of staff surrounding our
transit service delivery over the period of July 13 through the 16. Not only Taylor Swift, but as we know,
the Rockies game, in which they played the Yankees. And then, I will touch upon something that's
bittersweet, but want to pay homage to a member of RTD's leadership team.

So before I begin my report, I want to address a recent series of inquiries. And we heard about it during
the course of public comment in which Mr. Bamber touched upon-- it's RTD has been receiving inquiries
regarding the R Line gate crossing in Aurora.
Now, that happened more than a month ago. But I would be remiss not to take the opportunity to address
it in a public session. The malfunction was related to the agency's supervisory control and data
acquisition, which we commonly refer to as SCADA.
It's a system that we utilize for managing our rail network. When the agency recently migrated its new
SCADA servers in early January, following the migration, we did have a network communications failure
that impacted certain crossings along the R Line alignment.
In those locations, the crossing arms entered into safe mode. Now, what that means is, when they're in
safe mode, the gate crossing arms lowered, and they remained lowered until such time as they could be
restored to automated operation.
During the specific time when the gate crossings were malfunctioning, the traffic lights located at the
impacted intersection were set to a four-way flashing red signals.
RTD does not provide traffic control, and is not equipped or staffed to do so. Rather, the local police
jurisdiction's traffic division provides this service and location where traffic signals are impacted.
In this instance, RTD provided flaggers to monitor and to regulate train movement, not to provide traffic
control for motorists or pedestrians. The Aurora Police Department was contacted and made aware of
traffic conditions at the impacted crossings. To reiterate, RTD is neither staffed nor equipped to provide
flaggers for vehicular traffic control, because we provide transit services. And we basically traverse
arterials and tracks within 40 municipalities and eight counties. In the event of a rail system malfunction,
traffic control remains in the purview of the municipal jurisdiction in which the malfunction occurs.
The Colorado Public Utilities Commission, as you know, acts as our state safety oversight agency
pursuant to the Federal Transit Administration's regulations. And that's with respect to light rail operations.
Light rail operations are overseen by the CPUC per direction of the FTA, while commuter rail is overseen
by the Federal Railroad Administration. So I just wanted to qualify that, as we've received
correspondence to the contrary, and I believe, oftentimes, people do mistake our modes of transport on
our rail network, because oftentimes, I get inquiries-- I take the light rail out to the airport-- well, that's
commuter rail.
And so I don't mean to be condescending, but I think it's important to qualify and to clarify in this forum.
So with that as a backdrop, the CPUC, which approved and certified RTD's crossing design and
functions, you know, was made aware, and is aware of the agency's operational protocols at crossings.
Further, the CPUC was made aware of the gate crossing malfunction in Aurora, and the Commission was
provided with periodic updates. CPUC has not communicated any safety or operational issues concerning
the agency's response in this instance.
The gate crossing malfunction seemed to be resolved early on during the month of June, but the gates
once again entered fail-safe mode shortly thereafter. The malfunction was finally resolved Tuesday, June
20, and normally-scheduled light rail service resumed Wednesday, June 21.

RTD staff was in frequent communication with representatives from the city of Aurora during the period of
time when the gate crossings were malfunctioning. RTD issued service alerts, sent news releases, posted
on social media about the situation. Moreover, information was shared with this body regarding the
situation. Additionally, customer care employees were apprised of the situation so that they could respond
to customer concerns.
As I noted previously, RTD has just recently received media inquiries and communications from members
of the public well after the issue has been resolved. It's been in excess of a month.
Two individuals reported separately that they witnessed unsafe events taking place at the R Line
crossings, whereby motorists engaged in unsafe or dangerous behaviors. In one instance, a person
reports that motorists attempted to manually raise crossing gate arms, which, suffice to say, is incredibly
dangerous. These reports only came to RTD's attention within the last few days, with the most recent
arriving just yesterday evening on Monday, June 24.
I cannot stress enough that unsafe acts occurring on or in close proximity to the transit system should be
reported immediately to the RTD Transit Police and Emergency Management Department so that they
can be addressed in a timely manner.
RTD PD can be contacted directly through Transit Watch App, available via the Apple and Google app
stores, or via telephone at 303-299-2911. So with that, I will proceed with my monthly report.
As it relates to community value, I was invited by Nuria Fernandez, who serves as the Administrator of the
Federal Transit Administration, to participate in FTA's Convening for Transit Bus Automation Event in
Washington DC on Friday, June 30.
Representatives from transit agencies exploring, or those that have explored or deployed automated bus
transit technology joined representatives from the US Department of Transportation, as well as FTA, of
course, to discuss issues and opportunities related to deploying automated transit buses in revenues
such as research, planning, pilots and demonstrations, and regulatory and policy requirements.
During the session, participants discussed key regulatory areas, including requirements, processes and
procedures related to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards Buy America as well as Build America,
useful life and spare ratio, compliance with Americans Disabilities Act of 1990, transit vehicle
manufacturers and disadvantaged business, enterprise goals, and bus testing and workforce.
From Friday, July 7 through Monday, July 10, I attended the Conference of Minority Transportation
Officials' National Meeting and Training Conference, which was held this year in L.A. COMTO members
represent public and private transportation industries, including transit, highways, railways, maritime and
aviation. COMTO annual conference brings together industry leaders across all modes of transportation
for four days of learning, training, and networking. This event is open to transportation professionals at all
career levels, government employees, manufacturers, and suppliers.
The theme for this year's conference was transportation, the great connector, which resonated with me,
as one might imagine. The annual CEO summit was also convened during the course of the conference,
wherein I was honored to be asked to facilitate a peer exchange among Chief Executives from across the
country, representing several transportation modes.
On Monday, July 17, I attended Mayor Johnston's inauguration, being the mayor of the city and County of
Denver. Speaking on behalf of staff, I look forward to a productive working relationship between RTD and

the Johnston Administration in the days to come. As the Board may be aware, Mayor Johnston began his
term by signing an emergency declaration regarding houselessness on July 18, 2023, with the goal of
housing 1,000 individuals by the end of the year.
The mayor's office has convened a working group to help identify solutions to this critical issue, and has
invited the agency to take part and lend assistance where possible. The group's discussions are still in
the early stages. And while there are no specifics to report to the Board at this time, I am, as well as staff,
is committed to engaging with the new mayoral administration, and I will keep the Board informed as RTD
continues to work with Mayor Johnston and his staff. As you know, there's a clear cut nexus as it relates
to our role in reference to being interwoven into the fabrics of the community. And quite naturally, we've
experienced residual impacts by those that are unhoused seeking, you know, refuge on public rights of
way.
Later that day, I participated in a transit asset management best practice review, sponsored by the
Federal Transit Administration, with direct support from the FTA's program contractor, AECOM. RTD is
one of 10 entities selected to participate in this pilot program aimed at promoting best practices for transit
asset management.
During this meeting, the program partners shared the scope and timeline of their work plan. And
prospective staff interviewees will be asked to provide information. The types of information and data that
will be compiled and analyzed in preparation for a final report to be issued in December of 2023. I would
like to qualify that this is intended to be a lessons learned and a best practice that the FTA will leverage
as we go forward in case there's a notice of potential rulemaking, or things along those lines due to the
fact, as you may be aware, that here in the United States, it's a collective problem as it relates to keeping
assets in a state of good repair, hence, the effectuation of the bipartisan infrastructure law that focused on
infrastructure.
On Wednesday, July 19, I attended a meeting of the American Public Transportation Association's
Awards Committee, of which I was appointed a member by the APTA Chair, for a three year term that
commenced last year in 2022. The committee convenes annually to deliberate over nominees for APTA's
annual awards program, recognizing excellence in the public transportation industry. APTA award
winners are outstanding role models of excellence, leadership and innovation, whose accomplishments
have greatly advanced public transportation and demonstrates APTA's core values of leadership,
integrity, excellence, diversity, inclusiveness, fairness, equity, teamwork, professionalism and
accountability.
On Monday, July 17, Chair Guissinger and our Chief Financial Officer Doug MacLeod and I met with
State Auditor Kerri Hunter and members of her staff to conduct an Interest Conference to review the
parameters of the 2023-2024 routine performance audit of RTD related to fiscal governance.
The audit plan will be developed this summer, with field work to commence in the fall, culminating in a
Legislative Audit Committee hearing and subsequent issuance of a final report audit report-- we anticipate
to be a year from now, in the summer of 2024.
Under customer excellence, we heard about the Gang of 19 plaque rededication. And I would like to
thank the Chair, and Directors Williams as well as Rosenthal and Guzman for being there for that
monumental and historic event. It really filled my tank to be a part of such a commemorative and historical
event. So thank you all.

In relation to the strategic priority of employee ownership, Chair Guissinger touched upon this, but I'd like
to acknowledge staff publicly, and extend my genuine thanks and appreciation for their Herculean efforts
in developing and delivering transit service over the course of the week of July 16. It took a myriad of
people-- while we talk about service delivery and operations, we're talking about RTD PD, we're talking
about marketing and communications, we're talking about a plethora of individuals. One thing's for
certain. I would state that this appears to be the most significant transit service delivery undertaking that
this agency has had.
And coming into this organization, and when I've asked the team, and pushed the team and said where
are our operations plans and so forth, while we may have not traditionally done them in the sense, I have
to acknowledge that we rallied around, and we were able to develop these plans in such a way that we
could put our best foot forward. And I think everybody is well cognizant of the fact that our best foot was
showing mightily during the course of that weekend.
And so as I shared with the Board, you know, through some written communique that I had sent to
members of this organization, while we talk about customers or the Swifties attending Taylor Swift
concerts, we also had the Rockies-Yankees games as well. And recognizing that that Friday and
Saturday and Sunday, with a myriad of other sporting, entertainment and leisure activities throughout the
Metro area, we were doing a lot with less.
And we saw that because RTD's web traffic during that period was significantly higher throughout the
weekend in comparison to the prior week. With the Zero Fare For Better Air initiative still underway
through the end of August, I am optimistic that we will see new and returning customers alike to our
network. And it's a viable option. As we talk about remote work, we are repurposing ourselves, because
people like to get out, socialize and go to activity centers, as I qualify them. So there's a lot more activities
to be undertaken by the means of our system in the coming weeks and months to come.
And last but certainly not least, I would be remiss not to acknowledge somebody sitting in the back. Henry
Stopplecamp, our Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, who will soon be enjoying a welldeserved retirement, following nearly a quarter of a century here at RTD.
[APPLAUSE]

So Henry, I extend to you my deepest appreciation for dedication, commitment, your candor, work
product, and his leadership for the Capital Programs team. His last day, official duty, in the office, will be
Friday, July 28. While he still will be in and out, Henry's tenure as the ADM of Capital Programs, as most
of you are aware, coincided with an era of rapid expansion for the Transportation District, during which
time the agency opened several light rail and commuter rail lines, and completed a myriad of other transit
service-related infrastructure projects.
Henry was involved in each of these endeavors and contributed greatly to these initiatives and the
agency's overall success. Stepping into the role of Acting Assistant General Manager of the Capital
Programs Department will be Jyotsna Vishwakarma who has served as RTD's Chief Engineer since
November of 2015. I am certain that all of you who have had the opportunity to work with Jyotsna during
her tenure at RTD will recognize that the Capital Programs Department will remain in good hands during
this time of transition.

So Henry, thank you very much for making lives better through connections. And with that, Madam Chair,
I conclude my report and yield the floor.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Ms. Johnson. And Mr. Stopplecamp, I think you could see by
the standing ovation that all of us here share Ms. Johnson's appreciation. And I think so many of us have
appreciated your assistance and deep knowledge over the years that we've been here. And thank you for
all your service. We appreciate it.
All right. Item 16. Public hearing for the 2023 amended budget. I hereby call to order the public hearing on
the Regional Transportation District's amendment to the adopted budget for the year 2023. In accordance
with both RTD's requirements and local government statutes, notice of the public hearing was duly posted
on the Board of Directors website, and published in two major daily newspapers of the district prior to this
meeting.
I'd like to point out that the testimony will be limited to the subject of the public hearing, and presentations
of testimony should be no longer than three minutes. Written testimony should be emailed to the Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com for distribution to the Board.
The 2023 amended budget was included in the electronic packet for the Board and public to review.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names. And they will have up to three minutes to
provide their comments. Has anyone raised their hand to speak?
OK. With no speakers, we will close the 23-- is there anybody else? No. OK-- the public hearing for the
2023 amended budget at this time.
The 2023 amended budget is for the Board of Directors to adopt resolution series of numbers-- 2023 to
amend appropriate funds to decrease the 2023 amended budget by $117.2 million to $2,092.9 million. Do
we have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear Director Buzek as the movement and I believe Director Tisdale as the
second. Is there any discussion on this motion?
No? OK. I'll now call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action?
All right. With 15 Yes votes, zero No votes and 0 abstention, the motion passes.
And we are done with our public hearing. Our next item, item number 17, is our unanimous consent
agenda. There's six items on the unanimous consent agenda, listed under Section 17, actions B through
G.
Those items are the 2022 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report and Report to Governance, the
Certificates of Participation Series 2013 A Refunding, the FasTracks Bond Series 2019 A and 2021 A
Refunding, Title Six Fare Equity Analysis, it's the September 2023 Title Six Service Equity Analysis, and
the 2024 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, or the PTASP.

First of all, I'd just like to say, the committees have done [INAUDIBLE] work. There's a lot in this packet.
And it's all come through. The first item was through the Audit Committee. And then the other items came
through the Finance and Planning, or the Operations and Safety Committee.
Has anybody-- if anyone has a change to discussion on, or questions about these items, feel free to
advise the Chair at this time. And I'll be happy to pull it from the unanimous consent agenda for
consideration as a recommended action. Is there any such request? OK. Seeing none. May I have a
motion to approve the consent agenda?
BOB BROOM: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I heard Director Broom as the movement.
SPEAKER: Third.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Williams as the second. You can't have a third, sorry. Are there any
No votes on this action?
OK. With 15 Yes votes, zero No votes and zero abstention, the consent agenda passes.
We are now up to our three recommended actions, Item 18. The three recommended actions listed as
Section 18 actions H, I and J.
The first action is for Item H, the fare structure, for the Board of Directors to adopt the fare structure
recommendations from the system-wide fare study and equity analysis.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved [INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second.
SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I heard Director-- Yeah. [INAUDIBLE] I heard Director Tisdale as the
movement-SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Guzman as the second.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is there any discussion on this motion? And I will start off by saying that I was the
one who requested that we pull this off of the consent agenda. We have a lot of really great work on the
consent agenda tonight, but this one, I think, for reasons that have been stated earlier, and that we all
have stated at various points along the way, as Director Tisdale so well stated, it's historic. It's
monumental. We have lowered fares. We've simplified fares. Kudos to Ms. Johnson, to our planning staff,

to our Finance staff, all of the people who have worked so hard to put this together, to come out with
some of the things we've come out with, where we have lowered fares. We have an unbelievable $27
monthly pass for people who are entitled to discounts through other ways, the LiVE program, people with
disabilities, people over 65.
We are expanding the LiVE program and embarking on a program to market it and bring more people into
it. We've brought back the Transit Assistant Grants [INAUDIBLE] brought on Transit Assistant Grants so
that nonprofits can work with others. And we are kicking off a pilot, it looks like, to offer zero fares for
youth through age 19. So, bravo. I think we all share this. And I wanted to take a moment to appreciate it,
and to ask Ms. Johnson to say a few words as well.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity. As I sit here, I can think, it
was nearly three years ago when I ventured out here and I needed a decoder ring to figure out these
fares. And when I was engaging with the myriad of different groups, be they elected officials, you all, or
your predecessors in some instances, as well as customers, community members, or employees, it
seemed as if this was a universal pain point for that very diverse audience.
And Director Buzek probably remembers vividly with me coming on Board here, and we were doing the
inline promotional fares, and there was a little discontent relative to stopping that pilot. And I delved in a
little deeper and said, well, basically, we have to ensure that we're doing a fare study and an equity
analysis. You just can't do a pilot for a period of time and not be able to look at the network holistically.
With that, when I brought it forward to a myriad of different people that're like, oh, that'll take too long.
Well, here we are. I mean, the days still elapse, and now at the end, we have the culmination of a fare
structure that is of great benefit to a myriad of people. I would be remiss not to acknowledge members of
the team that leaned into the moment, that were able to embrace this concept, and going above and
beyond, something that this transit agency had not done before with an equity analysis, as we leveraged
community-based organizations. We brought them on board so we could ensure that we heard from,
oftentimes, the voiceless. It was paramount that we brought into this room, which is the boardroom, the
voice from the bus stop.
And so recognizing the 21 safe harbor languages, how we came to you and actually revamped the
timeline, because we wanted more robust engagement, that I believe has yielded a stellar structure that
focuses on three main goals-- equity, simplicity and affordability. So thank you very much for trusting me
to shepherd this endeavor. Thank you to the myriad of people at this organization that made this come to
fruition.
I think we are on a trajectory, as people have asked the questions, as we talk about what are we going to
do with the budget shortfall? As we all know, we have 1.1 billion dollar budget. And while fares are
important to this organization, they don't basically cover our operating expenses. So when you think about
it, it's not far-fetched to believe that we can garner more ridership that would help balance this out, when
we think about what our fare recovery ratio is. Because right now, we're about at 6%, when we think
about our overarching budget. And for all intents and purposes, I do have a fiduciary responsibility, so I'm
not making light of this, but my team knows, often, I say, that's budget dust.
Because we have the opportunity to really provide value. And when you provide value, you have the
opportunity to yield more promoters. So with that, Madam Chair, thank you all. Thank you to our stellar
RTD team that spans the gamut, especially as we talk about transit equity, in reference to Carl Green
leveraging his experience from TriMed as we came full circle to actually utilize different ways in which we

could garner more advanced communication and engagement. So thank you very much, Madam Chair,
for the opportunity to offer those comments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I think the one word we admitted is
probably the overarching word for everything, which is accessibility. And this makes-- what we are
discussing makes transit more accessible in a huge variety of ways.
I have been overwhelmed with people asking, is it really-- is it really going to happen? And I think that
when you think that somebody who is an older adult, which is the appropriate term, can ride the bus for
27 bucks a month-- I've been surrounded by people who are, I'm sure, all watching and listening to make
sure that it does happen. Thank you all. Thank you Mr. Sirois, Mr. Quinn, Mr. Davis, everybody who
worked on this so hard.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. While I would never want or attempt to speak for my
colleagues present or in the past, I know many of us, upon our arrival here as Board members, kind of
scratched our heads with the thought-- can't this be simpler? It's difficult. And that makes very-- that
makes a very tough marketing situation, when you're trying to recruit new riders.
So with that said, I can't give enough glorious accolades. I don't have the words. But I do know that
there's a lot of faces in this room that worked diligently for several years on this matter, and probably 100
more employees or more.
There's been hundreds of inputs from our constituents and our local governments, and the enthusiasm
and the sincerity that they all took to assist us was monumental, and really a team effort. So I
congratulate my former colleagues, my colleagues, certainly, a hearty congratulations to the staff, for this
monumental accomplishment. And to quote, poorly, Director Tisdale, it is time to celebrate for our
constituents. And what I'm really pleased about is this is a great recruitment tool for new constituents,
which we all know we need to have to make this organization all that it can be. So congrats, and thank
you, Madam Chair, for the time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. Ms. CEO and General Manager Johnson, thank you for the
leadership on this. You get things done. You've gotten a lot done for this agency, and this is tremendous
value to our customers and to our community. Sincerely, thank you for having a bias to action, and taking
this problem and developing a solution.
Thank you to our entire team. I think we'd be remiss if we didn't thank the Federal Transit Administration
for the tremendous support through an awful time in history. And this shows what support for transit can
do. Thanks to the work of this team, we managed that funding very well. By any stretch of the
imagination, we should be far worse off as an agency, after having gone through what we did in the
pandemic.
Instead, we are stable. We heard some thoughtful comments from a community member this evening, Mr.
Van Doren, about concerns of budget. We can support this. We are sustainable. And that is thanks to

support for transit, which we absolutely need this state, this federal government, all of our local cities to
do.
We need to continue to be good stewards of this money. And I can't help myself-- we need to look for
opportunities to diversify revenue, because we are dependent on one single source of revenue, which
again, this just emphasizes, but again, I cannot say it enough. Thank you to this entire team, and Ms.
Johnson, thank you for that bias towards action.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And thank you, Director Davidson, for saying so eloquently what was on my
mind.
I too am very, very pleased to celebrate this achievement. And kudos to GM CEO Johnson and staff for
all your hard work and such a thorough equity analysis that really, really supports this decision tonight. My
hope is, as GM CEO Johnson suggests, that this increase in ridership that we hope to achieve through
these actions will indeed result in additional revenue that will yield to sustainability for this program.
And I mentioned that in committee, that that was one of my main concerns. But I'm cautiously optimistic
that that will work. So, thank you, everybody. And oh, I just wanted to say that having a fare reduction is
really monumental. And some of you all who are familiar with E470 know that E470 lowered its toll rates
two years ago, and just got great customer support and political support for lowering its fare rate. They
increased their customer base, and just got so much positive attention both from the public and other
elected officials. And it's my hope that we will-- we deserve and will receive the same. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: With the permission of my Board members, I will not speak in English. I'll say my
comments in Spanish.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]

Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Guzman.
SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE] Can you translate that for those who don't speak Spanish?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'll try to remember what I said. [INAUDIBLE]
SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE]
MICHAEL GUZMAN: The basic idea is that for the Hispanic community, the Spanish-speaking community
primarily, to remember that the work that's done here today is historic. And although we'll never go back
to 50 cents [INAUDIBLE] fares, that the reduction now requires us to participate in the system, all
throughout the region, in every single district.

And for me [INAUDIBLE], for my people to remember, that their voice was heard in this process. A lot of
voices were heard in this process. And so now it is incumbent upon us to participate and put in the fare,
so that we can get on the bus, and get on the train and go where we need to go. Because this was done
for all of our community.
SPEAKER: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Guzman. That was great. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And to build on some of what our colleagues have said-you know, this is definitely monumental. This is historic. This is a huge leap in the right direction.
Kudos to our General Manager, entire staff, everyone for all their hard work. This is lowering fares. This is
simplifying fares, if you look at taking out the regional fare. And I think most dramatic is the pass structure,
restructuring and lowering from $114 at the local level, and the $200 at the regional and airport level-- that
is going to be a huge assistance to folks who are going about their business doing a lot of travel on our
rail and buses, and particularly at the airport.
And as you know, that's a huge driver, the biggest driver of economic activity in probably the Rocky
Mountain region, is the airport. But it's also building on the efforts of the General Manager and her staff,
recently doing an agreement, expanding the use of passes at the airport. And so this is really hand in
glove and another effort to try to assist both definitely the folks at the airport, making sure we have
workers able to get out there, and also folks traveling to and from the airport.
So a little plug for that element of this new plan. So thank you so much to everybody who worked on this,
and really very proud of you and very thankful.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. And Director Harwick, if you don't mind, I'm going to
take Director Ruscha on online. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. And again, I do apologize for the video. Still having tech
issues that we're trying to work out.
I actually just had a clarifying question. So I don't mind going last. And I will leave that up to you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's fine. Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you, Madam Chair. I did ask a question via email earlier. If the low
income fares are LiVE program customers would be able to use cash onboard. And I was told yes. And I
should have been more specific. I meant, would they be able to use cash and still receive the discounts,
because that's not something that I believe is currently in our Board packet. So I'm just seeking
clarification from staff.
LYNN GUISSINGER: What discount-- well, I'll just turn that over to Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Madam Chair. Director Ruscha, if you can qualify which
discount, because we have a myriad of discounts. There are some for those that are 65 and better,
there's others for those with disabilities. So if you could qualify, I'd be more than happy to address your
question.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. So in this fares proposal, for low-income fares enrollees, right, whose discount
will extend to 50%, all of our discounts will then be the same. My question was, for our low income pass
enrollees, will they be able to show their pass and pay cash, and receive their discounts? In the Board
packet, it suggests that is not so. And I'm just seeking clarification from staff.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO,
and I will address your question. So for clarity's sake, yes, RTD will offer cash on vehicle payments for
Lyft customers, and will also offer tickets at TVM. So if someone were boarding they would use their LiVE
ID and show that to the operator of said vehicle and then pay said fare.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Does that answer your question, Director Ruscha? Anything else?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, thank you. That answers my question. And that's great to hear. I know that has
been raised before and did not-- I don't think that was clear in previous communication. So that's
wonderful.
And I also had a question regarding understanding that there will be a time frame to fully roll out the LiVE
program changes, because it will take the state some time to update the back end on Colorado PEAK
which is how one currently applies. I just wanted to ask if the rollout for Access-A-Ride, which will now be
included in the low income fares pass, if one qualifies, is on that same schedule. And in the memo we got
today, it was targeted for February 25, 2024. So will that also be the same for Access-A-Ride customers
who will be able to qualify? Will that be the same date?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: We want to ensure that this is simplistic for all. It would be in our best interest to roll
everything out in tandem, recognizing that we have to do reconfigurations and things of the like outside of
the state of Colorado. There's other entities with whom we have to engage. So optimally, we would like to
have a specific date that's in alignment, whereby it could be all fares. As indicated via the Operations and
Safety Committee, we will keep this body apprised of a targeted timeline, but for all intents and purposes,
in a utopian society, we want to make sure that the dates are all the same. At this juncture, I can't state
unequivocally that will happen. If, in fact the state is delayed with their timeline, we wouldn't want to
hinder other portions of our system. So with that, I would ask you to stay tuned as we have further
information forthcoming. But rest assured, our ultimate goal is to have this leveraged in the first quarter of
2024. I think that's the safest way I could qualify it at this point in time. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Anything else, Ms. Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No. That satisfies my questions. And I appreciate the clarifications. I also just again
want to state that I am excited. It sounds like that a customer will be able to produce their ID card and pay
cash, and still receive the LiVE discount. Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. I have sort of just a variety of thoughts. But I'm so excited about this. And I'm
really excited to be a part of it. And while I wasn't here at the beginning of it, I'm really excited to be here
at the end.

SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE]
IAN HARWICK: [INAUDIBLE] I got to at least own it. But for me, as I represent Arvada, and Arvada has
one of the largest aging communities in the Metro area, some of our programs, the LiVE program in
particular, I think will be great for our community. And I really feel that it's incumbent upon our community,
my community partners, to get on board and help bring this into reality.
Because if my community doesn't get on board, then a lot of people don't gain access to it. So I'm really
hoping that we really see great community collaboration in this. Because it's really pretty fantastic, and
everybody should get on board. Because-SPEAKER: Literally.
IAN HARWICK: Literally. Everybody needs to get on board. Arvada, get on board. All right. Thanks a lot.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Harwick. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. When I first got on this Board, one of the questions that I would
get from a lot of people would be, well, how much does it cost to ride on RTD? Well, you know, it
depends.
So it seemed to me like our fare system was so complicated that it was ridiculous. And thinking back
years and years and years ago, I grew up in a little town of about 250 people. And obviously, we didn't
have mass transit.
And so on vacation, one year, we went to New York and I rode on the subway system. And all you
needed was this little token, you know. And I was thinking, why can't we have a little token in Denver?
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Ruscha, your hand is still up. Is that just a
remnant?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No, ma'am. Just a terrible habit of asking too many questions. I have no further
questions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. OK. Wonderful. I'll now call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this
action?
SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: No? You guys don't want a roll call? All right. I'll do a roll call. Hang on. Let me get
back to my roll. Director Bouquet. He'll be right back, I'm sure. We'll come back to him.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Si. Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: [NON-ENGLISH]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am a Yes. Lynn Guissinger. With 15 yes's and zero no's, we are happy to
pass this change in our fare structure. Thank you.

[APPLAUSE]

OK. Our second recommended action is the September 2023 service change. For the Board of Directors
to approve the September 2023 service change as revised and summarized in attachment A and to
authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators impacted by these changes. Do we have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved. Bouquet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. I heard Director Bouquet.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second from Director Whitmore. Is there discussion on this motion? No? All right. I
will call for the vote. Are there any no votes? OK. With 15 Yes votes-JULIEN BOUQUET: Ah, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh. Her hand wasn't up a minute ago. Director Ruscha, are you a no vote?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Uh-- no, ma'am. I apologize. I was asking if I could-- if I could make a comment
before we voted.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And I had no way to wave my hand in front of the video.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Your hand wasn't raised, but go ahead. Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I voted-- I did read all of the comments. I do agree with
the conclusion of this service change. And I did read all of the comments. However, we did receive some
feedback months ago that we no longer include all of the comments regarding service change in public
document. They're summarized, which is very helpful for us as a Board, I think, and for the public. But
some comments might have been omitted. And so I ask the Board staff if they could get me any other
comments that might not have made it into the packet, and I appreciate. I was able to get those,
comments including the fact.
And so I would just ask on the record, could, you know-- and it doesn't have to be answered right now. So
maybe it's rhetorical. But if we could, in the future, go back to including all of the public comments in the
record before we vote on these service changes?
Transit's a lot of things for a lot of people, and for some folks, it really is a lifeline. Sometimes there are a
lot of comments. We might not be able to read them all. I understand that. But I think if someone takes
the time to come down to Blake Street, or go online and fill out a comment about a service change
proposal or something they'd like to see, then we can afford the respect of publishing that comment in full,

just like we do all others. I will be a Yes. I am a Yes. Please do not record my vote as a no. But I just
wanted to state that, and politely ask that we consider going back to the old way. Thank you so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Is there a response-- do you have anything to say, Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you, Director Ruscha, for the
comments set forth.
I want to qualify and manage expectations. I'm amenable to including comments, but I believe I'd be
remiss not to qualify for the body that oftentimes, prior to submitting this to the Board Office, we just had a
meeting and were synthesizing documents. So we would have to back up that process. But recognizing
that we provided comments this evening, there could be a way in which we don't have them available for
the committee meeting, but there could be the potential of having them available when the Board
considers it as a whole.
So it just depends on the timing of the meetings, when they're scheduled, recognizing that this is a long
lead time in relationship to what we need to do relative to ensuring that we are providing ample time for
our frontline members of the organization to bid on assignments and things of the like. So just wanted to
put that out there. We will work diligently to see if we can accommodate this request. Most likely, we
would not be able to incorporate them into the committee meetings. However, there could be an
opportunity to provide that thereafter. And I will confer with the team as it relates to a reasonable
schedule, because we do want to receive public comment. And that's why they've been synthesized.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. OK. Did you have anything further, Director Ruscha? No. It looks like
your hand is down. [INAUDIBLE] Oh. It's Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I guess my question regarding that would be, I
guess, I'm not sure how the protocol goes, would be giving the public advance notice that your comments
would be used in the record, ultimately, I guess that would be the only thing that I would question with that
process.
I'm sure many people would be OK with their comments being used in it, but again, making sure that
when people actually speak at these events, making sure that we're getting their permission to use their
comments. That would be my only comment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think they're anonymized, aren't they?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, are they?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No. Oftentimes they're not. Somebody is submitting their comments and their coming
in is no different from a public commentor or at this meeting that stated their name and their address. So
they are cognizant that they're providing comments and that there is the opportunity for those to be put
forward to this body, because you are engaging in an active discussion relative to input received. And
they're in the documents that we have now. There's names attributed to said comments.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I believe, off the top of my head, that at the beginning of all of our meetings, we state
that [INAUDIBLE] public comment and you commit to being recorded and you say who you are, and if you
don't want to speak, then you can submit them in writing. I believe we make that statement and always
have in a legal sense. So we can double check that, I'm sure. But it's not anything different than has ever
been done.
SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Great. Thank you other-- with that, we will take the vote. Are there any no
votes on this motion? Seeing none. We have 15 Yes votes. Zero No votes and zero abstention. The
motion passes.
The final action on recommended action for us tonight is Item J, Access-A-Ride call center contract. For
the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to enter into a
contract with First Transit Inc. For the provision of Access-A-Ride Call Center services for three years,
with two one year options for a total of five years, at a not to exceed cost of $22,908,556.35. Do we have
a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom is the movement and Director Williams is the second. Is there
discussion on this motion? [INAUDIBLE]
All right. Seeing none, I'll call for the vote. Are there any No votes? [INAUDIBLE] Director Ruscha, are
you-- are you, is this for discussion?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No, ma'am. It is a No vote.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It is a No vote. OK. Any other No votes? OK. We have with 14 Yes votes, one No
vote and zero abstentions, the motion passes. The No vote was Director Ruscha. All right.
Item 19. Discussion items. There are no discussion items for tonight's agenda. So we will move on to the
Report of Director Activities. Would anyone like to report on their activities this month? Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to say that I appreciated very much
the attendance of our new Transit Board Administrator, our Executive Manager of our Board, Mr. Jack
Kroll, at the APTA TBM TBA seminar in Birmingham, Alabama that I chaired last week. Everyone
appreciated the opportunity to meet our new Transit Board Administrator, as we call them at APTA.
I advised Mr. Kroll that he did have big shoes to fill at APTA, because Barbara McManus had become
very active with the committee. But he was very well received. And I think it was a great opportunity. And
then one other thing I wanted to report, because it may, at some point get out, because it's public
knowledge, that I am flying on Monday to New Zealand to spend three weeks in New Zealand and
Australia on an APTA transit study mission for the American Public Transportation Association.

And I want to assure everyone, RTD is not spending one dime for me to go to Australia and New Zealand
for three weeks.
SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE]
DOUG TISDALE: Just for the sake of the record, in case the question should ever arise. Thank you,
Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: The rest of us all donated to that trip.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Tisdale, Director Whitmore.
TROY WILLIAMS: Yes. Just wanted to briefly mention that Director Rosenthal and Guzman and myself
participated in the Accelerate Colorado Congressional Fly-in back in late June. It was a wonderful
experience. Second time that I've been able to go.
Obviously, we appreciate meeting with our congressional delegation. Met with almost all of them. And it's
very productive. But perhaps more importantly as a networking opportunity with business people and
local government leaders from across the Front Range. There were a number of commissioners from
Adams, Arapahoe, Clear Creek. Couple others, I think. A number of elected officials from local
municipalities, and then a tremendous amount of business entities there. So time well spent. We
appreciate the ability to participate in that event and would encourage others. I'm sure Directors
Rosenthal and Guzman would echo my comments. So thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Whitmore.
All right. Are there any other matters anyone wants to bring to the Board? I see Director Ruscha first and
then Director Catlin.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I thought I would just do a quick Director report if I may. I
visited with the National Federation of the Blind Aurora Chapter this weekend. And it was a wonderful
time. I spent several hours with that group. Always delightful.
And I wanted to share a quick story. I was speaking with some of our blind transit riders and I was
advised, as you heard earlier, that the sound quality and some of the tech that we use on our transit
system could be improved. And as many of you know, I have significant hearing loss. And it was
described to me as tinny. And I started laughing a bit. Because all these years, I thought it was just me,
that I couldn't understand what the synthesized voice was saying. Because I cannot hear very well.
And it turns out that might be the experience for everyone. Now for me, I rely on my sight to navigate our
system, as do many of you, and probably most of us in the boardroom. But for others who are relying on
their hearing, it becomes all the more important. And so it did take a blind man to bring attention to a
near-deaf Director's knowledge that it actually wasn't her. Truly, people can't hear. And it made me
chuckle a bit. And I just wanted to share it out because I think the moral of the story is sometimes we
don't know until we know.
But I will also give our GM CEO, and I hope she doesn't mind I give her a call out, some credit because I
did advise her of this conversation. And she said she would look into it to see what could be done. But at
any rate, I wanted to share. And I hope-- I can't see everyone in the boardroom, but I hope the irony at
least gives everyone a smile. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And we appreciated the comments earlier from Mr.
Chong, and Ms. Johnson looking into it. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are we on other matters?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. We are on other matters, yes. Sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wanted to thank Director Williams for asking Director Guzman to restate what his
comments about the fare inequity analysis in English, because I unfortunately do not speak Spanish. But
your message was important, and that you were appealing to your community to go out and use it now,
now that this is affordable and simpler, and it's an equity program. And as Kate said, it was accessible,
that you were imploring your community to participate. And I would ask all of us to ask our community to
participate as well, as passionately as Director Guzman did to his community in Spanish. So I just wanted
to say that. Thank you.
SPEAKER: Here, here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Any other matters? Seeing none, we are finished. We do not have meetings- standing committee meetings, or a Board meeting in August. We will be back here for the next Board
meeting on September 26 at 5:30. Do we have a motion to adjourn?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved. Bouquet.
SPEAKER: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The meeting is adjourned at 7:25 PM. Thanks for joining us. Good night.
SPEAKER: Well done. Good job.

Proclamation No. 23-0772
A Proclamation Supporting the Regional Transportation District's (RTD) Zero Fare for Youth Pilot
Program
WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation District (RTD) has been a vital part of Denver and the Front Range's
transportation system since its establishment in 1969; and
WHEREAS, RTD has strived to enhance mobility and accessibility for residents and visitors alike, playing a
pivotal role in the region's economic development, environmental sustainability, and social equity; and
WHEREAS, RTD has proposed an innovative Zero Fare for Youth Pilot Program, which aims to eliminate transit
fares for young people under the age of 19, ensuring equitable access to public transportation and fostering a
stronger, more inclusive community; and
WHEREAS, RTD's Zero Fare for Youth invests in long-term ridership and cleaner air for the City and County of
Denver; and
WHEREAS, the Zero Fare for Youth Pilot Program aligns with the City and County of Denvers vision for a more
sustainable, interconnected, and prosperous region; and
WHEREAS, the City and County of Denver's Safe Routes to School Action Plan encourages students and
employees to use incentive programs to increase alternate modes of transportation to move around Denver; and
WHEREAS, the Zero Fare for Youth Pilot Program works to encourage students to use of public transportation,
reducing private vehicle usage, alleviating traffic congestion, and improving air quality for the benefit of all
residents;
WHEREAS, the Zero Fare for Youth Pilot Program works to empower students to explore educational,
recreational, and employment opportunities; and
WHEREAS, the Zero Fare for Youth Pilot Program will provide financial relief to families by eliminating
transportation costs for young individuals, freeing up resources that can be allocated to other essential needs,
such as housing, healthcare, and education;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT PROCLAIMED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER:
Section 1. That the Council of the City and County of Denver supports the Regional Transportation District's
(RTD) Zero Fare for Youth Pilot Program and acknowledge its potential to benefit Denverites and the Front
Range.
Section 2. That the Clerk of the City and County of Denver shall attest and affix the seal of the City and County
of Denver to this proclamation and that a copy be made available to RTD.

PASSED BY THE COUNCIL June 20, 2023
COUNCIL PRESIDENT

School District No.1 in the
City and County of Denver and State of Colorado
Board of Education

PROCLAMATION IN SUPPORT OF THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICTS (RTD)
PROPOSAL FOR ZERO FARE FOR YOUTH PILOT PROGRAM

WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation District (RTD) has recommended new fare structure,
policies, and programs intended to create a fare system that is more equitable, affordable and
simple; and
WHEREAS, RTDs fare study and equity analysis conducted an assessment of the impacts the
changes would have on minority and low-income customers; and
WHEREAS, under the proposed fair structure by RTD, youth ages 19 and younger would travel
at no cost with the Zero Fare for Youth pilot program; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Education for Denver Public Schools includes Equity and Climate
Action as two of the six Ends Policies which serve as the priorities of the district; and
WHEREAS, RTDs Zero Fare for Youth will provide access to more academic options for
students that do not have private transportation or cannot afford a bus pass; and
WHEREAS, RTDs Zero Fare for Youth invests in long-term ridership for RTD and cleaner air for
the City of Denver; and
WHEREAS, the Denver Public Schools five-year climate action goals include incentive
programs for students and employees to increase alternative modes of transportation to DPS
locations; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT PROCLAIMED, the Board of Education for Denver Public Schools
supports the Regional Transportation Districts (RTD) Zero Fare for Youth pilot program.

BOARD OF EDUCATION
Xchitl Gaytn, President
Auon'tai Anderson, Vice President
Michelle Quattlebaum, Secretary
Scott Esserman, Treasurer
Scott Baldermann
Dr. Carrie Olson
Charmaine Lindsay

July 17, 2023
Lynn Guissinger, Chair
RTD Board of Directors
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Re: DRCOG Support for RTD Fare Proposals
Dear Chair Guissinger,
I am writing to express the DRCOG Board of Directors support for the proposed changes
to RTDs fare rates and structure. The Board believes that these changes will simplify the
fare structure and reduce costs for riders  leading to increased ridership across the
system.
The Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis that led to these proposals was
conducted in response to feedback from the public and recommendations made by the
RTD Accountability Committee that was hosted and staffed by DRCOG in 2020 and 2021.
One recommendation from that work was to simplify fares and pass programs, including
making them more affordable to improve the customer experience and increase ridership.
The DRCOG Board of Directors received a briefing from the RTD staff about the study
results and proposals and expressed its desire to convey support for the proposed
changes. The Board believes that the proposals will support transit-reliant and financially
burdened customers, make the system more affordable for all users, and make fares
easier to understand. We believe these changes will lead to increased ridership and
higher satisfaction with the regions transit system.
We encourage the RTD Board of Directors to approve the recommended fare structure.
Sincerely,

Steve Conklin
Chair
DRCOG Board of Directors
c: RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD CEO and General Manager

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

July 24th, 2023
Debra Johnson, General Manager / CEO
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
ATTN: R Line Grade Crossing Issues, May - June 2023
Dear Chair Guissinger,
GDT writes with concern regarding recent media reports regarding malfunctioning grade crossings on the R
Line, namely a FOX31 (KDVR) article titled Traffic light issues near RTD crossings worry commuters
published on June 12th, 2023.
Following the report, GDT took a trip down the northern portion of the R Line from Peoria to Florida stations on
June 15th, 2023 to assess the situation. While the crossings on Peoria Street at 30th, 31st and 33nd Avenues
were observed to be functioning normally, it was noted that the crossings at 17th Place and 17th Avenue,
adjacent to the Anschutz-Fitzsimons campus, were not.
At these two crossings, trains were being authorized by control (when the operator radioed in) to pass the
Automatic Block Signaling (ABS) signal immediately prior at red with stop & proceed procedures in effect on
the crossings themselves. The crossings had a single attendant who was confirming to train operators that just
the flashing warning lights were activated (presumably by using an override switch in the local comms house)
and allowing trains to proceed under caution when the attendants' yellow flag was raised as per light rail
operating rules. Gate arms remained in the vertical position throughout. Because the gate arms were not
functioning and a lack of (highway) flaggers for drivers, several vehicles were observed crossing in front of the
train with 1-2 seconds to spare. On the southbound trip this even prompted the operator to make an additional,
full blast warning horn signal.
GDT therefore concluded that the risk of a train / road vehicle collision on these crossings was elevated during
the period they were malfunctioning. GDT notes that under Federal Transit Administration (FTA) rules, namely
49 CFR Section IV, there is no specific flagging requirement in the event of a grade crossing malfunction. This
is in contrast to grade crossings on the commuter rail system, where highway flaggers would have been
required under 49 CFR  234.105 Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) rules. GDT also notes that the
operational characteristics and risks found at 17th Place and 17th Avenue are very similar to multiple crossings
found on the commuter rail system and is wondering how this is aligned with the adoption of the Public Transit
Agency Safety Plan (PTASP), which largely focuses on an operational risk assessment approach.
In the FOX31 news article, RTD is quoted as saying flaggers were placed at the crossings, which is generally
accepted to mean the type of flaggers who signal to motorists. This was not the case here as the flaggers
actually deployed were there for the benefit of train operators, not road users. Therefore the quote was
misleading in that respect.
On June 15th, 2023 RTD announced it was shutting the R Line down north of 13th Avenue Station to perform
network repairs from June 16th. The affected section reopened on June 21th and a GDT visit on June 25th
didnt find any safety issues.
www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Because of the issues witnessed at these crossings before the line was shut down for repairs on June 16th,
GDT has the following questions for RTD:
1. On what specific date did RTD first receive reports that the grade crossings on Peoria Street or those
on 17th Place and 17th Avenue were malfunctioning?
2. What factors were considered in the decision making process which resulted in the crossings being
operated with the gate arms up but with no highway flaggers?
3. Were the Colorado PUC advised of the situation? If so, did they formally approve a temporary
operational plan or did they simply raise no objections to the temporary method of operation?
GDT would appreciate a swift response to these questions as the details outlined above are somewhat
troubling.
Kind regards,

Richard Bamber
Cofounder, Greater Denver Transit

James Flattum
Cofounder, Greater Denver Transit
CC:

RTD Board of Directors

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Jaime Lewis
Sunday, July 23, 2023 3:32 PM
Board Office
Operations Committee (RTD)

WARNING: This email originated from outside of the RTD organization. The sender could not be validated and may not match the person
in the "From" field. Use caution with any information or links contained in this email.

I was disappointed to hear that the renewal of AAR contracts had language indicating lower funding because of the
anticipated use of ondemand services.
The following is an email with Paul Hamilton saying he would keep me posted on our concerns and that they (RTD) don't have
enough data yet to make changes.
And, notes from your Operation Committee with Michael Ford saying Yes, we are funding less because of ondemand
popularity.
I have talked extensively for the last few years that any work load shift away from the Core AAR should be used to improve
the service. I am quite disappointed
that these conversations did not come up at your meeting.
What position are you going to take to ensure that the base system improves as you are aware there are some
riders,including those who need WAV services, who
will never be able to use the new ondemand services for various reasons?
Jaime Lewis
CCDC Transit Advisor
Apr 20, 2023 Paul Hamilton
My apologies for not responding sooner. As indicated in the attached letter, paratransit staff are working to develop
detailed reports which may highlight datasets youre seeking. Additionally, Im working to determine when we may
share reports we do have with APAC, CCDC and other groups as that data is finalized. Given that the full Accesson-Demand service is just three months old, bringing together robust dashboards and summary reports is still
underway.
"We put out a bid for LESS Access a Ride because we EXPECTED demand to shift to Uber/Lyft/MT --"
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, that panel comprises two Paratransit staff, one Paratransit-eligible staff and maintenance,
one in FlexRide, one from the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise as well, and a procurement person. PAUL
ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Ford. And then my next question is in terms of the amount, is it more than the last
contract, less, about the same? Are we-- yeah, so let's start there. KATE WILLIAMS: I think whoever wants to take
that. Mr. Ford, Ms. Steele, Mr. Hamilton? MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, Michael Ford, the Chief Operating-- I
would probably defer to Mr. Hamilton on that question. PAUL HAMILTON: And I don't know if she would have this
information available. This is Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager of Paratransit Services. But the ICE that we would
have provided or the Independent Cost Estimate would have established what we saw as a trend for increase, and
we absolutely saw an increase in costs in large part, even during the six-month extension that we're now under,
due to labor cost increases. But I could not recite for you exactly what that cost is. Dana might have that
information available, and we could certainly, if not, get that information for you. PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. KATE
1

WILLIAMS: OK. PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then one final one is, are we actually getting any increase in service with
the increase in how much we're paying, or is it just about the same amount of service that we're going to get, and
it's just it's going to cost more? MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, Michael Ford, Chief Operations-- KATE
WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. Ford. Go ahead. MICHAEL FORD: Yes, I would also like to have Paul Hamilton weigh in on
that question, please. PAUL HAMILTON: Certainly. In that case, there actually is a slight decrease from our current
or past contract and Access-a-Ride services. It's about the same for FlexRide as it was before, but the AccessaRide services have seen a decrease in the provision of service due to the increase in demand for AccessonDemand. It's one of the reasons that COO Michael Ford mentioned, the fact that we now see close to 30% of all trip
demand for our Paratransit customers coming from the utilization of our four vendors that were approved in
November of last year for Access-on-Demand. KATE WILLIAMS: Super. I think that's good news. OK. I think also
Director Ruscha has been very patient. Go ahead. JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you for
being patient while I found the Mute button. Unmute. So I just wanted to clarify about the panel that was convened.
I think this is for-- for whomever can answer, that the panel was convened of staff, but there was nobody from our
Paratransit Advisory Committee part of that process. And is that something-- is that how we traditionally execute
these contracts? So I guess that's a two-part question, clarification and follow-up. KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, Madam Chair, we are utilizing our subject matter experts as part of this process, so they
would normally be involved in these type of
The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity to which it is addressed and may contain confidential
and/or privileged material. Any review, re-transmission, dissemination or other use of, or taking of any action in reliance upon,
this information by persons or entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you received this in error, please
contact the sender and delete the material from any computer.
The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity to which it is addressed and may contain confidential
and/or privileged material. Any review, re-transmission, dissemination or other use of, or taking of any action in reliance upon,
this information by persons or entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you received this in error, please
contact the sender and delete the material from any computer.

2

