Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Chair – Christopher Martinez, District B
First Vice Chair – Bill Christopher, District J
Second Vice Chair – O’Neill P. Quinlan, District G
Secretary – Barbara Brohl, Director, District D
Treasurer – Lee Kemp, District I
Noel Busck, District K
Juanita Chacon, District C
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill Elfenbein, District A
Daryl Kinton, District H

Bill McMullen, District E
Wally Pulliam, District L
Dave Ruchman, District M
John Tayer, District O
Barbara Yamrick, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, March 27, 2007 at 5:30PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Bert Bogart, Mechanic – 23 Years of Service
Walter Bryant, Division Supervisor – 35 years of Service
Champions of Transit Award Recognitions
 Jon Esty
 Bert Melcher
 Tex Elam
 City of Englewood, Mayor Olga Wolosyn
 Transit Alliance, Kathleen Osher

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting you
wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIRMAN REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.
THANK YOU.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

V.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
1)

Receipt of Legal Advice – RTD Advertising Policy C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(b)

VI.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Ruchman
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Pulliam
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Chacon
Contracted Operational Services Committee - Chaired by Director Yamrick
Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee – Chaired by Director McMullen
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director Kemp
Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Chacon
Technology Committee - Chaired by Director Quinlan
CDOT – Director Quinlan
E-470 – Director Quinlan
DRCOG – Director Chacon
ACED – Director Busck
Chairman’s Report

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 20, 2007

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
Update on DUS

IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
A.

Acquisition of Property – Denver Federal Center
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute an
Agreement for Purchase and Sale between the City of Lakewood, Colorado, as Seller,
and the Regional Transportation District, as Purchaser to acquire approximately 15.48
acres of vacant land located in the southwestern portion of the Denver Federal Center
in Jefferson County, Colorado for $5,361,229.00 plus reasonable costs of a title policy
and closing not to exceed ($20,000.00). It is further recommended that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents that may be necessary to acquire construction and operation easements for
a light rail line from the General Services Administration in exchange for in kind
contribution by RTD for development of the light rail line including items such as
security fencing, retaining walls, and landscaping; to negotiate and execute documents
to cooperatively design, develop and construct improvements at this location and
adjacent parcels to be acquired by Catholic Health Initiatives (St. Anthony Hospitals) or
its designee, and to negotiate and execute planning and zoning documents with the City
and others which may include but are not limited to annexation agreements and an
Official Development Plans for the Federal Center property other permanent and
temporary construction easements, grading and drainage easements, utility easements,
and vehicular and pedestrian and licenses.

B.

Approval of FasTracks Noise Barrier Change Policy
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approves the FasTracks Noise Barrier Change Policy to provide a procedure
for affected parties to request changes to a proposed noise barrier design on a
FasTracks project.

C.

Park Meadows/Northfield Shuttles – Cost Sharing Agreements
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into Cost Sharing
Agreements with the Rouse-Park Meadows, LLC and Stapleton North Town, LLC to
provide RTD financial support for the operation of the Park Meadows shuttle and
Stapleton/Northfield shuttle as detailed below and to transfer funds form the General
Managers Unallocated Capital Budget line item to fund these services. These
Agreements are for calendar year 2007 and are for a combined amount not to exceed
$161,000.

D.

Implementation of Express Day Pass
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the implementation of an Express Day Pass in the amount
of $7.75 per day as part of RTD’s fare media program.

E.

Award Contract to provide and install Mobile Digital Video Recording System in Mall
Shuttles Buses.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to Transit
Marketing Group, a Boulder, Colorado company representing GE Security Inc, the low
cost, most responsive, responsible and qualified proposer for the purchase of a mobile
digital video recording system (security camera) to be installed in the Mall shuttle
buses. The system is comprised of seven cameras that record events into a hard drive.
The system is capable of transmitting video data on demand wirelessly to a computer
server at Platte operating division and at Civic Center Station. The total cost for the
project is $390,868.78. The funding for this contract is provided by a grant from the
US Department of Homeland Security.

F.

Resolution No.___, Series of 2007 related to the refinancing of RTD Certificates of
Participation, Series 2001B
It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number
___ (the “Resolution”), related to the refinancing of RTD Certificates of Participation,
Series 2001B and authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,375,787 to the 2007A
debt service line items within the District’s 2007 Budget ($1,333,154 of this transfer
coming from the 2001B COP debt service line items (as those COPs will be defeased
through this transaction) and an additional $42,633 from the ADA cutaway vehicles
project line item.) Funding for the ADA cutaway vehicles project will be restored in the
District’s 2007 Amended Budget.

X.

G.

Resolution No.___, Series of 2007 related to the refinancing of RTD Certificates of
Participation, Series 2002A
It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number
___ (the “Resolution”), related to the refinancing of RTD Certificates of Participation,
Series 2002A and authorize the General Manager to transfer $379,870 from the ADA
cutaway vehicle project to the interest expense line item associated with these COPs in
the District’s 2007 budget. Funding for the ADA vehicles project will be restored in the
District’s 2007 Amended Budget.

H.

Option Year Three for Maintenance of Flatirons park-n-Ride: Carnation Building Services
(CBS)
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise the Third Option Year of
Performance with Carnation Building Service, Inc. (CBS) for the provision of
maintenance and grounds upkeep at the Flatirons park-n-Ride under Purchase Order No:
47207DR.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
I.

Modification to Approved Changes to the Local and Travel Policies for the RTD Board
approved November 14, 2006
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors approve
this modification to the Changes to the Local and Travel Policies previously
approved on November 14, 2006 to change the language in paragraph 2 so it will
more closely reflect the intent of the new travel policy.

J.

Recommendation for Change in RTD Advertising Policy (from Executive Session)
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors modify its advertising policy by the addition of the
following:
The RTD will not display advertising copy promoting the sale and/or use of
unrated video games or video games rated M or AO.
The purpose of such a policy is to limit the promotion of adult-content video games
to minors.

K.

Resolution regarding RTD participation in the Federal Transit Administration’s Public
Private Partnership Pilot Program.

L.

Partial Refunding of 2006A FasTracks Sales Tax Bonds (board report will be sent by
noon on Monday)

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XII.

NEW BUSINESS

XIII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
1)
2)

XIV.

Contract Negotiations – Railroads C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e)
Contract Negotiations— Denver Union Station C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e)

ADJOURN

