Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

March 27, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
March 27, 2007 at 5:30 p.m.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m. Chair Martinez indicated the order of
the meeting would change slightly due to the fact that some people who needed to be there for
the Champions of Transit presentation and the public participation would be late.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
15 members present.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Bert Bogart, Mechanic – 23 Years of Service
Walter Bryant, Division Supervisor – 35 years of Service
Bert Bogart graciously accepted his award and thanked RTD for 23 years of good employment
and the opportunity to do as good a job as he could.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Councilman Rick Garcia indicated the issue of Value Engineering for the West Corridor was a
very important one to him and the City of Denver. He commended RTD for removing this
issue from the agenda but indicated we need to keep on a collaborative approach to find the
right solution. The focus must be on keeping FasTracks intact as an overall agenda item.
Voters can be understanding and supportive of issues.
L.W. Morrow, Denver Colorado, is celebrating his 40th high school reunion from Manual High
School. He expressed continued interest in fuel cell technology and the rollout of what he
termed the “XYZ” plan.
Peggi O’Keefe with Entertainment Software Association (ESA) provided an opinion from ESA
that the action item change to not display advertising copy promoting the sale and/or use of
unrated video games or video games rated M or AO was both unconstitutional and
unnecessary. Please refer to the handout that is included as part of the Board Minute book.
Edward Kahn, Local 455 Union, petitioned on behalf of the 500 Access-a-ride drivers for the
upcoming Access-a-ride bid process to include a minimum labor rate of $11.00 per hour and
considerations for a minimum level of benefits.

David Roth expressed a continuing concern on RTD’s role in the University Station Zoning and
Development activities. He reviewed his understanding of the types of activities currently
permissible under the zoning and raised issues on RTDs intent, including requesting a
withdrawal of support for the re-zoning of this area.
Director McMullen acknowledged the concerns for zoning but encouraged everyone to look at
this issue from the perspective of what is the best use of the property to enhance the standard
of living for the residents.
Champions of Transit Award Recognitions
Chair Martinez expressed the desire of the Board to not only recognize these Champions of
Transit Award recipients in a private setting but to also publicly acknowledge our
appreciation to them in this Board meeting. He also thanked the committee and Board
members who advocated for this award and also former Director David Rose for his efforts.
 Jon Esty
 Bert Melcher
 Tex Elam
 City of Englewood, Mayor Olga Wolosyn
 Transit Alliance, Kathleen Osher
The recipients were provided an opportunity to share their comments.
V.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
A vote was taken for the Board to move into Executive Session to discuss receipt of legal
advice-RTD Advertising Policy C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(b)
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to move into Executive
Session
Director Kemp seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15 votes in favor (Brohl,
Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer, and
Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

The Board re-convened at 6:55 p.m. from the Executive Session. A roll call was taken
with 14 Board members present and 1 absent (Director Tayer was late re-convening)
VI.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Planning & Development Committee
Director Ruchman reported on the Planning and Development Committee meeting held 3/5/07.
If further information is needed on the Planning and Development Committee, please refer to
the Committee minutes.
Legislative Committee
Director Pulliam reported there was not a Legislative Committee meeting. However, they had
just received a positive report on SB 88-Parking Management.

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Director Chacon reported on the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held jointly with the
Study Session on 3/6/07. She expressed that the format used for reporting on each corridor
was good and provided a baseline for subsequent meetings. If further information is needed on
the FasTracks Monitoring Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
Contracted Operational Services Committee
Director Yamrick reported on the Contracted Operational Services Committee meeting held
3/14/07. If further information is needed on the Contracted Operational Services Committee,
please refer to the Committee minutes.
Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
Director Kinton reported on the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
meeting held 3/14/07. If further information is needed on the Operations/Customer
Services/Marketing Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
Financial Administration Committee
Director Kemp reported on the Financial Administration meeting held 3/19/07. Director Kemp
complemented the staff on the refurbishing of the mall buses and in retrofitting these buses for
the next stage of their useful life. If further information is needed on the Financial
Administration Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
Ad Hoc Reports:
Audit Committee
Director Tayer reported on the Audit Committee meeting held 3/5/07. If more information is
needed on the Audit Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes of that meeting.
DBE Committee
Director Chacon reported on the DBE meeting held 3/2/07. She extended an invitation to
all Board members to participate in these meetings as there is some important information
shared on our contractors, small businesses and the successful outreach efforts of this
committee. She also requested help from the other Board members on updating of the
outreach list with the intent of helping our workforce look like our district. If more
information is needed on the DBE Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes of this
meeting.
Director Elfenbein complemented the DBE Committee on the outstanding job they are
doing.
Technology Committee
Director Quinlan reported on the Technology Committee meeting held 2/28/07. The
Committee is looking at two issues of outfitting a home office and looking at web based
technology that enhances our meeting capabilities. Board members can participate in the
Technology meeting scheduled for 3/29/07 to review this webinar technology.
CDOT Committee
Director Quinlan summed up this meeting as no money for transportation projects.
E-470 Committee
Director Quinlan reported that the E-470 has just re-financed bonds which put the corridor
in a healthier finance position

DRCOG Committee
Director Chacon reported this was a good committee in that it provided the big picture of
all the pending projects. Good leadership, good meeting. She indicated this would be a
good meeting for all of the Board to experience.
ACED Committee
Director Busck reported this was a good meeting. If more information is needed, please
contact him directly.
Northwest Parkway
Director Pulliam reported that Bids and proposals are due Friday.
Chair Martinez requested that the next Committee reports include the Salary Pension Plan
and the Northwest Parkway.
Chair Report
Chair Martinez reported on a number of events attended by the Directors including the DBE
MOU event, the Hispanic Contractors Award Dinner, APTA Legislative Conference, the LoDo
Limelight event and the COMTO Scholarship banquet.
VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF February 20, 2007
MOTION:
Director Christopher moved for the adoption of the February
20, 2007 regular board meeting minutes.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.
Director Yamrick noted that Roger Sherman should not be
included as staff but as “others present” on the attendance
roster.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

A voice vote was taken with 15 votes in favor (Brohl, Busck,
Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and
0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. Presentation to Former RTD Board Members on March 19, 2007
Cal Marsella had a good meeting with the former Board Members and provided an update
on where RTD is and where it is headed. These Board members were highly impressed and
may come to the current Board to share their reflections as well.
2. Presentation to Denver City Council on FasTracks
Cal Marsella made a presentation at the Denver City Council headed by Judy Montero on
FasTracks and where we are. It was a good opportunity for give and take.
3. Meeting with Mayor Hickenlooper and Phone Call with Mayor Tauer on FasTracks
The meeting with Mayor Hickenlooper and the phone call with Mayor Tauer emanated from
the article on FasTracks. Cal committed to keep open communications with them and
other Mayors as well.

4. Continuing Work on FasTracks Financing and Implementation Plan
Cal Marsella indicated they are making good progress on the FasTracks data that will be

shared in the May meeting and will include updated data on growth and sales tax
projections.
5. Appointment to Governor’s Technical Advisory Committee
Director Elfenbein has been appointed to the Governor’s Blue Ribbon Panel and Cal Marsella
has been appointed to the Technical Advisory Committee.
6. Other Matters
Director Yamrick requested an update on the Front Range Rail Committee. Cal Marsella
indicated he would request minutes from these meetings.
DUS Presentation
Cal Marsella shared that he had been working with the DUS Partners who were looking
into a revised plan for DUS. He then turned the discussion over to the partners to present
that plan. This is still work in progress.
Peter Park, USNC, provided a diagram of the updated revisions under consideration for
DUS that includes taking the underground regional bus station and turning it 90 degrees
so that it runs from the commuter rail station at one end under the 17th Street alignment
all the way to the light rail location. This provides numerous benefits, the most significant
being the opportunity to co-locate the platforms between the two shuttle loops, the
circulator loop and the 16th Street loop, all the way up to the light rail loop and to
physically move under this covered roof into a vertical transportation location (i.e. stairs,
elevators, escalators) which will take you down into the regional bus facilities or
concourse space which runs under the 17th Street alignment in conditional area with
pedestrian walkways and moving sidewalks that takes you all the way through the 16
bus bays all the way to the primary plaza space immediately in front of Union Station,
where you will be able to come back up and go immediately through the existing train
station or down to whatever platforms you will need to access if you need to make
connections between the different modes of transportation or the commuter rail. This
effectively takes the connections between the commuter and light rails using the bus as a
link and also creates this concourse space that addresses the issues related to inclement
weather and these types of things. The Plaza space on the 17 th Street alignment still
exists as a public space but the moving space exists within the context of the concourse.
Numerous questions, comments and issues were raised from this presentation from the
Board Members including concerns over the distance from the light rail to the Union
Station.
A request was made for this presentation to be reviewed at the Board Study Session and
include information to questions raised by concerned constituents in Director Tayer’s
district.
IV.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Unanimous Consent Agenda.
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Yamrick requested that Item A be removed from
Unanimous Consent. The Board voted on Unanimous
Consent on Items B-H

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor and (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,

Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam,
Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
B.

Approval of FasTracks Noise Barrier Change Policy
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approves the FasTracks Noise Barrier Change Policy to provide a procedure
for affected parties to request changes to a proposed noise barrier design on a
FasTracks project.

C.

Park Meadows/Northfield Shuttles – Cost Sharing Agreements
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into Cost Sharing
Agreements with the Rouse-Park Meadows, LLC and Stapleton North Town, LLC to
provide RTD financial support for the operation of the Park Meadows shuttle and
Stapleton/Northfield shuttle as detailed below and to transfer funds form the General
Managers Unallocated Capital Budget line item to fund these services. These
Agreements are for calendar year 2007 and are for a combined amount not to exceed
$161,000.

D.

Implementation of Express Day Pass
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the implementation of an Express Day Pass in the amount
of $7.75 per day as part of RTD’s fare media program.

E.

Award Contract to provide and install Mobile Digital Video Recording System in Mall
Shuttles Buses.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to Transit
Marketing Group, a Boulder, Colorado company representing GE Security Inc, the low
cost, most responsive, responsible and qualified proposer for the purchase of a mobile
digital video recording system (security camera) to be installed in the Mall shuttle
buses. The system is comprised of seven cameras that record events into a hard drive.
The system is capable of transmitting video data on demand wirelessly to a computer
server at Platte operating division and at Civic Center Station. The total cost for the
project is $390,868.78. The funding for this contract is provided by a grant from the
US Department of Homeland Security.

F.

Resolution No.___, Series of 2007 related to the refinancing of RTD Certificates of
Participation, Series 2001B
It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number
___ (the “Resolution”), related to the refinancing of RTD Certificates of Participation,
Series 2001B and authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,375,787 to the 2007A
debt service line items within the District’s 2007 Budget ($1,333,154 of this transfer
coming from the 2001B COP debt service line items (as those COPs will be defeased
through this transaction) and an additional $42,633 from the ADA cutaway vehicles
project line item.) Funding for the ADA cutaway vehicles project will be restored in the
District’s 2007 Amended Budget.

G.

Resolution No.___, Series of 2007 related to the refinancing of RTD Certificates of
Participation, Series 2002A
It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number

___ (the “Resolution”), related to the refinancing of RTD Certificates of Participation,
Series 2002A and authorize the General Manager to transfer $379,870 from the ADA
cutaway vehicle project to the interest expense line item associated with these COPs in
the District’s 2007 budget. Funding for the ADA vehicles project will be restored in the
District’s 2007 Amended Budget.
H.

X.

Option Year Three for Maintenance of Flatirons park-n-Ride: Carnation Building Services
(CBS)
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise the Third Option Year of
Performance with Carnation Building Service, Inc. (CBS) for the provision of
maintenance and grounds upkeep at the Flatirons park-n-Ride under Purchase Order No:
47207DR.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
A.
Acquisition of Property – Denver Federal Center
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute an
Agreement for Purchase and Sale between the City of Lakewood, Colorado, as Seller,
and the Regional Transportation District, as Purchaser to acquire approximately 15.48
acres of vacant land located in the southwestern portion of the Denver Federal Center
in Jefferson County, Colorado for $5,361,229.00 plus reasonable costs of a title policy
and closing not to exceed ($20,000.00). It is further recommended that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents that may be necessary to acquire construction and operation easements for
a light rail line from the General Services Administration in exchange for in kind
contribution by RTD for development of the light rail line including items such as
security fencing, retaining walls, and landscaping; to negotiate and execute documents
to cooperatively design, develop and construct improvements at this location and
adjacent parcels to be acquired by Catholic Health Initiatives (St. Anthony Hospitals) or
its designee, and to negotiate and execute planning and zoning documents with the City
and others which may include but are not limited to annexation agreements and an
Official Development Plans for the Federal Center property other permanent and
temporary construction easements, grading and drainage easements, utility easements,
and vehicular and pedestrian and licenses.
MOTION:

Director Ruchman made the recommendation to approve
the acquisition of property-Denver federal center
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

Director Yamrick inquired if this property could have been
initially purchased for $1.00 instead of the $5M that we
are purchasing it for now? She compared this to what
happened with the purchase of land at Fitzsimmons. Cal
Marsella responded he was not aware of any $1.00 offer
but the price requested was at fair market value.
Director Quinlan clarified the difference was in the
disposition of an army base as Fitzsimmons was.

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair

Martinez

declared

the

motion

PASSED

Unanimously.

I.

Modification to Approved Changes to the Local and Travel Policies for the RTD Board
approved November 14, 2006
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors approve
this modification to the Changes to the Local and Travel Policies previously
approved on November 14, 2006 to change the language in paragraph 2 so it will
more closely reflect the intent of the new travel policy.
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the recommendation to approve the
changes to the local and travel policies for the RTD Board
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman,
Tayer, and Yamrick) and 1 against (Kemp)
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED

J.

Recommendation for Change in RTD Advertising Policy (from Executive Session)
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors modify its advertising policy by the addition of the
following:
The RTD will not display advertising copy promoting the sale and/or use of
unrated video games or video games rated M or AO.
The purpose of such a policy is to limit the promotion of adult-content video games
to minors.
MOTION:

Director Quinlan made the recommendation to approve
the change in RTD Advertising Policy.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 5 votes in
favor and 12 against. However, this vote was called in
error and a re-vote was made with 3 votes in favor
(Yamrick, Busck, and Quinlan) and 12 votes against
(Daly, Elfenbein, Ruchman, Kemp, Martinez, Christopher,
Brohl, McMullen, Chacon, Tayer, Pulliam and Kinton).

Chair Martinez declared the motion FAILED. There will be
no change to the current RTD Advertising Policy.
K.

Resolution regarding RTD participation in the Federal Transit Administration’s Public
Private Partnership Pilot Program.
MOTION:
Director Pulliam made the recommendation to approve
the resolution regarding RTD participation in the Federal
Transit Administration Public Private Partnership Pilot
Program.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.
PRIMARY
AMENDMENT:

Director Yamrick made a motion to amend the motion by
changing the language in paragraph 6 to add at the end
“and with approval of the Denver Regional Transportation
District (RTD) Board of Directors; and”
Director Chacon seconded the motion.
A substitute motion offered by Director Ruchman died.

DISCUSSION:

SECONDARY
AMENDMENT:

Much discussion occurred including an explanation by Cal
Marsella of the intent of the resolution to allow RTD to be
part of the consideration for the pilot program with a
deadline for submittal of application by March 31st.

Director Tayer offered a secondary (friendly) amendment
to Director Yamrick’s primary amendment which starts at
the end after paragraph 7 but before paragraph 8 and
states “RTD Board will have final approval on a formal
action to participate in Penta-P.”
Directors Yamrick and Chacon accepted this amendment.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken on the primary
motion with 14 votes in favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon,
Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 1
against (Ruchman)

An electronic roll call vote on the resolution with the
secondary amendment accepted was taken with 14 votes
in favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam,
Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 1 against
(Ruchman)
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

L.

Partial Refunding of 2006A FasTracks Sales Tax Bonds (board report will be sent by
noon on Monday)
MOTION:

Director Busck made the recommendation to approve the
partial refunding of 2006A FasTracks Sales Tax Bonds.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Cal Marsella stated that in light of the earlier discussion on DUS and the decision to review
this at the next study session, the Executive Session would not be needed.

XII.

ADJOURN
The Board meeting was adjourned at 8:43 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, March 27, 2007

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Chris Martinez, Chair
Bill Christopher, First Vice Chair
Neill Quinlan, Second Vice Chair
Barbara Brohl, Secretary
Lee Kemp, Treasurer
Noel Busck
Juanita Chacon
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Bill McMullen
Wally Pulliam
Dave Ruchman
John Tayer
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Cal Marsella
Rick Clarke
John Dawson
David Genova
Caitlin Magee
Paula Perdue
Teresa Sedmak
Bill Sirois
Henry Stopplecamp
Pauletta Tonilas
Larry Warner

District B
District J
District G
District D
District I
District K
District C
District N
District A
District H
District E
District L
District M
District O
District F

Bruce Abel
Susan Cohen
Rod Dodsworth
Marla Lien
Richard Morton
Liz Rao
Daria Serna
Joe Smith
Stan Szabelak
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Weidenear

OTHERS PRESENT –
Holman Carter – ATU 1001
Victoria Oliver – Denver Police Department
John Hulse – Spectrum A/V
L.W. Morrow – EFC
Mike Reininger – Union Station Neighborhood Company
Bert Bogart – RTD Retiree
Delorie Bogart
David Bogart
Nancy Reubert
Tex Elam
Gary Sears – City of Englewood
Pedro Ramos – JP Morgan
Kathleen Osher – Transit Alliance
Bert Melcher
Rosie Melcher
Ed Kahn – USWE Local 455
Harry Vercoe

Susan Altes
Dennis Cole
Sherry Ellebracht
Lloyd Mack
Jerry Nery
Scott
Reed
John Shonsey
Errol Stevens
John Tarbert
Bill Van Meter

David Ross
Jay Hutchison – City of Lakewood
Maria Garcia Berry – CRL
Roger Sherman – CRL/RTD FasTracks
Jim Graebner - USAC
Rick Garcia – City and County of Denver
Howard Alton – ATU 1001
Bonnie Ploosten
Eric Schmidt – Daily Camera
Olga Wolosyn – City of Englewood
Mark Smith – East West Partners
Mark Falcone – Continuum Partners
Peggi O’Keefe – ESA
Rick McNeal
Frank Cannon – Union Station Neighborhood Co.
Dave Rose – Retired RTD Board Member
Eric Biga – Veolia
Bruce Behncke – Veolia
Eric Ellis – CDOT
Helga Grunerud – HCC
Jon Esty – Colorado Rail
Michael Rowe – Citizens for Commuter Rail
David Rothenburger
Seth Hoffman – Assistant City Manager, City of Lone Tree
Patrick Clark
Steve Roberts

