Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

November 18, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
November 18, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

III.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Eleven (11) Board members were present at roll call.
Quinlan were absent.

Directors Brohl, Busck, Pulliam, and

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retiree awards.
APTA Award
Liz Telford accepted the APTA EIS award for the Gold Line and Environmental and thanked the
RTD team including Directors Chacon, Ruchman and Pulliam for their support. She also
thanked CH2MHill.
Tony McCaulay displayed the three first place ADwheel marketing awards that RTD received
from APTA for the graphics on transit watch, Rocky Rides and day passes.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Ken Katt, Aurora, spoke about the lack of parking at Nine Mile and possible other parking
spaces that could be negotiated. A member of staff will follow up with Ken.
Ken also spoke about his request to get a copy of the FasTracks attendees sign in that was
declined. He stated it is doable to use a dual mode system for FasTracks. The staff will
follow up with him on these issues.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no committee reports.

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF October 21, 2008

MOTION:

Director Elfenbein moved for the adoption of the October 21,
2008 minutes.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 11 votes in favor and 0
against.
Directors Brohl, Busck, Pulliam and Quinlan were
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1.
Meeting with City of Broomfield Staff November 10, 2008—Cal Marsella had a
productive meeting with the City of Broomfield staff regarding US 36 and
FasTracks. Everyone pledged their support.
2.
Meeting with Longmont City Manager November 11, 2008-Cal Marsella met with
Gordon Pedrow to discuss how Longmont may be affected by the FasTracks equity
issues. They discussed options for bridging the 4 hour gap during the day when
commuter rail service may not be available and the $40M estimated cost for a
passing track. They will continue to look for commuter service options.
3.
Meeting with Stadium District—Cal Marsella had a very positive meeting with Mr.
Baker of the Stadium District regarding the space needed by RTD for FasTracks.
Mr. Baker posed some alternatives that would involve changes to the Colorado
Parking Lot and relocating the Rockies Ride storage. They need to work out the
details but this option is very favorable.
4.
10th Anniversary of U.S. 36 Commuting Solutions November 12, 2008—US 36
Commuting Solutions is a transit management organization that serves RTD well on
two fronts: It carries the message out to the community and it brings messages
back from the community to RTD. This is a mutually beneficial relationship.
5.
Briefing with New Board members November 12, 2008—Cal Marsella provided an
overview to the new Board members on pressing issues for the agency. All 5
Board members attended and had several questions.
6.
Meeting with CDOT on staff assignments for West Corridor and FasTracks—RTD is
working in partnership with CDOT to utilize some of their engineers, designers and
QA staff to assist on the West Corridor and FasTracks project. This is a creative
way to utilize public employees with experience on the project during their slow
period. Russ George has been involved in these discussions.
7.
Meeting with Lakewood Mayor, State representative Gwyn Green, City Manager,
and staff on sound wall issues—RTD negotiated a compromise with a constituent
for similar arrangements that had been made for a sound wall.
8.
Presentation to Bond Buyer’s Annual Transportation Finance meeting November 17,
2008—Peggy Kaplan, CDOT, presented. There was a lot of interest in what RTD is
doing.
9.
Meeting with members of San Antonio Transit Mobility Authority, November 17—
Cal Marsella continues to meet with other agencies that are interested in the RTD
model and want key learnings from our experience. In addition to San Antonio, Cal
also met with Tampa Bay to share information as well.
10.
Presentation to Transit Alliance November 18, 2008—Cal Marsella provided an
updated status on FasTracks. The Transit Alliance is supportive of RTD and
supports the need to deliver FasTracks in the timeframe as promised.
Board members had several questions or comments related to the General Manager’s
report:
 Director Ruchman questioned if the $40M for a passing track is high. Cal Marsella
explained it really depends since each site is unique. The signaling cost differences
have a lot to do with the cost. Director Ruchman queried what role the CDOT
personnel may play in FasTracks. Cal Marsella confirmed more of the supervisory
and quality assurance roles. Director Ruchman then inquired about the key
learnings from the CMRF tour that some of the Directors had taken. Director

Martinez responded it was very educational and would like to see further discussion
in a study session or committee meeting.
Director Ruchman asked about the status of the 16 Street mall pavers and the
outcome from his meeting. Cal indicated that RTD is under contract for serve of
these pavers until 2012 and that everyone in the meeting was committed to look
for creative ways to make this a smooth transition in 2012.
Cal Marsella addressed Director Chacon’s question on the grant for the mall and
when does it come to an end. Cal explained that some of this money has been
allocated to maintenance for fixed guideways that include the mall along with other
sites.
Director Elfenbein was happy to know Cal had met with Baker of the Stadium
District and requested that Cal have a discussion with them about the promised
bridge over CML that was never delivered. He thinks with the multitude of people
crossing the tracks, this is just an accident waiting to happen.
Director Yamrick wanted more details on the Bond Buyer’s Transportation meeting
and if RTD made any commitments relevant to PPP potential. Cal indicated there
was no commitment from RTD on PPP or the application of the E-470 toll road to
FasTracks.
Chair Kemp provided an update on the Metro Mayors Task Force. He shared that
the Task Force was only receptive to two Board members at a time but that he and
Director Busck would keep Director Christopher updated at all times. The Task
force was given the options and the financial models for FasTracks that was an eye
opener to them on the level of detail and analysis that had gone into the
FasTracks model. They were impressed with the in-depth work staff has performed
on this model.
Director Christopher shared there is a growing concern that the RTD Board has
already decided on the East, West and Gold lines as being fully funded. He
referenced a column in the newspaper that gives this perception. He expressed
that RTD needs to go the extra mile to clear up this misperception and to provide a
unified front. There is a big public relations problem out there especially with the
people in the North who feel they are getting the shaft.
Director Martinez recommended that a press release is crafted up and signed by all
the Board members saying we are unified in the decision. This needs to be done
within the next couple of weeks.
Director Elfenbein provided information on the Governor’s Blue Ribbon Panel which
recommended $500M per year to maintain the roadway in the state with an
additional $1.5B per year for all transportation including transit. This was passed on
to the Governor and to the Legislature. Hopefully the Governor and the Legislature
can put a program together to address.
Several questions were asked on the impact of the $483 M transportation cut
recently announced by Governor Ritter and this number that Director Elfenbein had
just shared. Director Elfenbein suggested it may be good to get Carla Perez to a
meeting to address the Blue Ribbon funding.
Director Ruchman suggested a resolution from the Board related to this $483M cut
and the desire of the Board to promote healthy transportation and transit system for
Colorado.

VIII.

PUBLIC HEARING FOR 2009 RECOMMENDED BUDGET
Chair Kemp read the public hearing notice on the recommended budget and asked if there
was anyone who wanted to make a public comment. No one responded so this item was
moved to the Board for vote.
2009 Recommended Budget
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of Directors adopt
Resolution No. ___, Series of 2008 for the adoption of the 2009 Budget, and Resolution No.
___, Series of 2008 for the 2009 Budget Appropriation. The 2009 Appropriation includes the
following amounts:
BASE SYSTEM (0.6%)

2009
Recommended

2009 Operating Expenditures
2009 Interest Expenditures
2009 New Capital
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
Base System (0.6%) 2009 Appropriation

$382,929,118
$30,747,705
$130,564,551
$0
$9,158,319
$553,399,693

Base System (0.6%) Previously Approved Capital

$116,334,043

2009 Operating Expenditures
2009 Interest Expenditures
2009 New Capital
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
FasTracks (0.4%) 2009 Appropriation

2009
Recommended
$17,855,796
$42,172,046
$702,094,598
$30,000,000
$0
$792,122,440

FasTracks (0.4%) Previously Approved Capital

$309,686,273

FASTRACKS (0.4%)

DISTRICT-WIDE
2009 Operating Expenditures
2009 Interest Expenditures
2009 New Capital
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
District-wide 2009 Appropriation
District-wide Previously Approved Capital

2009
Recommended
$400,784,914
$72,919,751
$832,659,149
$30,000,000
$9,158,319
$1,345,522,133
$426,020,316

It is further recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2008 for the appropriation of Previously
Approved Capital Funds in the amount of $426,020,316.

MOTION:

Director Ruchman moved for the adoption of the 2009
recommended budget and for the adoption of the resolution for
the appropriation of previously approved capital funds.

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 11 votes in favor and 0
against.
Directors Brohl, Busck, Pulliam and Quinlan were
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Martinez moved that the Board of Directors
adopt the Unanimous Consent Agenda items B through K.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 11 votes in
favor and 0 against. Directors Brohl, Busck, Pulliam and
Quinlan were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

B.

Fare Adjustments for Special Services
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that RTD’s fare
structure for Special Services (RockiesRide, BroncosRIde, BuffRide, CU/CSU Football
games at Invesco Field and Race for the Cure) and for all seniorRide services be
adjusted as indicated in Attachment A in order to be consistent with the January 2009
fare structure and to remain in compliance with the Federal Transit Administration
regulations regarding the provision of charter services. It is also recommended that all
future Special Services fares be linked to the RTD fare structure so that in all future
fare changes, all Special Services fares will be changed to reflect the comparable fixed
route fares for similar services.

C.

Approval to exercise three-year option on Contract Award to Strategic Community
Partners for the FasTracks Public Information/Involvement Consultant Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Planning and
Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to exercise a three-year option, that will be renegotiated annually, on
the contract award to Strategic Community Partners, the current FasTracks
Public Information/Involvement Consultant, in the amount of $1,0 98,980 for
Public Information/Involvement, Communications and Public Outreach consulting
work for FasTracks for the year 2009. Funds for the award are contained in the
2009 FasTracks Budget.

D.

Request for Approval of the Fifth Year (2009) Contract Award to Delcan for the
FasTracks Quality Management Consultant Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Planning and
Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to approve the fifth year contract award to Delcan in the amount of
$1,340,000 for Quality Management Consulting Services for FasTracks for the year
2009. Funds for the award are contained in the 2009 RTD FasTracks Budget.

E.

Approval of Contract Amendment to Front Range Systems Consultants for
FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant Services

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Planning and
Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to approve the Contract Amendment to Front Range Systems Engineering
Consultant (FRSC), in the amount of $5,551,186 bringing the total contract value to
$27,561,305. Funds for the award are contained in the 2009 and 2010 FasTracks
Budget.
F.

Approval of the Fifth Year (2009) Contract Award to Jacobs Carter Burgess
for FasTracks Program Support Services Consultant (PSC)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Planning and
Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to approve the fifth year contract award to Jacobs Carter Burgess, in
the amount of $17,965,423 for Program Support Services Consulting for
FasTracks for the year 2009. Funds for the award are contained in the 200 9
FasTracks Budget.

G.

Authorization to Accept SB1 Funding
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Planning and
Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to receive Senate Bill 1
grant funding in the amount of $473,300 from the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT), Division of Transportation Development and pay the required
local match in an amount up to $157,700, for the acquisition of one mall shuttle for
demonstration purposes on RTD’s 16th Street Mall Shuttle services.

H.

District-wide Enclaves Annexations and Revised RTD Boundary Map and Description
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Planning and
Development Committee that the Board of Directors authorize publication of a proposed
resolution of annexation and schedule a public hearing and consideration of the
resolution at the Board meeting of December 16, 2008. Publication of the proposed
resolution will initiate the process to annex several parcels of unincorporated land
surrounded by the District in accordance with the provisions of CRS 32-9-106.8.

I.

Proposed Modification to RTD Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the RTD Investment
Policy be modified to include the following language in Section 7 (Eligible Investments):
Should an owned security fall below minimum credit ratings required at time of
purchase, the Manager of Debt and Investments shall, as a prudent
professional, disclose and manage the risks associated with the security.

J.

Recommendation for Union Pacific Railroad Property Acquisition and Relocation
Agreement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manger and his designees to negotiate one or more agreements
with the Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) for the acquisition of property and relocation of
certain railroad improvements for the East, Gold, North Metro and West Corridor
(Burnham Lead) lines according to the general term and price parameters set forth in
this action. It is further recommended that the General Manager be authorized to spend
up to $185 million for the property and relocation projects specified below, distributed
as shown. Any redistribution of funding among the acquisitions and projects by more
than 5% for any item will require further Board action, provided such redistribution may
not increase the total cost.

K.

Proposed Modification to RTD Interest Rate Swap Policy, Annual Report to the Board –

Interest Rate Swaps
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the RTD Interest
Rate Swap Policy be modified to include the following Section IX:
IX.

Ethics and Conflicts of Interest:
Activities related to the procurement and management of interest rate exchange
agreements shall be performed in full accordance with the District’s Code of
Ethics and other policies of the District. Officers and employees of the District
involved in the process of procuring and managing interest rate swaps shall
refrain from personal business activity that could conflict with the proper
execution of these financial products, or which could impair their ability to make
impartial decisions related thereto. Employees and District officials shall
disclose to the General Manager any material financial interests in financial
institutions that conduct business with the District, and they shall further
disclose any large personal/financial/investment positions that could be related
to the performance of the District’s swap portfolio.

X.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
There was no Executive Session

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Director McMullen noted he saw the piece on Fox 31 about fare evasion and that they did a
good job.

XII.

NEW BUSINESS
There was no new business.

XIII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 6:35 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, November 18, 2008

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
William McMullen, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Dave Ruchman
Barbara Yamrick

District I
District B
District E
District O
District C
District J
District N
District A
District H
District M
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Kevin Diviness
Sherry Ellebracht
Caitlin Magee
Robert Merriman
Paula Perdue
Teresa Sedmak
John Shonsey
Liz Telford
Phil Washington
OTHERS PRESENT:
Chris Taylor (Spectrum A/V)
Steve Roberts (Systra)
Don Ulrich (CH2MHill)
Bill James
Tom Wambolt (CPRC)
Linda Wambolt (CPRC)
Peter Lorenzen
Tom Tobiassen
Gary Ulbert (First Transit)
Blake Pendergrass (FRESC)
Ken Katt
Ed Colby (URS)
Joe Racosky (URS)
Bruce Behnke (Veolia)
Rick McNeal
Kent Bagley
John Valerio
Matt Cohen

Rolf Asphaug
Ron Dodsworth
David Genova
Cal Marsella
Brian Middleton
John Perry
Dean Shaklee
Stan Szabelak
Pauletta Tonilas
Rick Clarke

Phil Eberl
Terry Howerter
Tony McCaulay
Jerry Nery
Scott Reed
Cal Shankster
John Tarbert
Lisa Trujillo

