2024-06-20
Executive Committee
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good afternoon. The Thursday, June 20 Executive Committee will come to order. We
are convened as of 12:02 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this
meeting to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Please note that committee meetings
of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely via Zoom, and will be audio and video recorded. The
meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable
on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing communication access, real-time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should please send an email to the RTD Board Office
at rtdboardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcripts can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish.
A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. I will now call for the role of
Executive Committee members. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
SPEAKER 1: Second Vice Chair Guissinger. Looks like she is currently absent. We'll note if she does join.
Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Bouquet. Treasurer Bouquet is absent. We'll note if he joins as well. And this
is Chair Davidson speaking. I am here. That is three committee members currently present, and two
currently absent. I'll ask the Board Office to please help me note any directors who may join. I see, for the
sake of the record, we are also joined at this time by Director Lewis. Thank you for joining us.
We'll now move on to the public comment period. I'd like to open up for public comment to anyone who
would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the
current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise
your virtual hand, or press *9 if you are joining by phone. During this time, the committee does not offer any
direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment,
please email the RTD Board Office using the email address rtdboardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
I would like to note, for the sake of the record, before checking in on hands being raised that Director Tisdale
has joined us as well. Thank you, Director, for joining us.
DOUG TISDALE: You're welcome.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I will also note, for the sake of the record, that we are joined by committee member
Second Vice Chair Guissinger. We now have four committee members present, and one absent. Mr. Kroll,
at this time, are there any hands raised for public comment?

JACK KROLL: Hi, Director Davidson. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this
time, I have no hands raised from participants who wish to provide public comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. And before asking whether there are written comments to acknowledge, I'll first call
on Secretary Guzman. I see your hand is up. You are now recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Chair. This is just a notification for office staff that the stream text is not
working properly. I don't know if it's the wrong link or something else is wrong. Thank you. It is showing up
in the Google document, just not on actual closed captioning.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. I see you nods from the Board Office. We'll work on that. Mr.
Kroll, are there any written comments that the committee has received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, you did not receive any written comments specific to this meeting, but
overall topics of note that were on previous agendas or will be on agendas soon. You all did receive a letter
from Greater Denver Transit, which I forwarded to you all this morning related to the Southeast corridor
light rail speed restrictions. And then you have also received a letter which I will be forwarding to you all
today from Joseph Perreault, who writes in about TABOR and has some opinions for the Board regarding
the potential referral of a ballot measure related to TABOR.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. With no other participants in the queue at this time, we
will close the public comment period. We'll now move to the June Board Meeting Agenda review. First, is
there a motion to approve the regular June Board Meeting Agenda for our regular monthly meeting on
Tuesday, June 25?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I can second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved as Catlin, the second as Guzman. Thank you. Is there any discussion on our
June Board Meeting Agenda as published in our packet? Yes, Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, thank you very much. I would request-- I was just looking for the agenda-- that
I think the first two items be removed from the unanimous consent. It's the performance scorecard-- is that
on unanimous consent? And then the other one is the TABOR vote, that those should come forward as
recommended actions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I would be supportive of that. Are there any other committee members that would like to
comment on that?
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I see I head nod from Secretary Guzman. Go ahead. OK, great. So you had
nods. OK, I think we're supportive of that. Mr. Kroll, can we proceed to a vote with that change being noted?
JACK KROLL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. With that being adjusted with moving two items from the unanimous consent
into recommended actions, those being the performance scorecard and the referral of a ballot initiative, I

don't see any further discussion, so I'll call for-- are there any no votes on this action? OK, seeing none.
Will pass with four yes, and one absent.
OK, before we move to our discussion items-- and we do have several today-- I'd like to just remind
everybody that we are going to have two special board meetings next week in addition to our regularly
scheduled board meeting. The first of those will be on Monday, June 24 at 4:30 PM Mountain Daylight
Time. And it will be to discuss the agency's progress to date and plan moving forward related to the speed
restrictions on the Southeast light rail corridor.
The second special board meeting will be held on Tuesday, June 25 at 3:00 PM Mountain Daylight Time,
prior to the regularly scheduled board meeting for that evening. That meeting will include one action item.
This is for the Board to commit to annexing portions of the town of Erie into RTD, should the voters of that
region vote affirmatively this November to join the district. However, the primary purpose of that special
board meeting next Tuesday will be to partake in an executive session to discuss the findings from the
Office of the State Auditor regarding the 2023 to 2024 performance audit.
This will be an important conversation, and I certainly encourage all board members to attend in-person for
that discussion. With that being noted, we'll now move into our discussion items. We do have five discussion
items on the agenda this afternoon, with the first item being the monthly Government Relations report for
June 2024, which will be presented by Mr. Michael Davies, our Government Relations Officer. Mr. Davies,
I'll now yield the floor to you. You are now recognized. Thank you.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair and members of the committee. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer. With regards to the Government Relations Report, I'm going to start at the federal level.
Really, the focus has been on trying to move some of the annual appropriations bills. So there are some
committee actions set up both at the subcommittee and full Appropriations Committee on the House side.
The Senate side is not scheduled anything as of yet.
It's looking at the full calendar through the rest of the fiscal year. It's a little difficult to see how Congress is
going to be able to get through both House and Senate, and negotiate a compromised package. So we'll
be watching that closely. But there's a chance that we'll end up with a continuing resolution to continue
funding the federal government. But we'll keep the board up to date when we start seeing some of those
bills coming out on the annual appropriations process, which will come out right around the committee
hearings.
And that's the first committee hearing being June 27, And then July 10 is the full House Appropriations
Committee scheduled. So we'll keep the board up to date on that. Lastly, at the federal level, it's informative
watching the authorizing committees hold hearings on matters of transit importance, as it kind of signals
what Congress is thinking about for the next reauthorization bill. So there was a hearing on June 12
regarding Amtrak and intercity passenger rail. Not too much relevant there.
Frankly, a lot of the focus was on the pay and incentives of Amtrak executives. So not a lot of talk on actual
grant programs and actual projects. The other hearing was on June 13, and that really was on the highway
and transit subcommittee, and a little more relevant toward transit policy. And the title was Revenue
Ridership and Post-Pandemic Lessons in Transit. A lot of the focus of that was really focused on the
welcoming transit environment for customers that have been really reported around the nation.
And so the safety of both operators, safety of in transit employees, as well as safety of customers while
utilizing transit. So we'll continue to follow the work of the authorizing committees and make sure the board

is up to date there. Moving over to the state side. Really, staff's effort, at this point, has been focused on
understanding the implementation process of some of the state legislation focused on funding, transit, and
passenger rail. Frankly, that passed last legislative session.
Specifically, with regard to Senate Bill 230, as you all know, the Clean Transit Enterprise Board really is
charged with implementing those oil and gas fee, the production fees that will go toward funding transit.
And so the Clean Transit Enterprise Board has their very first meeting since this legislation has passed on
June 27 from 2:30 to 4:00. And staff will report back on what's there. I don't know if there'll be specifically
talking about firm actions, but I anticipate there'll be some discussion that will be informative of how that
board will implement that legislation.
And it's also really important to just understand that those fees that go to fund transit don't start getting
collected until July 2025. And so really, I think the very first opportunity for the Clean Transit Board to have
funding transferred to them and contemplate how that then goes out really wouldn't be until January 2026.
Again, staff will be working closely and monitoring the actions of the Clean Transit Board, and working with
the staff of CDOT, who staff the Clean Transit Enterprise Board.
Lastly, just touching on local matters, RTD, myself, and staff continue to actively engage in working with
our local municipal partners and making sure that we're communicating clearly. On Tuesday, May 28,
General Manager Johnson, Director Whitmore, and myself attended a study session with the Brighton City
Council. And there's been some follow up action and conversations with Brighton city staff just to further
collaborate and make sure we're working in partnership and responding to comments we heard from council
during that session.
On June 5, I joined some staff from Front Range Passenger Rail at the Parker Chamber of Commerce just
to really talk about a summary of the legislative session. And some members of the City Council were also
there, and it was a good discussion and helpful to engage with some folks in Parker. And then lastly, on
June 13 RTD staff, including myself, joined the City of Aurora staff. And really, this is a kind of a quarterly
engagement that we really have with the City of Aurora staff. And that's just to make sure that we're all on
the same page and aware of all updates.
So just wanted to make sure the board was aware of some of those engagement activities. Lastly, I just
want to make sure the board is aware that we've been actively communicating with all elected officials at
all levels with regards to the Southeast corridor service and repairs. And will continue to do so going forward.
So with that, that concludes my report and happy to answer any questions. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Davies, for the report. Thank you for continuing to
communicate with our elected official partners, and for the engagement at all levels-- federal, local, and
state. Are there any questions for Mr. Davies? Yes, First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I don't have a question. I just wanted Mr. Davies to be aware that
there was a meeting that was convened by Andy Kerr from Jeffco up in Evergreen. And I attended, as did
Susan Woods from staff. And at that meeting, were presentations from CDOT and Jefferson County Road
and Bridge, as well as Representative Tammy Story and Representative Brianna Titone. And a number of
people were there and talked a lot about transportation issues.
So I just wanted you to know that was conducted, and it was a Saturday morning. But I don't know if that
was on-- obviously, it was on somebody's radar because Susan Woods was able to attend. And as usual,
she did a wonderful job. So just wanted to give you an update. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, First Vice Chair. Also, I'll note for the sake of the record, we have
been joined by Director Ruscha. Thank you, Director Ruscha, for joining. And next, I'll go to Treasurer
Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I just wanted to say, first off, thank you for all the work that Mr. Davies has done. I just
want to let you know that the Parker Chamber of Commerce has really appreciated updates from you and
your staff talking with them, as have the Town Council. I also wanted to raise my hand to point out, for the
state of the record, that Treasurer Bouquet is also present. And I appreciate you allowing me to come in
late. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Yes, in my mind, I noted that on my paper, but I don't think I did out loud. So
thank you for stating that for the record. Much appreciated. Are there other questions for Mr. Davies? OK.
Seeing none. Well, Mr. Davies, thank you for joining us, and as always, giving us a thorough summary. I
do see Director Ruscha's hand is up. Director Ruscha, please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I have repeatedly requested that we be copied on these
communications with elected officials, the general ones. Is that something that we can do? I get forewords
from elected officials on our communications with them. Like, for example, the legislature. And so I think it
would be really helpful for the board to see them as well, so we know what's being said and how things are
being framed.
So I feel like at this juncture, I just need to put it on the record and make a formal request. I don't know if
that requires a director-initiated action, but in the past we did receive copies of those reports. And that is
no longer the case. So is that something that we could just briefly discuss here at this meeting, and maybe
come to a conclusion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Director Ruscha, are you referring to anything that would be in written
communication?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Well, ideally, we would get summaries of communications, written or not. But written
communication would be a great first start. Again, we don't have a Government Relations Committee
anymore. We have this committee, the Executive Committee. But I do know, as a matter of practice, that
those communications with the board have dropped off. A copy of the written communications as a
minimum would be very much appreciated.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So Mr. Davies, I'm wondering if I can call upon you and just ask the question when you- using as an example, the most recent communications you are referencing, would you mind just sharing
with the committee what types of communications, what forms of communications were entailed in some of
the most recent? For example, those concerning the Southwest speed restriction.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, Mr. Chair. This is the first I've heard of that request. I have no issue making sure
that I pass that on to the Board Office or this committee. I'm happy to work with you and the committee in
any way that's helpful.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha, please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry. Thank you. To be very clear, I'm talking about, and copying to the board at large,
not just a subset of the board.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I'll commit to conferring with Mr. Davies on the types of
communications and modality, and what's going out. And work on what the best mechanism would be to
share with the full board. So thank you. Anything further, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just we've discussed-- Mr. Chair, would you mind just-- whatever your determination
is of what you feel is the best mechanism, would you mind communicating your decision to the board at
large so that we have a follow up? Thank you. Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yep. No problem. OK. Seeing no further hands raised for the Government Relations
Report-- again, Mr. Davies, thank you for joining us-- we will move to our second discussion item. This is
for the proposed bylaw amendment to allow the Chair to appoint committee members in the event of a
vacancy. And at this time, I will call on Mr. Jack Kroll, our Executive Manager of the Board Office, to present
this item, and to thank him for his work in identifying this gap in need and assisting. Mr Kroll, you are now
recognized.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. And a big thanks is also due to General Counsel Snyder, who
did some work with me between when this item was originally scheduled to be discussed at last month's
meeting and today. And what you are seeing today is a slightly revised version of what actually was
supposed to be discussed last month, but was tabled. So I'll just point out that the article that this would be
slated to move into has shifted based off of General Counsel Snyder's wisdom and input on this from being
in the committee sections to be-- or excuse me, to being under the chair section, to being in the committee
section of your bylaws.
And she also did some great work to help clean up some of the overly verbose language that I was using.
So I want to give her a lot of credit for helping me with this. Basically, though, this is really straightforward.
It just empowers the Chair to make appointment to a committee for a board member who might join after
the executive committee makes its initial committee assignments for the year. So that would resolve the
issue we had this year with Director Lewis, who came on to the board and was effectively not able to serve,
although he could certainly attend on a committee for about a month.
The other thing that this would help cover and resolve is situations that may arise where a committee fails
to-- it's known in advance that a committee will not be able to produce a quorum. Now, certainly, we pull
directors for their availability, and there are regularly scheduled committee meetings. But there have been
instances in the not too distant past where committee meetings had to be scuttled because there was not
going to be sufficient quorum.
This bylaw change-- or bylaw amendment rather, if supported by the board-- and again, it's just a discussion
today, but if supported, eventually, by the board would allow the chair to appoint committee members for
purposes of ensuring a quorum. That way, you don't have to skip a committee meeting. This was a practice
that we used very sparingly, but on several very important occasions when I was on the Board of Regents
at CU. And I think it's a good practice to introduce here.
Given the amount of time, energy, and effort that goes into producing and preparing for committee
meetings, you really don't want to be left in a situation where because the board can't muster a quorum,
you have to scuttle all that work. So with that, I'm happy to take any questions or concerns, but it's pretty
straightforward.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Sorry. I was on mute there. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll, for presenting
that, and for your work on this. And General Counsel Snyder, thank you for your work as well. I'll go ahead
and call on directors with questions now, starting with committee members. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The amendment language that you have in the packet that we
have received states, in the event a vacancy arises after the board's ratification, comma, the Chair shall-is it the Chair of the board or the Chair of the Committee? And do we need to delineate that and make it
clear which Chair we're talking about so that there's no confusion there? Because that's confusing to me.
JACK KROLL: Sure. We can just spell out-- it's supposed to be the Chair of the Board. And think that's just
a little bit of a change that came over. We were able to really cut down on a lot of the language by moving
it from the Chair's section to the committee section. So think it was self-evident as it was initially introduced
because it was under the Chair's section. So we'll just make that slight adjustment there.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary, for the clarification. I'm not seeing other hands from committee
members. I'll move to other directors with questions, starting with Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I was just wondering whether the-- and I have not looked
at the amendment, and I apologize for my lack of diligence in that regard. Whether the amendment would
also contain that same ratification language that, in other words, after the appointment is made by the Chair,
that the board would then-- as it does with the other members of the committees-- ratify the Chair's
appointment.
JACK KROLL: Director Tisdale-ERIK DAVIDSON: Go ahead with your comment.
JACK KROLL: Sorry, Chair Davidson, for jumping in. Director Tisdale, that is correct. With respect to a
situation like that, which has arisen or that which arose with Director Lewis, his appointment would be
subject to ratification in the event of appointing a board member, say, to ensure a quorum for a specific
instance of a meeting, that would not necessarily be subject to ratification. However, by default, the
committees cannot in-- what's the word I'm looking for? The committees cannot compel RTD to take an
action. Only the full board can.
So by in effect, once the full board acts later, it's, in effect, ratifying any decisions that committee may have
made at that time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Thank you, Mr. Kroll, for the answer. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I have a clarifying question, and then a comment. So my
clarifying question is that, is the intent of this amendment to say shall or may? Are you implying that the
Chair will do something, must do something? Or that they simply have permission to do something? And I
bring this up because we have-- our bylaws say that committees can have 5 to 7 members, I believe. At
least for performance. And so last year, there was a vacancy in performance.
And I will just disclose that I requested to be appointed, and that was declined. And that vacancy stayed
open. So are we saying that vacancies must be filled, and that they will be filled by a Chair upon ratification?
Or are we simply saying that the Chair can fill that vacancy?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Kroll, would you like to clarify on the intent as you drafted?
JACK KROLL: I think that Director Ruscha raises a good point. And I think the bylaws, as you have stated,
Director Ruscha, indicate that standing committees shall have between 5 and 7. So my sense is there's not
necessarily an obligation for the Chair to appoint a Director to fill a vacancy. However, it would be pretty
odd for the board to welcome in a new Director, but then not afford them the opportunity to join a committee.
So I would say that while it is not necessarily mandatory, as Director Ruscha has pointed out, it falls closer
to mandatory than optional. I mean, I don't see how the board could really get-- why would you welcome
your new Director on and then not put them on a committee? But there could, in theory, be a situation
whereby an existing member simply resigned from a committee, as Director Ruscha indicated last year,
and the Chair wouldn't necessarily be obligated to fill that seat.
So given this discussion, I think the language would be cleaner if that word were changed from shall to
may. But I'm open to further input on that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And at this time, I'll go to General Counsel Snyder, whose hand is raised. You're on
mute, General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Sorry about that. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I just wanted to point out we're on packet
page 18. So if the language does currently say if a vacancy arises that the Chair shall appoint. So if the
intent is to make it optional, we should change that to may. But with respect to the temporary appointment,
so if a board member is not able to-- or a committee members not able to attend a committee meeting, that
language just says that the chair is authorized to temporarily appoint.
So that one is a really clear, in my mind, a may as to the temporary. But right now, as drafted, it's a shall
as to the vacancy for a committee member.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Counsel. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So on that, I would-- and I respect what Mr. Kroll is saying, how we're
talking about two different potential situations. And if I misread the bylaw proposal, that could also be the
case that I had assumed it would apply to either situation that I raised, or that has been raised. And so just
wanted to offer that we could also-- because it is odd to have an uneven-- or excuse me-- an even number
of board members on a committee in what would be considered a permanent situation.
So we're not talking about one meeting and where we might-- we're struggling to reach a quorum. Or even
we just have an even number of board members. We could state that for standing committees, we have to
have an odd number of individuals. Because that kind of relates to what happened last year. Anyway, I also
had a comment, if I may, on the idea of a temporary appointment, slash Question. Is this really to address
quorum, or is this to address any issue in which a board or two members might not be available?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha, meaning-- can you clarify of the not being available? Can you just
clarify your question a little further?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sure. So we could have a committee meeting in which a director or two directors might
be absent, but we still have quorum for that committee. And so what I'm asking is, is this bylaw change
intended to ensure we always have a quorum? Or could this also be used just when we don't have a full
body present? And I ask because I've, again, wanted to understand the intent.

I think when-- this is just my feedback-- when there is a quorum question, it becomes more important. But
if it is just a matter of a committee member might be absent, then I think given that we have a small
committee structure and the size, I don't know if that is necessary. And that could be interpreted-- and I'm
not saying that that's the intention right now. But that could be, in the future, interpreted as something more
political.
For example, in other legislative bodies, it's called stacking a committee. I don't think we do that here, but I
don't want us to get into a situation where it could be interpreted as such. So that was the context and
feedback for that comment. Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. So we have two threads here. I want to come back to the
thread on may and shall. But on this thread, thank you for clarifying the question of the absence. It is
certainly my understanding that the intent is quorum, because that is a challenge that various committees
have faced in the past, as Mr. Kroll highlighted. It's been a little while, but it has been a challenge.
Mr. Kroll, are there any comments you would want to make further on that? Or does that capture the intent?
JACK KROLL: Yeah. I'd just point out that there's three-- the beginning of the third sentence, which begins
to deal with-- excuse me, the beginning of the-- yes-- third sentence of the proposed bylaw amendment
states, "to ensure a quorum." So that is the intent. And I think it's pretty clearly defined.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. That was going to be my next question, was whether that did the
clarification we needed it to? Which General Counsel Snyder, I would ask you, does that cover us for
clarifying the intent?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, I think that plain language speaks for itself, that that's to be used only to be able
to ensure a quorum.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Director Ruscha, does that address your concern, comment, and question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: It did. Thank you. And I might have just been reading it out of order, or not with the red
line. So thank you for that. And then, I guess, regarding may or shall, I would just offer that we-- whomever
is bringing this forth, and perhaps you, Mr. Chair, just get that clarification before we vote on this so we
don't take up time at the meeting itself sorting that out. Thank you so much for your considerations.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Director Ruscha. I actually just want to see-- and it's OK if not now,
and please feel free to communicate it directly to me or to the Board Office, to Mr. Kroll. But do any directors,
committee members, or other directors present want to weigh in on their preference on may or shall? And
again, no need to now. You can follow up. But I'd recognize anyone who wanted to comment at this time.
OK. Seeing no hands on that. Director Ruscha, I will commit to working with Mr. Kroll to make sure we have
clarification around that. And I would ask any committee members and directors that, if you do have a strong
preference on that, to please communicate it. I do think that there are several factors in that which, as you
had pointed out, Director Ruscha, the odd number of committee members may be one. So we'll seek that
clarification, make sure that's in place, and look for any feedback from directors on that. Thank you.
Seeing no additional hands raised at this time. Again, thank you, Mr. Kroll and Ms. Snyder, for your work
on the suggested bylaw amendment. I think that will be very helpful. We encountered this situation this
year, and I think this will serve us well. Moving into our next discussion item. This is our third item. This is
with respect to Board to staff communication and requests for information and/or work product.

And I will briefly comment on this to start us off. And then next, open to First Vice Chair Catlin, if there's
anything she would like to share for consideration. And then next move to our Board Office Executive
Manager, Jack Kroll. This is with respect to improving or enhancing the Board to staff communications. And
you'll see in the Board Report, there are a couple of things that are written for the consideration of the
committee and the Board here.
I'd like to call attention to the first paragraph in the discussion item-- this is on packet page 31-- which states
that, as we seek to refine and improve our communications between board and staff, there are really two
lenses to look at this challenge through-- or really, two problems that we're solving for. I think the first is a
relatively simple one, which is respect to the basic decorum and the values that our Board expects from
directors to uphold in their communications and interpersonal interactions with members of staff.
You will note in the packet there, in the past, have been prior resolutions that the Board has adopted,
suggesting that there have been times in the past when we need to further commit to our values. Which, of
course, this board, in August 2021, adopted agency values of passion, respect, diversity, trustworthiness,
collaboration, and ownership. So that's one lens I think we want to bear in mind as we consider Board to
staff communications. The other lens is managing the volume of requests, and determining how to prioritize
requests.
Something that is relatively-- there are two things that are fairly new to the agency this year. One is our
agency response system-- that I'd like to thank, again, the Board Office for working together as a team to
roll out and implement-- which allows us to consolidate and organize communication requests and
information requests coming from directors to the agency. That being a new process, I think it's incumbent
upon us to make sure that we are best utilizing that process to increase the transparency of communications
and organization of it.
The second thing that's relatively new to the board is, of course, our work plans. Which perhaps, gives us
a framework to consider how we prioritize requests that are placed to staff. When we're in the presence of
a high volume of requests as the agency is working on this, I think it's also incumbent upon us to think
about, how can we help staff and direct staff? What to prioritize and what to answer. Which, of course,
upcoming votes on policy matters or discussions on important policy matters are areas in which directors
will need timely information going into committees and meetings.
Whereas, other requests that may be less pressing or immediately tied to our work plans may not require
the same level of response. This is not going to be, I think, perfect when we first do this. But ultimately,
something that second-- I'm sorry, First Vice Chair Catlin and I had discussed early on in looking at the
agency response system, was perhaps adopting some changes or a formal policy. I'll give credit to Director
Tisdale for suggesting that one of the best places for us to look there could be our Board Operating
Guidelines, as we've amended earlier this year, we adopt guidelines of how we work together with each
other and how we work together with staff.
And what I would propose for consideration is that we, again, amend and update the Board Operating
Guidelines to have some more explicit policies and framework that help us ensure, on the one side, that
we are honoring the values the Board has adopted whenever we are communicating with staff. And
determining what that might mean. So, for example, when communications are delivered and to whom they
are delivered. And then on the other hand, how to utilize our agency response system, organize and
consolidate requests so that the agency is best able to manage it. And ultimately, create some framework
for prioritization.

Those are things that I had wanted to open up for consideration. I think what we're trying to accomplish
today is hear feedback from committee members, as well as any directors that might be present of what's
important to you as we think about Board Operating Guidelines. What should be reflected in terms of
communication with staff, both what we would expect the Board to provide to staff in terms of values and
organization, and what we expect to receive in return as well. I think that's the kind of discussion that we'd
like to have here.
But with that, before moving forward, I'd like to open up the floor to First Vice Chair Catlin, if there is anything
at all that you'd like to add at this time.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr Chair. You summarized it very, very well. I think what you and I talked
about were some of these requests seem to be requests just for the sake of requesting. And you and I
talked about having a discussion about, to what end? What are we trying to solve with this request? And
how does it-- how is it in keeping with not only the Board values, but also with our work plans and moving
forward in prioritization?
So when somebody makes a request, I think they need to really articulate for what purpose, and how this
information will be used. That was the only thing I wanted to add.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, First Vice Chair Caitlin. Yeah, I think those are exactly the types
of things that'll be great to capture. It's a great example of things that we might want to capture in state as
we consider board operating guidelines. At this time, I'd like to ask Mr. Kroll if there are things he'd like to
add. One thing that is also wonderful about having the agency response system is we can actually look at
data in terms of requests coming in that can inform us all as we think about prioritization and organization
of communication.
So, Mr Kroll, I'd like to acknowledge you at this time for anything that you would like to state. And again,
just to honor not just your work, but the work of your team in creating a system that can give us this kind of
information. So, Mr Kroll, please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. And I'd just like to first start by recognizing a lot of the hard work
that went into creating the new agency response system was done by Jillian Knapp Rhodes, who really
conceived of this issue-- or conceived of this system, and has worked diligently with staff across the agency
to get it to where it is now. There are still features that are coming on it and being rolled out, but she's done
a great job to get us to this point. And her work certainly is deserving of recognition.
One of the things that is, I think, important in the context of all of this is just the cumulative impacts of each
request. Each request, in isolation, is probably very valid and certainly something that directors ought to be
interested in and intrigued about. But it's when you put all of those together that you start to begin to see
the cumulative impact of the requests. And we have some data that I just want to share very briefly here.
And this is a bit of a screenshot, so if I need to zoom in here, I can.
So this is just an example of-- and this just, I think, frames this more contextually, too. We're not talking
about any one Director or group of directors. It is just a cumulative impact of all of the requests are reflected
in these numbers. So you can see the total number of requests that were sent in by directors in 2022 is
114. You can then see we saw a 68% jump in those last year to 191. You can now see that between the
systems that we've been running this year, we have the legacy SharePoint system produced 71 agency
response requests, and now Salesforce is up to 150.

And those are numbers-- I know there's some different numbers in your packet, but these are numbers as
of today. The Board Office did a lot of work previously this week to get all of these numbers updated. And
this is the number that I really want to draw people's attention to is right here, which is the staff hours. Just
on these 150 requests, the staff hours that have been expended since March. And now these are not just
Board Office staff hours, these are staff hours across the agency.
And so if you agree with the assessment that we're roughly halfway through the year, and you just take
some simple math and you gross these up to say, if the first six months of the year are identical to the next
six months of the year-- not an exact science but a calculation worthy of seeing the results of-- you can see
where we've got where we're projected to land with just under 1,000 staff hours committed to managing
requests from directors across the agency. So I wanted to provide this data as a way of giving you all some
context for where we are and where we're headed.
One thing to note and qualify this data with, we did begin to track more things in Salesforce than we were
tracking in SharePoint. But nonetheless, even if you account for the increased tracking, you can't say that
increase that we're on pace for, which is 131% increase over last year, is entirely attributable to just us
tracking more things. There has certainly been an increase in volume. And I think, Director Davidson, that's
all I would like to add at this point.
I guess I'll provide one more additional piece of context. The Board Office stands at the ready. I mean, we
do our best to get these out into the right places. I think it's been asked, does the Board Office have enough
resources? Kind of to be determined on that front. But what I would say is we're not the ones, in many of
these instances, that are providing the responses. These responses trickle down elsewhere across the
agency and have to be responded to. And so from an administrative perspective in tracking these and
staying on top of these and reminding staff, that's where the Board Office can come into play.
Certainly, at times, we really want to be a mile wide and an inch deep. And if we can handle some of these
requests and get information out the door that's accurate and factual, we're happy to step in and assist staff
in that. But we're not going to be that way for most of these requests. For most of these requests, they're
going to have to filter down. So it's not as simple as just saying, the Board Office needs more staff and we'll
get all of these responded to faster. It really is systemic.
And what we didn't include in these data, but I can tell you from just having reviewed all of the AR so far is
they're hitting every area of the agency. It's not isolated to just, say, bus operations or rail operations. It's
communications, it's government relations, it's budget and finance. It's the executive office. It's HR. And so
that's what needs, I think, to be accounted for as you all consider what your options are moving forward to
address this.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. So with that, I'd like to open up for discussion from
Board Directors. My intent today is to listen very carefully, along with First Vice Chair Catlin, to the feedback
that we hear in terms of what's important and what ideas that the Board has to potentially update our Board
Operating Guidelines to enhance and improve our board to staff communications. And then I will be
committed to working with First Vice Chair Catlin and General Manager Johnson, and her staff, to
understand what's important to them as well to then make recommendations to this committee in July for
consideration for us to act upon later in the summer and into the fall.
So with that, I'd like to open up for any ideas that Board directors have. Certainly, one that I heard First Vice
Chair Catlin state, is that in our communication stating the why, the intent of what it is that Board Directors

are seeking. But are there other things that directors would like to communicate as being important or ideas
to refine and improve our communications between board and staff? Treasure Bouquet, please.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, I'm all in favor of when it comes down to getting the why of these requests
specifically. I think also prioritizing it that we have it where-- hold on real quick. Sorry about that. So I think
also not only prioritizing the why of it, and prioritizing when it comes down to constituent questions. Because
a lot of the time, I'll go to the Board Office staff because there's questions that constituents that are
potentially going to have and I might not have the answer to. So I think when we were making our directory
requests, I think we have to look at it as the view as directors, as we're basically the communication channel.
We're elected. Our bosses are the people. Our bosses are not only the people who are riding our system,
but also our community members. We get our jobs based on voters. So our main priority is, ultimately,
fulfilling the requests that we are hearing from our constituents. So I think that should all-- I guess this is
more like a PSA when it comes down to all my fellow directors is, yes, we can have our individual requests,
but also think about what capacity we're asking those requests for. So again, prioritizing it when it comes
down to, hey, I'm hearing from a constituent. Or I'm hearing from constituencies regarding, in specifics, the
speed of the e-line train is one that I've heard from a lot of folks.
That's what we should be advocating for and requesting. I think that, as individual directors, we should think
about prioritizing always our community members. And when we're hearing from our community members,
submitting those requests. And then, of course, if we're getting it from customers or our constituency, I think
that's what we should ultimately be prioritizing when it comes down to staff time. I'm not sure-- that might
have just been a PSA, Chair, but I think that's a message we should think as individual directors is, hey,
we're the mouthpiece of the community. That's our main focus. That's our main priority.
We're obviously policymakers. But at the same time, we need to be prioritizing when we're hearing it from
the community that needs to be told to staff. So that would be my little PSA there. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer. And you triggered a thought that I had along this line, specifically,
with this. One thing that the agency response system also gives us the benefit of is having that information
be centralized. And one thought I've had is ensuring that communication goes out to all directors. Because
it almost builds a repository of understanding. And a lot of constituent questions come in can be quite
similar. So once that's been answered, I think it can help directors create an answer and send an answer
to a constituent without drawing on staff time if we've had a prior answer.
And perhaps there's something to be said about prioritizing when it's a constituent answer, making sure
that's gone to the full board. So the full board then can put that in our back pocket to be able to use without
drawing on staff time the next time. There's a related question. So I know I'm addressing something you
brought up. I'm curious, Treasurer Bouquet, if you had any reactions to that since I'm building off of your
idea there.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, no. I think that's perfect. I think that if it is kind of centralized of-- I guarantee it
that other directors might be individually having their communications with the folks that they know on a
personal level. So I would love to hear whatever potentially responses that are getting sent back out. And
so maybe I can have answers for the folks that reach out who are my constituents specifically. But I think
that's a great idea, having it more kind of centralized when it comes to answers. So I think the big point is,
common theme is, we're the voice of the people. That's our goal as directors.

And having that making sure that the constituents have a way to actually hear talk directly to staff. That's
our main goal, in my opinion. But no, I love that suggestion, Chair. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So Jack, I will follow up with you in an email, but I see some just general spelling
errors that we can clean up on this. Broad versus Board requests being one of them. But here's my take on
this. And I'm going to be very sincere. I've struggled with this since I joined this group. When is it appropriate
to ask a question? Because this feels like the pushback. And I think to Treasurer Bouquet's comments,
there are some things that come up that are really individual.
A bus stop here, a bus stop there in my district. But they're all bus stops that are not under RTD's auspices.
And so I have a general answer I can work with and a place to begin. But then if I send all of those to staff,
and we're too busy tracking down bus stops-- well, I know we have a bus stop study going on, does it make
sense? Or can I take a crack at trying to communicate with my constituency and say, hey, this is really what
we're looking at. And I need you to be patient while we finish this study. Then we'll have more information.
So I don't waste staff time, and I handle what I can on my own. And then sometimes, it's bigger things than
that. So I think that determination and what I found is working with staff, working with Tai-Shrae or Jillian or
with Mr. Kroll in the office, here's the question I'm getting. Is this an appropriate one to send in? How do
you want to handle it? There's often really good feedback. And like Jack said, a mile wide, an inch thin. We
know some basic answers and we can start that conversation with our constituencies.
But I don't want to be shy about asking questions when they come up because I'm worried about all of
these. And so I think that inhibits the ability to be a good representative of my community. It also creates,
real or perceived, a sort of opaqueness in our ability to answer and be honest and be truthful with the
community about what we're serving. I don't personally think that we're not being honest and forthright or
transparent about anything. But I do have a concern that if we limit questions that come in, and we're not
routing them the right way, that's an issue.
It could also just be part of ongoing training and expectations as we learn how this system is tracking things
that we add that in for understanding for all directors to continue forward. There are some things that are
relevant, some things that aren't. Opinions that make no sense and nonsense. Comments that come in
from the public that are attached to emails that are clearly not valid emails or not true emails that was
created for the purpose of creating an argument. I don't engage with those, and for very good reason.
If you want to have my attention and time, and you want me to take time away from really studying our
packets and doing the work that you sent me here to do, then put your name on your comment. Otherwise,
it's not worth the time to read it and I don't need to respond to it. I feel that way very strongly. And I've talked
to several people in my community about that when they feel they haven't gotten the response they want
from an email address that is clearly designed to create a problem.
Finally on this, I would say back to the beginning of this particular discussion item, I appreciate very much
that you and First Vice Chair Catlin looked at this through the lens of our commitments and our mission and
values, because it's really important. And I also appreciate having the three attachments about the
resolutions on how we are expected to go forward and achieve this. So that said, those resolutions, probably
some of that language needs to make its way into our expectations in a more direct manner.

And I would be fully in favor of that because there is a process there by which if something goes awry, if
some communication is not correct or true to form, that we need to take action. And we need to deal with
immediacy and the strongest sense of urgency, because we can't allow that to happen. A toxic work
environment is not good for anybody. It creates a toxic Board environment. None of that is helpful to doing
the mission of the agency, which is making lives better through connection. And that creates disconnection
and that creates chaos.
So thank you for the hard work, and thank you for considering it. But I also would like to see this move
forward in a more substantial way where we don't have to go back and look for several different resolutions.
We have those resolutions and those expectations clearly laid out in our guidance materials. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. I just want to make sure that I've captured some of the
things that you've shared before moving on. So I heard that certainly there's this open question of prioritizing
questions, and how do we do that? When is the right time? I think that is some of what we can address in
here. I'd invite anyone to comment on frameworks for that. I think the work plans occur to me, informing
decisions at upcoming board meetings occur to me. But then I heard a second part of what you had to say,
which was in line with what Treasurer Bouquet did, which is honoring and prioritizing thoughtful comments
and questions from constituents.
So I'm kind of hearing that as a theme and something that we work in. I think we need to create a framework
for the types of questions we want to address. And I did hear your comment about constituents being a part
of that, as with Treasurer Bouquet. And then finally, I heard your comments on the value, and I like the way
you framed it as rather than having all these resolutions that get lost to time, then we're digging them back
up, consolidate those. Another good benefit of potentially doing that in our Board Operating Guidelines,
where I think it would make sense for our values to appear.
Have I captured everything that you had to share, Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, sir. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for sharing that. I'm going to move to committee members first,
and then I'll move to the other directors here. So I'm just going to jump to First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And this is a little bit delicate, I guess. I've had some constituent
requests and have forwarded on to the Board Office and everything. And then what I found is that
oftentimes-- or not oftentimes-- on a few occasions those requests have been taken to staff, and then staff
deals directly with the constituent. And that troubles me a little bit along the lines of what Treasurer Bouquet
said.
We are supposed to be the liaison from our constituents to the agency. And in that, I know there's been a- directors have been discouraged from talking directly with staff for reasons that-- a lot of the reasons that
we're trying to solve for here. But I think sometimes it is really beneficial for there to be a liaison role from
the Director to staff and to the constituent. And I've talked to Jack about this a little bit. But I don't want it to
appear that a Director is passing the buck.
And that's kind of what I've had some feedback on constituents that, well, you just turned it over when they
wanted to deal with me. I'm not being very articulate. But I think we need to really give some thought to how
some of these issues are managed. So that's just an opinion. But I agree with Treasurer Bouquet that we
really are the conduit for the constituents to express or to get answers. So thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. And perhaps there's an idea in there that's a win-win.
I mean, perhaps I know we have this high volume of requests. And certainly, one thing we receive a lot of
our constituent requests. I wonder if there's the win-win of, if the Board is seeking to be liaising and owning
that role of communicating with constituents, again, as we build out a repository or get those answers,
perhaps there's some process we could work out with the Board Office by way of answers coming through
Salesforce and going to the Director to use. And then being available to other directors so that we are able
then to use those and ideally chip away at maybe the volume of requests over time.
I guess just since I've-- I'm thinking out loud here off of your idea, but I'll pause and see how that resonates
with you based on what you're sharing, First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I think it's going to be iterative. I think some of this will be trial and error. I just know
that I have one thing pending right now, and I'm not quite sure how to deal with it. So yeah, I appreciate
that win-win approach. Sometimes we, as an agency, have been labeled the "agency of no." And in getting
to yes with some constituents and some creative thought, I just want to make sure that we are allowing
ourselves to do that as directors. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair. Thank you to the patients for other directors. I'm going to
finish out the committee comments and I will go to Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I share some of the concerns that are raised, and it seems
like they're kind of two categories. The information that directors are looking for, and then the constituents.
And the constituents, it does seem like it's a little trickier. I like the idea of having some sort of repository. I
don't know exactly how that would work. Another way to deal with some of that would be-- and this might
be all of the questions-- to have a regularly scheduled semiannual study session or something, where
people can talk about their questions and maybe answer them within the Board.
One thing I've found helpful when I get constituent comments, if they're service related, we'd like the FF4
back. We go into Civic Center, or the Golden to Boulder, or whatever it is, is that I think the most effective
way to get that to staff is to have that person send it directly to the service.changes@rtd-denver.com. I
always tell them, I can send this, but it matters that they're hearing from the public. So on that, I know it's a
small piece of what our constituents are asking, but it's a regular thing. And I think getting people to
understand that-- I also think there's kind of a hearts and minds step before we go to operating guidelines.
And I agree with Director Guzman, going back to look at some of what these previous resolutions were and
seeing what we want to put in the guidelines make sense. But also, this is just really good information. And
seeing Jack's numbers-- was it 130% more that we're on track for this year-- and just saying to people, think
twice about whether you need this and whether you need it right now, I think is an important step in this
process. Because it's easy to get focused on something and say, let me see what's happened on this.
Well, maybe it's not something that needs to be addressed at this point. So those are my thoughts. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. And just again, to make sure I'm
capturing everything, the delineation between director info and constituent, I think you outlined really well
there and talked about, perhaps, having other opportunities to have meetings where we discuss key open
questions. And then you mentioned the referring of people, and I agree. I think that's a great point when it's
service related. And even some other customer experience issues, sometimes the best, fastest information
is sitting with those official channels. And maybe just knowing where to send constituents could be helpful.

And then I love your comment about thinking twice. And it is something I've been reflecting on a lot lately
is, prior to sending emails and notes is thinking, to what extent do I need this, to what end. And Mr. Kroll,
thanks for highlighting that cumulative effect being one of the items we're solving for. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: May I just say one more thing, because you sort of triggered it? That works so well
for service changes. Are there other things-- like you mentioned, consumer complaints or things. Is there a
way to have an email that those go to so they are being seen by staff? And we need to believe that they're
being seen and taken to heart. But I do think with service changes that having the number of people who
are writing in go there does seem to be an effective-- at least a consideration for the staff. And so maybe
there are other topics that we could treat the same way. Get a separate email. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. And I think, yeah, Mr. Kroll and First Vice Chair Catlin, I'll take a
note that perhaps something we can talk about is, where to refer constituents. And maybe there's even
some process of CC so that the Director can follow along. But kind of taking care of and directing that traffic.
I'll take that down as a note of something to look into. Thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. And I'll
round out the committee comments here with Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for the second bite at the apple. Just real quick, I just think respecting staff
time at the same time-- and I just want to thank you all, board staff. You guys are incredible. And I love the
work that you do. Respecting staff time. And also, at the same time, if we're answering questions to
constituents and we know the answers as directors, this also needs to be reported to staff because of the
power of the weight of the voice of our constituency. If we are hearing complaint after complaint or feedback
after feedback, this needs to be documented somewhere.
Because it clearly shows that they're-- not necessarily we need to give an answer to it, or if we as directors
are giving an answer to it, this also needs to be weighed so that full-time staff are also aware that this is
what we're hearing from folks. Because I truly believe in the weight of voice, and we need to make sure
that is documented somewhere. And if it's a big enough concern that we're hearing this from so many
constituents, it's something that needs to be addressed. And so that's the my last point with that. So thank
you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer. Understood. And Second Vice Chair Guissinger, is your hand still
up from before, or did you have something further? OK, great. Thank you. We'll move to other directors
now. Thank you for your patience and for joining us at the committee. I'll start with Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have several comments, and I'm happy to copy and paste from
the transcript so you could reduce your note taking, sir. So first, respectfully, I just I just need to say that-- I
want to opine that even putting out the idea that directors are requesting for the sake of requesting is not
appropriate framing for this conversation. And actually, it's contrary to our current Board Operating
Guidelines, which advises us to assume best intent. So I'm asking fellow directors to be careful when we
have this conversation. It is sensitive.
But again, to question if a question is appropriate is the wrong path. And it is the agency's job to answer
questions from their governing body. I don't need to tell the agency why I'm asking a question, although I
often do. But even when I do that, that's been reprimanded. Second, if we don't have enough staff, we can
hire more staff. For whatever it's worth, the Board Office actually used to be larger in terms of staff. And
that was back when we had, I think, 80% of the constituents we have now.

Third, I personally ask questions that I need to do my job. And usually, what I do almost as a matter of
defense is to state, we used to receive this information that we do not receive anymore. And that is because
I'm told I ask too many questions or take too many bites of the apple. And I've been accused of asking
questions just for the sake of it. There is not a single question that I have asked via email or in a board
meeting that I would take back or I regret, or I didn't need an answer to.
And so we've talked about this before, and I'm not talking-- my comments here are not directed at the Board
Office staff because this is outside of their auspices. But I think management needs to consider that they
have a job to communicate effectively. And that means giving us information that we need to make informed
decisions. And a lot of times, that information can just come up front. I think we have moved in a better
direction with having discussion items, but that would absolutely reduce director inquiry both in writing and
in meetings, and just make us all more efficient.
I think we have all been at the place-- I know we've all been at the place where we've gotten the memo
responding to a director inquiry, and that memo came during a live committee meeting, or board meeting,
or 10 minutes before. And that was directly related to an item on the agenda, often an action item. And so
that is something that the agency needs to address. And that's not on us to ask fewer questions, or spend
an exhaustive amount of time figuring out how we could get an answer more effectively, or get information
more effectively.
And then fourth, I just want to state that-- and thank you, Mr. Chair, for letting me continue here. The level
of requests that we're getting, or that the Board Office is getting, might correlate to agency performance,
which is in need of improvement. So if we're seeing a spike in constituent inquiries, then that might be an
indicator that we need to improve. That could be an area of customer service. I know, for me, I sometimes- my first inquiry from a constituent can be, I've tried to talk to customer service multiple times.
And then so they're already upset, right? And then I feel like I have to do something, even if it is just respond
in a different way that customer service did or the agency did in a way that shows the constituent they were
heard. But as it's been brought up, like the Southeast corridor is an obvious example of where we're going
to get more inquiries. On-time performance is another. If our bus on-time performance is at 83%, we're
going to get more inquiries and we're going to afford them along. Because it's not something a director can
really directly address, especially if it's a certain line.
And then fifth, we have three districts, A, B and C, that are higher ridership districts. And I don't just mean
the top three, but disproportionately higher. And that includes mine. And so we're going to get more
inquiries. When we did training, we were told to go to the Board Office when constituents reach out. And
so sometimes, I don't need that level of hand-holding. I can answer the question. But again, sometimes this
is a specific customer service or line-- a bus or light rail, or commuter, whatever. A specific issue that there's
no general answer.
So I just want to also note that, too. If there is a sense is that some directors are making constituent inquiries
more than others just by level of volume and who rides our system, that is naturally expected. And I have
also had that issue of where I'm worried I'm passing the buck, but it does concern me when I'm not CC'd
on a response. Because then on my to-do list, it looks like an open task. And so I don't know how that has
to work on the tech side, but I would really like to get CC'd on those responses when the agency-- when it
is appropriate for the agency to directly respond to the constituent. Especially, if it's something you say
related to Access-a-Ride.

And then I don't know if this-- this is somewhat related to what we're talking about here, because I think
inquiries can also be a request for staff time. And not every director gets the same amount of staff time,
whether it is a town hall, a community meeting, or a Government Relations meeting. And so I think this is
something that we need to take up again, maybe in a retreat. Because we want to make sure that we're
being fair and equitable. But again, we have that reputation of being the "agency of no."
And we have had a reputation for many years of being non-transparent or non-responsive. And so while I
understand what we're trying to solve for, which I think is the Board Office time, I think the framing that
we're using and the approach needs reconsideration. Because we're elected board, we are supposed to
govern. We don't work for the agency, we work for our constituents. Between 200,000 and 225,000 of them,
depending on where you are. And we're supposed to govern.
So respectfully, I believe that US exhausting time governing each other's speech is not going to yield the
purported benefits that we're seeking right now. And so anyway, I know said a bit. I had some comments
typed out. And Mr. Chair, I'm happy to just send those to you directly. But this has bothered me for a bit
and I just think that, especially with the issues that we're facing right now with state of good repair in the
Southeast corridor and service disruptions that are to come, we need to tread carefully in this conversation
about regulating each other's speech.
Thank you so much. I really appreciate the time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And it's important to me that I capture everybody's
feedback here, so I'll just state back a few things that I hear the assuming best intent for the questions that
are asked by the Board. The note was made about potentially increasing Board Office staff size. I think that
would be one thing I think could be very informed by continuing to measure the responses and the staff
time, and delineating the staff time draw. I think some of these things will just need to learn as we measure.
You mentioned that it's helpful to have discussion items before recommended actions. And perhaps, even
there's something we can capture along this as we consider a good path forward. I agree that tends to
improve how familiar we get. And I think especially in finance and planning, that's been very helpful over
the past few years. You mentioned the level of requests potentially indicating information about the agency
and its performance. I think, again, that's something that, as we measure over time, perhaps is something
we can take a good look at those requests.
The timing of answers I've highlighted as something you noted that responses coming from staff during or
right before an action would be taken. I've taken a note there that perhaps there's another win-win in there
for us to sketch out expectations around timeline of when Board members will ask the question, and then
when those questions would be responded when it's informing a vote like that. You mentioned the idea that
some directors may need more request time due to having larger ridership within the district, which I've kind
of highlighted as another area that is important for us to measure the cumulative, I think, rather than looking
at an individual director level.
And then you mentioned the keying on responses as something that would be helpful when it's a constituent
matter. So I'll just pause and make sure that I've captured the actionable things that you had shared there.
Anything you wanted to react to in my restatement there, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. Thank you, sir. I think you captured that pretty well. I just, again, want to
emphasize that we be very careful in our framing when we suggest that someone is just being an argue fire
or asking a question for the sake of a question. And I don't want to take up too much time and dialogue on

what you meant, but you had said something about looking at the cumulative. I guess I would just offer, we
used to get reports about customer service inquiries, or complaints. And that was for fixed route, but also
for Access-a-Ride.
Those used to be in the monthly Board reports. And so maybe that is also something that-- that's a point of
data we should be receiving again, especially if there is a way for us to know-- to see those patterns, like a
Treasury said. There are some issues that we expect we're going to get a higher level of inquiry. Like right
now, the Southeast corridor. But there might also be things that are systemic across the system that
directors aren't aware of, or even just in an area, and that needs to be shared.
So I just wanted to offer that we're really meaningful in what data that we're sharing in terms of the numbers.
So thank you very much. And again, I'll follow up in email.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I'll now go to Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, but I am more than happy to defer to Second Vice Chair
Guissinger as a committee member. If you'd like to go to her first, and then I will be happy to make my
comments.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, sir. Second Vice Chair Guissinger, would you like to go?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Either way, it's fine. I just had an idea from what Director Ruscha was
saying that I was going to agree with, which is that we're talking about a performance scorecard. I'm hoping
we're still setting KPIs and putting more information. I think there is some information that we use to get
that has dropped away. And I think potentially raising that level back up will help with this issue as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A number of the points that are being made are
already addressed in the existing resolutions that we have. Some of them going back to 1986, as is reflected
in the Board packet. Specifically the four-hour rule, the two-hour rule, and the notion of everyone being civil
in their discourse. So those are already addressed. They can, and probably should be, incorporated
expressly into the Board Operating Guidelines to make it clearer not only to the Board members, but also
to others in the general public as to the expectations that we have of each other.
The other issue that has come up is the communication directly with staff and just peppering staff with
communications. And a lesson that I learned and shared when I was a Mayor is one that I shared with the
Board Chair earlier, which is when you're a City Councilman or the Mayor, and you have a problem with
the public works department, you don't complain to the public works department. You complain to the City
Manager, and the City Manager is to resolve that problem.
If the City Manager doesn't resolve that problem, you don't fire the Public Works Director, you fire the City
Manager. And that's how these things are supposed to be. And I think for any board, that's a good model.
So I think we could articulate in the Board Operating Guidelines that any requests for information that
directors have should, in the first instance, be addressed to the General Manager/CEO with a copy of that
to the Executive Manager of the Board, who is the gatekeeper for all of these requests.
If the response is not made timely and satisfactorily by the CEO, having referred the matter to someone
with knowledge as to the issue, then the issue is with the General Manager/CEO. And that should be
brought up accordingly. You don't discipline the AGM who's involved relative to this. You, in fact,

communicate your dissatisfaction with the GM-CEO. But it begins with the concept that these
communications are to the GM-CEO with a copy to the Executive Manager of the Board.
There is an exception, and the interim policy-- if we can call it that-- that was sort of unilaterally decided did
not address. And then I think we need to make sure we articulate. And that is, if there is an item of
information or an emergent problem-- you're on the train and you notice something-- in that instance, then
communicating that with the relevant AGM is appropriate. But other than those pure informational items-hey, I wanted you to know that I saw 50 people lined up at a train station and we didn't have adequate room
in the car for all those riders, because it was some event or something-- to bring it to their attention. That's
an informational item.
An emergent item would be, gosh, we just found a delay in service because there appeared to be a
temporary electric outage. Just wanted to make sure you were aware of this. An emergent problem. You
bring that forward. But I think if we articulated that in the Board Operating Guidelines and incorporated the
existing resolutions that we have, that would go a long way toward addressing many of the concerns that
have been articulated here. Thank you, Mr Chairman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And as I've been doing, I heard three major things here. I'll
echo back. There's, first of all, examining those prior resolutions as included, and not reinventing the wheel
where we don't have to. But perhaps memorializing some of those and bringing them forward into a
document that stays up to date with the Board Operating Guidelines. The second being routing
communications through the General Manager and CEO in the first instance with a CC to the Board Office
Executive Manager.
And the third item being carving out where there are exceptions, which you noted, emergent informational
issues and the respective AGM. Have I captured the items you had wished to share, sir?
DOUG TISDALE: You have indeed, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr Chair. Ex-mayors think a lot alike. So thank you, Ex-Mayor Tisdale, for those
comments. I just wanted to give you my perspective. Coming on in January, I knew there'd be a lot of stuff
I didn't know and things I needed to learn, but I kind of looked at the picture and realized I couldn't ask all
those questions in one week to staff. So I spread it out over a period of time. And I hope that's a good
lesson for all of us, is that when we do ask a question, put a priority on it.
When I send in a request to Jack's office, I usually say, hey, I have a meeting and I need some subject
matter stuff. Low priority. Take your time. And then there's other things where I say, I need it right away. So
I think staff would appreciate that. My second issue, or comment is that when I do respond to a constituent,
if it's something I feel that maybe other Board members could use, I usually send it back to Jack Kroll and
his crew so they can use that. If they see the same theme coming up, they're more than welcome to use
my responses.
I didn't give that direct communication with the office, but I hope they can do that. And I think that was
brought up earlier about if we have a consistent issue, that we have a consistent response. So if one of us
has a really good response to a constituent, let's share that with each other. The only issue that I do disagree
with is you guys were saying, the why. And I think that's a really sticky approach right now. I would rather
use the word specificity, if I can say that right. [LAUGHS]

Be more specific in your request. Don't ask general questions, which would take up a lot of volume and
time. The more specific you are, the better you are. Getting into the why, I have a feeling that when you
send those questions to department heads, that they might see that is a threat to a policy that maybe they
support and I don't. So saying, why, and going into real specifics, I don't think is necessary. And I would not
do that. But I would be specific in asking what I want and not have any ambiguity. So those are my
comments. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. I some three actionable things here. One is suggesting the
sharing of priority. Two is having consistency in responses, and perhaps leveraging the Board in that we
may share with each other when we've had good responses that we can leverage. And the third being
maybe perhaps not suggesting as much the why to what end, but just being very specific. Perhaps another
way to say it is to the point and specific around what it is that's being-- that you're seeking. Did I properly
capture everything you had wanted to share? See the thumbs up. Thank you, Director Lewis. Very much
appreciated.
With that, I see one more hand. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So I want to just say thank you, Former Mayor Lewis. Put a priority on
it, please, if we have one. I'm finding I'm not always getting responses in a timely fashion to something that
is time sensitive. Even when I do put a date on it, I don't put that on the Board Office. But if there is a way
in Salesforce where that can be a field, maybe that helps in triage. But I just had an issue where I waited
three weeks for an answer that I really needed for an R&O meeting.
And I might have sounded very passive aggressive, but I had to just finally respond and say-- or put that
the query back out and say, OK, I have to let several dozen community members know that I put in the
request the day it was asked, and I didn't get a response. I did then get a response about 15 minutes before
I was to leave for the community meeting. And it was very community specific and policy specific, and
related to specific lines. But I don't put that on the Board Office because, as noted, the Board Office is an
intermediary more often than not.
So maybe there is a way we can do something on the back end to ensure that our expectations can be met
as it relates to things that are time sensitive. And then I also agree regarding the Mayor versus the public
works department, or specific department. So thank you, Former Mayor Tisdale for that, as well. So I would
just offer two suggestions for this committee, and for the Chair. The first is where I work, we have a policy
that if you're on the To line, you are expected to do something. If you're on the CC line, it is an FYI.
And maybe we just need to set some general guidelines on what is a meaningful email. I also used to work
in a marketing department where we had forms for-- just quick text forms to help us when we were making
a request or offering information so people could get what they needed very quickly. And since we are not
filling out something in, say, Salesforce, that might be a helpful tool for everybody. So I just want to offer
that for consideration, emails that matter and-- all the way down to the subject line.
And the second thing is, so I understand we have policies that sometimes aren't followed, and resolutions
that have been written as far back as 1986. We also have directors that weren't even born yet in 1986, and
our population was significantly smaller. And I'd kind of be remiss if I didn't note that some policies regarding
speech and time were subject to litigation at one point that ended up being costly to the agency. So maybe
this is a Board retreat topic. And instead of just memorializing previous practices, we take a fresh look and
come in as a team so we can just ensure that we are meeting the needs of, of the time.

And of course, that's for the Board and the executive committee to decide. But I would just offer those two
suggestions. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And I'll note you mentioned twice, the retreat topic. And I
do think that's something I would recommend for consideration in the next retreat. I think that's a good idea
that this [AUDIO OUT] be discussed. I think it's a good place for that to continue. Great. Well, thank you,
everybody, for sharing your feedback. I've taken some notes. I'm committed to work with First Vice Chair
Catlin, General Manager CEO Johnson, and Board Office Executive Manager Kroll as we consider the path
forward.
Mr Kroll, thank you again to you and your team. You gave a shout out to Ms. Knapp-Rhodes. Thank you,
Ms. Knapp-Rhodes, for working on this and getting to this point where we can measure-- we can manage
what we measure. And I think as has been stated by several directors, this will be iterative and we'll learn
as we proceed. I know that was a lengthy topic. I appreciate it. I think our next two discussion items will be
more brief. I thank everybody for your patience on this. It is an important matter.
So we'll close out our third discussion item, and we'll move to our fourth at this time, which is respect to
new director on-boarding and continuing education for directors. And at this time, I'll just briefly open the
floor, and then I'd like to see if Mr. Kroll would like to add anything further. This is a relatively simple
discussion item at this time, because the real questions on the table are, should we and can we all agree
to create a policy that would formalize what our Board training would be for both newly elected directors
being on-boarded, or newly appointed directors in the case of a vacancy, and also for ongoing education?
I think if the answer is yes to that. And if everybody is amenable to creating a policy that we would have in
place, the next question as I would propose, as we've done on other items, designating two directors to
work with our Board Office Executive Manager and his team to develop such a policy that would formalize
the training of new directors, as well as the training of ongoing directors. There are many topics I think we'd
want that team to look at that perhaps folks would want to weigh in here, such as the topics, particularly for
ongoing training. And where and the how for ongoing training when we do have very full schedules
throughout the year in what is a part time role.
So I would like to just open the floor to directors once Mr. Kroll has spoken on the primary, two questions
of, do we agree we want a policy as a Board? If so, is our folks comfortable with the path we've taken of
having two directors work on that? And then if there is anything you'd like to add. With that, Mr. Kroll, I'd
like to open the floor for you if there's anything you'd like to fill in or add at this time.
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, I have nothing further to add at this time. I think you've encapsulated the
discussion item appropriately. Happy to take any questions or comments as they arise.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I would like to volunteer myself to participate in this as a director. But here's the
reason why. The Latinos in Transit Leadership Academy, we have a capstone project, and this is the subject
matter of the capstone project I'm currently working on with a director from Chariots in Salem-Keizer,
Oregon. And we are working across the country doing research on this very topic about what needs to be
trained, how you do continual training, and what training could look like, should look like, who's doing what,
and what are the best practices.

And we're leveraging contacts at different agencies from SEPTA to links in Orlando to LA Metro, RTD in
house, and what we're doing here to do a cross overview of what's happening throughout the nation at
large and small agencies. And so I think it would be helpful since I come with that knowledge and that
research in my-- literally, on my laptop to be able to continue that conversation. But I think that this is
something that we should probably figure out how we're going to do. And every agency does it a little bit
differently, or a lot differently.
And I can proudly say that we are very well trained here and we believe in those opportunities to receive
enrichment in our knowledge and understanding of how public transit works. Especially because not all of
us come from a transit background as elected representatives on this Board. And so we do need to get
caught up on some of that information. And the one question that I would consider very heavily is, when
changes in the law happen, how do we ensure that we're updated on that properly?
And no joke. Our agency is on top of it. And they provide that information currently to us, I think, through
the best ways possible. But we're basically like herding squirrels sometimes. So trying to figure out what a
timeline looks like and what a best practice could be for all of us could come down to just we record those
sessions. And we can review them when we need to review them because council has brought us
something, or the subject matter expert for the government audits have brought us something that's been
updated and changed, or best practices for finance.
That's all stuff that we can keep track of and disseminate amongst Board members who may not be able
to reach a training at that particular time. So that's my two cents. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for offering the thoughts, Secretary. And thank you for volunteering. I won't
make any commitments here. I'll give some thought to folks who have been through some of our trainings,
as well as folks who are working on training issues such as yourself. And we'll give some thought as how
to form a team around this. And thank you for offering those thoughts, Secretary. Very much appreciate it.
Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also just wanted to indicate a desire to work on this. I did go
through the experience as a new director, but I also used to be a teacher and have a license in this matter.
And I have done corporate training, so I would like to also volunteer myself for consideration. Additionally,
if this is a thing that is a-- or a lot of directors have interest, or it's of great importance, we might also benefit
from having a very temporary ad hoc, and just kind of power through some of the big ideas. Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And also, Secretary Guzman, thank you for volunteering.
If folks seem supportive of that approach, that's the approach I'll consider is putting two directors on that. I
think it sounds like it makes sense for us to have a policy. Any other thoughts from directors, committee
members? Mr. Kroll, please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: I would just like to ask-- in the interest of time, I don't think it would be particularly fruitful to
get it here-- but if there are specific topics for on-boarding and training, that those topics that directors have
in mind be shared. In the Board Report, did list the trainings that were provided last year during the onboarding process. But if there are topics for next year's class of directors, as well as continuing education
opportunities, please send those my way. I'd be very curious to compile those and assess how we can fit
that all into a schedule.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll, for offering to consolidate that. And if directors could submit any
topics of interest to Mr. Kroll, that would be very, very helpful. Thank you. We'll proceed on working on a

policy, and I'll work with my fellow directors in the Board Office to get that activity underway. We'll move to
our final discussion item. This is two-year committee appointments. This may be relatively brief.
I'm one of the directors who had flagged this of interest in the past. And this interest, certainly for me, came
out of the work that was done going back some number of years on the ad hoc audit committee when we
were overhauling the audit committee. And we had a lot of discussion around continuity, and we had a lot
of discussion around the development of institutional knowledge over time and the importance of retaining
that knowledge at any given time on a committee.
Recognizing audit committee is quite a bit different than some of our other committees, in terms of how
critical that institutional knowledge is. It's not quite an apples to apples. But I wanted to share a couple of
thoughts, and then see if anyone wanted to offer any additional thoughts, given that this is on our work plan.
I think the benefits, if we were to entertain taking our smaller committees to a two-year appointment, is that
there's a greater opportunity for directors to develop expertise and institutional knowledge in a particular
area. Which I think gives an increased concentration of that knowledge and offers some-- then that plays
into some continuity.
And then it also helps build some consistent relationships between members of staff and members on the
committee, and builds out that continuity. There certainly are some drawbacks. I think there's an increased
likelihood if we were to make a move to have two-year committee appointments, that directors would remain
on a committee that perhaps their interests or expertise do not align with.
And particularly, if we were making that decision with newly elected directors before their feet are
underneath them-- sometimes we make some shuffling at the end of the first year once directors see where
perhaps they're best aligned-- there's also the potential for election cycles to disproportionately impact the
membership of a committee, and perhaps not have as many open positions that we'd have to contemplate.
And then I think there's not really-- perhaps we're not solving for a problem that exists, because there's not
always a lot of fluctuation between the committees anyway at this point.
Why I certainly would offer that if we were to do something like this, I think executive committee would
deserve its own carve out. I think it's important for us to examine how important the leadership is at each
year of the Board. Why this may be a relatively quick conversation is, although, I've had a lot of interest in
where this might be an improvement, I think we're at a point in the year and in our selection cycle where it's
inappropriate for the Board to take action on anything like this until the Board, as it will be in 2025, has had
a chance to consider this.
So if we were to do anything, I would think it would be to perhaps do some research and work to frame up
what a good bylaw adjustment would be, if this is even something that we think we should solve for, and
offer that up to the next year's board. I think that's the most we would want to do and not actually adopt
something ahead of our new colleagues. But it's also perhaps something we may or may not decide to
solve for.
And that's what, given this is on our work plan-- we've moved it once or twice-- I wanted to open this up for
discussion to hear if directors have any particular leanings one way or the other about taking this on in what
is already a busy year and what thoughts you might have. So I'll open the floor now. Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, I think the first-- well, first off, I do agree with the timing of it that this probably
isn't going to be a decision of this current Board, as we're currently in an election cycle. The one thing also
that you brought up, Chair, that's just really good is, what are we solving for? And the question of, why?

That is really where we should be guiding yourself and leading it to when it comes down to-- what I heard
was, hey, we want to develop expertise, potentially. I also would just be cautious or throw out the point of,
are we going to be restricting directors having to fall into the two cycles that they have?
Can they get a wider expertise serving on multiple committees? Is that the director desire is to go deeper
into one committee compared to serving on several committees and learning a wide range of knowledge,
but maybe not at the same depth? I guess that would just be where I would leaning is, one, figuring out
what are we solving for. OK, if we're going to be going forward with that, what are we trying to do ultimately?
And then two, are we going to be ultimately restricting ourselves or future directors when it comes down to
potentially what their passion, what their interests might be?
And again, it's a discussion I think that's more appropriate for the 2025 Board. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer. I appreciate the thoughts on that. Always good to anchor to the
problems. I'm going to go stick with executive committee members first, and then move to other directors.
So First Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I agree with the timing with Treasurer Bouquet, and with your
suggestion that we might want to wait. But, but I also wanted to point out that, oftentimes, these committee
assignments are self-regulating. If a director has a passion, they may choose to continue for a second, or
maybe even a third year, in that particular role. So I think maybe gaining or getting the pulse of directors
next year would probably be appropriate.
That's all I have. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. I appreciate that very much. Move to
other directors. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Respectfully, a solution in search of a problem. And
timing, obviously, as has been indicated. Thirdly, I learned years ago from my late wife, who was a municipal
law expert, that there are three rules of municipal government. We've never done it that way. We've always
done it that way. What do other cities do? Those are the three rules. The first two are really kind of make
wait rules and shouldn't be considered.
But the third one, what do other cities do? We've answered in the Board Report. We talked to GoTriangle,
Greater Cleveland, JTA, LA Metro, San Mateo. I think everybody likes the one-year pattern. So do I. Thank
you, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And thank you for pointing out that part of the packet. And
thank you, Mr. Kroll, for assisting in that research and ensuring that was in there. Very much appreciated.
Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I concur with Director Tisdale, and that's my comment. Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just quickly, I see the value of having this conversation, but I also think that we have
a process right now where we get to say, I'm really interested in this aspect or that aspect. Not having been
on the Operations Safety and now Security Committee before, I really do like the finance committee. So

that would be where my heart is at. Although, I'm not fazed by moving to a different committee, should the
need arise.
This year, after my first year, I finally had my feet under me. So I know more what's going on in the routine
of things. And so it does help to stick around for a second year and get a good, healthy understanding of
where we're doing. But that's also driven me to get, as you said, the education right and more pertinent
knowledge regarding how our finance and planning system works, and where I need to focus on if I'm going
to be effective in that committee.
There are other committees where this might be a deeper consideration. For example, it's a different
process to go through the audit committee. To be a member, to serve on there you have to have certain
skills that has to go through an interview process. And once you're on that committee, it would seem if you
have the amount of time left in your term and the willingness to do it, that that may be a committee where
we would want to keep two-year commitments so that work can continue properly.
Performance is a committee where everybody could have a turn on the Board, providing a key role and
performance committee. But there is a continuity issue there with what happened the previous year to
what's going on in the following year to keep things moving along, both for the purpose of having familiarity
with the General Manager CEO, but also with the agency key metrics that we look at. And so it's not an all
or nothing. Maybe it's a both and. I think that conversation is valid.
But I think it may not apply to everything. And I think for our regular standing committees, having movement
amongst the executive committee, everybody gets an opportunity to move into a position of leadership. I
think that's good because we are all leaders in our way, and all of us have different styles. And so if there's
a desire or a need to have somebody continue something that they started-- Angie Rivera-Malpiede was
Chair, I believe, two years in a row during the pandemic. There was work that clearly the board thought
needed to be continued in the Chair that was elected at that time.
I'm sure that's happened before. But it still went through regular process according to our bylaws. So I don't
know. It's kind of a, how do people feel? Take the temperature, maybe? The rest of the Board might want
to weigh in on this first.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Secretary. I appreciate it. I think hearing the conversation and the
research, and I'm grateful to Director Tisdale for pointing it out, that the phrase that comes to mind First
Vice Chair Catlin put this really well that there's a self-regulating nature to this. And this is actually a
conversation. And I thank Director Tisdale for the invite, or one of the APTA conferences, board member
conferences that I had attended, I had this conversation with a number of directors.
And many do serve on committees for multiple years, which makes sense based on expertise. But it does
appear that that's not necessarily a bylaw function that is self-regulating. And I think that is the term that
best comes to mind. And when we were tackling audit, we were in a different realm in that we were looking
at best practices and guidelines from the Institute of International Auditors. And the expertise being a key
requirement. In fact, even something that had been brought up multiple times by the Office of the State
Auditor and Historic Reports.
So I think we were solving for a different problem. I think based on the nature of the conversation I've heard
here, we just end this discussion and not move this even to the next Board. The next Board decides that
it's something it wants to bring up, that, I think, is fine. But I think I hear a lot of consensus around the

solution searching for a problem and that self-regulating is the best way to develop the experience and
move forward. So any objection to letting this one fall by the wayside?
All right. Not seeing any-- we have checked that off our work plan. I appreciate everybody for engaging and
considering it. Finally, we'll move-- we're complete with our discussion items. We will move to other matters.
Are there any other matters to address? Yes, First Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I received a email from Director Lewis. And thank you very much.
And this was in response to a request from the Performance Committee that if there are any metrics that
you would like to see in the dashboard, or the scorecard, to please let me know, or let members of the
committee know. And so I did receive a very thoughtful email from Director Lewis.
And I just wanted to encourage other directors to forward those as well as we move forward. That's all.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, First Vice Chair. I appreciate the reminder on that, as I'm sure we
all do. Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Hello, sir. Thank you. I have a couple. So the first is regarding the minutes and our
current procedure with minutes. We have moved away from a different format that we had in just recent
memory. We'll say, so and so spoke. But we don't say what they spoke on or what the topic was, but we
refer to a transcript. And while referring to a transcript is allowable and permissible under Colorado law in
terms of record keeping, I would just ask that we commit to looking at best practices when recording
minutes.
Because this is a public transparency issue, and I don't think it's fair to just refer people to a YouTube video
or a transcript. So that's something that I think, technically, falls under Secretary Guzman, but wanted to
bring it up here because it is something that will also help with other Board members when reviewing
minutes of other committee meetings prior to a board meeting. And it also keeps us all apprised. So I think
just in terms of efficiency, we could use some enhancements there.
And I'm addressing you because you're the Chair, but I also recognize that might be under Secretary
Guzman's auspices. Related to that, and related to information sharing and who is in charge of what, we
don't have a book of resolutions and actions that is public-facing, or even accessible to directors. And I
apologize because I don't want to cross dialogue. I know Secretary Guzman has brought this up before,
and I am just asking that given we are in June, can we just set a date at which this will be made available
to the Board and the public?
I feel like if we don't put a date on it and we don't name it, we don't commit ourselves. So I think the board
has to create its own KPI in that regard. So I just want to bring that up. And I don't think it'll be solved today.
But I just wanted to put it on the record again. It's really imperative that we are compliant with statute. And
I also think that would reduce some of the inquiries coming from directors, and help with training if we just
had access to those items. And it will help us in creating future resolutions as well, knowing what we're
currently bound by.
And then finally, on digital accessibility compliance, I've brought this up a few times. And again I'm asking
formally right now that we set a date for a policy and practice in which we will come into compliance. So for
example, our dashboard right now that we just put out is not compliant with state law. And our packets are
often non-compliant because we have things like tables which are images, but they're not readable for

those who use screen readers. And so the legislature has extended the date for compliance by a couple of
years upon request.
And we are now at the point where we must have formal policy within the next month, I think. I think it's
incumbent upon us as the policy setting body to, again, set a date, write it down, and make our own KPI
just to ensure that we're, A, reducing risk to the agency in terms of potential lawsuits. But also be being
respondent to the expectations of community. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And I saw some hands go up that I think are in respect to
at least one of the first two items, if not both. We'll start with Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So excuse me. Thank you, Chair. Can we-- we meaning you as Chair, Executive
Board Office Manager Kroll, and I set a time to meet about these points? I have gone through the training.
We do have the resolutions available. They simply need to be requested, which is the formal process. And
then they can be produced as far as a physical book, because we did have a resolution to move to a
paperless situation. At RTD it has gone digital. And so that is in effect.
However, there is a legal component there that we do need to address. So maybe General Counsel Snyder
might be able to advise us at a later date on some of that to ensure that we have what we need properly to
fulfill our requirements. And the second thing that I would point out is that all three of those do technically
fall under the auspices of the Secretary, but I would not act alone in those. I would need to work in
conference and cooperation with all of you. And so it would probably be best to set a meeting to handle
each of those items separately, and then come back with the solution, the date that we would need to have
that completed by, et-cetera what has been asked here.
But as Secretary, I'm willing to do that. So I will make that commitment, and we can find a time to do that
at some point, if you are willing. Or whoever you delegate to be the other party in that so we can ensure
that we are meeting those requirements. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary, for offering that. I would be committed to having such a meeting.
I will consider whether I need to delegate on that one. And just something to bear in mind, I think, is this is,
I think, where we will have some value in our work plans as we move into the next year as well about how
to align work plans around the goals that we set. Recognizing that the Board oversees the Board Office
Executive Manager and our General Manager and CEO, and set those goals, there are things we can
establish and consider for refinement.
So something I just want to reflect on is where that fits in work plans. How we set ourselves forward on that,
that's something we can dialogue in a meeting about. And thank you for your offer to do so. Mr. Kroll, I see
your hand is raised. Did you want to speak on these matters as well?
JACK KROLL: Yes, just very briefly, Chair Davidson. I want to address a couple of things just to ensure
everyone is aware of what the current situation is. The Board Office, as Director Guzman has pointed out,
does have records of all of the resolutions and things that have been passed previously. So I don't want
anyone to think that nothing exists. We have it. We were actually asked this morning to do a little research
for the General Counsel's Department. We located a resolution from 2003, several resolutions from 2003
that could be beneficial to an action the board may take next week.
So we very much have this information. It's here. I have gone through a training with Director Guzman to
show how we have access to it. And then anything that he needs, we can certainly produce for him quickly.

Second, with respect to accessibility issues, we took Director Ruscha's feedback very seriously, and I had
some work done. I partnered with Michelle Morris Hutchinson, who's a Deputy General Counsel, as well as
Gabe Christie, the ADA specialist in the Civil Rights Division Office of Civil Rights.
And they have reviewed our Board packets and Board website, and provided some feedback as to how we
can make those more accessible. And we have in turn passed that feedback along to staff and are flagging
certain issues that Director Ruscha has brought up. And the final thing that I want to mention on this is we
are in the process of procuring a new Board paperless packet software. This is going to be a cloud-based
software. We hope to have something implemented by the end of the year, beginning of next year.
We, again, worked with Civil Rights, ADA, and the General Counsel's Office and have very specific
expectations for vendors who are going to be responding to that to ensure that they comply with those
enhanced accessibility requirements. And as part of that process as well, we are looking for a vendor who
can migrate a lot of our historical data to a platform that is accessible. And so these are both issues that
are on the radar for the Board Office. And I believe and I am confident in saying that we are tracking towards
optimal solutions for addressing both the accessibility piece, as well as the historical context and ability to
access those records.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll, for addressing all of those items. Very much
appreciated. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Quickly, sir. I just wanted to ask that we also raise the digital accessibility
question with our advisory committees before we finalize any actions internally or formally. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. All right. Not seeing other hands. Before we adjourn, I'll
note that the next executive committee is scheduled for Thursday, July 25. The committee's work plan calls
for actions related to the proposed bylaw amendment we discussed today concerning vacancies on
committee, as well as our property and station naming policy. Additionally, we're slated to discuss our audit
committee member appointment process, something that came up today. Beginning the starting to plan for
our 2025 retreat. Again, some things that came up today.
And as always, we will hear an update from our government relations officer, Mr. Davies. Thank you very
much for everyone's patience, and participation, and engagement today. Seeing no further discussion, we
will adjourn this meeting as of 2:09 PM Mountain Daylight Time. Have a wonderful afternoon, everybody.
Great to see you. Thank you.

