Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, May 14, 2009
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

May 14, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on May 14, 2009, at
6:02 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Chair McMullen, Directors; Cohen, Pulliam, James, Chacon, Busck, Tayer,
Kemp, Martinez, Daly, O’Boyle, Tobiassen, Brohl, and Bagley.
Bill Christopher

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Sherry Ellebracht, Bill Van Meter, Marla Lien, Cal Shankster,
Dave Genova, Rick Clarke, Henry Stopplecamp, Daria Serna, Scott Reed,
John Shonsey, Jerry Nery, Bill Sirois, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Paula
Perdue, Brian Middleton, Julie Skeen, Greg Straight, and Stan Szabelak

Others Present:

Jeff Leib – The Denver Post, Ira Schreiber, Matt McDole, Ryan
Clement, Bill Shockly-Owens Corning Paul Courtois-Owens Corning
Maria Garcia Berry, and Roger Sherman.
****

Call to Order

I.

Director McMullen called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m.

Recommended Actions
Cal Marsella, General Manager indicated that this action is an integral part of the
financing plan.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, May 14, 2009
Page 2

Recommendation for Authorization of an RTD Funding Commitment to the Denver
Union Station Project Authority for the Design and Construction of the Denver Union
Station Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize a payment of $12 million a year for 30 years to the Denver Union Station
Project Authority (DUSPA) subject to acceptable agreements for the financing, design,
and construction of the Denver Union Station (DUS) project described in the Record of
Decision entered on October 17, 2008 and supplemented by the Letter of Intent signed
by RTD and its partner agencies on January 31, 2008. RTD’s obligation will be reduced
if Tax Increment revenues and other City tax revenues for the project are sufficient to
pay off project debt early.
MOTION:

Director Kemp made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the May 19,
2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director James seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Director Kemp thanked the Union Station Neighborhood Company and other
Stakeholders for their outstanding work – this is the hub of our whole FasTracks
system.
Revised Eagle Stipend Agreement
Cal Marsella introduced this item to the board and explained that this action is in
response to engagements around the country. This action gives all three proposers
incentive to put forward their best effort. It is a vote of confidence that RTD is
committed to making project work. Once a contract has been awarded, the two
losers would each get 1.75 million and we get to keep the information they submit.
However, the winning bidder would remain uncovered. This action would cover the
bidder if through no fault of their own, RTD decides not to proceed, then the winning
proposer would receive a stipend of up to 20 million of costs subject to audit
(receipts need to be provided). RTD would receive proposals and design. If the
selected proposer backs out, they walk away with nothing.
Several Board members inquired how this number was derived and if this represented
the maximum. Cal Marsella stated the team felt that easily the costs that the
winning bidder incurs far exceeds the $20M and this number is inclusive of recovery
for the $1.75 that will be given to the losing bidders.
Director Daly asked that as a private industry isn’t this the cost of doing business.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, May 14, 2009
Page 3
Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate and enter into a compensation
agreement with the three pre-qualified teams invited to respond to the Eagle Project
RFP (the Proposers) in an amount not to exceed $20,000,000 to be payable in the
event that RTD elects not, or is unable, to execute and implement a concession
agreement with the selected proposer through no fault of the selected proposer.
Payment will only be to the team that is selected and not the unsuccessful teams.
As a condition of this compensation RTD would receive all of the design work,
including calculations, analyses and other supporting work that the selected team
completed as part of the proposal process. Funding for the compensation agreement
would be provided in 2010 through the FasTracks financial plan for the East Corridor
and Gold Line projects.

II.

MOTION:

Director Martinez made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the May 19,
2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Kemp seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Updates


Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC)
Ann Hayes, Co-Chair of the Citizen’s Advisory Committee thanked the Board for
their support. She informed the Board that this past month they have been
working on getting the new CAC members up to speed. The upcoming 4 major
agenda items include:
o
o
o
o

Approach for the General Manager search
New way of dong public outreach meetings
Election timing
Eagle P3 project update

Next month, Tom will present the update to the board as he and Ann will be
taking turns.
Director Kemp thanked Ann and the CAC Committee; it is great to see how the
community has come together.
Director Busck invited Ann to come back and offer thoughts, concerns and any
feedback on the General Manager search.


FasTracks Public Outreach Plan
Pauletta Tonilas gave a brief update about public outreach plan – mission is to

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, May 14, 2009
Page 4
keep the public and stakeholders engaged and informed on what is going on.
One of the main components was a round of public meetings that were
scheduled for end of May and June. Pauletta would like to hold off on public
meetings until later in the summer like in the August timeframe – so the Board
can work through the process. Pauletta indicated that starting on Friday, May
15th the Board will be receiving weekly bullet points that provide key update
pieces.


DUS Site/Track Layout
Jerry Nery went through a PowerPoint presentation. A copy of the presentation
was included in the Board Member packets. This update was given at the request
of board members.
Director Tayer requested answers to some questions prior to a meeting next
week with members of Colorail. The questions had to do with the issues of
abandoning the tail tracks and the separation of light rail and commuter and
logistical issues or challenges faced moving from light rail to commuter rail.
Marla Lien responded to the questions.
Director Tayer also requested something be put on paper so the board can have
something to refer too.

III.

Other Matters
Representatives from Owens Corning Bill Shockley and Paul Courtois spoke to the Board
about their site being used for the CRMF and the cost measures, loss of business in
Colorado and loss of jobs that would result if RTD used that location for the CRMF and
the time and cost it would take to relocate. They invited the Board to take a tour of
their facility to get an idea of the complexity of the plant. Marla Lien, General Counsel
has no objection to the tour site – but reminded them they cannot discuss cost.
Paula Perdue will coordinate a time for this tour.
Chair McMullen gave an update on the trip to Seattle for an APTA conference. He
reported on use of transit tunnels and that hybrid buses were used in these tunnels
where they were battery operated.
Cal shared that he went on a tour there and they are building 5 new BRT lines at a low
cost – the reason being, the HOV lanes already exist.

IV.

Next Meeting - The next FasTracks Monitoring Committee will be held on Tuesday, June
2, 2009.

V.

Motion to Move to Executive Session
Chair McMullen asked for a motion to move into Executive Session to discuss:
 C.R.S. 24-6-402-(4)(e) Contract Negotiations-Railroad

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, May 14, 2009
Page 5

VI.

MOTION:

Director James made a motion to move to
Executive Session to discuss C.R.S. 24-6402(4) (e) – Contract Negotiations-Railroad

SECOND:

Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Adjourn To Executive Session
Hearing no objections, Chair McMullen declared the board move into Executive Session
at 7:35 p.m. The Board Adjourned from Executive Session at approximately 8:55 p.m.

