Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring meeting held on Tuesday, April 1, 2008
Page 1
Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

April 1, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, April 1, 2008 at 5:35 pm.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Chair Quinlan, Directors; Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck, Juanita Chacon,
Bill Christopher, Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Chris Martinez,
Wally Pulliam, John Tayer and Barbara Yamrick.
Dave Ruchman and Daryl Kinton

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Marla Lien, Daria Serna, Henry Stopplecamp, Susan
Wood, Liz Telford, Ashland Vaughn, Trent Ratcliff, Dave Genova, John
Shonsey, Kevin Diviness, Lloyd Mack, Ron Dodsworth, Mike Turner, Bill
Sirois, Nadine Lee, Pauletta Tonilas, Karen Morales, Dave Shelly, Jerry
Nery, Reed Everett-Lee, Paula Perdue and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Don Ulirich – CH2M, Dave Jackson – Booz Allen, Jeff Pointer – Sprint,
Marcos Lucero – Sprint, Grant Holland – Sprint, Terese Manley – Sprint,
Jeff Leib – Denver Post, Joe Racoskey – UTLS, Roger Sherman – CRL,
Phuonglan T Nguyen – FRESC, Holman F. Carter – ATU 1001, and L.W
Morrow.
****

Call to Order

Director Quinlan called to the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

1. WiFi & Other Wireless Capabilities for Transit Rider-presented by Sprint
Jeff Pointer of Sprint presented some information about WiFi technology and how
Sprint has used it in various Transit Organizations around the U.S. His goal is to help
set a ground basis of what WiFi would mean in this environment.
WiFi is a way to create a small localized wireless signal also referred to as the wireless
coffee shop. Most laptops have integrated the service in the laptop. The bottom line is
it is a nice service for people to use. The challenge is it is wireless but it is not mobile.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring meeting held on Tuesday, April 1, 2008
Page 2
Sprint offers a service called EVDO (Evolution Data Only) it is high-speed wireless
broadband that covers a whole city. The challenge with it is it is not integrated in
everything we buy. User would need to commit to a piece of hardware and purchase a
plan through Sprint. - Not very accessible to general public. Sprint combines the two
technologies by putting an appliance in a bus that creates a wifi signal to people on the
bus. The appliance does two things – it creates wifi signal and has an uplink to the
Sprint network to provide IP access out of bus and into general internet.
Some of the current customers include: FREX, AC Transit, San Francisco, Las Vegas
Monorail, Quick Shuttle of Seattle, NYC Cab Services, etc…
Technology is leveragable; it can also run data from security cameras, automated
vehicle tracking and digital signage.
The cost to create the uplink from bus to the network is approximately $50 - $70 per
month per month per bus. Equipment would cost about $400 to $500 per bus. This
cost gives an unlimited amount of data – flat fee not usage based fee. It can work on
trains.
This technology has been used in transportation now for about 2 and half years.
It would be an open environment but there is technology to put screening in place to
block certain content.
Jeff brought this to the board to make them aware of what is out there; this is not a
totally unique technology.
Director Tayer asked if there were any models where there was a private sector
involved in the funding such as the monitor. Jeff will check around to explore funding
options. John would love to see how this technology integrates with real time
information.
Cal will get back to the board on the capabilities of the new radio system.
2.

FasTracks Construction Video
Liz Rao, Assistant General Manger, Planning and Development indicated that this
construction video was prepared to help RTD, Local Governments and the Community
as RTD goes out with the construction project. This is a general scope video and will
be adapted with power point presentation for each individual project.
This video is an overview to show the types of impacts the public can be prepared for.
The video will be distributed to all channel 8 government access channels as well as
the Mayor’s and PIOs for all cities and counties throughout the district. Each board
member will receive a copy in their packets and can call Karen if they would like more.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring meeting held on Tuesday, April 1, 2008
Page 3

3.

Updates


Program Update
Liz Rao, gave an overall program update, on time in terms of overall
construction schedule, looking at preferred alternatives in terms of refinement
process for commuter rail corridors – it will extend environmental documents
necessary to complete work 6 to 9 months.
The budget is unchanged at 6.1 billion. Working on individual commuter rail
corridor cost estimates looking at the refinements to alignments to
accommodate current railroad negotiations strategy. Involved in assembling the
2008 annual program the evaluation and updated FasTracks Financial Plan – it is
scheduled for completion in summer of 2008.
Preferred alternative refinement process - continue positive coordination with rail
road on negotiations and looking for refinements in the process for commuter
rail corridors.
Henry Stopplecamp, Engineering Technical Services Manager, walked the
members through each corridor. Please refer to power point presentation for
accomplishments, upcoming activities and schedule.
Liz indicated that in terms of PPP - they are working closely with FTA in
coordinating the New Starts Process/Penta-P. They are also putting together a
public outreach approach with PI Team as the board requested.

DUS Update
Letter of intent for funding signed by RTD, Denver, CDOT, DRCOG and developer.
Marla Lein, General Counsel, – working on developing legal descriptions with
parcels that we will be selling to master developer. City and County City of Denver
will be adopting a revised master plan that will conform to the transportation plan
the board adopted that now provides for all commuter being above grade. This plan
with come to the board in May.
US 36 Corridor – working with local governments on corridor operating plans for
BRT service.
Cal suggested having another workshop in corridor. There has been a mixing of
alternatives which is resulting in confusion. Cal wants to have meeting in the
corridor soon to make sure we are on the same page.
Chair Kemp is already working on putting the meeting together.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring meeting held on Tuesday, April 1, 2008
Page 4
West Corridor – One of two projects nationwide that received a recommended
rating from FTA for federal funding.
I-225 - Good positive feedback on alignment alternatives – looking at feedback on
adequate parking - preparing technical information about electromagnetic
interference at Anschutz/Fitsimmons.
Southeast/Southwest Corridor Extensions – Board approved a contract for Parsons
Transportation Group for Environmental Evaluation/Basic Engineering.
4.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

5.

Next Meeting Date
The next FasTracks Monitoring Committee will be held on Tuesday, May 6th at 5:30
p.m.

6.

Adjourn
Hearing no objections, Director Quinlan declared the meeting adjourned at 6:40 pm.

