Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on November 19, 2007, 10:30
a.m. Page 1 of 3
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

November 19, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on November 19,
2007 at 10:30 a.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

Staff Present:
Call to Order:

I.

***
Chair Martinez, Vice-Chair Christopher, Second ViceChair Quinlan, Secretary Brohl, Treasurer Kemp,
Directors, Busck and McMullen. Directors Yamrick and
Chacon (via phone)
Cal Marsella, Paula Perdue
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 10:31
a.m.

Recommended Action
Salaried Employee Pension Trust-Trustee Appointments
Chair Martinez noted this item and asked if the Committee wanted to
move this forward.
MOTION:

Director Kemp made the motion
to move this item before the full
Board for a vote.
Director Quinlan seconded the
Motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

The motion passed

Director Christopher offered up that he would be providing a substitute
motion changing the composition of the Pension Trustee Board at the
Board meeting on 11/20. Discussion ensued around what was the right
balance and composition needed or if the issue was a process problem
which could be fixed. This discussion will be continued at the Board
meeting when this substitute motion is introduced.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on November 19, 2007, 10:30
a.m. Page 2 of 3
Proposed Revisions to Travel and Expense Policies based on IRS
Guidelines
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the revisions to the Board Local, Travel and
Telecommunications Reimbursement policies that will make the policies
consistent with the Internal Revenue Guidelines for reporting of business
expenses under an accountable plan.
MOTION:

Director Christopher made the
motion to recommend the
revisions to the Board local, travel
and telecommunications
reimbursement policies using the
actual receipt basis.
Director Brohl seconded the
Motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Brohl expressed several
concerns that she had with a
hybrid system, cap for receipt
based reimbursement, clarification
for telecommunications expenses,
and reimbursement for lodging for
in-state travel. Action item was
taken to include revisions to these
items in the Board report.
Director Christopher offered up
that we should not limit to either
per diem or actual receipt base but
let the Directors decide which
accounting method they want to
use per trip. Many of the
committee members did not agree
and felt the receipt based method
provided the greater flexibility
(Busck, Quinlan, McMullen,
Kemp).
Chair Martinez emphasized that
receipts must be complete
providing the who, what, when
and why (purpose, time, date and
with whom).
Director Christopher requested a
revision of the expense form to
include a place for purpose, time
and place. Director Brohl further
requested that reminders are
included in the travel itinerary
packets to provide this
information.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on November 19, 2007, 10:30
a.m. Page 3 of 3
The Committee also agreed it
would be appropriate where no
itemized receipt is available to
include a note to that effect on the
receipt that is submitted.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

The motion passed.

Chair Martinez indicated that the Executive Committee would
recommend actual receipt based for local, travel and telecommunications
with no cap, reimbursement for lodging for in-state travel within two
hours each way would be at the Chair’s discretion, and the
telecommunications expense would be revised to include fax and land
line up to a total of $140.00 per month for each.
Further research is required to identify proper documentation for owned
equipment used for RTD business (i.e. fax, scanners, printers, and
computers)
V.

Other Matters
Director Yamrick indicated that she had questions on the 2008 budget.
The Committee requested her to send these questions to Cal Marsella,
General Manager.
Chair Martinez indicated that the Board needs to understand Eminent
Domain and the rules. Cal Marsella stated this would be discussed at a
Study Session

VI.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 11:32 a.m.

