Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – Christopher Martinez, District B
Second Vice Chair – Noel Busck, District K
Secretary – William G. McMullen, District E
Treasurer – John Tayer, District O
Barbara Brohl, Director, District D
Juanita Chacon, District C
Bill Christopher, District J
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill Elfenbein, District A

Daryl Kinton, District H
Wally Pulliam, District L
O’Neill P. Quinlan, District G
Dave Ruchman, District M
Barbara Yamrick, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING (Revised-added Executive Session)
Tuesday, October 21, 2008 at 5:30PM

I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Carl Hulen, Service Person – 24 Years of Service
Francisco Niave, General Repair Mechanic – 29 Years of Service

APTA SPECIAL AWARD

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting you
wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIRMAN REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Christopher
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Pulliam
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Quinlan
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Chacon
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
GM Evaluation Committee – Chaired by Director Quinlan
CDOT – Director Quinlan
E-470 – Director Busck
ACED – Director Busck
DRCOG-Director Elfenbein
Denver Union Station Advisory – Director Chacon
Northwest Parkway-Chair Kemp and Director Pulliam
Pension Committee - Director Pulliam
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority-Director Christopher
Chair’s Report- Chair Lee Kemp

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF SEPTEMBER 26, 2008 AND
ADDITIONAL CHANGES TO AUGUST 19, 2008 BOARD MEETING MINUTES

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
A.

Approval of Contract Amendment to PBS&J for Advanced Preliminary Engineering of
UPRP Track Relocation on the East Corridor
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the contract with
PBS&J for the East Corridor Environmental Impact Statement (EIS)/Basic Engineering be
amended to add $1,100,000 to the project budget. The contract amendment is
required in order for the consultant to prepare Advanced Basic Engineering design
documents for the relocation of freight railroad facilities necessary for construction of
the East Corridor project.
It is further recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,100,000 from the
FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide fully fund the 2008 portion of the contract
amendment. This action will accelerate funding originally programmed for final design
in 2011 to allow for completion of final design documents.

B.

Recommendation for Contract Award to Balfour Beatty Rail Inc. for On-Call and Specific
Systems Construction Services
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to Balfour Beatty Rail Inc.
(BBRI), the most qualified firm based on the application of the evaluation criteria, in the
amount of $56,301,820 for an On-Call Systems Construction Services Contractor.
The work in this Contract includes providing new, retrofit, and emergency construction
services for the Overhead Contact System, Traction Power Systems, Fare Collection
Systems, Signal and Communication System, and Trackwork construction services.
Funding for this contract is included in the 2008 Amended Budget, the 2009-2014
Transit Development Program, and the FasTracks Financial Plan.

C.

Construction Agreement with Englewood McLellan Reservoir Foundation (EMRF) for
Earthwork at C470 & Lucent Blvd. on RTD property–Highlands Ranch
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a construction agreement with the Englewood McLellan
Reservoir Foundation (EMRF) in the amount of $671,680.00 for the overlot grading of
the Highlands Ranch RTD property located near C470 & Lucent Blvd. This action is
recommended because it would: (1) provide convenient earthwork staging and grading
of RTD property; (2) better coordinate with and blend into the adjacent development
property; and (3) is very cost effective, saving RTD approximately 50% of the cost

D.

IT Contingency Work Order Contract Third Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract amendment to exercise a third one-year option with Ciber (Contract
15DK008) and to increase the contract value by $250,000. This contract was
originally awarded in 2006 to Ciber through the competitive bid process and totally
separate from the ERP effort. The contract allowed for an initial year plus four oneyear options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The third option
year will begin in April 2009.
IT’s Business and Applications Section is presently undergoing reorganization to insure
future skills and experiences are available to support new technologies and software
RTD has now implemented. Until IT staff has been hired, contractors through work
order contracts like this one with Ciber are necessary. The 2008 Amended Budget
includes funds to support contractors while staff is being hired and brought up to
speed. It is anticipated the need for work order funds should be reduced in 2009.

E.

IT Contingency Work Order Contract Second Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manger to execute all documents necessary to award
Booz Allen Hamilton (Booz Allen) a second-year option to a current contract for IT
Technical and Management Support Services (15DK004). This is an increase in the
not-to-exceed limit of $250,000. This contract was originally awarded in 2005 to
Booz Allen through the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial-year
plus four (4) one-year options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor.
With increased needs for Booz Allen Services, IT requested the first option year be
exercised and the annual not-to-exceed was increased by $500,000. The second
option year addition of $250,000 requires Board approval. The second option year is
to begin on November 1, 2008, and remain in effect for one year until October 31,
2009.

F.

FasTracks PC Support Services Contract
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a 3 year contract, with two 1 year options for consulting services (PC Systems
Support). The 3 year contract in the amount of $244,690 with an effective date of
October 26, 2008, is to Technology Integration Group (TIG). The vendor was selected
through the competitive bid process.

G.

Station Area Master Plan Transfer Request
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,480,000 from the FasTracks
Contingency Reserve to provide initial funding for Station Area Master Planning, Next
Steps Planning and Corridor-wide Planning to be reimbursed by a federal CMAQ Grant.

H.

Salaried Employee Insured Benefits
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the 2009 plan Year Salaried Employee Insured Benefits Budget and
authorize the General Manager to enter into a agreement with the Insurance Carriers.
The total estimated cost for the 2009 Salaried Employee Insured Benefits is
$7,024,403, of which the District will pay $6,020,821 (85.7%) and our salaried
employees will contribute the remaining $1,003,582 (14.3%).
The District
contribution to the salaried insured benefits budget is included in the 2009 Requested
Budget.

I.

Request for Approval of the 2009 – 2014 Transit Development Program
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt the 2009-2014 Transit Development Program (TDP).

J.

Authorization to Accept SB1 Funding
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to receive grant funding in the amount of $1,732,500 from the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT), Division of Transportation Development and pay
the required local match in an amount up to $742,500.

K.

Approval of January 11, 2009 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 11, 2009 Service Change package as revised on
Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of approximately $445,600, and ,
further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.

L.

Federal Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Legislative Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for federal liaison services) with
Patton Boggs LLP to exercise a one-year option (February 1, 2009 through January 31,
2010) to extend Contract No. 14-DX-001, at a cost of $240,000. Funding for this
contract is included in the 2009 budget.

M.

Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that free rides on
RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be extended from the
presently approved date of December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009. Utilization has
been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal impact on RTD.

N.

Approval of Contract Amendment to Parsons Brinckerhoff for Advanced
Preliminary Engineering for Denver Union Station
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute a Contract Amendment with
Parsons Brinkerhoff (PB) for the Advanced Preliminary Engineering Design and
continued preliminary design of Amtrak/Ski train and Commuter Rail access into
Denver Union Station in the amount not to exceed $5,000,000. The total current
contract amount, including previous amendments, is $23,096,2 79.
This
amendment will increase the contract value to $28,096,279. This amendment is
required to maintain the anticipated Design Build (D/B) schedule.
It is also recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $3,300,000 from
the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide the full funding for the contract
amendment. This action will accelerate funding programmed in the DUS Budget
for 2009 to allow for the Advanced Preliminary Engineering Design and continued
preliminary design for the Amtrak/Ski train and Commuter Rail access into Denver
Union Station. The Contingency Reserve will be replenished from DUS project
funds in the 2009 budget.

IX.

RECOMMENDED ACTION

X.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XI.

NEW BUSINESS

XII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(a) Update on Denver Federal Center Joint Development
C.R.S. 24-6-402 (4)(f)(I) Personnel Matters

XIII.

ADJOURN

