Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

October 22, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
October 21, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

III.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Twelve (12) Board members were present at roll call.
absent and Director Ruchman arrived after roll call.

Directors Busck and Elfenbein were

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retiree awards.
APTA Award
Chair Kemp shared that a public reception had just been held announcing RTD as the winner of
the 2008 Outstanding Public Transportation System of the Year Award. He thanked Cal
Marsella and his staff for acquiring this award for the third time and turned it over to Cal
Marsella.
Cal Marsella acknowledged Holman Carter, President ATU 1001, and Bruce Abel, AGM for
Customer and Contracted Services, and requested them to relay his appreciation to the drivers
and private contractors. As he has toured the country and hosted other agencies, a common
denominator that keeps coming through is how the District’s drivers are so positive and
courteous and helpful. This is unique and one of the service criteria that qualified RTD for this
award. Chair Kemp echoed these thoughts to Holman Carter as well
Bruce Daly, RTD Director, shared his personal perspective of Initiative 47, Right to Work
Initiative. He expressed appreciation to the workers and to the union as valued employees.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Russell Greear spoke on a perceived ADA violation 59 USC, HB 1029, committed by a RTD
driver which caused him personal injury and pain. He spoke of his due process rights to have
an executive to address this issue and felt he was getting the runabout. Director Christopher
shared that Mr. Greear had contacted him about this issue over the weekend and a
subsequent GMR has been issued for staff to investigate and respond back to Mr. Greear.
Cal Marsella indicated that he had asked Mr. Greear to provide him with a formal letter and
the associated medical records and RTD will respond to this issue appropriately.
Martin Wirth, US 285 Coalition, shared they have begun lobbying to get more funding from
Washington D.C. for RTD. He related studies that show all level of spending for
transit/highway infrastructure in the US is less than 80 billion compared with other countries.
The US invests less than 1/5 of what other countries are investing in their infrastructure.

This is an economic issue that makes us less competitive.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no committee reports. Director Daly requested that his name is removed from the
attendance list for the GM Evaluation Committee held October 14, 2008. Director Tayer
requested a couple of edit changes from the 10/16/08 Executive Committee meeting minutes.

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF August 19, 2008

MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the September 26 and
additional changes to the August 19, 2008 regular board meeting
minutes.
Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 12 votes in favor and 0
against.
Directors Busck and Elfenbein were absent and
Director Ruchman had not yet arrived.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

1. Meeting with National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Commission
Cal Marsella, Directors Ruchman and Yamrick participated in a meeting that looked at the
National Transportation Policy. The speaker shared the Commission’s report that we are
under-invested in the US public transportation and highway infrastructure and business as
usual will not be acceptable for the future or it will create serious problems.
Cal Marsella participated in a panel discussion at the APTA Annual conference where
Directors McMullen, Ruchman and Yamrick were also in attendance. He shared his
perspective that lack of investment in our infrastructure is creating a severe impact on
global balance of power and concern over national security and national defense. The
implications are great and have a profound impact on the US best interests. They heard in
this conference how Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, is building a transit system with
heavy rail, light rail, and personal light rail with budgets in magnitudes of trillions of dollars,
unlike the US where we struggle with budgets and small items (e.g. if we can afford a
trash can). We need to forge ahead to get mobility options out there. Director Ruchman
concurred on the significance of this issue and offered to work with Cal Marsella on ideas
of how to move this forward. Director McMullen commented this was quite interesting
considering that United Arab Emirates is an oil country that is building their future green
city without oil.
2. Meeting with DDI October 15, 2008 on FasTracks and the Mall
Cal Marsella shared that the team has been looking at trying a new repair mechanism
applying epoxy grout to the 16th Street mall pavers in troublesome areas. They have
applied it to a test area on the mall and are hopeful that this material will have more
longevity. Cal gave DDI a report on FasTracks. They have expressed continued strong
support for FasTracks.

3. Peer Review Meeting October 15, 2008

RTD had a peer review meeting with third party independent experts from Salt Lake City,
Austin and New York to provide an objective review of FasTracks. Cal Marsella considers
this a value added experience and will endorse other evaluations from 3rd parties. The
team is considering costs for RFPs to bring these third party objective teams in and Cal
may need to come back to the Board for additional funds.
4. DRCOG Board meeting on October 15
Cal Marsella provided a review of FasTracks to the Board of Directors for DRCOG. Nancy
McNally, Chair of DRCOG, requested an analysis on an alternative for the East and Gold
lines if Federal funds are not obtained. This scenario was presented to the Board at the
meeting on October 14, 2008. Cal Marsella also noted there are new people on the
DRCOG committee who may not have knowledge of the independent evaluation which was
paid for through RTD funds but performed for DRCOG in 2004 and supported the cost
model at the time (SB-208 report).DRCOG provided unanimous support at that time. RTD
has paid money to DRCOG annually and will do it again this year for these independent
evaluations to be done. It is important to know RTD was not in this alone in making the
decisions for FasTracks and accountability is throughout the region. Right now, it is more
important to focus on positive, proactive corrective action for FasTracks in a regionally
collaborative effort to get this program built.
Director Ruchman echoed Cal Marsella’s statement and reflected on the 2003 cost model
where the independent consultants hired by DRCOG (but paid by RTD) were in agreement
with RTD and had only slight changes with the revenue model. These experts hired by
DRCOG thoroughly vetted the proposal before it was passed on.
Director Daly questioned why there are new members on the DRCOG Board. Director
Pulliam stated that municipality elections have different timetables. Director Martinez
stated it is no different than the RTD Board which has also changed leadership over the last
five years. Cal Marsella stated he just wanted the Board members to be armed so they can
properly educate the new DRCOG members and others as they question the FasTracks
program.
5. Host to Indianapolis Delegation October 20, 2008 Cal Marsella hosted a site visit for a
group of delegates, including the Mayor, from Indianapolis. He spoke at a breakfast
meeting, provided a tour of DUS, and also participated in a dinner meeting where Mayor
Hickenlooper gave a presentation on Denver. The delegation is very interested in emulating
RTD but have a different political climate there.
6. Presentation to Adams County Council of Government, Wednesday, October 22, 2008
Cal Marsella will provide a presentation on FasTracks at the Bella event center in Brighton
on October 22, 2008 at 6:00 p.m. He encouraged Board members to attend.
7. Presentation to Tampa Delegation on October 22, 2008
Cal Marsella will present to a delegation from Tampa on October 22nd. This is their third
trip here and they have expressed interest in emulating the RTD model. Part of the
challenges is in their Board structure. Cal believes in the elected official model where
collectively there is a regional vision and perspective but with local representation. When
the decisions have to be made, the Board members pull together for the best interest of
the region.
8. Breakfast with Louisville City Council on October 23, 2008
Cal Marsella will do a presentation to the Louisville City Council on FasTracks issues.

9. Other Matters
Cal Marsella provided an update on route-match and referred the Board to the handout
prepared by staff on access-a-Ride. Ridership is up but vehicle deployment is down. We
are averaging about six complaints per day. Some of these complaints appear to show a
breakdown in communications. We need a better monitoring system. We are working on
implementing mobile data terminals that communicate directly with vehicles. One of the
things we will look for is when the driver gets within 300 yards, it will trigger the dispatch.
The MDTs will enable us to determine if a person is picked up within the window. We still
need to test the system but we should get a real precipitous result when the MDTs are
implemented. A copy of this handout with more details is included in the Board meeting
minute notebook located in the Board office.
Several Board members had questions related to access-a-Ride:
Director Ruchman inquired how many total riders do we have and can we identify what
happens at the point of disconnect which appears to be within a small radius of pickup. It
may be an issue of going to the wrong door or wrong side of a building for pickup. These
are the kind of disconnects that he hears about. Cal Marsella responded we have from
2800-3000 one-way trips per day. This kind of information is best captured in the
database where special instructions can be noted. We are building up the new system with
these notes and hopefully will see a downward trend in the number of disconnects.
Director Martinez queried if we could tell if we have lost regular passengers who are no
longer access-a-Ride users. Is there an ID code that would allow us to capture this data?
Cal Marsella responded it is possible to get this information and maybe do a regression
analysis. However, we will need to weigh in if these users are now access-a-Cab users
since access-a-Cab ridership has increased 33%.
Director Quinlan asked for the cost for access-a-Ride use versus access-a-Cab. Cal
Marsella responded access-a-Cab is $12 compared to access-a-Ride of approximately $40.
Bruce Abel shared that we have seen in the neighborhood of 4-5% improvement in
productivity as a result of the new system. Unfortunately we have experienced customer
service problems. It is anticipated that with the AVL/MDT, we should see improvements in
our ability to document when a customer is picked up and dropped off and will be better
able to address the disconnects that were discovered. While the primary purpose of our
current project was to install AVL/MDTs in the access-a-Ride fleet to improve customer
service, there may also be some productivity benefits. In the past few years, access-a-Ride
revenue has been growing at a rate of about 8% which translates to cost increases. If we
experience the same rates of growth in access-a-Ride, the productivity improvements will
help to absorb some of the increases in ridership without commensurate increase in cost.
Director Brohl inquired about what mechanisms RTD is using to track customer service
improvements and if the Board would see these in their reports. Bruce Abel responded
they are looking at call statistics such as TIC, dispatch, ontime performance, etc. Director
Daly added this information was already provided in a report shared at the Operations
Committee meeting.
Director Yamrick expressed that RTD was also a winner of the ADwheels award and Tony
McCauley should be recognized at the next Board meeting.

IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Unanimous Consent Agenda minus A and N which
will move to recommended action, and item F which was
pulled from the agenda per staff request.
Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and 0 against. Directors Busck and Elfenbein were
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

B.

Recommendation for Contract Award to Balfour Beatty Rail Inc. for On-Call and
Specific Systems Construction Services
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to Balfour Beatty Rail Inc.
(BBRI), the most qualified firm based on the application of the evaluation criteria, in the
amount of $56,301,820 for an On-Call Systems Construction Services Contractor.
The work in this Contract includes providing new, retrofit, and emergency construction
services for the Overhead Contact System, Traction Power Systems, Fare Collection
Systems, Signal and Communication System, and Trackwork construction services.
Funding for this contract is included in the 2008 Amended Budget, the 2009-2014
Transit Development Program, and the FasTracks Financial Plan.

C.

Construction Agreement with Englewood McLellan Reservoir Foundation (EMRF) for
Earthwork at C470 & Lucent Blvd. on RTD property–Highlands Ranch
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a construction agreement with the Englewood McLellan
Reservoir Foundation (EMRF) in the amount of $671,680.00 for the overlot grading of
the Highlands Ranch RTD property located near C470 & Lucent Blvd. This action is
recommended because it would: (1) provide convenient earthwork staging and grading
of RTD property; (2) better coordinate with and blend into the adjacent development
property; and (3) is very cost effective, saving RTD approximately 50% of the cost

D.

IT Contingency Work Order Contract Third Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract amendment to exercise a third one-year option with Ciber (Contract
15DK008) and to increase the contract value by $250,000. This contract was
originally awarded in 2006 to Ciber through the competitive bid process and totally
separate from the ERP effort. The contract allowed for an initial year plus four oneyear options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The third option
year will begin in April 2009.
IT’s Business and Applications Section is presently undergoing reorganization to insure
future skills and experiences are available to support new technologies and software
RTD has now implemented. Until IT staff has been hired, contractors through work
order contracts like this one with Ciber are necessary. The 2008 Amended Budget
includes funds to support contractors while staff is being hired and brought up to
speed. It is anticipated the need for work order funds should be reduced in 2009.

E.

IT Contingency Work Order Contract Second Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manger to execute all documents necessary to award
Booz Allen Hamilton (Booz Allen) a second-year option to a current contract for IT
Technical and Management Support Services (15DK004). This is an increase in the
not-to-exceed limit of $250,000. This contract was originally awarded in 2005 to
Booz Allen through the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial-year
plus four (4) one-year options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor.
With increased needs for Booz Allen Services, IT requested the first option year be
exercised and the annual not-to-exceed was increased by $500,000. The second
option year addition of $250,000 requires Board approval. The second option year is
to begin on November 1, 2008, and remain in effect for one year until October 31,
2009.

G.

Station Area Master Plan Transfer Request
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,480,000 from the FasTracks
Contingency Reserve to provide initial funding for Station Area Master Planning, Next
Steps Planning and Corridor-wide Planning to be reimbursed by a federal CMAQ Grant.

H.

Salaried Employee Insured Benefits
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the 2009 plan Year Salaried Employee Insured Benefits Budget and
authorize the General Manager to enter into a agreement with the Insurance Carriers.
The total estimated cost for the 2009 Salaried Employee Insured Benefits is
$7,024,403, of which the District will pay $6,020,821 (85.7%) and our salaried
employees will contribute the remaining $1,003,582 (14.3%).
The District
contribution to the salaried insured benefits budget is included in the 2009 Requested
Budget.

I.

Request for Approval of the 2009 – 2014 Transit Development Program
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt the 2009-2014 Transit Development Program (TDP).

J.

Authorization to Accept SB1 Funding
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to receive grant funding in the amount of $1,732,500 from the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT), Division of Transportation Development and pay
the required local match in an amount up to $742,500.

K.

Approval of January 11, 2009 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 11, 2009 Service Change package as revised on
Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of approximately $445,600, and ,
further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.

L.

Federal Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Legislative Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for federal liaison services) with
Patton Boggs LLP to exercise a one-year option (February 1, 2009 through January 31,
2010) to extend Contract No. 14-DX-001, at a cost of $240,000. Funding for this
contract is included in the 2009 budget.

M.

Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that free rides on
RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be extended from the
presently approved date of December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009. Utilization has
been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal impact on RTD.

X. RECOMMENDED ACTION
A.

Approval of Contract Amendment to PBS&J for Advanced Preliminary Engineering of
UPRP Track Relocation on the East Corridor
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the contract with
PBS&J for the East Corridor Environmental Impact Statement (EIS)/Basic Engineering be
amended to add $1,100,000 to the project budget. The contract amendment is
required in order for the consultant to prepare Advanced Basic Engineering design
documents for the relocation of freight railroad facilities necessary for construction of
the East Corridor project.
It is further recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,100,000 from the
FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide fully fund the 2008 portion of the contract
amendment. This action will accelerate funding originally programmed for final design
in 2011 to allow for completion of final design documents.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the
approval of this recommended
action.
Director Christopher seconded the
motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken
with 12 votes in favor
(Brohl, Chacon, Christopher,
Daly, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman and Tayer) and 1
against (Yamrick). Directors
Busck and Elfenbein were
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED.

N.

Approval of Contract Amendment to Parsons Brinckerhoff for Advanced
Preliminary Engineering for Denver Union Station
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute a Contract Amendment with
Parsons Brinkerhoff (PB) for the Advanced Preliminary Engineering Design and
continued preliminary design of Amtrak/Ski train and Commuter Rail access into
Denver Union Station in the amount not to exceed $5,000,000. The total current
contract amount, including previous amendments, is $23,096,279.
This
amendment will increase the contract value to $28,096,279. This amendment is
required to maintain the anticipated Design Build (D/B) schedule.
It is also recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD

Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $ 3,300,000 from
the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide the full funding for the contract
amendment. This action will accelerate funding programmed in the DUS Budget
for 2009 to allow for the Advanced Preliminary Engineering Design and continued
preliminary design for the Amtrak/Ski train and Commuter Rail access into Denver
Union Station. The Contingency Reserve will be replenished from DUS project
funds in the 2009 budget.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the
approval of this recommended
action.
Director Chacon seconded the
motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken
with 12 votes in favor
(Brohl, Chacon, Christopher,
Daly, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman and Tayer) and 1
against (Yamrick). Directors
Busck and Elfenbein were
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED.

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Director McMullen indicated that Governor Ritter would be doing a rally on the steps of the
Capitol to defeat amendments 47/49/54.

XII.

NEW BUSINESS
There was no new business.

XIII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Director Martinez made the motion to move into Executive Session to discuss C.R.S. 24-6402(4) (a) Update on Denver Federal Center Joint Development and C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (f) (I)
Personnel Matters.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.
The motion passed.
The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 6:35 p.m.

XIV.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 8:30 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, October 21, 2008

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
William McMullen, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Bruce Daly
Daryl Kinton
Wally Pulliam
O’Neill Quinlan
Dave Ruchman
Barbara Yamrick

District I
District B
District E
District O
District D
District C
District J
District N
District H
District L
District G
District M
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rick Clarke
David Genova
Cal Marsella
Bill Porter
Cal Shankster
Bill Sirois
John Tarbert
Lisa Trujillo

Larry Buter
Sherry Ellebracht
Terry Howerter
Paula Perdue
Scott Reed
John Shonsey
Roger Sherman
Pauletta Tonilas
Phil Washington

OTHERS PRESENT:
Martin Wirth – Riders 285 Coalition
Debbie Champion – Riders 285 Coalition
Peter Lorenzen
Steve Roescher - Siemens
Chris Taylor – Spectrum
Holman Carter - ATU
Kim Snyder
Ed Colby – URS
Laura Yribia
Bill Hepp – MV
Fred Hansen JCI
Robin Kneich – FRESC
Brian Balature – Audix
Tom Wambolt – CPRC
Linda Wambolt - CPRC
Gary Ulberg – First Transit
Russell Greear

Susan Cohen
Marla Lien
Caitlin Magee
Robert Merriman
Jerry Nery
Stan Szabelak
Liz Telford
Bill Van Meter

