Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 26, 2011
Page 1 of 8
Regional Transportation District

Corrected Minutes
Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

Date:

April 26, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 26, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.

Special Board Meeting
I.

Call to Order
Chair Pro Tem Tayer called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Roll Call
There were thirteen (13) Board members present at roll call. Chair Kemp participated
via conference call, and Director Brohl arrived at 5:45 p.m.

III.

Public Participation: FasTracks Financial Plan
Chris Romer – Denver Mayoral Candidate spoke to the Board concerning his desire to
see the completion of the FasTracks project. He indicated FasTracks is an important
investment to our community. Mr. Romer suggested that RTD move forward cautiously
and thoughtfully as respectable public stewards of the community to gain the
community confidence. While Mr. Romer noted that the timing is critical, he further
indicated his support of the program and willingness to help RTD once he is elected
Mayor.
Gene Putman, Transportation Manager for the City of Thornton explained that the
public does not wish to see this project languish. If this is delayed any further, the
confidence of the voters will be lost.
Ken Burns, CAC, referenced a letter submitted to the Board by CAC in December
regarding approaching the voters for the 0.4 increase. Mr. Burns explained that this is
an extremely difficult decision and is unaware of any first-class and growing city that
does not have a first rate public transportation system. FasTracks, Mr. Burns noted, is
critical to making Denver a world class city.

IV.

Unanimous Consent Agenda
Chair Pro Tem Tayer asked to move both items together as unanimous consent.
Director O’Boyle questioned item A., and asked if the $1.5M would be transferred
before the FFGA was signed. Rick Clarke indicated that we needed to get a jump start
with this contract since we were partnering with CDOT and features were already in
motion. Director O’Boyle asked if our strategy is to hope that the FFGA will be signed.
General Manager Washington commented that we are more than confident that the
FFGA will be executed.
A. Transfer from FasTracks Contingency Reserve for Near Term Staffing for the 1-225

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 26, 2011
Page 2 of 8

Corridor, Segment 1
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the transfer for $1,050,000 from the FasTracks Contingency
Reserve to the I-225 Corridor Project budget to fund near term staffing needs for
Segment 1 of the I-225 Corridor. These Funds would be replenished from the $305
million available funding upon signing of the Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) for
the Eagle Project. The fund transfer would take effect upon execution of the
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City of Aurora for the East Corridor.
B. Contract Amendment with Michael Baker Jr., Inc. for Post-Design Services on the
1-225 Corridor, Segment 1, Contract No. 17-DH-006
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or designees to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract amendment not to exceed $400,000 with Michael Baker
Jr., Inc. (Baker) to provide post-design services for Segment 1, Nine Mile to Iliff, on the
I-225 Corridor. This action would increase the current contract amount of $9,756,237
to a new contract total of $10,156,237.
It is further recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the transfer of $400,000 from the FasTracks Contingency
Reserve to the I-225 Corridor Project budget to fund this work. These funds would be
replenished from the $305 million available funding upon signing of the Full Funding
Grant Agreement (FFGA) for the Eagle Project. These Actions will take effect upon
execution of the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City of Aurora for the
East Corridor.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve the transfer from
FasTracks Contingency Reserve for Near Term Staffing for I-225
Corridor, Segment 1 and the contract amendment with Michael
Baker, Jr., for Post-design services on the I-225 Corridor,
Segment 1.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:
V.

The vote passed UNANIMOUSLY.

Unfinished Business


2011 Financial Plan Update (Completing the Vision)

General Manager Washington noted that the information presented tonight is to inform
the Board as to whether or not to pursue a sales tax for 2011. He provided an
overview of the annual program evaluation (APE) activities to-date:
 June 2010—Competitive bid for the Eagle project came in lower than internal
estimates
 August 2010-RTD received a request to analyze 0.1% sales and use tax
increase scenario (0.1%, 0.2%, 0.3, and 0.4%)
 November 9, 2010—Staff presented the Completing the Vision presentation to
the RTD Board of Directors which also included the $305 M.
 November-December 2010-Obtained stakeholders input on the short-term
options for the remaining $305 M and long-term sales and use tax scenarios.
 January 2011-Staff provided a presentation of implementation packages
including stakeholder feedback and additional analysis for 0.1%, 0.2%, 0.3%

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 26, 2011
Page 3 of 8






and 0.4%
February 8, 2011-Presentation of results of privately funded focus groups
conducted in January which indicated a support for 0.4% in 2011
February 15, 2011-Presentation on results of first private poll conducted in
December 2010 which provided support for the 0.4%
March 1, 2011-Presentation on results of the second private poll conducted in
February 2011 which indicated a lack of support for going to the ballot in 2011.
March 8, 2011-RTD Board approval of the APE which included: (1) a financial
plan that assumed an election in 2012 for an additional 0.4% but did not
preclude an election in 2011 (2) approval of the implementation plan for the
$305M pending award of the FFGA for the Eagle Project (3) Working with
DRCOG to begin review of two separate financial plans, one assuming an
election in 2011 and one assuming an election in 2012 (4) staff recommended a
60-day review period to conduct additional research prior to a final board
decision

General Manager Washington indicated staff has been quite busy over this 60-day
period, which included seeking expert opinions from economists, political consultants
and others. He introduced analysts Ken Simonson, and Dr. Richard Wobbekind to
provide their expert opinions regarding the current financial climate to help determine if
2011 would be the optimal year to proceed with this tax increase.
Ken Simonson, Chief Economist for AGC of America provided a presentation on
construction and material outlook. He provided various charts and graphs on
construction spending including a one that detailed nonresidential for highways and
street spending experienced an 11% increase from 2010 to 2011 and a negative 1%
drop in transportation (transit, rail air, ports) for this same period. He indicated that in
2011 construction spending for public works (transportation facilities) was beginning to
plateau due to a decrease in stimuli for high speed rail and highways. Mr. Simonson
also noted that Colorado has experienced a 7% drop in construction employment and
currently, Colorado is one of the bottom ranking states in this field. He further noted
with the producer price index (PPI) for construction inputs, that material costs have
increased and companies have not been able to pass on these costs which result in a
decrease of their margins. However, his outlook expects periods of 6 to 8% PPI
increases.
A copy of this presentation is included with the Board minutes in the Board Office.
Dr. Richard Wobbekind, Executive Director of the Business Research Division and
Associate Dean for MBA and Executive programs at CU – Boulder added that the GDP
is getting stronger, but the current economy is directly tied to employment rate issues.
The National Average is still below what it was a few years ago, and unemployment
rates remain high, spurring low consumer confidence across the nation. At the same
time, Colorado has experienced significant population growth whereas the job growth
has remained weak. Much of the survey on business confidence is based around large
and mid-size companies whereas Colorado is a small business economy causing the
impact to Colorado being greater. He noted specifically that construction employment
is holding the economy down. Dr. Wobbekind shared that from the Leeds Business
Confidence Index (LBCI) this is reflecting that Colorado is slowly catching up. The level
of optimism remains high, which hopefully will lead to better pricing a year from now.
A copy of Dr. Wobbekind’s presentation is available with the Board minutes in the
Board office.
General Manager Washington stated that from this economic overview, RTD is creating
additional opportunities for small and disadvantaged businesses; We are also generating
thousands of additional jobs for the region and state presently, which will help improve
economic conditions across the state of Colorado.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 26, 2011
Page 4 of 8
Sherry Ellebracht, RTD Government Relations Officer explained that RTD had
discussions with 12 local political consultants on the viability and challenges of moving
towards a near-term election. Feedback indicated that:
 Unanimous consensus that 2011 is not the best year to go to voters for
a tax increase election
 Current economic conditions will make the tax increase election a
challenge
 Any off year election has proven lower voter turnout
 RTD should continue to educate the public with regards to the FasTracks
program
 Additional time should be allotted for campaign time to engage
supporters, raise money, and build coalitions.
 Be considerate of the public
 RTD cannot afford to get the message wrong.
Scott Reed, RTD Assistant General Manager of Communications provided a campaign
funding snapshot. Research prepared by independent third parties compared the funding
climate with the 2004 timeframe. He noted that in 2004 the real estate/development
community was the largest contributor, but many of the 2004 contributors have since
consolidated, especially in real estate/development, construction, IT and financial
institutions. Subsequently, a campaign group analysis indicates that funding may be
insufficient for a 2011 tax increase campaign.
Pauletta Tonilas, FasTracks Public Information Manager discussed the public input
process and noted that the public input included over 3,400 responses and nearly 1.5
million newspaper impressions. 70% of those respondents would like to see the sales
and use tax initiative to occur in the near-term. Pauletta commented that the April 3
Call to the People campaign was designed to add another layer of information from the
public at large and was designed to educate. Ms. Tonilas further noted that this was
not a statistically valid survey, but allowed RTD an opportunity to reach the individuals
from whom we would not normally get to hear from.
General Manager Washington explained that it is very important for staff to provide the
Board with all the information needed. He hopes the Board appreciates staff taking this
60 day window to ask more questions and to deliver a well thought out
recommendation. At this time, staff does not recommend that the Board pursue a sales
and use tax election in 2011. Instead, staff recommends maintaining the current
financial plan and keeping within those guidelines.
Questions and Comments from Board members:
Director Cohen asked the economists of their confidence in the construction inflation as
it ties into fuel (oil prices), and how oil prices at a prolonged level factor into their
confidence level. Ken Simonson indicated that he has never been able to accurately
forecast gas or diesel prices, but he does not see us matching the 2008 prices. Mr.
Simonson believes the oil markets have already absorbed major hits. Dr. Wobbekind
responded that at some level, this has already been factored in and he does not see this
as a possible outcome.
Director Cohen inquired that if a year from now the polls show the same information as
tonight, what would be the next course of action. General Manager Washington
responded with an adage from one of the political consultants who said at some point
you have to make a decision to move on.
Director Brohl noted that state construction employment in Colorado experienced a 7%
drop while its neighboring state, Wyoming experienced a 5% increase and inquired as
to what might account for these differences. Ken Simonson responded that Wyoming
has benefited from other resources that have been booming. Colorado took an
unfavorable hit in construction and has not recovered as fast.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 26, 2011
Page 5 of 8
Director Daly asked if material cost is a global phenomenon. Ken Simonson responded
by indicating that he believes it is, and that it has been the global recovery that has
enhanced the cost of steel, etc.
Chair Kemp who was participating via phone expressed his appreciation of the
presentation. The Board has one shot to get this right and needs to be careful about
how we decide to move forward. From his perspective, he would take 2011 off the
table and continue to move ahead with a plan to study the situation.
Director O’Boyle asked a question related to the negative migration to job creation and
what this will do to the unemployment rate. Dr. Wobbekind responded he is not sure
we are capturing the unemployment rate satisfactorily for Colorado.
Director Brohl expressed her appreciation to the staff for the well thought out
presentation noting that staff has done a lot of information gathering allowing the Board
additional time to obtain information that will help them make the right decision.
VI.

Recommended Action
Chair Pro Tem Tayer read aloud into the record the resolution concerning a 2011
FasTracks election in its entirety. A copy of that resolution is attached to these
minutes for approval.


Resolution No. 04 Series of 2011 concerning a 2011 FasTracks Election
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve the Resolution
No_ Series of 2011 concerning a 2011 FasTracks Election.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Anderson noted that RTD should continue to pursue
grants and alternative funding and work with our North and
Northwest neighbors to demonstrate that the full build out will be
completed in a timely manner.
Director Deadwyler read a statement pertaining to her position on
this issue. FasTracks builds upon and supports those things that
she feels most passionately about as a Director. It is also these
issues that compelled her to run for the Director’s seat. As she
has repeated in a number of meetings, she is deeply concerned
about, and passionately moved by, the plight of our residents
who either do not have the means to own private transportation,
or who have different limitations that require dependence upon
public transportation. This uniquely affected population relies
upon the transit system we own, operate, and hope to build to
sustain their day-to-day lives. They need transit to go from their
homes to their jobs. They need transit to go from their homes to
shop for food and clothing. They need transit to receive medical
and other services required to maintain their daily life. In her
opinion, FasTracks must honor our responsibility to complete the
FasTracks project to provide service to this uniquely affected
population. However, even as she supports FasTracks, she does
not want board or staff, to lose sight of the need to maintain our
base and basic operations and services. Once again, the
residents in our service area, as well as this uniquely situated
population look forward to the day when FasTracks is completed
and the dream becomes a reality. However, we defeat the
purpose of fully building out FasTracks if we diminish, reduce or
eliminate these base services that our transit riding population

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 26, 2011
Page 6 of 8
has come to rely upon, depend upon and support with their
ridership and their money. She knows these are difficult times
for governments at every level and private businesses in every
sector. Indeed, she supports our ongoing need to economize, find
efficiencies and to continually and critically evaluate the services
we provide whether at stations, platforms, or even in the route
structure that we have developed by bus and rail. But make no
mistake about this as we continue to honor our responsibility to
provide the most effective and efficient mass transit at the most
reasonable fare, maintaining the base level of services to
accommodate as broad a population as possible is vitally
important. If we build the shiny and new but do not maintain the
core function, we have not kept our faith with our supporters,
and we do not provide them with additional reasons to support
our efforts. They may come in fear that we will forsake what
becomes the new basic level of services, merely to chase the
newest and shiniest innovations. With this caution in mind, she is
pleased to support the decision of this body to wait before
approaching the voting public for a sales tax increase.
Director Hoy commented that regardless of the outcome, he is
very supportive of a full FasTracks build out and want to make
sure that the northern area gets completed.
Director O’Boyle complimented the team on the thoroughness of
their work and stated he was pleased to hear about the statistical
responses from the public. He relayed some of the comments he
has heard in that the delay in gathering information makes it late
to make a decision now. However, the Board needs to make a
decision now and the businesses will then rally around that
decision. There are a number of factors that indicate 2011 as the
right time to move forward. Considering current prices and the
potential for increases next year, now would the best time to
move forward with construction. With consumer confidence
levels increasing, FasTracks can add 25,000 jobs which is close
to a 10% increase; the 50K or so who are currently unemployed
will welcome the opportunity to get jobs and would probably
vote for 2011. RTD needs to make a decision, rally the
supporter, check the construction workers who are now available
and get it done now. With the tax initiative, we can finish not
only the northern communities, but the other unfunded corridors
as well.
Director Bagley expressed his support and stated “it’s getting
late early”. It is too late to make a decision to go to the ballot in
2011.
Director Cohen added that while he agrees with Director
O’Boyle, he would love to complete this project sooner than
later. He wishes someone would step up to the plate with a
$1M+ check in hand and say go forward. However, he is a
realist, and with the financial backing lacking, we will need help
with this, and 2012 seems a more optimal time to get this done.
Chair Kemp noted that unless we receive funding to do an
adequate campaign, we should wait. Right now, we need to put
together a plan with how we will get this project completed and
he is in full support of this resolution.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 26, 2011
Page 7 of 8
Chair Pro Tem Tayer indicated that he shares the sentiment
expressed by Directors O’Boyle and Cohen. There are a lot of
good reasons for going now and RTD could be the job creating
engine for economic stimulus and there is the public’s desire to
see this project finished sooner than later as well. However, we
are still experiencing major economic recovery issues. He will
support this resolution but will work very hard to go to the
voters to build confidence and to get their vote for the full build
out of FasTracks in the near future.
Vote on
Motion:

The vote passed 13 in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Brohl, Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, Riley,
Tayer and Tobiassen) and 1 against (O’Boyle). Chair Kemp
was present by phone but could not vote.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared this action PASSED.

VII.

Adjourn to Study Session
The meeting adjourned at 7:35 p.m. to the Study Session.

Prepared by:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager of the RTD Board of Directors

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 26, 2011
Page 8 of 8

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, April 26, 2011

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Lorraine Anderson
Barbara Brohl
Larry Hoy
Matt Cohen
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Kenneth Riley
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Mark Baudermann
Craig Carter
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
Libby Cox
Lee Cryer
Chuck Culig
Kevin Diviness
Jane Donovan
Sherry Ellebracht
Mike Gil

District I – via Conference Call
District O
District M
District C
District H
District L
District D
District J
District M
District N
District B
District A
District E
District G
District K
District F
Kenn Hardin
Terry Howerter
Austin Jenkings
Marla Lien
Barbara McManus
Doug MacLeod
Anthony Menendez
Brian Middleton
Andy Mutz
Tai-Shrae Parish
Paula Perdue
Steve Pilon

Scott Reed
Christian Reitter
Jannette Scarpino
Teresa Sedmak
Roger Sherman
Danielle Smith
Pauletta Tonilas
Christina Tubb
Mike Turner
Bill Van Meter
Del Walker
Phil Washington

OTHERS PRESENT
Steve Bachar, Amber Brenzikofer – Parsons, Ken Burns – CAC, Gene Davis – Denver Daily News,
Mac Callison – City of Aurora, Gary Eckhardt – STANTEC, Dave Erb – FasTracks Citizens Advisory
Committee, Charles Holcer – Neighborhood Gazette, David Hollis – HNTB, Melanie Keene, Sean
Lehocky – Commerce City, Jeff Leib – Denver Post, Brian Lewandowski – CU Boulder, David Lewis –
CAC, Ernest Liming – Statesman, Miles Light, Tom Mand – Reporter, Terry Marln – DTCG, Julie
Martin – DTCG, Chris Martinez, Rich McClintock – TS, Alex Mehn – TS, Jerry Mugg – HNTB, Bob
Murphy – City of Lakewood, Jim Paulmeno – CDOT, Gene Putman – City of Thornton, Nanci Regnier
– Regnier and Associates, Terry Rinter – CCD, Chris Romer – Denver Mayoral Candidate, Richard
Romig – Aecom, Ken Simonson – Associated General Contractors of America, Chris Taylor –
Spectrum A/V, S.S. Sowell, Scott Weeks – DRCOG, Richard Wobbekind – CU Boulder

