Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 11, 2010, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 7
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

February 11, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 11,
2010 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp, Vice-Chair Martinez, 2nd Vice-Chair Busck,
Treasurer Tayer and Secretary Bagley.

Board Member Absent:
Other Board Members Present:
Others Present:
Call to Order:

I.

Paula Perdue, Phil Washington,
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:05 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Approval of Proclamation for Director Chacon
The Executive Committee discussed the appropriateness of when to present
this resolution and the poem written by Director Daly. They decided this
should be a personal presentation by the Chair to Director Chacon in an
informal setting. We will remove the poem from the resolution.

Motion:

Director Tayer made a motion to move the
proclamation to the full Board for approval on
February 16, 2010.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The Motion PASSED.

 Approval of Board Bylaws
The Executive Committee discussed the proposed revisions to the Board
bylaws. Director Tayer shared his perspective that language pertaining to
benchmarking and contract monitoring should not be included under the new

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 11, 2010, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 7
standing committee, GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee.
The Committee agreed that specifically calling out benchmarking and contract
monitoring in this description was redundant to the already listed responsibility.
Director Busck added that his new committee would have a component where
the goal setting and evaluation working groups are tasked to define what
process they will use to meet the objective and these sub-groups are the best
forum for defining when benchmarking would occur if needed.
Additional changes, including changes already provided by Director Bagley,
were noted and will be included in the revised copy that the full Board will
receive.
Motion:

Director Busck made a motion to move the
approval of the Board Bylaws forward pending
inclusion of the changes discussed.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:
II.

The Motion PASSED.

February Board Meeting Agenda Review
General Manager Phil Washington reviewed the action items on the unanimous
consent and recommended action list. The Board had a number of concerns
and requested revisions to the recommended action items which will need to
be updated from the FasTracks Committee meeting on 2/9. The Executive
Committee discussed their concerns with some of these and made note of
follow up needed before the Board meeting on 2/16/2010.
General Manager Phil Washington agreed to an additional language change
request from Director Tayer for the action item to remove moving sidewalks
(travelators) from the underground bus facility at DUS.
Director Martinez shared some of his concerns related to the action item on the
proposed East Corridor IGA with City and County of Denver and DIA. He will
be meeting with DIA and others to formulate his decision over whether to
support. General Manager Phil Washington indicated he was taking a close
look at the proposal and provided a brief background surrounding this option.
Motion:

Director Martinez made a motion to move the
February Board meeting Agenda forward for
approval at the full Board meeting on 2/16/10
pending the already requested modifications.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The Motion PASSED.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 11, 2010, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 7
 Unanimous Consent
 Approval of Proclamation for Director Chacon
 Transfer of Funds for the East Metro & Boulder Boilers – TIGGER Grant
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,095,000
from the Transit Reserve account and $156,000 from the Energy
Conservation program, to the East Metro and Boulder Maintenance Boiler
Replacement Project accounts. The Energy Conservation funds are included
in the 2010 RTD budget.
 Proposed Eagle P3 IGA with CDOT for Coordination
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to sign a proposed
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) for the Eagle P3 Project. The agreement includes
specific terms defining coordination, and the rights and responsibilities of
each party.
 Amendment to West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement with Jefferson
County
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or designee to enter into
an amendment to the West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA)
between Jefferson County and the Regional Transportation District which
was originally executed on March 25, 2008.
The amendment sets forth rights, duties and obligations of RTD and
Jefferson County in regard to the Modified Parking structure including
design, construction, maintenance, operation, parking management, funding,
and shared use.
The amendment further defines and clarifies changes to the original IGA
language in regard to the parking access road construction, use and
maintenance, conveyance of property, local match, aesthetics at the site,
temporary parking and station naming.
 Approval to Adopt the Southeast Corridor Extension Final Environmental
Evaluation (EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the adoption of the Southeast Corridor Extension Final
Environmental Evaluation (EE) document.
 Approval to Adopt the Southwest Corridor Extension Final Environmental
Evaluation (EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the adoption of the Southwest Corridor Extension Final

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 11, 2010, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 7
Environmental Evaluation (EE) document.
 Approval to Adopt the Central Corridor Extension Final Environmental
Evaluation (EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the adoption of the Central Corridor Extension Final
Environmental Evaluation (EE) document.
 FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks Citizens
Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the
RTD Board of Directors reappoint four members of the Committee to an
additional three-year term and appoint one member to the Committee to fill a
vacancy created by resignation.


Recommended Action

 Approval of May 2, 2010 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the May 2, 2010 Service Change package as
revised and summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual of cost of
approximately $173,100, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose
service is impacted by these changes.


2010 Financial Plan Adoption – Need Revised
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopt a financial plan scenario for the 2010 FasTracks
Annual Program Evaluation that includes the passage of a 0.4% sales and
use tax increase commencing in January 2011 and successful receipt of an
additional Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) for the East and Gold Line
Public Private Partnership Corridors (EAGLE P3 Project) in the amount of
approximately $1 billion. This scenario results in the completion of the full
FasTracks program by 2017, and provides the basis for RTD to proceed
forward with DRCOG review of the FasTracks program and financial plan as
required by Senate Bill 90-208.
Because a decision has not been made as to the timing of a potential
election, it is recommended that the RTD Board of Directors also adopt a
secondary plan or “back up” plan. This would include adoption of a financial
plan scenario for the FasTracks program that assumes the passage of 0.4%
sales and use tax increase commencing in January 2013. This scenario
results in the completion of the full FasTracks program by 2019, assuming
current cost escalation and revenue growth forecasts.
This action does not represent a decision or commitment at this time by the

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 11, 2010, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 7
Board of Directors to place a sales and use tax increase on the ballot, but it
preserves the capability for the RTD Board of Directors to continue
consideration of all potential scenarios for completion of the FasTracks
program. Should the Board choose not to seek a tax increase, the secondary
financial plan would be adopted by the RTD Board.


Approval to modify design to remove moving sidewalks (travelators) from
the underground bus facility at Denver Union Station (DUS)- Need Revised
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or designee to approve a
change order on the Denver Union Station (DUS) project to remove the
travelators currently designed to be built as part of the underground bus
facility.



Approval for providing construction funding in an amount not to exceed $9
million to the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) for continued
construction for Denver Union Station (DUS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an IGA with
DUSPA to provide additional funding through a loan in an amount not to
exceed $9 million for construction on the DUS project. This funding will
allow DUSPA to issue a full Notice to Proceed prior to financial close of
the federal TIFIA and RRIF loans for the DUS project, and will be repaid
by DUSPA through draws on the federal loans. This recommendation is
contingent upon receipt by DUSPA of a favorable decision by the U.S.
Department of Transportation (DOT) for the TIFIA and RRIF loans
respectively.
It is also recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $9
million from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide continued
funding for the DUS construction. This action will accelerate funding
programmed in the DUS Budget for 2010 to allow full construction to
start and maintain the FasTracks schedule. The Contingency Reserve will
be replenished from DUSPA’s federal loans draw.



Goldman Sachs – Incentive Fee and Increase in Monthly Retainer –
Need Revised
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve payment of an incentive fee in the amount of $1.40
million to Goldman Sachs in consideration of work performed outside of
original scope of its contract as financial advisor on the Eagle Project.
It is further recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors approve an increase in the monthly retainer paid to
Goldman Sachs from $25,000 to $56,500, effective as of January 2010, in
consideration of the increased level of effort beyond what was anticipated at

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 11, 2010, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 6 of 7
the time of contract award.
It is further recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize a transfer of $1,778,000 from the FasTracks
Contingency Reserve to the FasTracks expense budget to fund the incentive
payment and the increase in the monthly retainer for 2010.


Proposed East Corridor IGAs with City and County of Denver and
Denver International Airport for Coordination and Local Funding – Need
Revised
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to sign two proposed
Intergovernmental Agreements (IGA) with the City and County of Denver
(CCD) for the East Corridor project (a part of the Eagle P3 project). The
agreements include 1) a proposed IGA with CCD regarding overall
coordination with the City, and 2) a proposed IGA regarding coordination
with Denver International Airport (DIA). The agreements include specific
terms defining CCD’s local agency contribution, coordination, and the rights
and responsibilities of each party.



Approval of Board Revised Bylaws



Approval of General Manager Contract

III.

Board Advance Planning Session (Retreat)
Chair Kemp shared that after much discussion with Board Members and the
General Manager about concerns over process, he concurred with a
recommendation from the General Manager to change the scheduled March 4th
Board Advance Planning Session (i.e. retreat) to a focus on process. After
further discussion and a recommendation from Director Tayer, the Committee
decided to cancel the March 4 th retreat and to make the Board Advance
Planning preparatory work an element for discussion at the February 23 study
session.
General Manager Phil Washington suggested April 10 or 17 th for a full day
Board Advance Planning meeting with Board and staff. Paula Perdue will poll
the Board members for their availability.

IV.

State Auditor Exit Conference (March 3)
Chair Kemp shared the State Auditors will be preparing their preliminary report
for release to the full Board around February 18, 2010. RTD will be given
approximately two weeks to prepare their response which will be an element of
the discussion with the Auditors at the Exit Conference on March 3 rd. Chair
Kemp will appear before the State Legislator on March 30 th to address any
questions.

V.

Other Matters
Director Busck wanted to know when would the Board be able to finalize a
decision on going to the ballot in 2010. General Manager Phil Washington
responded we need to let the process work and hopefully by the end of March
the Board would have all the information they need.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 11, 2010, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 7 of 7
General Manager Phil Washington shared that feedback from our Federal
lobbyist Patton Boggs suggests there may be an Economic Recovery stimulus
package coming out very quickly from the Administration which would require
construction ready, 50% completion within 90 days. This package will be
about job creation. His staff is working with DRCOG to identify a list of
possible projects that could meet these criteria. They will be reviewing this list
with the Board at the study session on February 23.
General Manager Phil Washington shared the staff’s plan to release a FAQ
ahead of a planned Smart Card demo on February 23. He discussed some of
the delicacies of the situation and his recommendation to focus on Smart Card
Technology. Director Busck responded there were two lessons learned: (1)
Board needs to be educated early in the process for purchases such as these
that are complicated and takes extensive time (2) When this technology is
rolled out, it needs to be rolled out in a controlled pilot environment where any
bugs or issues can be corrected.

VI.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:36 p.m.

