2023-10-16
Performance Committee Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Right. Good morning, everybody. The Monday, October 16 Performance Committee
will now come to order. We are convened as of 8:02 AM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask
everybody, as always, to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Getting a little bit of
feedback now actually.
Thank you all for joining this morning. Please note that the committee meetings of the RD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. These meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial meeting minutes, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website at
rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of the meeting is also available on RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during today's proceedings, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you before
proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands and
those that would like to speak may press star 9. To toggle your mute settings, you may press star 6.
I will now call for the roll of our committee members. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Board Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Director Guzman. Director Guzman will be joining in a bit. I will note that when
he joins us. Committee Vice Chair Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am here. That is five committee members present, one absent that will be joining
us. I see for the sake of the record we are also joined by Director Tisdale.
Excellent. We'll now move on to the public comment for anyone that would like to address this committee
regarding any topic in the published meeting agenda for the current or immediately preceding month. If
you wish to speak and have not done so, you may raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on the phone.
Committee members will not offer any comments. However, if you'd like to be contacted, you may reach
out to the Board Office, at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
I will now ask someone from the Board Office, do we have any hands raised or any email comments that
were submitted? I have not seen any.

JACK KROLL: Hi, Director Davidson. We do not have anyone here present who wishes to make a
comment and we did not receive any previously emailed public comments for the record.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Right. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Not seeing any public comments, we will now move into
the recommended action portion. There is one recommended action on the agenda this morning. This is
for the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer compensation base salary range. This is for the
Board of Directors to approve the General Manager and CEO base salary compensation range.
In the packet, you'll have received a write up with regards to where we have landed on a base salary
range. I'd just like to call out a few things to call attention to and offer my perspective on this and then
open it up for any discussion or questions. I may, just at the end of my discussion here, call on our Chief
People Officer, Charlene Polege, if she is willing to offer some additional insights or anything that I might
miss in the discussion here.
So as we recall, when we last gathered, we did discuss-MELANIE SNYDER: Pardon me, Mr. Chair. Pardon me, Mr. Chair, can we get a motion and a second,
please?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you very much. Thank you, General Counsel. Do we have a
motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Director Sloan as the movement. A second?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And the second, Director Catlin. Thank you, General Counsel. Much appreciated.
Yes, as I was saying, when we last gathered we reviewed two recommendations from Gallagher Benefit
Services. Gallagher Benefit Services had been retained to perform our compensation analysis. When this
was completed, they gave us two recommendations to adopt base salary ranges for the position of
General Manager and Chief Executive Officer. One of those was a full market analysis. That was the
model that we discussed last time and this committee seemed open to passing as our range. The
problem, of course, with that range is, as we noted last time, it was nearly 12 months old and the market
has moved.
By the way, I see for the sake of the record that we are joined by Director Guzman. Thank you for joining.
And so given that it had moved, we needed to explore a way to age that salary and adjust it. An aging
factor that was recommended to us by our Chief People Officer, Charlene Polege, was to use
employment cost index, which, as you see in the packet, is used in the private sector and by human
resource professionals to make pay adjustments to ensure that we stay competitive. It is also used in the
public sector. Notably the Federal Reserve and others use the ECI to gauge the health of the labor
market, adjust contracts, and research the labor market.
So this was a data driven way for us to use an accepted index used in the human resources profession to
adjust the full market salary range. So you will see that specifically, the recommended base salary
compensation range has a minimum of $292,600, a midpoint of $402,325, and a maximum of $512,050.

So I just wanted to make a few comments and then I'll open up to see if Ms. Polege would like to fill
anything in here. As we all know, we received this compensation analysis but we were in the absence of
a compensation philosophy. So with the gracious and adept help of Charlene Polege, as we all know, we
passed our compensation philosophy, developed one based on the intent of this Board.
So while today we gather to pass a range for the position, which was recommended to us by Gallagher,
this is not for our current General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson. However, of course, what we pass
here today will have a material impact on any discussions we have regarding compensation of our current
General Manager and CEO and any future General Manager and CEO that we may have.
Personally I think that looking at where we've landed, this is very logical. The compensation analysis from
Gallagher was thorough, took the full market into consideration, which, of course, is what we're competing
with, as we discussed last time. Aging in a data-based way, using ECI, is a very logical move for us to
make. Moving the recommendation that Gallagher gave us to the $292,600 up to $512,050 sets a good
range for us to operate in. And when we have discussions with our current General Manager and CEO, or
any future one, in the year to come, as we approach the 18-month mark of the end of our current CEO,
our General Manager and CEO's contract, this will very much inform those discussions.
As noted in the packet as well, in the compensation philosophy there were two particular relevant bullets.
The first was demonstrating internal equity, fairness, and transparency, while being externally market
competitive. This is a move to satisfy that portion of our compensation philosophy, as we are transparent.
And also, we did note that we would be reviewed for market competitiveness and legislative regulatory
compliance. So in that sense, this is also a way for us to ensure that we are doing so. We will only remain
competitive as long as our analysis is relevant, so we will need to revisit this.
And with that, as you can tell, my firm recommendation is that we do move forward with the range as
recorded in the packet, but I'd like to open up to Chief People Officer, Charlene Polege, who I'd like to
thank for walking me through Employment Cost Index and helping to age this data, given the Gallagher
was performed 12 months ago.
So Ms. Polege, is there anything you would like to fill in or add at this time that I have not mentioned?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. Thank you, Chair Davidson. You did a good job of introducing that. So I
think you've got a good understanding of what ECI is.
Just for the committee's context, the aging of the band using a standardized index or metric, another
option that was available is to use COLA, to use the cost of living, which came in for the Denver/Aurora
area at 5.4%. We decided in conversation, just being respectful of the agency and the position and the
fact that there will be a more formal, should be a more formal review done in 2024, the ECI seemed like a
reasonable and fair standard by which to measure.
The other thing that I will provide is as I was working through this, I did do a little bit of research. And from
what I can find, GM and CEO positions, specifically in the transit sector in this last year, have changed by
a range, from what I could find, of 6.25% to 21.25%. So there has been quite a degree of shift. There's
been significant increases. And it's hard to land on just one. So again, that led myself and Chair Davidson
to go with a measurable index, as you see with the ECI. I think that's, just to give that additional context
so that we're not just looking in isolation at this position.

Additionally, the last thing I would say is just to reinforce, we talked about it in a couple meetings ago, I
think, this is the salary range. We would be required to post a salary range. We have salary ranges for all
of our positions at RTD except for the General Manager and CEO. For reference, again, we do not hire,
even in all of our other positions, at the top of the range. We set a range through which that we recruit to.
And then the top end of the range is a opportunity for growth and motivation and performance measures.
So just wanted to give that additional context. Happy to answer any questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Polege, for adding that. And just one extra point there. Thank you for
noting the other options and also the movement of the market. Given that the movement of the market
has such a wide range on it and a clear shift up and upward, definitely, as I alluded to before, continuing
to do analysis on our competitiveness will be essential.
As we noted the last time, I believe, Director Catlin brought up the importance of looking at the entire
benefits package. And so I do believe we have our work cut out for us next year to continually reexamine. Because there has been a wide shift that Ms. Polege referenced and a wide range within that
shift, that certainly we need to evaluate for our current contract and any future contracts. But certainly,
starting as adopting a base salary range 12 months after we had received that is a prudent move forward.
So with that, I will open up for questions and discussion for myself, for Chief People Officer Polege, or for
anyone else. So Committee Vice Chair Sloan, please go ahead.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. This is primarily a question to our Chief People Officer. You've said that these
minimum, midpoint, and maximum salaries are throughout the agency. This position will be subject to a
national search and advertising. I was wondering if all the positions are so specific or if they're rounded.
Like this could be easily rounded to $300,000, $400,000, $500,000, rather than the $512,050. Is there-- I
realize it's a matter of math, but it seems like when you're discussing this position in terms of hiring, the
rounded numbers would be easier.
So I'd appreciate your info on that. Thanks.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. Chair Davidson, may I?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Polege, if you wouldn't mind, please.
CHARLENE POLEGE: OK. Thanks, Director Sloan. So the range for rounding, certainly with the posted
range, so we have to have a range. We could put an anticipated hiring range. We talked about that
before. You certainly could round. All of our positions are midpoint to market and then they are actual
after that. So they're not rounded. We've used the same methodology throughout and then have a
spread.
Certainly, when the Board in the future is looking to recruit to the GM and CEO position and there's
discussion on what a targeted or anticipated hiring range could be, you could pick a number anywhere in
that range, frankly. I would just never recommend at the top of the range, certainly, as we already
discussed. But you could round it for sure, because you're picking a number. But it's math. It's just pure
math and keeping the consistency is why it comes out with the non-rounded numbers.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please. Yeah, Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah. I will certainly defer to the principle of consistency. I appreciate that
explanation.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks for the question, Director Sloan, and for the answer, Ms. Polege. Other
questions, discussion? Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a quick question. And I'm sorry if I missed this. But what was the ECI
percentage?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. It was 4.5%. Yeah. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Any other questions, discussion?
All right. One thing I'd also note too, just while we're on this item, that setting the top end of the range is
also, I think, informative that we had a discussion around our desire to pay for performance. So even
when we evaluate the entire market and look at where base salary is in different positions, if we want to
create performance packages that are attractive to the position, we know where we are operating with our
50th percentile and with our high end range.
Yes, Director Tisdale, please go ahead. Thank you for joining us.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Quick question. The policy that we have adopted relates to
comparable public transportation agencies. The full market analysis that you're talking about appears to
relate to comparable organizations, but as I understand it that's not necessarily limited to public
transportation agencies, and yet that's what our policy states. Can you clarify that for me so I understand
it correctly?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, Director Tisdale. Thank you for the question. The policy you're referring to is the
compensation philosophy, is that correct?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: The compensation philosophy does refer to other relevant sector experience. And I
would need to go reference the compensation philosophy, which, unfortunately, I do not have in front of
me to get the precise language of that. And perhaps, Ms. Polege, if you have that handy, that might be
helpful to read out for the sake of the record.
But we did go and have some discussion at committee around the other private sectors that could be
relevant and had a discussion about other positions that can actually bring some experience to benefit
within the transit sector, but also that we're competing with other private sector industries and jobs that
can pull General Managers and CEOs from transit agencies away. So we did have some discussion
around that and did include some language in the compensation philosophy around those other sectors.
Whether or not our precise language of the compensation philosophy directly coincides with the
Gallagher Benefit Services analysis, I think would be tricky to completely demonstrate, but they did take a
broad spectrum analysis across the industry. And also, should we retain the services of someone to do
another compensation analysis, which I believe will be very in our very near future, they would now have
that compensation philosophy to further inform their analysis.
But with that, Ms. Polege, do you happen to have that language available in front of you?

CHARLENE POLEGE: I'm pulling it up. I don't have it up just yet. But it did say private and relevant and
comparable private and public sector. It wasn't limited to just transportation, so that the example was
there are private sector transportation as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Ms. Polege. I appreciate it. Director Tisdale, does that answer
your question?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. No, I appreciate that. I just wanted to make sure that-- and particularly, just to
make sure that we get a record that expresses that too, in case questions ever arise. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, sir. Yeah, important consideration. I think looking at the full market is
what makes sense here in this labor market.
OK, great. I will go ahead and call for the vote. And we'll ask, are there any no votes on this action?
Seeing none and with all committee members present, that is six aye votes and zero no votes. Thank you
very much, everybody. Very much appreciate the progress on this.
All right. We're going to go ahead and move into discussion items. There is one discussion item, quite the
meaty one, which is the strategic plan, customer excellence and community value survey results. For this
discussion item, Ms. Leah Riley, our Chief Administrative Officer, will present and introduce this item. So
with that, Ms. Riley, I'd like to hand off to you.
LEAH RILEY: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Again, Leah Riley, Chief Administrative Officer. I'm also joined
by Chris Tatham who is our consultant from ETC Institute. And Chris, can you-- there you go,
presentation mode. Thanks so much. So Chris will be doing quite a bit of this presentation. But I'm going
to start us off here.
So we're going to go over the survey results. First, we'll talk about the customer excellence survey. And in
that, we'll go over customer characteristics, customer satisfaction, the Net Promoter Score, also some
national average comparisons and some top importance factors and key driver analysis that were
garnered from the surveys, and then talk about some notable changes from the 2022 survey. And then
next, we'll talk about the community value survey. Again, we'll cover the Net Promoter Score, some
national average comparisons, and, again, some top importance factors and key driver analysis. And then
we also did a stakeholder survey this year that we'll talk about and that will wrap us up.
So what you're going to hear from Chris today, I think you'll hear that overall satisfaction from our
customers has increased and our satisfaction ratings are above the national average in all areas. And our
Net Promoter Score declined in all modes, with the exception of commuter rail. And like last year,
frequency of service, fare price, and travel time remained highly important to our customers. And access
to employment, affordable options, and reducing traffic congestion have the highest importance to our
community stakeholders. And also, community members and key business stakeholders see the value
that RTD provides to the Denver Metro area. So go ahead, next slide.
We conducted six surveys. We did one for bus. We did one survey for rail, and we do have the data
broken out by commuter rail and light rail. For our paratransit services, we did two surveys on the two
different types of offerings we have, which is Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand. And then we did
two surveys with the community, one, the community values survey and then the last is a stakeholder
survey.

All right. With that, let me talk about the methodology real quick. On our customer surveys, we use the
intercept method, which means that the surveyors were in person, either riding the vehicle or on the
platforms. And so they did the surveys in person. The surveys ran from September 11 through the 24th.
And the target sample was 1,200 customers to get to the 95% confidence level. And we got that with
1,288 surveys completed. And similar to last year, every route and line was sampled and it was sampled
in proportion to our spring 2023 ridership.
For our paratransit surveys, we sent the surveys by mail, email, and text message. The paratransit
surveys ran from September 9 through September 29. The target sample was 400 to be at the 95%
confidence level. And we had 528 surveys completed.
All right. With that, I'm now going to turn it over to Chris, who will get into the results.
CHRIS TATHAM: Thanks, Leah. For those of you who are not familiar with ETC Institute, I'm Chris
Tatham. I'm the CEO and President of the company. I've conducted surveys over the past 10 years for 29
of the 35 largest transit agencies that have involved over a million transit users surveyed. So I'm going to
make some commentary about how your results stack up, and that's much of the basis for it. In addition,
we do a national survey each year, which I can explain in more detail if there are questions later.
But I'd like to start off and just talk a little bit about the customer characteristics. One of the reasons you
do a survey is really just to understand who's using it. And that way, the survey is designed so that the
sample is large enough, you can actually drill down and see what specific needs are of different types of
riders.
Among your customers who use your bus, rail services, you can see that those customers tend to be a
little bit younger. You can see those who use paratransit services tend to be older. I was really impressed
with the diversity with regard to race and Hispanic ancestry for all of your systems. You have a rather
significant number of folks who are using it from a variety of different racial backgrounds.
And you'll see that the customers who are using your train services or your commuter rail services, light
rail, along with your bus services, tend to have slightly lower incomes, but there are a significant number
who are higher incomes. And you can see your paratransit users tend to have incomes below $25,000
per year.
Some of the other characteristics we look at is the frequency of use is fairly high for all three types of
customers. You have about half or more using the service three or more times a week. You can see you
have a significant number of your rail and bus customers who are reliant on the service.
And the big thing that really impressed me is just how important the service, particularly when it comes to
the bus and rail services, are for work. You can see about half, nearly half of your rail customers and
more than half of your bus customers are using transit to get to and from work as their primary reason.
And you can see medical appointments tend to be the main reason, which wasn't a real surprise, for your
paratransit users.
As far as overall satisfaction, one of the things that we're actually taking a look at is how satisfied are your
customers over time. I've added to this the results of our national survey which involved over 8,000 US
households selected at random. And of that, we asked people whether they use transit at least once a
month. And you can see nationally about 58% of respondents say they're either very satisfied, which is
the dark green, or satisfied, which is the lighter green.

You'll see the numbers for RTD bus service are significantly higher. When you look at the overall
numbers, you'll see that 76% of RTD customers who use your bus service give positive ratings, only 4%
give negative ratings. And you see nationally, it's 19% of customers are giving negative ratings. You can
also see that the overall satisfaction has improved. In fact, after you had declined in 2022, we've seen the
numbers increase back to the levels we saw in 2021.
Similar things on your rail. You can see the overall results compared to the national average, which is
61%. You can see all three areas that are shown here for rail, which are your light rail and commuter rail
separately, along with the combined, are significantly above that. And you can also see that the ratings
have increased significantly from 2022. We also saw decreases in the negatives, which was 10% in 2022,
which has now dropped overall to 7%.
Paratransit, we redesigned the survey a little bit this year so that we could actually break out your Accesson-Demand from your Access-a-Ride users. You can see that both rate extremely well. The Access-onDemand was particularly highlighted as part of this year's survey. You can see 53% of those surveyed
were very satisfied and dissatisfaction was relatively low among both groups. So all in all, stacking up
very well compared to national numbers.
The other thing we do is, I know the Net Promoter Score is a tool that you use. For those of you who may
be new and not familiar with it, it was developed in the early 2000s to really help identify who are the
people who might your customers promote or encourage other people to use services or buy your
products. It was developed for Fortune 500 companies. And organizations that want to be excellent tend
to use it as a guide.
The score works by having people who give you 9 or 10s, which are called promoters, and you subtract
that, or you subtract your percentage of detractors, who give ratings from 0 to 6. And really, 5s and 6s are
more OK, not necessarily negatives. But the idea is to maximize the number of people who really think
you're amazing. And you can see the scale of 0 to 20 is good, 20 to 50 is favorable. And you can see all
the way up to world class.
Most governmental organizations get negative ratings, because oftentimes the key goal is to just make
people satisfied, not to necessarily get 9s and 10s. But RTD does a particularly good job.
This just shows you the combined score for bus, rail, and paratransit combined. You can see in 2022, it
was 12. Decreased slightly this year. But part of that's because you're attracting more customers. And so
this is only looking at the very satisfied and satisfied. But you'll notice here that the percentage of people
that I was showing you a couple slides ago, you'll see that the overall satisfaction with bus, you have a lot
more people giving you satisfied scores. If you look at that top two bars, you can see the 54%. And that's
actually grown 20% from 2022.
So as you attract new people, they like what you're doing but they haven't necessarily become promoters.
And so sometimes it's OK to see a slight decrease in the interim in your Net Promoter Score as you
attract new customers. Hopefully over time, they become promoters. And that's what I think is happening
here with the fact that your negatives have actually been decreased rather significantly.
When we look at some of the other-JACK KROLL: Excuse me. I just want to hop in. I see a hand raised here from Director Catlin. I don't
know if there was a question relative to something you've already covered here.

CHRIS TATHAM: Is that any question?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Chair, may I?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, sure, if you'd like to, go ahead. And then we'll hold the rest of the questions for
the end. But yeah, please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I was wondering about that. So given the fact that this survey was conducted in
September, which was right on the heels of our two months of Zero Fare for Better Air-- this is a rather
subjective question-- but do you think that-- when I would talk to folks riding, they were all very, very
pleased with that promotion that was held for no fare.
Do you think that skewed some of these results? Don't get me wrong, I am incredibly encouraged by the
survey results and the improvement. It's just very, very encouraging. But I just was curious as to whether
or not psychologically that had an effect on the responses.
CHRIS TATHAM: From my experience is we've done surveys for a number of organizations that have
gone with low or zero fares. If you don't provide good service and get people there on time, or they don't
feel safe, your ratings actually plummet. And so the fact that your ratings went up meant that people were
really-- not pleased that it was cheaper or free, they actually think you're doing a good job. The thing is,
they haven't ridden it enough to necessarily be your favorite customers. And so they'll become net
promoters, or your more promoters over time. But I'm really encouraged for you, and I'll show some of
those details in just a little bit.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Tatham. And I'd like to go to Ms. Johnson, who raised her hand,
and then we'll go back to the presentation. Ms. Johnson, please go ahead.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Chair Davidson. And thank you very kindly, First Vice Chair
Catlin, for your question. I do, as a gentle reminder, want to note that last year we did have Zero Fare for
Better Air in the month of August. And what Mr. Tatham has said is absolutely right. If, in fact, we're not
providing valuable service, it doesn't matter if, in fact, it is a zero fare or not. And preliminarily, with
feedback that we've gotten specifically toward Zero Fare for Better Air, there are some individuals that
have said, we don't care about zero fare, we want you to ensure that your service is on time and that it's
clean.
So I just wanted to reiterate the point that this is a snapshot in time. And with any initiative that we do,
you're going to get people's perceptions, opinions, and attitudes, and it's going to be reflective of what's
happening at that time point. So we could speculate and conjecture about different influences as it relates
to the feedback that we received. That's why we do these with regular cadence.
So thank you very much, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity to opine.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I really appreciate the explanation. That's really good news. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. I appreciate it. Mr. Tatham, I'm going to hand back to you
to continue the presentation, please. Thank you.

CHRIS TATHAM: Right. And this next slide kind of gives you, perhaps sets up a little bit of an answer to
your question before. As I was mentioning before, nationally most people are not giving their local transit
service 9s and 10s. So we see the national average is actually negative 27 for buses because it tends to
be mid-level or negative ratings. RTD's bus ratings, you see, have gone from 38 back in 2021 to 10 to
now 7. And that's not necessarily a bad thing.
And the reason I say that is you're attracting more and more riders. And it's usually your hardcore
promoters that are riding in the worst of times. And so the fact that your Net Promoter Score was higher
back in the COVID or post-COVID era, those people kept on riding. They're still riding. But you're
attracting new people, and they're giving you ratings of 7s and 8s, things like that, which are very good.
And so that's why I'm encouraged with your overall satisfaction numbers that I was showing you just a
little bit.
And still nationally, any rating above 0 for a transit agency is incredible. And you can see your
comparison on buses, 34 points above the national average when it comes to your bus Net Promoter
Score. So that's a great job on that.
Rail is very similar. We actually have seen for your rail the numbers overall have increased [INAUDIBLE]
14 to 21. And that compares to a national average of negative 17. And again, if you look back to 2021,
when you had more of your hard core people were probably the ones who kept on using it even during
difficult times, as more people have started using it, you continue to maintain a high NPS score, which is
terrific. And your gap compared to the national average is 36 above the national average, which is
tremendous.
If you're interested in the difference between light rail and commuter rail, commuter rail, you've seen
some significant improvements among the intense positives. These are gone from having 28% of your
folks in 2022 give 9s and 10s to almost half. That's incredible. You're really building some great brand
equity among your commuter rail customers. And you can see your light rail dropped a little bit. But my
assessment is that it's probably similar to the fact that you're having more and more users come back,
which is a good thing.
When you look at your paratransit, you can see that the Access-a-Ride saw a decrease from 2022 to
2023. Access-on-Demand, this is the first time that we've had it, and it's at 58, which is extremely strong
for a paratransit agency.
So that's kind of how things stack up with trends. I want to share a few national averages for some of the
specific items that were assessed. One of the things that we break the survey down into different
categories. We have it for performance and I'm going to share those with you now. You'll see the slides
on the left are for bus service. To the right, we have it for rail. And it shows rail overall, and also it's
broken out for light rail and commuter rail. I've also got the national averages for each, which are in the
gray box.
And what you'll notice as you go through most of these slides is you're above or significantly above the
national average in most areas. When it comes to perceptions of whether your buses run or your trains
run on time, you can see you're above the national average in all those areas, getting people to their
destination in a reasonable amount of time. You're 9% above the national average when it comes to your
bus service, which is tremendous. And you can see the frequency of service is higher than the national
average, significantly higher for the bus, about even when it comes to your rail services.

When you look at access, this is where we see the price. You mentioned earlier, your price is now above
the national average for your buses. It's on par with what other systems across the country, both for your
rail and commuter rail services. The perception that your bus stops are conveniently located is certainly
one of your strong attributes. You can see you're 16% above the national average when it comes to the
convenience of your bus stops. And your train stops are also very well rated. You can see, when it comes
to your light rail system, it's 20% above the national average. So again, congratulations on a number of
these items.
When it comes to safety and comfort, this has been a challenge for many transit agencies the last couple
years. But from my perspective, you're setting the standard in these. Even though the overall percentages
may not be as high as we see in other areas, comparatively, when it comes to perceptions of being safe
and secure on buses, 22% above the national average. And you can see when it comes to your rail
services, those are also 22%, 21% above the national average.
Feeling secure and safe while you're on the train, similar differences. You can see almost 20% above for
your bus service and nearly 15% above for your-- excuse me, your rail service-- and almost 15% above
for the bus service. And also, people generally think your system, your vehicles are clean. Your bus
cleanliness rating is 25% above the national average. You can see similar ratings for trains. So again,
you're doing a good job of making your customers feel safe and comfortable when they're using your
system.
When it comes to information, congratulations on this. I know this is something you've been working on.
But feeling that it's easy to find out if buses and trains are running on schedule, you're now 14% above
the national average when it comes to buses. And you can see you are at or above the national average
for your train system. And when it comes to the perception that I am adequately informed if RTD
experiences service disruptions, 15% above the national average, slightly better than the national
average when it comes to rail services. So again, doing well in the information compared to other
systems.
When it comes to perceptions of your drivers and their behavior, you can see you're rated above average
in each of the areas for your bus. I really want to commend some of the ratings for your rail system. You
can see, when it comes to your light rail drivers, that's 13% above the national average. So you're setting
the standard there. And the perceived courtesy for all your drivers, whether bus or train, is high. You can
see it's 11% for your trains above the national average, 7% when it comes to the buses. So again, that
means you're really developing a culture that's customer-oriented and people on the front lines are seeing
it in the behavior of your drivers and the people they interact with. So that's a terrific finding.
The other thing is just when it comes to community value. Generally, your customers see that RTD
provides value to the community at a slightly higher level than most other communities around the
country. You can see both with your bus service at 73%, compared to 69%, and you can see your rail
service at overall 80% compared to 72%. So again, RTD is clearly setting the standard, from my
perspective, in a number of areas. And I think part of the reason for that is when we actually look at how
you're doing in specific areas and some of the trends, you've been tackling some of the issues that I think
are most important to your customers.
So what I'm going to do now is walk through what we call our key driver analysis. And this looks at not
just how satisfied customers are but also how important different issues are to them.

So what I'd like to first share is the items that we assessed for your bus service. We actually looked at 20
different factors. The five most important things to your customer when it comes to bus service were
frequency, fare price, travel time, hours of operation, and making sure bus stops are conveniently located.
You might remember, you performed well compared to other systems nationally in each of those areas.
When we drilled down to this, we were actually able to find the factors that are really most important. And
the way we did that is you'll see on this matrix that you see on the left side, the letters correspond to each
of those 20 items that were assessed. And as you go from left to right, that shows the importance of the
item. And as you go from the bottom to top, it shows the satisfaction level. So items in the bottom right
quadrant tend to be more important to your customers but they give lower ratings.
We then did a regression analysis to find out really which ones were most strongly correlated with overall
satisfaction with experience. And the two items that really make the difference are people feeling secure
on your buses, so important to emphasize that, and travel time. So all five of those items that are
highlighted in the blue box are important, but if you really want to see your customer satisfaction ratings
go up among your bus customers, focusing on personal security and travel time are the two areas that
will have the biggest impact.
We did similar analysis for each of the other modes as well. When it comes to light rail, you can see same
20 items, but you'll see frequency, fare price, hours, convenience of train stop locations, travel time.
Those were the five that people said were most important. When we then did that same analysis, this
gets a little away from what people say is important to actually looking at what makes a difference in their
overall ratings. And you can see the three items that were in the bottom right were frequency, fare price,
and hours of service. But the one item that is critical to satisfaction for your light rail customers is
frequency of service, how often the train comes by. That is the most important factor both in what people
say and also in the regression analysis that we did.
Third area we looked at were your commuter rail customers. And you can see frequency, fare price, travel
time, hours, and train stop locations. Those were the top five of the 21 areas that were assessed. And as
we went through this analysis, you'll see that the five items that are in blue were the five items that people
said were most important. But people don't always-- they say one thing, but then you actually look at how
their ratings are affected.
We found through our regression analysis that travel time is the most important factor. So in other words,
probably makes a decision, do I take the train or do I drive? Well, the travel time differential is a big deal.
So being consistent, being able to provide good travel time to your customers is key. And you're
apparently doing it really well, because almost 50% of them-- you saw your Net Promoter Score is up
significantly, so you're doing a really good job in that area.
Last couple things are your paratransit customers. You'll see that we asked 16 items on this one. Vehicles
arriving in a schedule window was at the top of the list of the areas that were assessed. And when we put
it into the matrix, the same thing, you can see it's way down in the bottom right. So that is the thing to
focus on. Regression analysis isn't as meaningful for this group, just because it's a very diverse type of
audience. So we didn't have any clear outcomes there, but making sure you're continuing to focus on the
arriving, making sure the buses are there at the right time or when they're scheduled to be there.
And we found a similar thing for Access-on-Demand, but it wasn't quite as big of a differential. You'll see
fare price was a close second. Ease of scheduling trips was actually third. And when we put this into the
matrix, you can see that we didn't have anything really in the far bottom right. You really had more of a

collection of items. And fare price and the ability to schedule trips, those were the two items that you can
see are in that bottom quadrant. But you're almost, for Access-on-Demand, almost everything is where it
should be. Ideally, you have little or nothing in the bottom right quadrant, if you have things perfectly
aligned.
So this analysis really suggests that I think you're targeting the right areas, given some of the trends that
we saw in the survey, in your overall rating. So with that, I thought I might just highlight what one of those
trends are. I'm going to start with your bus service.
You have done an amazing job improving some of the communications that you're sharing with your
customers. It's really incredible, from my perspective. If RTD experiences disruptions, just in one year,
you improved satisfaction 22% in the way that you're getting people to feel that they're adequately
informed. That's a tremendous-- that'll become a best practice that I'm sure other transit agencies around
the country are going to wonder what's happening, what have you done.
You can see, you saw some increase in your fare prices. That was mentioned earlier. But you'll see the
information comes up multiple times. Providing adequate information about the services that are out
there, 12% feel informed about services change. Communication materials of high quality, your buses
being clean. It's easy to find out if buses are running on schedule and the overall frequency of service.
Those areas all went up so congratulations on those.
But some of the areas went down. And part of this is going to be a function, from my experience, of rising
expectations. As you're attracting newer customers, they're going to have higher expectations, which
means what was good for a core group of people two years ago, they may have not had the same level of
expectations. And so you see ratings for buses running on time, the convenience that they're located,
feeling safe on buses, the days that they're there. You can see most of these are related to expectations
or performance. And you can see that those ratings have all decreased compared to a year ago. So
overall, things are moving in the right direction, but you've got to continue focusing on some of these
areas to probably retain those new customers and cause those new customers to become promoters.
Now when it comes to your rail service, again, some tremendous improvements across the board. You
can see several of these items are related to information. The same thing on your rail service, about if
RTD experiences disruptions, people feeling adequately informed. That was up 19%. So again, very
good. You can see communication materials being of high quality. RTD provides adequate information
about the service it provides, feel informed about service changes, those items all went up more than
10%.
I really like the fact on your rail service that your train drivers, the perception they're courteous is up 8%,
trains being cleaned, up 11%. And one of the things I like the most is up there third from the top is the
perception that your train drivers are helpful. I just really like it when I see employees being recognized as
providing great service. And that really shows me that you're really building a culture in your organization
of being customer-oriented when we see these kinds of improvements.
So when it comes to some of the decreases, again, rising expectations. We know that trains running on
time, things like that are important to folks. Travel time is the most important, but some of these things are
important. So as you get new customers, they're likely to expect more. And you can see we saw
decreases.

What's nice is the number of increases far offset the decreases but we did see that things like trains
getting me to my destination reasonable amount of time is down 8%, perceptions of mechanical safety,
down 8%, train drivers operate vehicle safety-- again, some of these safety issues we see in a few
places-- and then the overall perception that trains are available on the days and the stops are located
conveniently, those were the areas that we saw decreases. But all in all, the increases kind of offset the
decreases. And great job overall.
When it comes to the next area we're going to talk about, I'm going to let Leah introduce that. And that's
the community value survey.
LEAH RILEY: Thanks, Chris. So the methodology that was used for the community value survey is the
surveys were mailed to a random sample of households in the Denver Metro area. The surveys ran from
September 9 through September 22. And ETC made sure to monitor the results to ensure there was a
demographic distribution in proportion to the region. The target sample to have the 95% confidence level
was 400 surveys, and actually 540 were completed. Thank you.
CHRIS TATHAM: And I'll share some of the results of the survey with you next. What really stood out to
me was just the overall awareness of RTD. Typically, we see this in most communities being 85%, maybe
in the 90s. We actually had 100% of the people who responded to the survey who were at least aware
what RTD was. So as far as your brand recognition, it's incredible.
And it's important that I point that out, because most of the people we surveyed were not regular riders.
You can see that 15% had just never used it at all, 22% had used it in the past, most use it less than once
a month. And we asked people why or how valuable they thought it was to the region. It was an incredible
84%. You can see it was high back in 2021. Last year, it decreased significantly, but you certainly
rebounded when it comes to perceptions of the value it provides to the region, and even personally,
people are more and more likely to think that it's important or a value to them. So I think those are a great
direction that you're headed right now.
When we asked people how they thought funding should change over the next five years, this is very
encouraging, especially if you're needing more funding for more services or more expansion. Over half of
the people surveyed thought it should be much greater than it is now in five years another. Another third
thought it should at least be somewhat greater. So nearly 9 out of 10 people thought funding for transit in
the region should be increasing in the years ahead.
We asked people why they use public transit. And this is, again, of the community, not your daily users.
Most of the people who use it use it to go for leisure, social recreation. That was 54%. Another quarter
use it for work. And then you can see a variety of other topics that people are using the service for.
When we asked people why they stopped using it, this gets into some of your people who are making
discretionary trips, is when they look at it, it takes too long to complete a trip typically compared to what
their other options are. I don't feel safe from crime while waiting or riding. It's not reliable. Stops aren't
convenient. And people being concerned about their health or safety. Those are the top five reasons that
people who used to ride actually stopped.
The last thing I'm going to share with you, at least on this section, is the Net Promoter Score. And this is
one where we typically don't see positive ratings at all. So this is one where, again, you're talking about
the average general public, people who aren't really necessarily that familiar with service, even though in

Denver most people are familiar with RTD. Nationally, the Net Promoter Score is negative 62. You can
see that your rating is negative 44.
We've actually seen this fall significantly over the past three years. There's been rising expectations for
transit service. People want things to go back to pre-COVID levels, but various reasons have been
keeping that across the country from happening. But you can see, compared to the nation, you fare very
well. But you can see, compared to your trends, you see some of the decreases.
My takeaway from this, though, is that because there's high support for more funding, it's really people
giving the lower score is not necessarily a bad thing. If people were not supportive of funding, they
wouldn't trust RTD and things like that. And so I don't think this Net Promoter Score of negative 44 is a
reflection that you're doing a poor job. I think it's a reflection of people want more. And again, we've got to
remember who's being surveyed for this. And it's the average resident, not your riders.
When we look at how you stack up and things compared to the nation, when it comes to perceived value
of the average resident in the region, the RTD is much more valuable to the average person, 54% in the
Denver region compared to 29% nationally. And how people rate its value to the region is overall 84% to
65%. So I think these are really encouraging findings. And you can also see that when it comes to the
perception that you provide affordable transportation options, that's a little better than we see nationally.
And providing transportation options for people with special mobility needs is 8% above the national
average.
So in addition, when we looked at just characters such as attracting and retaining, how you do that to
promote employment in the region, you are 16% above the national average. RTD's role in providing
quality of life is 15% about the national average as well. Perception that you make roads safer for users,
you can see it's 23% above the national average. And the impact that RTD has on congestion compared
to the average resident around the country of their transit system, you're 20% above the national average.
So a lot of good things about the views that people have.
There are a couple things that are different. And the one that I will highlight here is I feel personally
secure while using RTD. You trail the national average 13% there. Your customer ratings are giving you
good ratings comparatively for their perceptions of safety, but people who are not as active users or use it
once in a while, you can see that's the one area that you're trailing. You can see the perception of your
brand being positive slightly better than the national average. When it comes to RTD adequately serving
employment centers, you can see that's 9% above the national average.
And even though RTD's financial reporting is understandable and transparent, you might think 20% is
low, that's nearly double the national average. I tell people sometimes, those kinds of questions are asked
people like do you like paying taxes? It just tends to be a low number. If you don't have anything to
compare it with, you might think 20% is terrible. From my perspective, it's actually very good when you're
twice the national average.
So when it comes to some of the importance things to the average residents in the region, we asked them
to rate 15 values. And we want to see what was most important to them with regard to how RTD serves
the region. You can see this issue about providing access to places of employment at the top of the list,
providing affordable transportation options was next, and reducing traffic congestion was third. And again,
this is what people say.

When we actually then looked at how they rated things, you can see that providing access to places of
employment is by far the dominant thing. And I think that speaks very well of RTD. People see a great
value. You have a lot of your current customers are using it to get to work. And even the regional
numbers, which have people using it less frequently, are considering using it to go to and from work. So
you're having a big impact when it comes to regional employment.
As far as the stakeholder survey is the last thing. We contacted 150 of your employment partners and a
variety, they were chambers, nonprofits, employers, education, and others. I won't read the list to us. Our
goal was to get 30 of them to complete the survey. We actually had 31 of them complete the survey. And
you can see some of the names of the organizations that were represented on this list.
When we asked them what they thought about the value of RTD to the region, you can see they gave
very, very strong ratings. 90% felt RTD provides value, either they strongly agreed or agreed with that,
10% at least gave a neutral rating. Not one of the 31 people disagreed. And when it came to how
effective RTD is providing service to employment centers, ineffective was about 1 in 5, somewhat
effective, 71%, and then you can see the very effective. So opportunities perhaps to do better there but
overall leans very favorable.
When we ask people how effective they thought RTD was in engaging their organization, you can see the
very effective and somewhat effective was 69%, ineffective, 1 in 3, or 31%. And then same thing when it
comes to how effective RTD is at supporting community business. No one actually thought it was very
effective. And you can see that the ineffective was 1 in 3. So again, generally leaning favorable but there
are some opportunities to do better.
When we asked the stakeholders what was most important to them as far as the service that RTD
provides, you can see frequency and bus and train stops being conveniently located particularly to where
their employees are, and then hours, personal security, and fare price round out the top five.
So with that, I'm going to turn it back to Leah and let her wrap things up.
LEAH RILEY: Great. Thanks, Chris. Go ahead to the next slide.
So the key takeaways, again, from the results of all of the six surveys that we did is how much our
satisfaction has increased compared to 2022. And also, our satisfaction rankings compared to the
national average is quite impressive. We did see that our Net Promoter Scores declined in all modes
except commuter rail. And we did see that customers across all modes identified fare price as an area of
opportunity for us to focus on. And providing access to employment, affordable options, and reducing
traffic congestion are important to our community. And also, as we just saw, the community members and
key business stakeholders really do see the value that RTD brings to the region.
And with that, that concludes the presentation.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful. Thank you to both of you for a great presentation. A lot of good data. I'm
guessing there's a lot of questions and discussion. Let's go ahead and open it up for both the customer
side and community value side for questions and discussion from Directors, both committee and noncommittee.
Director Sloan, please go ahead.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. And it can't be stated enthusiastically enough that the scores are really
good, and particularly in comparison to the national average, which, to me, is the most important
measure. And it appears that our customers are very happy, our community is satisfied, and we are
providing good service.
I don't want to prompt a long discussion, but we have an expert here and I would like to ask his opinion of
the value of Net Promoter Scores. How much are they used nationally to judge the performance of the
agency? Because we are going to continue surveys and performance evaluations. And under our system,
the Net Promoter Score is very important. And it appears to me that Net Promoter Score usage may be
declining across the board. So I would just like to check about the use of the Net Promoter Scores in
evaluating our system.
CHRIS TATHAM: Yeah, I think the Net Promoter Score has great value to really be able to attract your
core, most enthusiastic customers. I think it's good to know how many of them are out there to know how
that is changing over time. Especially when you enter crises periods like COVID, those are the people
who keep on using the service which is one of the reasons you probably saw the Net Promoter Score go
up so much the last couple years.
For government agencies, it's a little bit different. You have to have some interpretive context for it.
Because in most cases, you're required to serve everyone. You can't just pick the areas that you want to
put transit service. So if you are actually trying to maximize your Net Promoter Score, you might get rid of
service on low volume routes that take resources away so you can increase service time by newer buses
and trains on the best routes. And you would attract more customers, they'd be happier, but you do that at
the expense of some portions of the population.
And so I think as a government agency, you've got to be aware that you have an entire region to serve.
Sometimes you can't just target your market segment that you want to serve. And so I think there's
benefits. I think the fact that you've used it for so long, it gives you some basis to trend things over time.
But I think there's value to it, but I'm new to you. So I want to make sure that as we work with you, we give
you a tool and comparative data that you can actually use.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan. Thank you, Mr. Tatham. Ms. Johnson, you have a
comment on that topic.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Well, just in generality about what Chris said, I wanted to ensure that the Board
was aware, it was in the Board materials, but I believe this is a great opportunity to stress that we've
retained the services of ETC. We entered into a three-year contract that has two-year options. So
recognizing that we'll have continuity, because what we were doing before, we were going out on an
annual basis. So basically, when we work with ETC, we will have an understanding, and Chris and his
team will have an understanding of what's happening here in our region. And so this basically, I believe,
will help us determine what might be optimal for us getting to Vice Chair Sloan's question. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I appreciate that additional context. Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Mr. Chair. And thanks, Mr. Tatham, for this report. It's much more
comprehensive set of data than we've seen in the past. And it's really helpful for me.

I've got some questions regarding the Net Promoter Score, which I understand, but I want to better
understand the reason for the change between 2021 and 2023. Now when it comes to the customer Net
Promoter Score, I believe one of the reasons was the new riders coming on don't necessarily become
promoters right away. If that's the case, then my question really centers on the community Net Promoter
Score, because as we saw, almost 80% of those people surveyed were people that either don't use our
services, or almost rarely, rarely use our services. And we went from a minus 2 to a minus 44. So that
seems like the community in general has gotten a worse opinion of RTD over the last couple of years.
And I wonder how we explain that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek. Mr. Tatham, I'll open up to you. And I think on the
screenshare, this is slide 54, I believe, is the slide that the Net Promoter Score of relevance. But Mr.
Tatham, please go ahead.
CHRIS TATHAM: Yeah. It's interesting nationally, because when you're talking about your people who
aren't using your service, their attitudes are influenced by many, many things. There could be a train
accident, for example, and suddenly they think it's unsafe to use RTD services. There can be crime
issues that have nothing to do with RTD services. But to get 9s and 10s from the general public is hard to
do.
But during COVID, most public, at least for a period, many public agencies were really being heralded as
heroes. Transit operators were among them. And so the general public was looking at emergency
medical providers, police officers, and a number, various times during COVID, as being these heroes,
people working in hospitals. And transit operators were part of that. So I think one of the reasons you saw
the Net Promoter Score go up so much during COVID is that, frankly, people out there day in and day out
who were providing and driving trains, they were heroes. And so people who would have given ratings of
6, 7, or 8 were suddenly giving ratings of 9 or 10.
Well, we're now getting into what we might say, the normal post-COVID era. And those 9s and 10s are
turning back into 7s, 8s. Those aren't bad scores. Those are satisfied. They think you're doing OK. But
there's a big difference in the Net Promoter Score between a 9 and an 8. An 8 is suddenly not worth
anything. And if you shift from a 7 to a 6 or a 5, which is an OK rating, that can also, that actually
becomes a negative, if that makes sense to you, the way the score works.
When I looked at the perceived value of RTD to the region, I think this is really from my perspective where
people are thinking, you see it actually has gone up significantly from a year ago after declining. So
you've built that back up. In addition, I look at things like people's willingness to support funding. And
that's actually 8 out of 10, 9 out of 10 people actually think it should be higher. People don't typically give
high ratings, especially say it should be much greater now, if they don't think the organization is using
existing resources well. Their response is, you should use what you have better. We don't need to give
more to help RTD do that.
And so I think what you're seeing is the Net Promoter Score is decreasing because there's rising
expectations for service. So when people look at RTD and their satisfaction with its performance in
different areas, they've shifted from a 9 to 10 because they actually want more things done, if that makes
sense to you. In other words, sometimes lower ratings aren't a bad thing.
For example, a community of Olathe, Kansas, where I live, we have a street sales tax. Well, the city did a
survey of its residents and 85% of people thought streets were fine. Well, the streets were crumbling
underneath so they did an education campaign to let people know the problems with the infrastructure.

But had they not done that, people might have continued to give the very high ratings and not thought
more resources were needed.
So I think you're in an interesting position now where overall perceived value, support for funding is
growing, but I think it's more a function of rising expectations, which is why you're getting fewer 9s and
10s, if that makes sense to you.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. So it seems to me that there's some kind of a disconnect between the previous
slide that shows the opinion in the general community and the slides on packet page 89, page 54 of the
presentation, that shows that Net Promoter Score of a big swing, A negative swing among the
community. So [INAUDIBLE].
CHRIS TATHAM: Yeah. And I should say that it appears, because the Net Promoter Score is just 9s and
10s, in 2020 and 2021, transit agencies, their people were getting some very good ratings, just because
they continued to provide service or were providing service in cases better than systems that had closed
things down. So that caused the people who were 7s and 8s to suddenly become 9s. And so we saw Net
Promoter Scores go way up in many areas.
But now that we're getting past that and we're getting back to normal, you see your Net Promoter Score,
fewer people are giving 9s and 10s. They're giving 6, 7s, and 8s. You don't have a lot of negativity. In
other words, there's not lots of 1s and 2s, or 0s out there when we look at your numbers. You're getting
back to people being more in the middle, leaning favorably. But the Net Promoter Score doesn't capture
that. The Net Promoter Score is simply 9s and 10s, then minus 0s through 6s. But for government
agencies, 6s aren't necessarily a negative.
And that's what we're seeing here is I think it's just the shift back to normal. And that's why you see the
national average is negative 62, because there's very few people giving 9s and 10s in most communities
out there, when it comes to the non-riders.
VINCE BUZEK: But when you have the opinion in the mid 80s positive for 2023 and you have the net.
promoter Score at negative 44, I don't know how-- I don't understand how those mesh.
CHRIS TATHAM: Yeah. It's just, the biggest part is, I'll go back maybe up here, just to-- I can share this
with you. This might help, when I showed the very first one. It's just the way the score-- that's why there's
some controversy now about the score tool. It was the shiny new thing in the early 2000s. Now there's
been some, it doesn't make sense for everyone.
You end up having just 9s and 10s. For most surveying that I do for local governments, I consider 7s
through 10s to be positive ratings. So if I'm going to assess satisfaction with city services or with train
services, 7s and 8s are positives too. But for the Net Promoter Score they're not.
And so what happens is when you see your ratings, for example, on your overall satisfaction ratings, so it
was right-- [INAUDIBLE] before, what you'll notice here is in 2022-- this is just for your bus service, I'm
just giving you an example-- you actually have significant 8% negativity. That's actually been cut in half in
the last year. That's a good thing for a government agency. But the percentage of people giving you 4s, or
satisfied, it's actually grown. The net promoters, if you want to call it, would be your very satisfied,
[INAUDIBLE] is shrunk. And a lot of that is as you get new customers, they choose whether they're going
to use transit or not based on the conditions. They're more likely to give you a 4, whereas this core group
here just keeps on riding.

And I'd have to look at the data in even more detail to give you some specifics. I'm just commenting more
generally. But I think it's great that you've cut negatives by half. The Net Promoter Score doesn't-- when
you're just looking at that, they would consider all of these negatives. And so that's the challenge, I think,
a little bit with the way that score works for a public agency.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. No, I'm pleased with the progress, but I guess it gets back to Director Sloan's
comment about the use of the Net Promoter Score. Because if you do this, the satisfaction surveys, I
think you get a better sense of where people are than when you get these Net Promoter Scores, you see
this big negative number and you think, oh, my god, this is terrible. But it's not. So is it really measuring
what we want it to measure?
OK. But thanks for your explanation. I appreciate it. Thanks a lot. That's all I have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek. Thank you, Mr. Tatham. I saw General Manager and CEO
Johnson raised her hand during that discussion. Any comments on that topic?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. What I wanted to share with Director Buzek
as well as it relates to the community, when we are identifying these people to take the survey, they're not
utilizing the system. There's qualifiers, right. And so when you think about the attitudes, perceptions, and
opinions, they're garnering that, it could be through the media. This is purely speculative on my part.
But to the point that Mr. Tatham had raised is collective. So if, in fact, there were some situation-- quite
naturally, let's be clear that we've had some incidents that basically have reflected on RTD, because our
buses and trains are traversing arterials and tracks that run through communities that have problems. So
if, in fact, you're looking at a high usage of opioids on city streets, they're going to spill into the transit
system, and people are equating that.
So I just wanted to qualify that going forward. Not to make excuse or be defensive but to call out actually
what's happening in many American communities across the board as it relates to public transit. Because
the operative word in what we do is public. And for people that don't utilize the system, they are basing
their opinions on what they're seeing third hand or reading in blogs and seeing on social media and things
of the like. So I just wanted to be clear that we identify those that aren't riding the system as being part of
the community. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: I appreciate that. And that was, I guess, my point, because I want to compare apples to
apples not apples to fish, right. So that's why I was looking at the community value. And if you do the
opinion, you look at the opinion bars, right, that's great. But you look at the Net Promoter Score, you're
like, ooh. So that's where I think that there's a disconnect in the way they're scored, because the numbers
clearly are great. So even people that don't use our system are getting way better. So good work. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson, and Director Buzek. I'll go to Chair
Guissinger next.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Mr. Tatham. This is very interesting and
encouraging data. I had the same questions about the Net Promoter Score, that the 2021 numbers were
so much different from the 2022 and 2023, and I really appreciate the explanation. That seems to make a
lot of sense.

I would just note one other thing. It seemed like you had great numbers of completed surveys, 540 for the
community value. I didn't get the number, but I think it was above the target significantly in the other.
What's that percentage? Do you know? How many were sent out for the community value?
CHRIS TATHAM: Yeah, I believe it was 3,000. I don't remember off the top of my head. But the reason
we had a higher completion rate is the response rate was better than we anticipated. And that's good.
And I think that goes along with the fact that people were aware of RTD.
And so this was our first time to do your survey. So we based our sample sizes, the number of
households that were selected at random, from our experience in other communities. And we just got a
better response rate from the Denver area than we do in most places. And so that's why we got more
surveys.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's a really good response rate. And were the people, the community value
people, did they have to mail it back?
CHRIS TATHAM: No. We actually, we used the same methodology that we use for thousands of our
community surveys across the country. We do address-based sampling first, so that any residential
address, whether it's a mobile home, a single family house, an apartment complex, condo, could be
selected at random for the survey. We then mail those households that are selected a survey instrument,
but then we follow up with email, we follow up with text, we do direct social media ads so that they'll see
it. Because we found that people who are under 40 don't take the survey and go back to the Post Office.
But if they see an Instagram reminder, they'll do it online.
So we give people a variety of methods. But then we require anybody who does the survey online to
enter their address, so that way we can confirm that they are actually part of the random sample. So that
way, when we're done, if somebody heard about the survey and went online and took it, if they weren't in
our address, we don't count their survey. We really didn't have very many people do that. But that's just
one of our quality control features that we use to make sure that at the end of the day, the sample is
representative.
And if you look at the demographics, whether it was by age, race, income, other factors, it actually lines
up pretty closely with the demographics for the Denver region. So we were very pleased with that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great. Thanks. And I'm just wondering how you get your national average. Is
that from your other surveys or is that from APTA or how do you-CHRIS TATHAM: No, it's actually-- we do this, everyone here, we actually do work for about 1,000 cities
and counties and transit agencies all over the country. Because of that, everyone wants national data. So
we actually do a national survey ourselves each year of anywhere from 8,000 to 10,000 households. The
samples are divided into 10 regions and it's done as a random sample in each of those 10 regions. And
there's a series of questions we ask people about their streets, their police force, their water, and transit.
So one of the questions on the survey is, have you used public transit in the last 30 days? And if it's no,
they're not asked a subset of questions. But if it's yes, we then ask them a series of questions. And then
that becomes the basis for our benchmarking data.
So it's a very large national survey. And we had about 10% to 12% of them, so there's probably over
1,000 people nationwide from every state, every major system. It really looks like the US population when

we break it all down. So it's not a comparison of here's 10 other transit agencies, it's truly a national
survey. That's what we use for all of our city, county, transit, public utility benchmarks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Tatham. I was curious about that same question.
Thank you. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Relative to packet page 89 and looking at the
community Net Promoter Score, we've got our last three years, '23, '22, '21, the national average, I take it,
is the '23 number. Can you give us a comparison, or do you know, is it readily available, what were the
numbers in 2022 and 2021? Because I'd be interested just in seeing if there is a correlation between
scores across us and the nation for those three years.
CHRIS TATHAM: Yeah. I don't have it off the top of my head, but I can just tell you, there's been a
tremendous decline nationally since 2020 and 2021. That's really where the numbers peaked. And that
was that period of time I was describing, where people were giving public servants 9s and 10s. But as we
got away and further past COVID, expectations have returned to normal.
So if you're interested, we could certainly provide that information. I just didn't include it in this
presentation. But I know we've seen dramatic decreases across the country the last couple years.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Thank you, Mr. Tatham. Yeah, that would be interesting
to understand those trends nationally. But thank you for speaking generally to those. Chair Guissinger,
please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry, I forgot one other question. Thanks so much.
Do you have a way of parsing out the answers in these surveys based on demographic data or
geographic data, those sorts of things?
CHRIS TATHAM: Yeah, we absolutely do. And we're actually going to be building a dashboard for RTD.
That's one of our next steps that will allow people to have access to the data, so you can actually then
say, I want to look at a particular age group or a particular racial group or a certain gender and you can
actually see what the results are for that particular group. So that'll be done in a few more weeks.
We just finished the surveys. But that will be something that long term we'll then keep updated for you, so
as you do a survey year after year, you'll have all that trend data at your fingertips, as well. It'll have
mapping capabilities as well for the community surveys.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great. Thanks so much. Mr. Chair, that would be great information for us to
bring back at some point, I think. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Agreed. Yeah. Thank you, Chair Guissinger. Yeah, I think a dashboard would be
excellent. That's great news. Other questions from committee members and Directors?
I have two just very general questions. They're actually more for our General Manager and CEO, Ms.
Johnson, on this. It's gray data, agree with everything my colleagues. In fact, most of the questions have
already been knocked out here. But agree that this is looking very promising and really appreciate the
granularity with which we can look at, especially the key drivers in the regression analysis.

I'm curious more about now operationalizing the data. So for example, I think there's several times that,
Mr. Tatham, you stated the hypothesis that there's rising expectations and there's differences in
perception and reality. And in fact, I think some of that is reflected in data. We saw minus 14% drop. This
was just one of a few examples where I think this is apparent in the trains usually run on time. But if we
look at year-to-date on time performance, light rail did drop. That went, I think, year-to-date the most
recent data, from 92.97 down to 85.67. But commuter rail, with all of our commuter rail lines, is actually up
on the year year-to-date versus last year.
So clearly a disconnect between such a dramatic drop in how people are responding to the survey versus
reality. And Ms. Johnson, I'm curious just how you and your team are working together to operationalize
that, to take this data and interpret, do we have a marketing problem, is it truly an on-time problem, how
we're sorting through this. And again, I recognize that not all of these are going to be things we focus on.
We'll focus on those key drivers, which greatly appreciate. That's a key part of this data. But really just
curious to hear the thought process as you frame up what our opportunities are for improvement and how
to sift out, that's a perception problem, that's a reality problem, and how do you tackle those respectively.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Mr. Chair, for the question. And I'm smiling over here,
because the entire Board will get a memorandum from me in quick order talking about what we're doing
with this information going forward. But quite naturally, as we look at this data in conjunction with our
employee surveys, what we're doing is honing in on where we see opportunities. And we've identified
those areas. And as we look at where we're going over the course of the remainder of this year and into
the next year, completing December, 2024, we're going to hone in. And this is coming from within the
organization holistically, trying to drill down about what needs to be done.
Case in point, one thing, and I give credit to Stuart Summers, being our Chief Communications and
Engagement Officer, I was intentional when I brought him into the organization because we need to tell
our story. So recognizing where we saw increases relative to receiving information, when one wants to
travel somewhere not everybody understands how they should go about planning a trip. So when we did
the Taylor Swift concert, all you had to do was put in Taylor Swift. All you have to do is put in Rockies,
and it gives you that kind of information.
So utilizing that as we look at what we're doing holistically, it's making informed decisions about where
there are opportunities. And more specifically, as we talk about commuter rail and comparison, we knew
we were having trip cancellations due to the fact that we needed to have a second crew member,
pursuant to the Federal Railroad Administration. So what did we do? For instance, like on the N Line,
well, we don't have to have an armed security guard. So then, basically having had discussions over a
year and a half ago, we were like, why can't we have our own conductors? So leveraging these different
opportunities to problem solve and ideate around what might be optimal.
So as you talk about on-time performance or service availability with light rail, case in point, we've had a
lot of different projects that we need to take place as we look at state of good repair and getting back to
basics. So what we're going to do going forward, when we leverage the coping panel project for next
year, ensure that that time frame or service-- I'm sorry, recognizing that our schedule needs to be taken
into consideration, instead of doing different train orders, we're going to incorporate that into our actual
schedule. So when an operator gets his or her paddle, they'll know what it is that they're doing. And
therefore, we are communicating out what the headways will be as opposed to saying, oh, the headway
should have been 20 minutes but now they're 30 minutes because of this. It's telling the story, being
intentional. So those are examples of what we're doing going forward.

The analysis will take place. We just received this information last Wednesday as a leadership team.
Each department head will look at that information and carry this forward relative to being intentional as it
relates to SMART goals, as well, because this falls within the auspices of back to basics. And there's a
myriad of different things that we're doing as it relates to back to basics, welcoming transit environment
for Dr. Chief Fitzgerald as it relates to what he is doing with his team.
So that just gives you a thumbnail sketch of what we intend to do and what I'm expecting holistically of the
team as I shepherd this process going forward. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Ms. Johnson. It's very helpful to hear the thought process and
I'm very grateful to you for the data driven approach here. It's one thing to say we want to be the trusted
leader in mobility, delivering excellence and value to customers and communities. It's another thing to
figure out how we measure that and move the needle. So thank you for that.
And just to put you on the spot one more time, I'm curious just to hear your feedback here when you got
these results and how you're looking at these just kind of state of the agency, based on community and
customer perception and our delivery of value to both, how are you generally feeling about the progress
here and about the opportunities they had? You mentioned the back to basics as a principle. And as
we're thinking about goals, which we'll talk about in a moment here for the next year, just how is this
resonating with you? How is this sitting? How are you feeling about progress? And just what are your
general impressions of the report?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Mr. Chair. First and foremost, you can't manage what
you can't measure. And so recognizing when I came into this organization, we did not have anything. It
was in the midst of COVID, so we did a baseline.
I am very much encouraged by the data points that I see. And when I received this information on
Wednesday, thought, yes, we are moving in the right direction. We're being intentional. We have a
roadmap as we talk about what we're trying to be the trusted leader in mobility and as we look at what
we're doing, making lives better through connections. For all intents and purposes, those individuals that
are utilizing our system, be it a fixed route, be it paratransit, Access-on-Demand, as we look at where
we're going, we are hearing from the individuals that are utilizing the service. And that is encouraging. Not
all this noise that one may get from somebody else as they're taking bits of data and mixing apples and
fish, holistically not knowing what people are up against because they're looking at some data from an
organization where they don't have all the context.
And so as I looked at this, I'm like, we are making steps in the right direction. And I believe that doing
more of this, by being highly communicative, by telling our story, by engaging as relates to the community
value perception, getting out there, educating and informing people. Because one thing that always
strikes a chord with me, somebody is like, oh, you just need money. Well, we already know, and you've
heard Ms. Polege present this in different forums, that people aren't leaving the agency as it relates to the
amount of money they're making. It could be other elements as it relates to greater flexibility. We're
looking at a different demographic, one that's different from mine from an age perspective. And
individuals may not want to come into an organization where they have to start and they're working during
least opportune times for them.
So recognizing that we can be more intentional. And so I think these are very good results and I'm quite
pleased. As I shared with the team just on Wednesday, I think this gives us great opportunity and for
individuals within the organization that didn't really feel or understand how they blended into the

organization, one thing's for certain that I've gotten, as I've gone out and had my engagements through
All Hand meetings and things of the like, that folks understand what they can do to fit into the greater
piece of the puzzle. Because as an individual, they're contributing and then they're part of a team. Then
they're part of the organization, and then they're making things better for the community as a whole.
So I am very much encouraged. And I feel that we are making strides. And one can't turn an ocean liner
overnight. I knew coming into this position it would take a lot of work, because there was work that
needed to be done. And now I'm able to see some progress.
So I'll leave it there. Thank you very much for the opportunity to share my insights.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Thanks for sharing the insights. I think it's very helpful
to hear how you're looking at that, and the team. And yeah, very much appreciate it. It's great progress.
And I think it would be remiss not to point out, you alluded to Mr. Summers earlier and the progress there
on communicating, I thank you to you and to Mr. Summers and his team for that communication. That's a
huge improvement.
And yeah, there's a lot of great stuff here. It struck me that impressions of our operators-- and Mr.
Tatham, you pointed out that those were some impressive numbers-- I think most of us here wouldn't be
surprised to hear that. But especially in the presence of several Board meetings ago, when we had our
discussion around code of conduct and we got to hear from many of our operators about the difficulty of
the job, it's a cool tool to be able to share, people are feeling good about what you're doing for them. And
it's great to see the data and appreciate the progress. And Ms. Johnson, thank you for sharing your
impressions and opportunities and how our operationalizing.
Great presentations. Awesome. Thank you, Ms. Riley and Mr. Tatham, for coming to join us here and
share this. Any other questions or comments from Directors before we move on? All right. Hearing none,
we will move on.
We are going to move to Other Matters. We can keep this very short. There's just one matter on the
agenda as of right now, and then I'll open up for any others, which is the performance appraisal timeline
check in. Just as a quick reminder, so as we'll talk about at the very end, we have the November 13
meeting coming up. That's a really, really critical meeting. Please make sure to be there, and remind all of
our fellow Directors and colleagues to be there. Again, in-person only. And at that time, we will be
delivering performance feedback to the General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson.
Just as a quick check in on how things will kind of roll out here. So on the performance evaluation side,
everyone will be receiving, on the Board, an evaluation form from the Board Office. That form, if there are
some questions about that or if anyone would like to discuss that, please reach out to me. We have
framed up an outline.
I think many of us have been discouraged by being tied into using the Net Promoter Score as the guiding
principle there, but we have drafted up an opportunity for confirming whether we have met or not met
those Net Promoter Score goals that framed the weighted success outcomes. And then having the
organizational values, have an opportunity to provide specific examples of the General Manager and
CEO exhibiting or not exhibiting particular organizational values. So that form will be distributed.
What I would encourage Directors to do, and request they do, is complete that form not for final
submission but to bring to the November 13 session, at which we will be able to deliver not just feedback

that we have on the form itself but also to go beyond the form to dialogue with the General Manager and
CEO about all things related to her performance and agency performance at that time.
After that November 13 meeting, there will be a couple of days, if there was anything that wasn't clear in
your draft or needed further clarity from the General Manager and CEO when we have that discussion,
Directors will have the opportunity to revise, to clarify language, before then delivering that to the Board
Office to be published into the final report.
We will have some discussion beyond that point about what will form the basis of the report, depending
on the results, in terms of what will be published in record and what General Manager and CEO Johnson
will be able to use for herself in the coming year. There will also need to be some meetings, likely another
one will need to be calendared where we will discuss any adjustments to compensation that relate to the
performance evaluation and, if relevant, the base salary range, based on the adjustments we've made in
Gallagher.
So that's on the performance evaluation. We'll just have that November-- the form will come to you. You'll
draft up your thoughts and feedback and come prepared for the November 13 meeting. That will be inperson only in the confines of an Executive Session. We will deliver that feedback, have several days to
clarify anything that wasn't clear on the form for final delivery.
Regarding annual goals, we've had a lot of discussion around Net Promoter Score not serving us the way
we would all like it to. General Manager and CEO Johnson has alluded to three core areas of focus, being
the back to basics, people power problem, and welcoming transit environment. We'll, as per the contract,
General Manager Johnson and CEO delivers to this Board by November 1 draft annualized goals, as we
did last year. This committee and the Board will then discuss and adopt those.
I'll leave it to, when we get to those goals that we can all discuss. But just as a reminder, we'll have those
goals. We'll discuss them, and then we will adopt those goals. I look forward to those discussions that
we'll be having in those subsequent meetings.
So most important thing, November 13. That's the quick review there. And committee members, please
reach out to me if you have questions about the form. Again, not knowing exactly what will form the basis
of the published final report, we will-- I'm happy to have one-on-one dialogue with Directors about the
information that we'll be capturing for that.
So with that, we'll take just questions, comments about overall timeline. Director Guzman, please go
ahead.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry, I'm using my phone so I don't have an audio problem. The timeline looks
good. I just have a question for Board Office Manager Kroll, if it's possible to put out a save the date on
our calendar since now, so that we can make sure that time is blocked out. I don't think I've received
anything for that date, other than writing it down in my notes. And so looking at my calendar, I want to
make sure that I have that time correctly blocked out and I know when we're starting, where we're
meeting, that sort of information. If we don't have all the details of what's going on, that's fine. But we
need to block that out on calendar so people are aware. Makes it easier to plan. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guzman. I see a thumbs up from Mr. Kroll so I'll take that as we
have the action down. And thank you very much, Director Guzman. Very good point.

And let's please make sure that goes to all Board members. And I will make sure to emphasize in my
committee report at the Board meeting to come this month. Thank you, Director Guzman. Other
questions, discussion?
All right. Great. Thanks, everybody, for going through this year. I know there's been a lot to do. There's a
lot more to do in the year ahead. But appreciate the work that this committee has done this year so far.
Any other matters to come before the committee? All right. As previously stated, our next meeting date
will be that November 13 date. Again, we'll probably need to calendar a few more after that, based on
some of the things to come. That meeting will be Monday, November 13 at 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight
Time. Will be an evening meeting on the 13th. The Board Office will put that placeholder out. And again,
that will be an in-person Executive Session, where the General Manager will present for self-evaluation
and the committee will provide initial feedback.
With that, seeing no other discussion, the meeting will be adjourned as of 9:40 AM Mountain Daylight
Time. Thank you to everybody who participated and presented today.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Bye.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Bye-bye.

