Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
December 17, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Michael Flanagan – Telephone Information Specialist – 25 years
John Hatton – Light Rail Electro-Mechanic – 37 years
Lloyd Joe – Certified Mechanic – 36 years
Bobbie L. McGinnis – Controller Supervisor – 20 years
David Newcomb – Bus Operator – 18 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 26, 2013

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Disposition of Surplus Property Pilot Program

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to market and to negotiate
and execute all documents necessary to dispose of real property owned by RTD in the
vicinity of WCR 27 and WCR #6 and #8, Lot 1, Block 1, Aurora Highline Subdivision,
Filing No. 4 (Alameda/Havana park-n-Ride), remnants associated with the West Corridor
Rail Line at 1395 South Zuni, and vacant land at 104th and Riverdale, Thornton, Colorado
to at least 90% of the current fair market value as determined by appraisal.
B.

Renaming of I-225 Rail Line City Center Station

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt the Aurora Metro Center Station name for the station on the I-225 Rail Line
currently referred to as the Aurora City Center Station in the Environmental Evaluation
document. This recommendation is consistent with the current Board policy on station
naming. It is also recommended that the existing Centrepoint/Sable bus transfer facility
located at the station area also be renamed to be consistent with the light rail station.
C.

Station Names for Eagle P3 Project

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the following station name changes for the Eagle P3 Project. For comparison, the
current station names in use are shown in parentheses.
Gold Line:
Pecos Junction (change from Pecos)
Clear Creek • Federal (change from Federal)
60th & Sheridan • Arvada Gold Strike (change from Sheridan)
Wheat Ridge • Ward (change from Ward Road)
East Corridor:
40th Ave. & Airport Blvd. • Gateway Park (change from 40th Ave. & Airport Blvd)
Denver Airport (change from Denver International Airport)
D.

FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors appoint three (3) new members and reappoint two (2) members to the FasTracks
Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) for three-year
terms.
E.
Resolution No. _, Series of 2013 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates of
Participation
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Reimbursement Resolution”),
declaring the intent of the District to use proceeds from a tax-exempt obligation in the
form of a lease purchase agreement to reimburse itself for certain capital expenditures
made in connection with the North Metro rail line project.
F.

Radio-CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Sixth-Year Amendment

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to amend the contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s Representative to
Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle
Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (Contract 18DH016). This contract amendment is for the
sixth year, which is the final option year of the contract. The scope and fee are
renegotiated annually. The sixth-year fee is not-to-exceed a limit of $2,400,000 for a
total contract value to date of $12,022,000.
G.
Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short Elliot Hendrickson (SEH), Contract
11 DO-025 - Contract Amendment.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract 11 DO-025 with SEH to allow
for additional architectural / engineering design services in the amount of $1,000,000 for a
new, not-to-exceed contract amount of $3,000,000. Work is administered on an asneeded, work order basis. The amended amount is to be funded by various Strategic
Budget Plan (SBP) approved future projects and existing projects under contract.
H.
Increase the General Manager’s Signature Authority for the Rio Court Maintenanceof-Way Renovation/Tenant Finish Project.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager’s contract amendment signature authority for the
Rio Court Maintenance-of-Way Renovation/Tenant Finish Project be increased from
$500,000 to $700,000.
I.

DRCOG Vanpool Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents

necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD support and expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool
program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2014 and
shall be in an amount not to exceed $700,000.00.
J.

North Front Range Vanpool Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning
Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support and continued expansion of the NFR
VANGO vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar
year 2014 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $450,000.00.
K.

City of Boulder Hop Cost Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD
financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial
areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business
and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2014 and is for an amount not to
exceed $1,484,378.00.
L.

5311 Cost Share Agreements

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility Services and the Seniors’
Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA Section 5311
(non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These
Agreements are for calendar year 2014 and for amounts not to exceed $343,680.00 for
Boulder County, $338,250.00 for Adams County and $104,804.00 for Jefferson County.

XII.

Recommended Actions
M.

Approval of Sales and Use Tax Compliance Review Contractor

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager to approve a two year contract with an
additional one year option with Revenue Recovery Group to provide sales and use tax
compliance review services. The contract will be paid on a labor hour basis with an annual
not-to-exceed amount of $607,500.N.
Approval of the Purchase of Four Electric
Multiple Units (EMU) Cars for the Eagle Project
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the purchase of four

Electric Multiple Units (EMU) cars for the Eagle Project through the Denver Transit
Partners (DTP), for an amount not to exceed $18 million.
It is further recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $7.5 million from the FasTracks
Contingency Reserve to the Eagle Project budget to fund the purchase of the additional
four EMU cars.
O.

Englewood Art Shuttle Cost Share Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the art circulator bus service in the City of
Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2014 and is for an amount not to exceed
$282,000.00.

XIII.

Motion to Move into Executive Session
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(f) Personnel Matters, General Manager Performance Evaluation

XIV. Executive Session
XV.

Resume from Executive Session to Board Meeting

XVI. Recommended Action
P.

Resolution No. ___, Series of 2013 General Manager Performance Evaluation

XVII. Old Business
XVIII. New Business
XIX. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

