Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Erik Davidson, District I
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Secretary – Michael Guzman, District C
Treasurer – Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Vacant, District D
Ian Harwick, District L
Jaime Lewis, District A

Paul Rosenthal, District E
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, December 3, 2024
5:30 PM
IN-PERSON/REMOTE MEETING
MONTHLY BOARD BRIEFING DOCUMENTS LINK
To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 884 5709 1109#
Webinar Passcode: 1660

For Public Participation in the Board Meeting: raise your virtual hand
in Zoom or indicate you wish to speak via phone by pressing *9
If you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment(s),
please email the RTD Board office using the address below.
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Land Acknowledgement

IV.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

V.

Statement of Employee Appreciation

VI.

Retiree Awards
David Mobley – Bus Operator – 25 years
Tom Hughes – Manager, Intelligent Transportation Systems – 16 years

VII.

Public Participation

VIII.

External Entities Reports

IX.

Audit Committee Report

X.

Finance and Planning Committee Report

XI.

Operations, Safety, and Security Committee Report

XII.

Performance Committee Report

XIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports

XIV. Chair's Report
XV.

General Manager's Report

XVI. Public Hearing for 2025 Budget
A.

2025 Proposed Budget

For the Board of Directors to adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2024 for the adoption of
the 2025 Budget, Resolution No. ___, Series of 2024 for the 2025 Budget appropriation
and Resolution No. ___, Series of 2024 for the appropriation of 2025 previously
appropriated capital.

XVII. Unanimous Consent
B.

Zero Fares on Transit Equity Day 2025

For the Board of Directors (Board) to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her
designee, to implement zero fares on February 4, 2025 (Transit Equity Day) and to further
authorize the annual implementation of zero-fare day for each Transit Equity Day
thereafter.
C.

Salaried Trustee Appointment

For the Board of Directors to approve Resolution No. ______, Series of 2024, reappointing
Jennie Waski, Senior Specialist, Benefits, as a Trustee with a term expiring December 31,
2026, and appointing Anthony Sabia, Director, Total Rewards, Vince Buzek, RTD Board
Director, and Troy Whitmore, RTD Board Director, as Trustees with terms expiring

December 31, 2026, to the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit Pension Plan (DB plan) and
Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Retirement Plan (DC plan) Trusts.
D.

January 2025 Title VI Service Equity Analysis

For the Board of Directors (Board) to adopt the Title VI Service Equity Analysis report for
January 2025 service changes to comply with federal laws, regulations and guidelines
related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
E.

2024 GM/CEO Performance Appraisal and Related Compensation Change

For the Board of Directors to approve General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO) Debra A.
Johnson’s attached performance appraisal for the 2024 calendar year performance cycle,
and in connection therewith, to approve a 4.86 percentage increase to the GM/CEO’s
current Annual Base Salary.

XVIII. Recommended Action
F.

January 2025 Service Change

For the Board of Directors to approve the January 2025 Service Change as revised and
summarized in Attachment A and to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators impacted by
the service changes.
G.

Centennial State Liquid Investment Pool (CSLIP) Participation

For the Board of Directors to approve RTD’s participation in the Centennial State Liquid
Investment Pool (CSLIP).
H.

2025 Legislative and Government Relations Program

For the Board of Directors to adopt the 2025 Legislative and Government Relations
Program.
I.
Independent Audit Committee Membership Appointment, Reappointment, and
Authorization
For the Board of Directors to take the following actions related to membership on the
Independent Audit Committee:
• Appoint Director Buzek to a term commencing January 1, 2025 and expiring
December 31, 2026
• Reappoint External Member John Olenberger to term commencing January 1,
2025 and expiring December 31, 2026
• Authorize former Director Dishell to remain on the committee through November
17, 2025.
J.
Bylaw Amendments to Update Descriptions of the Executive and Performance
Committees
For the Board of Directors to adopt the proposed Bylaw Amendments, which will clarify

the roles of the Executive and Performance committees as well as adjust several related
administrative matters.
K.

Citizen Advisory Committee Appointments and Reappointment's

For the Board of Directors to appoint three new members to three-year terms, appoint five
new members to two-year terms, and reappoint two members to three-year terms to the
Citizens Advisory Committee.
L.

Transit Passes for Former Board Directors

For the Board of Directors to build upon, ratify, and reaffirm the existing agency practice
to provide annual transit passes to all former Board Directors and a designated immediate
family member by adopting the enclosed resolution establishing the right of all former
Directors and a designated immediate family to an annual pass in perpetuity.

XIX. Report of Director Activities
XX.

Other Matters

XXI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

