2024-12-03
Board Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good evening, everyone. This is Chair Erik Davidson speaking, and I will now call the
Tuesday, December 3 RTD Board meeting to order. We are convened as of 5:32 PM Mountain Standard
Time. I would respectfully ask everyone in attendance to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening.
As the Board has moved to in-person meetings for our monthly gatherings, please note that committee
meetings have continued to be held remotely via Zoom, and they are audio and video recorded. Meeting
minutes, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the
Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com, and a livestream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube
page.
During tonight's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Real-Time translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service can send an email to the RTD Board Office using
the email address rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART
transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript
of this meeting in Spanish.
At this time, we'll now move to the Pledge of Allegiance. And Secretary Guzman, if you could please leave
your mic enabled and lead us in the Pledge, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for
which it stands, one nation under god, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. And now, at this time, I'd like to ask Director Tisdale if you would
please read the land acknowledgment.
DOUG TISDALE: The RTD Board of Directors graciously and gratefully acknowledges that the land on
which our buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other
contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who
have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout many generations.
May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle any ongoing legacies of
inequity of the Native and all historically oppressed peoples and recognize their past, present, and future
multiple and beneficial contributions in the district as we move forward. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I will now call for the roll and determine quorum. Treasurer
Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: I'm here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal. He is here. I'll note that in a moment. Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I am present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson speaking. I am here. We have 14 present, 0 absent. We have
a quorum. At this time, I'd now like Director Sloan to please read the statement of employee appreciation.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Chair. And what a privilege it is to read this tonight, because everyone
knows that RTD can't move people without RTD's people. The Regional Transportation District Board of
Directors recognizes that RTD's dedicated workforce is the lifeblood of the agency every day.
RTD employees do extraordinary things to make lives better through connections. We honor their work of
delivering transit, excellence, service, and value to the community, especially demonstrated during difficult
and stressful moments. May the actions taken by the Board of Directors demonstrate our profound
gratitude, commitment, and support toward all RTD employees.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan. We now move to our retiree awards. One of the many
rewarding duties of serving on this Board is to recognize the RTD retirees, and the time has come for us to
do that this evening. At this time, I'd like to read the name of employees who have retired since June. David
Mobley, bus operator, for 25 years. Tom Hughes, manager, intelligent transportation systems, 16 years.
First before announcing, we do have someone in attendance-- just a round of applause for both of those
retirees.
[APPLAUSE]

Thank you. And I do believe that Mr. Tom Hughes has joined us this evening. And so it's my pleasure to
ask General Counsel Snyder and Brett Feddersen, our acting senior manager of information technology, if
the two of you would like to introduce and speak on behalf of Mr Hughes. Please go ahead.
MELANIE SNYDER: Great. Come on in closer, Tom. All right, I want to introduce you all to Tom Hughes.
So Tom joined RTD in 2008. He served as our manager of intelligent transportation systems, leading a
team of 20, including systems administrators and electronic technicians. In the 16 years he's been at RTD,
under his leadership, the ITS team has made significant strides in modernizing the systems and on-vehicle
technologies that we employ.
Before I turn it over to acting senior manager of IT, Brett Feddersen, to say a few words, I just want to say
thank you, Tom. Thank you for your service and your contributions to RTD and the people of the district.
Most leaders do strive for continuous improvement and to leave their teams and their organization in a
better place than when they started. And Tom, you've certainly done that. So thank you.
BRETT FEDDERSEN: Good evening. I'm Brett Feddersen, and it's with great pride I get to say a few words
about Tom Hughes. If I could pick one thing to talk about with Tom, he's empathetic. Tom always showed
empathy to his employees when something was going on in their personal life, and Tom never questioned
their need to take time or even just to take a break for a few minutes to process anything that was going
on.
And if there's two things I could say about Tom, it's his transparency. Tom would take the time to talk to his
team during staff meetings about feelings towards situations at work and encouraged all of his team to

share if needed and that his meetings were a safe place. Well, if you combine empathy and transparency,
you build trust.
And Tom was a true person of trust. Never once did anyone have any inclination to think that he was not
trustworthy, and never once did he not follow through on what he said he was going to do. Never once did
he try to pass the blame to someone on his team if something went wrong, and he always advocated for
his team in good times and in bad, regardless of the situation.
Well, you build a team with that kind of trust, and you get results. And Tom transformed support for the
revenue fleet from a disorganized, generally ineffective unit to a model of efficiency in the entire agency.
And then he took that, took those results, and he built on excellence. Tom actually represented RTD-- or
Tom represents the very best in public service and has brought this excellence in representing RTD on the
board of the Consolidated Communications Network of Colorado, the CCNC, ensuring the district's radio
communication interests were advocated for with the statewide digital trunked radio system network,
making sure that our ability to talk to buses through a radio system and our frequencies were always
advocated for.
Tom grew up in Grand Junction, just like I did, although he went to the wrong high school.
TOM HUGHES: Other side of town.
BRETT FEDDERSEN: And about 10 years earlier than me. And all I have to say, Tom, is here's another
West Western Slope kid done good.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And Mr. Tom Hughes-- oh, please go ahead.
RYAN HALL: I'm sorry. My name is Ryan Hall, and I am the mobile technology supervisor here at RTD.
And I've worked for RTD for almost 24 years. More than half of that was working directly for Tom in the
Mobile Technologies Group. And what I can definitely tell you for sure is prior to working for Tom, not just
here, but in other positions and other companies, it felt cold. You just came to work, you were told what to
do, and then you went home.
When I came to work for Tom, he really fosters that you're a human being feeling, which I never felt that at
work. And it really took place when illness struck home and I had a terminal illness at home I had to deal
with for 11 years. And like Brett said, he never questioned when I needed to take the FMLA time. And then
when that individual passed away, he stepped in and helped cover and everything when that was gone. So
Tom really is the epitome of what a manager should be-- keeping things going, keeping the lights on, but
also treating your employees like human beings. And Tom, I can't thank you enough for that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ryan.
[APPLAUSE]

TOM HUGHES: Thank you. It's been a great opportunity. It's been such a rich part of my life. God, just to
work with the team-- and you've got a team of seven technicians and a couple of technical administrators
kind of wandering around, picking up odd jobs, taking care of broken electronic components on a bus or a
train, filling in a lot of different things.
And we were able to take that team to very qualified IT specialists in the technical group and system
administrators that can run the back office and work with the users of that, the dispatch teams from-- I don't
know if you realize, we've got six or seven dispatch centers within RTD from bus, light rail, paratransit, to
safety, security, transit police, a commuter rail dispatch center, our own and our contractors-- a lot going
on there.
And then every bus running around with, gosh, $20,000-$30,000 worth of a local area network on each one
of those, camera systems, everything that's going on. And we were able to embrace that and grab it. And
every time we found something that didn't have an owner, there was a system somewhere that people
relied on and didn't know who to call, we grabbed It. We grabbed it and we pulled it in. It was-- sorry. It was
great to see people get engaged and get excited about it.
As we move into new technologies, I just look for our senior leadership. I look for the first-level supervisors
and the mid-level managers to really embrace that and to bring people on board, to get people engaged,
to get them focused into what work is all about. And, at the same time, what family is all about. So yeah, I
just can't say enough-- I was given that opportunity, and I'm so proud of where we've come and what we've
done.
[APPLAUSE]

Thank you. RTD also took care of me, just like Ryan was saying. I had lost a loved one. So through this,
my wife passed of cancer. RTD took care of me too. So thank you. Thank you, everybody.
[APPLAUSE]

MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you so much. Can we take some pictures with you?
TOM HUGHES: Yes, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We're going to pause for a few pictures. Everyone just stay seated and we'll be right
back.
TOM HUGHES: I wore my best Hawaiian shirt for tonight just to celebrate this moment. Thank you so much.
All right.
MELANIE SNYDER: I'll see you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: I'd like to again thank Mr. Hughes. Thank you for sharing your personal story, your
successes with us, and for your 16 years of service that has helped make millions of people's lives better
through connections over those 16 years. So thank you for serving your community and in this agency for
all those years.
Unfortunately, Mr. Mobley wasn't able to join us this evening, but also, we thank him for his service as well,
and again, for the commitment and dedication of all of the public servants that work at this agency,
thousands of them, for working to make lives better through connections. Thank you for joining us and
sharing your story.
At this time, we're now going to move to our public participation period. This is open to anyone who would
like to address the Board. As we have, both in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments will go
first, followed by those who are participating remotely. For those attending in person, please come up to
the podium when your name is called. If you have not already signed up to speak prior to the meeting, but
would like to do so, you may approach the podium, when I call for any additional speakers and line up
behind the podium.
For anyone attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done, you can raise your virtual
hand on Zoom or press star 9 if you're dialed in by phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to
speak. And if you are dialed in via phone, you can press star 6 to toggle the mute settings on your phone.
Please bear in mind that anyone participating in this process is being recorded, and if you do not wish to
be recorded, you are welcome to submit your comments in writing to the RTD Board Office. If any speaker
has documentation or reference materials to accompany any comments to be shared with the Board, you
may submit those written comments or any of those reference materials to the Board Office using the email
address rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com..
During this public participation period, the Board does not offer any direct comments or responses.
However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your comment, you may email the RTD Board Office
the previously noted email address rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Speakers, please begin your remarks
by stating your names, and you will have up to three minutes to provide your comments. I will let you know
when that three minutes has come up. At this time, I will start with our in-person speakers who have signed
up, starting with Emma Griffin.
EMMA GRIFFIN: Hi, my name is Emma Griffin. Thank you for allowing me the time to speak. I am a colead
for Greater Denver Transit, and I would like to take the time to thank the outgoing RTD Board Chair, Erik
Davidson, as well as Directors Jaime Lewis, Paul Rosenthal, Doug Tisdale, Bob Broom, Bobby Dishell, and
Marjorie Sloan. I know this has not been the easiest time to lead RTD, but we as an organization are
thankful for the Board's work through these turbulent times.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. Our next speaker is Paolo Solorzano.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Hi. Paolo Solorzano, RTD Riders Alliance. I just want to start off by saying a few
good things that I've noticed out there at RTD. . I've been taking surveys with stat team the last few months,

so I've talked to a lot of riders and the 19 and under free fare for youth has been amazing. Almost every
child has been saying that they're using it more now than before, almost like 95% So it's amazing.
But, unfortunately, I have some things that I think need to be urgent. These are things that are on the RTD
Riders Alliance Facebook page. We're hopefully going to get a website soon. But these things have been
coming out for since 2018-- have been a problem since 2018. Real-time scheduling, signage, incorrect
signage, ghost trains, leaving people stranded.
This, of course, doesn't-- you don't have to say this. People end up spending hundreds of dollars on Lyfts.
They're barely trying to pay rent right now, and they're unable to get to their second job right now because
that's a requirement for a lot of people.
And with the way things are on top of ghost trains happening, it's $100, $200, $300, $400 a month that
people cannot afford. And I've talked to a lot of people that have rescheduled their medical appointments
until after the construction, more than I ever thought I'd hear about. But I've personally experienced that
with my orthodontic appointments. I've missed three of them last year.
Really quick, the light rails-- I mean, the real-time scheduling in the last few months has been really bad.
The snowstorm, the biggest snowstorm we've had in for a long time, 11/8 through 11/9, the Next Ride was
down all day long. Customer service was not aware that the Next Ride system was down all day long. I
guess it was down for a week or two before that as well. And again, during the wheel break, when there
was a wheel break in 11/18, five lines were delayed.
I was out there on 16th Street talking to people, many white collar workers who had all their plans messed
up. There were ghost trains. The Lamar station signage and the light rail Next Ride was all not syncing up,
and people were having to go from 16th Street to Union Station to try to make their connections. And then
the A line has been down. It was down for a week or more. It finally is going up and running. But yeah, I
guess I'll just leave it at that. That needs to be an urgent thing. And everyone I've talked to hopes to hear
you guys talking about how that is going to be fixed immediately. So thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. Our next speaker signed up
this evening is Danny Katz.
DANNY KATZ: Hi, there. My name is Danny Katz. I'm the Executive Director of CoPIRG, the Colorado
Public Interest Research group. And I'm here to celebrate. So I'm here to celebrate the passage of 7A. I
just wanted to make sure there was some moment set aside in this Board meeting to just acknowledge that
was a significant win in victory for transit in our region. And there was a lot of people, obviously, all of you
played a role in letting the public know and educating the public about the importance of voting yes on 7A.
But there was also a coalition out there, and I wanted to take a moment to make sure that people recognize
all the different groups and individuals that were out there spreading the message of vote yes on 7A. There's
probably more than what I'll read here. But I wanted to just acknowledge, especially through a campaign
effort called Keep Transit Moving. There were a lot of different organizations and individuals.

So to give you a taste and a flavor of all the groups that were out there saying vote yes on 7A, I want to
thank on behalf of the coalition groups like the Arc of Aurora, Adams and Jefferson County, the Center on
Law and Policy, Poverty Law Center, the Cross-Disability Coalition, AARP Colorado, Denver Streets
Partnership, Greater Denver Transit, Servicios de la Raza, the Southwest Energy Efficiency Project.
Bicycle Colorado, Conservation Colorado, Sierra Club, the Atlantis Community, the Colorado Children's
Hospital. Pedestrian Dignity, the ATU 1001, Commuting Solutions, West Corridor TMA, Transportation
Solutions, Downtown Denver Partnership, a number of different chambers across the region, including the
chambers of Commerce from Boulder, Denver Superior, the Northwest Chamber Alliance, Denver South,
Broomfield, the Colorado Restaurant Association, Mile High Chapter.
Lots of other elected officials out there, including the Metro Mayors Caucus as a caucus, but then
individually, mayors that were getting out there and promoting the Yes on 7A effort, including mayors from
Boulder, Broomfield, Wheat Ridge, Denver, Golden, Littleton, Westminster, Lakewood, Longmont, and
Arvada. A number of city council members, towns-- whole city councils and towns were endorsing this.
A number of state legislators as well, so specific shout outs to those who endorsed and added their names
to our campaign pages include Representative Weissman, Titone, Amabile, Froelich, Jodeh, Mabrey,
Lieder, Daugherty, Senators Michaelson, [INAUDIBLE], Senator Winter, Senator Bridges, Marchman,
Sullivan, and Senate President Fenburg. I also again, want to acknowledge-- I'm sure the Board members
were doing a lot out there as well as any and everyone who contributed to the campaign any money.
We know that voters have said don't cut RTD's budget. That's great. The next step now is to paint a picture
of the future that involves growing our transit system and really filling some of the gaps that still exist. And
that's really falls to the shoulders of not just but the incoming Board members. So again, let's celebrate the
win on 7A, and thanks for everybody, and hopefully, I didn't miss anyone. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]

Thank you for joining us, thank you for your comments, and thank you for your work. Our next speaker is
Keith Brooks.
KEITH BROOKS: Well, for seven of you-- oh, hi. Yeah, I'm Keith. For seven of you, this will be your
penultimate time you'll have to hear me yap. My condolences. Well, it wouldn't be a Keith comment if we
weren't doing it live, so there's much to discuss. But I don't want to be that one kid that reminds the teacher
to hand out homework on the last class before break.
So I just want to say thank you. Thank you for putting up with me for however long I've been coming to
these. I know, early on, and maybe more recently, I've meandered a bit. But this opportunity has really
helped me grow, and I really do appreciate it.

I wanted to point out some good things that are happening that have not even been made public, but show
improvement and learning, and that if the last time is bad, the next time will be OK, and the time after that
will be great. So, for example, slow zones-- they're still there, but the amount of track one rail burn takes
down has been improved because, at first, it was just-- we haven't found all of them, so shut it all down. But
they aren't shutting down all of the sections between stations when they find one rail burn. They just do a
few hundred yards on either side.
Also, no official announcement has been made of this, and we'll get to the budget later, but no item in the
budget has been found for it because it's been too detailed. But contractors with heavier equipment have
been seen out working on the rails, just spotted like a rare bird. There has been no official acknowledgment
of that, but we see it, and we thank you. So to all the Directors, to all of the staff, thank you for a hard but
solid 2024, and here's to a better 2025. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments and thank you for joining us. Those are all the folks who
signed up to speak here in person. However, at this time I'll ask, is there anyone who was hoping to address
the Board that did not sign up? Please line up behind the podium and approach. Please start by introducing
yourself, and then you will have up to three minutes to speak, and I will let you know when that three
minutes. Is approaching.
TRENT TAYLOR: Just introduce yourself? OK. Hello, my name is Trent Taylor. I'm a labor and employment
lawyer here in the city of Denver. I work and live in the city of Denver. I recently moved to Denver for a new
job, and I wanted to provide a personal perspective on behalf of myself and other people who are eligible
and make use of the Access-a-Ride on-Demand program.
I started experiencing vision loss about eight years ago and became entirely dependent upon public
transportation for my travel and my commute about six years ago. So I understand the importance of this
program. And I would like to address the contemplated cuts to that budget and the effects that it will have
on the population of Denver who use that Access-a-Ride on-Demand program and the other fellow citizens
of the Greater Denver Metropolitan region.
First, the Board has proposed limiting the use of the Access-a-Ride on-Demand program to 30 trips a
month, which is entirely unfeasible for people like myself and many others who depend on that as a means
of commuting to work. Those who hold full-time jobs work five days a week will use at a minimum 40 times
a month or 44 times a month.
In addition, the cost or the limits of the eligible trips will severely impact the tax revenue base for the city of
Denver and outlying communities because people like myself and many others who use that to frequent
local shops and businesses, who pay sales taxes on those expenses, will be forced either not to engage in
that part of the economy and purchase from out-of-state businesses or online services which do not bring
tax revenue to Denver. And so those are very important concerns.

I moved here to Denver in part because-- or largely in part because of its public transportation system,
which would enable me to live a full life, which means going to work, getting the goods and services that I
need, spending time with family and friends and partaking in social activities that I could not enjoy otherwise.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm sorry to interrupt you. That's at three minutes. If you could just take a few seconds
to wrap up, please.
TRENT TAYLOR: Well, I would just urge that the RTD Board take these facts into consideration when
determining what they're going to do with that. And I was the final comment I would say, we still have not
received a cost-benefit analysis of these cuts, and that's essential to making an educated decision about a
proposed cut that would affect a large group of people. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for joining us and for your comments this evening. We'll ask our
next speaker to approach the podium, introduce, and you have three minutes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Hi, Directors. My name is Chris Nicholson. When I first met Jaime Lewis, I didn't
know what to think of him. We were competing for the same appointment. When he got picked, I will admit,
I wondered if RTD had just gotten a seat warmer. What I didn't know then but do now is that Director Lewis
has been a stellar Board member. He has used his time to dig into the details on the agency's decisions,
advocate persuasively on issues like paratransit, and set a high bar for the person who will succeed him on
the dais.
Thank you, Jamie, for stepping into the heels of another incredible public servant, former Director Kate
Williams, who served the previous seven years. Kate, thank you for your incredible work for so many years
and your ongoing advice, helping me prepare to follow you and Jaime as Director for District A. I look
forward to asking both of you for lots of advice and guidance in the years to come. I hope I'll live up to the
impressive example that you both set.
Last, my dear friend Paul Rosenthal will be leaving the Board after tonight. Paul has served this agency
admirably for four years, and taught me so much in that time about just what it means to be a Board member,
serving as a model with the incredible public engagement that he has done in the community over the last
four years. It's as if everyone in District E knows Paul personally, and he has taken the time to listen to
community in a way that I hope to embody. Thank you, Paul. You're such a mensch. And thank you all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments, and thank you for joining us. At this time, I'm
not seeing anyone else who has lined up behind the podium to speak in person, so we'll go ahead and
move to our remote attendees. And as usual, I'll ask Mr. Jack Kroll, the Executive Manager of our Board
Office, to please assist me in calling those names and individuals for those attending online. When your
name is called by Mr. Jack Kroll, you will be unmuted, or you can unmute yourself, and you'll have up to
three minutes. And you may begin when Mr. Kroll calls your name. Mr. Kroll, the first speaker, please.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. We have a bit of an interesting situation going on here in which
it appears that we have one individual who has registered and then distributed their registration link to
several others. Nothing wrong with that. It's just going to make it hard for me to know who is next to speak.

So at present, I see an individual by the name of Curtis Chong with four hands raised. So what that likely
means is there are four individuals using the same link to provide public comment. Again, nothing wrong
with that. I'm just not going to be able to know who's next. And so we'll go now I presume to the first Curtis
Chong. And if you can unmute yourself and provide public comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead. If each of you can just introduce yourself for the sake of the record,
and then you'll be recognized for three minutes. We'll start with the first.
JESSICA BEECHAM: Hi. I believe I'm the first Curtis Chong. My name is Jessica Beecham, President of
the National Federation of the Blind of Colorado, and I wanted to start by saying thank you to Debra Johnson
and her team. We, as the National Federation of the Blind of Colorado, passed three resolutions in our
convention this year dealing with RTD and things that we as an organization were looking for some
resolution around. And she and her team met with us a couple of weeks ago. We had a really positive
meeting and, I think, have some really great action steps to move forward. So I just wanted to commend
the RTD staff there.
I did also want to talk a little bit about Access-on-Demand. We got an email that there are going to be some
listening sessions coming up during the busiest part of the year, when people are doing holidays and
wrapping up work and all of those kinds of things. And there are two times for listening, but this is a terrible,
terrible month for that. So I'm hoping that there will be additional sessions in January as we move forward
so that we can make sure that people aren't so caught up in the holiday minutia and all the things that go
along with that they're not able to attend those listening sessions because those are going to be really
critical.
I want to echo Trent's sentiments around the 30 rides just simply not being enough for folks that work, and
that there are other I think, concerns that might be able to be addressed differently that hopefully could still
result in savings of dollars but that would allow us to keep more of the integrity of the service that people
have grown to really utilize and appreciate in the blind and low vision community for those of us who utilize
Access-on-Demand. So I think that's all I have. So thank you so much for your time. Thank you to the
outgoing Board members, and thank you to the incoming Board members who will be tackling these really
tough issues moving forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for joining us this evening and sharing your comments. I'll actually
go ahead, Mr. Kroll, and work through that first list and then come back to you for our next speakers. So
we'll go to whoever is second in the queue under Curtis Chong.
NATE TRELA: Hello, this is Nate Trela in Englewood. I am, I guess, Curtis number two. I definitely wanted
to first appreciate the opportunity, as always, to speak to the Board and want to thank all of you for your
service through your terms here. I know not all of you will be part of the final decisions about the changes
to the paratransit program, but certainly, there's been a lot of discussion even for from those of you that will
not be there. And I appreciate the due consideration the Board is giving this.
The public input opportunity is very important, as Jessica just mentioned there. Sending out an email 30
minutes before today's Board meeting announcing one midday session tomorrow-- or one midday session

next week and then one evening session is an incredibly busy time of the year in the holiday season.
Certainly seems if someone were trying to minimize the public input taken, that would be hard-pressed to
find a more effective way to do that. So I certainly hope there will be further dialogues, perhaps even some
in-person sessions, to really have a constructive discussion about what shape this program is going to take.
Understanding that what was discussed with the operations committee a few weeks ago was just a first
proposal, that first proposal is does seem woefully inadequate to provide service to people to participate
fully in their community. As was mentioned, if it's actually cut to 30 rides, that would make it impossible for
people to-- people cannot commute on a regular basis using the program. If someone was working full-time
and was a single parent and had to make multiple stops, forget it. They'd be out of trips in a week and a
half through the month.
The possible changes to the boundaries and the operating hours could put a whole new burden either on
the staff that's already having to manually deal with different issues with the program or possibly transfer
that burden on to consumers and, again, make it-- just continues to make the service less and less efficient
to use.
I know some of the Board members have commented-- operations committee meeting-- that you haven't
really received the detailed financial backup to support these decisions to enable you to make really
educated calculations about alternatives to what's initially been proposed. I really think that information
needs to be provided more clearly than these summaries that have been part of the proposals.
And last, I sometimes feel like I'm beating a dead horse on the multistop issue. I've been talking about that
for several months. Nothing brought home the importance of that more clearly than that storm last month
because what could have been a 10-minute round trip for me, taking my little one to school turned into an
hour and a half of standing in the snow, enduring cancelation after cancelation after cancelation just to get
the return trip home. So I really would encourage the Board to find a way to restore that capability as well,
even though staff has stayed silent on the possibility of that through this entire process. I appreciate the
time and thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us this evening. I'm going to go
to Curtis number 3, please.
MAUREEN NIETFELD: Hello, I'm Curtis number 3. My name is Maureen Nietfeld, and I am Second Vice
President of the National Federation of the Blind of Colorado. And I'm also Director of Student Services at
the Colorado Center for the Blind. I am a blind person who lives with multiple disabilities and is very
dependent on the Access-on-Demand program. Fixed routes are not an option for someone like me, and
this has allowed me to maintain my career as well as many, many volunteer hours.
I'm also a parent of a six-year-old child, so gutting this program to 30 rides within that 3/4 of a mile boundary
is just incredibly detrimental to so many of us that really depend on this service. And, of course, I agree
with Jessica and Trent, my colleagues, and I just want to second all of what they are saying.

And also, I just want to say how incredibly disappointing it was to open my email up 30 minutes before this
meeting to see two options for listening sessions next week, which I think all of us could probably tell you
how busy our calendars are literally every day until the new year that this is when it was decided to have
these listening sessions.
And on an issue that is as important as this, to do something like that felt like my population and my
community of blind and disabled people are-- maybe we're just being viewed as we're just not that busy
and we have plenty of time to just jump on a call next week. And that's not the case. So I actually feel like
it was ableist, actually, to send something like that. And I know that feels strong, but that's how I felt reading
that. And I think that a lot of people would agree with that in our community, seeing something like that. So
thank you for hearing my comments.
I also just want to thank the outgoing Board members. And also, Tom, it was very touching to hear how you
just really honored him tonight. And I really appreciated that, and I enjoyed that. And I'm pretty sure that it
was Tom that reached out to us at the Colorado Center for the Blind when the talking stops were being
implemented in the bus and asked us, as blind people, what we wanted to hear. And that is true
collaboration. And I just want to thank tom publicly for that. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. We'll now move to our fourth
and final Curtis, please. Do we have another individual signed up under Curtis Chong that would like to
unmute themselves and speak? Mr. Kroll, are you seeing still another-FITZ STONE: Excuse me? Yes, thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. We can hear you now. Please go ahead.
FITZ STONE: Yeah, my name is Fitz Stone. I'm an employee for the Colorado Center for the Blind. I'm also
on the Denver chapter board. And I use this service every day to get to work, and 30 rides would just not
be enough. So I don't want to speak too long, and I do echo everything all my colleagues said. And I just
want to impress how important this service is to me and being able to get to work and do things with my
family and volunteer and all the activities I do every month. So I look forward to being in more of these
meetings, and I want to thank all the incoming and outgoing Board members for all your service and just
thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for joining us and for your comments. Mr. Kroll, I'll hand back off
to you. If you could please call our next speaker, and for our next speaker, once you hear your name, you
will be recognized to unmute yourself and speak for three minutes. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Davidson. The next speaker we have is Ian Frasch.
IAN FRASCH: Hello, I'm Ian Frasch. You may remember me from the last meeting. I live in the Wash Park
West neighborhood, and I want to continue to push for better pedestrian access to I-25 and Broadway
Station from Ohio Ave, which is the closest street to the station. A little update on that I-25 and Broadway

project-- they did pave the new pathway that Dottie did as an alternative to the desired pathway that cuts
through the parking lot under the new ramp.
They paved that, so that one's there to stay. But it does feel like we really should have this shortcut path
through the RTD parking lot. It's just such a short distance, and it feels like all we need is a little curb cut
into that parking lot, and then just a little pathway in between the parking spots, going under the ramp,
taking you right to the station.
There was a response from RTD after I brought this up last time, a letter from general manager Debra
Johnson, basically continuing to say that RTD blocked this path from Ohio Ave that was kind of shortcuts
through the parking lot for safety reasons because there would be conflicts between automobiles and
pedestrians. Pedestrians would be required to cross a busy bus movement area to reach the station.
And I have some issues with that response. I mean, the biggest one is if this is a parking lot and parking
motorists are going to be walking that route anyway, why is it OK and safe for them to walk it but unsafe for
local neighbors trying to walk or roll to the station? And then, also, the alternative path crosses the new
highway ramp. Well, how is that safer than cutting through an RTD parking lot, which those are all over the
place at RTD station. That's not really a safety concern walking through parking lots. Everybody's used to
that.
And there's already a path from the tunnel under the new ramp to the station. It's already there with curb
ramps and everything. And I stood there and I walked back and forth during 5:00 PM rush. And it doesn't
feel unsafe. There's very low traffic because it's just kind of occasional bus going by. So it doesn't make
sense to me to keep saying this is an unsafe pathway.
And I do think it should be an RTD's best interest to prioritize fast, convenient pedestrian access from the
closest homes to the stations in order to maximize ridership. I don't think they should be focusing solely on
park and ride access and just ignoring everything else. I think this is really low-hanging fruit, and I hope that
RTD will reconsider and just add a little pathway through that parking lot, and perhaps the new Board
members will continue to try to push for that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ian, I'm sorry to interrupt, but we're over three minutes, if you would just take a few
seconds to wrap up your comments, please.
IAN FRASCH: That was it. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Well, thank you very much for joining us. And thank you for sharing your comments with
the Board. Mr. Jack Kroll, do we have another speaker in the queue?
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, at this time, I see no further speakers in the queue.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you, Mr. Kroll. For the sake of the record, could you please note any
comments that were emailed to the Board for today's meeting.

JACK KROLL: Yes, we've received two letters in advance of this evening's meeting, which were distributed
to you all. Both were from Greater Denver Transit. One was simply a final end of the year message, and
the other was a letter that contained a number of questions related to the 2025 budget. And that letter
received a prompt response from staff that was also distributed to the Board as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll, for reading that into the record. With no other
participants in the queue and seeing no other hands raised at this time, we will close the public participation
period. I'd like to thank everybody, as always, for taking time to attend and share your comments with this
Board. While we don't offer comments during this period, we do hear them and we thank you for your
advocacy.
At this time, we will move to the external entities report this evening. We do have two updates from external
entities. The first will be from the Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities, and Mr. Earl Lee is
present to share an update. So with that, Mr. Lee, the floor is now yours.
EARL LEE: Thank you, Chair Davidson. On November 12th of this year, a joint meeting of the ACPD and
APAC committees was held virtually. The meeting included members of both the ACPD and the APAC
committees, along with ex-officio members, RTD staff, and members of the public.
The first part of the meeting, Joshua Kaufman, the ADA coordinator for the University of Denver, stated that
his office is conducting an accessibility review of the campus and that they have found several barriers to
public transportation for people with disabilities. When asked to describe the barriers, he described deep
curb cuts, damaged sidewalks, and poor snow removal.
ACPD Chair Earl Lee explained that RTD is only responsible for maintaining property that they own. Julie
Jennings suggested Mr. Kaufman contact the city of Denver Disability Rights Division for assistance. Mr.
Kaufman then asked if RTD's area of responsibility includes access around the bus stop. Gabe Christie,
ADA Manager for RTD, further defined RTD area of responsibility to the pole in the ground. Kristina Ericson
explained the issues Joshua Kaufman brought up would be under the jurisdiction of Denver's Department
of Transportation and Infrastructure
Mr. Lee then brought forward his reliance on the accuracy of the Access-a-Ride tracking app on his phone
and the 10-minute notification call to assure his ability to maximize his personal time and assure-- his ability
to maximize his personal time and ensure that he is at the pick up location without any delays.
Recently, he's noticed that the ETA indicated in the app may show a time, such as 40 minutes away, then,
only moments later, 5 minutes away, causing him to rush to meet the vehicle that doesn't show up for 10
or 15 minutes. The notification calls that are supposed to be approximately 10 minutes may not happen
until Mr. Lee is on board and has left the location. No real explanation was available or was given to Mr.
Lee during this time other than the drivers may not be clearing their previous call until they are en route to
the new location.
The other point that Mr. Lee brought up at this time was a recent trip where he was picked up in Littleton
on a trip bound for Arvada, was on board the Access-a-Ride bus for a little over two hours as he took a ride

to Aurora, past the Aurora Mall, before turning around and going back to Arvada, which seems a little bit of
a long time to be on board.
And he brought up the concern for both passengers and drivers as being an awful long time to be on board
when someone may need to take a restroom break or something like that. So it was mentioned in the
meeting that time on board is one of the issues that is being looked at. So that will be handled in the future.
Joe Beaver, ex officio member, attempted to use a wave vehicle to book a ride and was told that no vehicles
were available. He attempted 3 three times and continued to get the same response that there were no
vehicles available. He eventually booked an Access-a-Ride call and was charged full price where he should
have been charged a reduced fare.
Through some questioning, it became apparent that he may not have properly registered himself. And so
that particular situation he was going to follow up with the Access-a-Ride people and determine whether he
is in fact, registered properly. So I believe that one is going to be resolved.
Gabe Christie, again, the ADA Manager, described the ACPD work plan. The ACPD committee is being
restructured a little bit in how it's going to operate.
And in 2025, there are going to be some goals set. One of those goals is going to be set by the-- it's going
to be set by the ACPD steering committee. And the members are going to now sign up for particular tasks
and are going to be responsible for fulfilling those tasks throughout the year. This way, in, they will have
more input, and I think it will make a much more productive committee. I look forward to seeing that.
One of the tasks that we're going to be looking at is the renaming of Civic Center Station, also the 35th
anniversary of ADA and the downtown rail construction and some of the possibilities of whether the new
pro-WAG regulations will affect that upgrade down there.
The trail expansion on the W Line-- Joe Beaver, again ex officio member, stated that a fence has been
erected on the trail between the Oaks Station and the Everett Court in Lakewood, which blocks his most
direct route to the station. Greg Martinez asked in the chat whether it was temporary maintenance or other
project affecting the area. And the facilities team is going to look at that.
The Anne Hillyer Award for Integrity-- Gabe Christie explained that the Anne Hillyer Award for Integrity,
previously named ADA Heroes Award, was given to employees who went above and beyond service to
customers with disabilities. The award has been renamed for a former ADA investigator specialist who was
passionate. After working in the ADA office for four years, she passed away from cancer in 2021. The award
now honors employees who show the same integrity and commitment to accessibility.
Gabe then described the commendations for the first four awardees, who were selected in conjunction with
Mr. Lee, ACPD chair. They are Al Espinola Felipe Munoz-Ramos, Hosie Mitchell, and Justin Homan. These
awardees will receive a certificate and will be identified and honored at the upcoming Board meetings. At
that point, ACPD's portion of the meeting was concluded and it was turned over to the APAC for their portion
of the meeting. Thank you for your time.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Earl Lee, for joining us and for your detailed report. Next, we
will move to an update from our Access-a-Ride and Paratransit Advisory Committee. And Ms. Julie
Jennings has joined us to present her report. Ms. Jennings, the floor is yours.
JULIE JENNINGS: Thank you, sir. I'm Julie Jennings with the Access-a-Ride paratransit committee,
November 12th summary. We received a few updates-- introduction of two new APAC members, Richard
Martinez and Robert Morris. Also, retesting of the [INAUDIBLE] web portal is still underway. [INAUDIBLE]
is working to resolve functionality issues and make further improvements. The testing and resolutions
should be completed soon.
We had some discussion with Fred Worthen, the Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations. He
provided an overview of the engagement work since the peer review report, and I believe he received the
same overview. That completes my summary. Thank you for your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Ms. Jennings, for joining us, as always, and thank you for your
continued work. That concludes our external entities portion of our agenda. We'll now move to our
committee reports. We'll start with the audit committee. I'd like to just note, for clarity and sake of the record,
that sadly, although he has joined us this evening, former Director Dishell did have to resign early from the
Board due to a move and relocation, although is still serving on the audit committee.
But given that he is not here, I will hand the floor off to Director First Vice Chair Catlin to share whether she
has anything to share from the audit committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The audit committee did meet on Thursday, November 14. It was
chaired by Director Dishell, and we will miss him. But we're fortunate that he agreed to stay on for the extra
year for the audit committee. The audit committee is recommending to the full board for tonight's meeting
for the appointment of director Vince Buczek to the committee. And you'll be considering that tonight. But
I'm really pleased that Director Buzek did step up to serve on that committee. There was an internal audit
update presented by Matt Marino, Chief Audit Executive from RubinBrown and Doug MacLeod, our Chief
Financial Officer.
And, basically, most of the audits that were scheduled to be completed this year were completed. And a
full report was given on the safety audit that was completed this year, as well as an audit on Denver Transit
Partners as a contractor. So those were completed audits and should be available for directors to review.
And then there was also a discussion about the internal audit function review and where we were.
There will be a 2025 enterprise risk assessment conducted to then determine the program going forward.
And there also will be an updated schedule discussed because we wanted to provide a little bit more regular
cadence to the audit committee meetings so that we can anticipate when those will be held. So the next
meeting will be held in February of 2025. And that concludes my report. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin, for the report. And thank you to both you and Director Dishell
for all the work on that. And thanks to the Board and staff for leaning in to a still relatively new but everimproving audit process.

Next move to our Finance and Planning Committee report. Committee Chair Tisdale, do you have anything
you'd like to share?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. If only because the opportunity is presented do I
take this opportunity to speak. Anything that we covered in the Finance and Planning Committee meeting
is on our agenda this evening. So other than being a very wonderful last meeting that I will chair for the
Finance and Planning Committee, we have nothing further to report at this time. Thank you very much, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Tisdale, and thank you for leading that
committee this year. Very much appreciated. Next move to our Operations Safety and Security Committee
report. Committee Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. We have two items on the agenda tonight that were discussed
at our Wednesday, November 13 meeting. So I won't go into those in any great length except to say that
the Title VI Service Equity Analysis was passed unanimously, and it's on the unanimous consent agenda
tonight. And also, very importantly, the January 25 service change document was approved by a majority
of the members of the committee, and that will be considered in a few minutes later tonight.
We did have four discussion items that were very thorough and a really important update in a number of
facets. The first one was our HR update, our people power situation, and things are trending definitely in
the right direction.
We also had a Transit Police Department update by our cochiefs, which was very informative, an update
on facilities and fleet transition plan, which is very exciting and really gave us a comprehensive picture of
our future planning needs for, obviously, vehicles and the facilities that we utilize to service and repair them.
And, finally, a paratransit peer review final report, topic of discussion by the general public and a number
of meetings, including tonight. And that was a report and then outline of our next steps in that process.
Next meeting will happen in January. I don't believe we have the date yet, but we will soon. Thank you.
That's all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Whitmore. And thank you very much for your leadership of
that committee throughout this year as well. Next, we'll move to the Performance Committee, and I'll ask if
Committee Chair Catlin would like to share anything.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The Performance Committee met twice in November. The first
meeting was Monday, November 11, at which time we convened an executive session.
And then we met once again Thursday, November 21. And at that particular meeting, we passed the
recommended action for the Board of Directors to approve general manager and CEO Debra Johnson's
performance appraisal for the 2024 calendar year performance cycle and, in connection to that, approve a
4.86% increase to the GM CEO's current annual base salary.

Even though it passed unanimously, that will come before the board this evening. And the next meeting
date was tentatively scheduled for yesterday, but that had been postponed until December 10. But we're
still trying to work out some logistics for that meeting, so stay tuned. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin, and thank you for your leadership of the
Performance Committee this year. Always a busy time at the end of the year, so thank you for your
leadership. At this time, we'll move to the approval of our Board meeting minutes and committee reports.
The Board and committee minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from
Directors for the minutes to be approved this evening? OK, not seeing any.
Unless there's any objection to considering the minutes all at the same time, I will entertain a motion and a
moment to approve the minutes for the following meetings-- October 22, 2024 special Board meeting,
October 22, 2024 Board meeting, November 6, 2024 special Board meeting, November 11, 2024
performance committee, November 12, 2024 Finance and Planning Committee, November 13, 2024
Operations Safety and Security Committee, November 14, 2024 Audit Committee, November 18, 2024
special Board meeting, November 21, 2024 Performance Committee, and, finally, November 21, 2024
Executive Committee. Do I have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Whitmore as the movement and second as Tisdale. Any discussion? Seeing
none, are there any no votes? Seeing none, that will pass with 14 yes votes, 0 no, and 0 abstentions.
At this time, we'll move to the Chair's report. This is my final chair's report, my final regular board meeting
as your board chair and as a director on the RTD board of directors. So I'd like to make a few closing
remarks in my time here, but before I do, I will go ahead and note, as I have been doing, several updates
for the agency to call attention to the public and Board on.
First and foremost, I do want to note that as of September 2024's audited financials, RTD's year-to-date
sales and use tax revenue was at $633.3 million. That now puts our sales and use tax revenue 8% below
budget. This is a gap that has been steadily growing. You'll recall that, as of August, we were 7.6 below-7.6%, that is. June and July were both 6.7% below sales and use tax budget, May was 5.8% below, and so
on.
I encourage the Board and the agency to watch this trend very carefully on consumer spending as you
move into the new year, and as we see that data points are now beginning to form a trend. Given that we
do have a notable favorable variance on the operating expenses portion of our budget, RTD does remain
in a strong net position and does forecast continued strength in its net position through the remainder of
this year, next year, and into the 5-year financial plan.
So I simply call attention to this so that, as the Board, as we consider our 5-year financial plan, as we do
when we enter that phase next year, and as we consider the fiscal year 2026 budget next year, we keep a

vigilant eye on consumer spending trends given that we do have a bit of a trend line forming there. Ridership
this year has remained below budget as of September 2024 but does remain up from 2023. We are 1.2%
up year-to-date over 2023.
In the Board packet, first of all, I'd just like to commend staff and thank them for the customer and community
engagement report for January through October 2024 that appears on page 293 of the Board briefing
document for anyone who is interested.
We've continued to add data into our customer and community engagement and present that to the Board
in a way that helps us understand exactly what the engagements have been and what the nature of those
are, and the type of feedback that we're receiving. That then helps augment our survey data, to look at key
drivers and help us really consolidate information that we receive from the public.
And, as I noted before, we thank the public for being generous with comments and offering those and
advocating. And I thank staff for working to bring a data-driven approach to collecting those comments and
presenting them.
Bus operations in September 2024 had a service availability of 99.75% and on-time performance of 79.29%.
As the light rail slow zones improve, light rail operations in September 2024 did see some improvement
from what, as we all know, was a difficult summer. The on-time performance was at 63.69%, which had
come up from the 50s in the prior months and, most recently, 59% in August.
Continued recovery of that on-time performance is anticipated. As I have continued to say, I thank our
teams out in the field for working hard to ease that burden and work through that maintenance. And, most
of all, I thank our customers for continued resilience and patience as we all work collectively to make sure
that we're taking care of this transit system for future generations.
Commuter rail operations in September 2024 remained strong and consistent with service availability over
99% and on-time performance of the A, B, and G lines at 95.97% and the N line at 97.99%.
Before I offer some concluding remarks, I'd also just like to note and thank the public for their faith and trust
in the agency. In voting Yes on 7A. I'd like to thank Second Vice Chair Guissinger in particular, for her
leadership last year and into this year of making this a very important issue. I think those of us that have
served on the Board know it's hard to get a lot done. You have to really focus proactively on the things that
are most important to get done. And across staff, across the Board, we did a lot of work to really understand
what we were facing.
And it is up to us to live up to what the voters have entrusted us with. We take that very seriously and give
a very hearty thank you to all those in the public who helped us with 7A and trusting us with retaining those
funds.
So this is my last meeting-- regularly scheduled board meeting as a Board Director. And I'd like to offer a
few words. So being an RTD Director is a public service role. This is about serving the public, about working

for our neighbors to ensure that we have a safe, accessible, reliable transit system. And it's a privilege to
serve in that role, and it's never really about us as Directors.
But given that this is my last meeting, given that I'm not often personal in public meetings, I'd like to offer a
couple personal words, because indeed, this does have an immensely personal aspect to it. This has been
and will always be a highlight of my life, having had the opportunity to work with my colleagues here, to
work with RTD staff, and to serve my neighbors on this Board of Directors.
I love this region, I love RTD, and I have found it personally immensely gratifying and challenging in a good
way that just adds to that gratification serving. Thank you from the bottom of my heart, and I thank the
members of the public who trusted me, along with my colleagues here, to govern this agency.
It may be a bit cliche, and some of my colleagues know this, including one former director who happens to
be here. I have long and always admired Fred Rogers of Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood. I have found particular
comfort over the years in something that Fred Rogers mother, Nancy, has said to him that became a
common phrase over the past couple of years, I think, thanks to a documentary. She told him to, quote,
"Look for the helpers. You will always find people who are helping."
Perhaps one of the most rewarding aspects that I have benefited from in serving this role is meeting a lot
of helpers along the way. Just within RTD, helpers are in abundance, from the folks who operate our
services, buses, trains, paratransit vehicles, to the folks who make sure those vehicles operate safely,
comfortably, and in a welcome way, to the folks who ensure that we are secure and safe, to many public
servants who work at Blake Street here that no one will ever see or hear their names, there are literally
thousands of helpers working at RTD.
In the community, one thing I've gotten to learn and see and experience that has been personally rewarding,
there are even more, from advocacy groups, neighborhood groups, community groups, members of the
public who step up and take time out of their lives to offer time and knowledge and expertise to try to make
public services better. Our society really depends on that-- people taking time out of their lives to choose
to be helpers.
I also want to personally thank-- and certainly, for the Board. I'll speak for the board and the agency-- but
personally thank-- and I'll use first names this evening-- Jack, Marie, Jillian, Tai-Shrae. The four of you have
done-- I've gotten to watch her work up close and leaned on you very, very heavily for that. You sit over
there meeting after meeting and are always here. Yes, thank you.
[APPLAUSE]

Jack, Marie, Jillian, Tai-Shrae you are the epitome of helpers. And you do so much more than anyone can
see. And that is true of so many roles at RTD. I just have the benefit of being especially close and in close
proximity up in the office to the four of you.

Tonight is also the final Board meeting for a number of my fellow Directors. Director Broom, Director Sloan,
Director Lewis, Director Tisdale, Director Rosenthal-- additionally, Director Dishell, who had to resign just
a little bit early. And, of course, earlier this year, we had to part ways with Director Williams when she also
resigned. And we thank her for joining us.
To those of you that are leaving and to all of you that remain on the Board and to all of you that have chosen
to step up and serve on this board, thank you for all of the times that you have worked and strived to be
helpers. That, too, has been gratifying.
And I said I'll make some personal notes. Just a few months after joining this board, I had some pretty tough
personal things hit me. And I had a lot of support and a lot of help from my colleagues here who I had only
known for a matter of weeks. That includes staff, that includes Board. I simply cannot thank you enough for
that.
I wish this agency nothing but the best, the public nothing but the best for this transit system that we depend
on, that we use, that we invest in. And I am willing to help in any way that I can. And I hope that I have done
my part to work to be a helper to this agency in my time here. I have to conclude on another personal note.
It is not always obvious that public service in this type of role is a family commitment. It is very much a
family affair.
So, if she's watching, I would like to thank my lovely wife Anastasia for her tremendous support in being a
true partner in all of this, in serving the public, in serving our neighbors, and working to try to leave this
region just a little bit better than we found it for those that come after us, Thank you from the bottom of my
heart for supporting this public service rule.
I leave this role filled with hope. I leave it filled with tremendous gratitude. And I thank all of you for being a
part of that story that I will take with me for the rest of my life. It was not an easy decision to not be here
starting in January. And with that, that will conclude my chair's report.
And I would like to hand off to our general manager, Debra Johnson, and just say it has been a privilege to
work with you as well. This has been a challenging year, as has been noted many times. I'm someone who
values patience, resilience, calmness, and focus, and it has been tremendously rewarding and helpful to
have a partner in that is managing the staff.
Many on the team, and too many to name and thank, but some of you are in this room have been
tremendous helpers as well. So I will hand off to our general manager, Debra Johnson. I do see a hand up,
so happy to call before going to our general managers report, Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Got you. So we traditionally-- because we have a rolling Board,
we traditionally do the goodbyes in January. Did you say that you wouldn't be here for the January meeting?
And would it be permissible for you to not call me out of order, and can if anybody wants to share anything,
can we take a minute because we won't have that in January?

ERIK DAVIDSON: I will not be on the board in January, but I will do my very best to be here for that tradition.
So just-JOYANN RUSCHA: Well, you're on the board until your replacement is sworn in, so I guess I was just
asking, will you not be at the meeting in January?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, point well-taken. I will be there.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, so we can-- all right, I just wanted to make sure that we have that opportunity.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Yeah, thank you for the clarification. So, with that-- oh.
[APPLAUSE]

KATE WILLIAMS: That was more than three minutes.
[LAUGHTER]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Former Director Williams. That was indeed more than three
minutes. And thank you for taking the time to allow me, and thank you for the applause. It means more to
me than I can say. Again, tremendous gratitude. General Manager and CEO Johnson, the floor is yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, Chair Davidson. And good evening once again to you, Board
members, and to all who are assembled both in this room and virtually. I am Debra Johnson, as introduced,
RTD's General Manager and Chief Executive Officer. This evening, I will share with you just a few highlights
and a few highlights of activities and strategic endeavors since the most recently-held board meeting on
Tuesday, October 22.
I will do that, as I noted, in relationship to our strategic priorities and related to community value. On October
23, 2024, I, along with Denver Mayor Mike Johnston, staff being specific to Michael Davies, our Government
Relations Officer, and representatives from the Colorado Department of Transportation, as well as Denver's
Department of Transportation and Infrastructure, we had the opportunity to join US Deputy Secretary of
Transportation, Polly Trottenberg on a tour of the Denver region.
Deputy Secretary Trottenberg's tour of the city, included visits to sites that had been the focus of public and
private a transportation and transit investments, such as the surrounding area of Denver Union Station that
really showcases great public-private partnership, the future of the Colfax bus rapid transit corridor, and the
federal Colfax interchange. I am pleased to report that, just yesterday, on December 2, the solicitation for
the next phases of the downtown rail reconstruction project was announced and also was included in RTD's
procurement portal for public review.
As the Board will recall, the first phase of the downtown rail reconstruction project began in May of 2024
and focused on the 30-year-old infrastructure at five key intersections of the downtown loop. The full-depth

reconstruction project involved removing existing rail concrete ties and ballast before rebuilding the
embedded track along RTD's inaugural light rail line that opened October 7 in 1994. The first phase was
completed ahead of schedule in September, and RTD is now seeking proposals for the remaining three
phases of the project.
To complete the remaining reconstruction work, which will resume in 2025, RTD will use a progressive
design build project delivery approach. This approach is a project delivery method that combines the
benefits of early contractor involvement with the design build model.
This two-phase process involves the owner, being RTD, of course, and the design/build team, working
together to develop a final design schedule and budget, and will accelerate the project schedule and
minimize the overall impacts to the customers and the community. The solicitation process will result in a
single contract being awarded for both the project designer and a construction contractor.
Commencing in 2025, we anticipate-- because recognizing we don't know what we don't know-- so
commencing in 2025, work on each phase may occur simultaneously. Phase two will address mid-block
rail reconstruction in the downtown loop. Phase three will involve reconstruction efforts along the Colfax
alignment. And phase four will address the Welton Street corridor.
Similar to phase one in 2024, all D and H lines will be rerouted to Denver Union Station during the
reconstruction work, and L line service, which connects 30th and Downing Station to the downtown loop,
will be temporarily suspended. No light rail service will operate in RTD central corridor until the
reconstruction project has been fully completed.
Similar to phase one of the project, ahead of the project commencing, RTD will launch a comprehensive
marketing, outreach, and communications campaign to ensure customers and the public are aware of the
reconstruction project as well as impacts to transit services. Just as we did previously, we will keep this
body apprised as we go forward with the project on a regular basis, more than likely monthly, when we
commence with activities and recognizing the gravity of the award that would come before this Board for
its consideration.
Some other good news that we have relative to our Small Business Opportunity Office, Our teammates
have implemented a software solution known as B2Gnow. It is a software solution that has been used for,
I would say, several years, one of which I'm familiar with. And our team did some due diligence in reference
to leveraging this and why we're so excited about this.
It will enhance outreach efforts, identifying potential bidders or proposers on procurements for which a
disadvantaged business enterprise or a small business enterprise goal has been set. In relation to our
strategic priority of community value, the platform allows the small business opportunity team to post
contracting opportunities and immediately notify SBEs or DBE firms.
B2Gnow will be used as the main portal for vendors, which we call primes, when DBE or SBE goals have
been set to report payments to DBE and SBE firms in an accurate and efficient manner. The SBOO office
will also use B2Gnow as RTD's SBE certification portal and database.

I do want to note that RTD, along with CDOT and the city and county of Denver, are entities that have been
identified to certify the firms that I've outlined that have the classification of DBE or an SBE. And so, through
those applications to SBOO and current certified firms can submit necessary annual documentation
required to remain in the certification program. So the SBOO team anticipates the software to be available
to all vendors by the end of the month.
Related to customer excellence, RTD is gearing up to close out the year by supporting and participating in
major holiday events in the Denver metro area. Grand Illumination just took place on November 29. The
annual Grand Illumination event took place on the Plaza of Denver's Union Station historic building. The
event featured family-friendly entertainment, including classic holiday hits, a visit from Santa and Mrs.
Claus, and a grand lighting of the event of the station's outdoor 40-foot tall Christmas tree with more than
7,000 holiday lights.
Secretary Michael Guzman, who represents that area of his district, joined other local leaders in delivering
remarks. RTD unveiled its 2024 winter parade bus during the event, and several employees volunteered to
pass out holiday treats, such as candy canes and commemorative holiday ornaments, to attendees.
This coming Saturday, December 7, RTD will once again have a presence in the annual Parade of Lights,
where the winter parade bus will make another appearance. To accommodate the annual parade, detours
and other service adjustments to several bus routes and rail lines are being coordinated with the event
organizers. D and H line trains will not operate north of Theater District Convention Center Station, and L
line service will be suspended until Sunday, December 8 at the beginning of revenue service. And once
again, RTD's winter parade bus will make an appearance.
And on New Year's Eve, RTD is once again coordinating with Molson Coors to offer zero fares on all
services beginning at 7:00 PM on December 31 through 7:00 AM on January 1st to encourage individuals
throughout the region to celebrate responsibly. The agency will again adjust service for New Year's Eve
events in downtown.
And before I go into my last topic that I will provide a briefing on, I too wanted to acknowledge all the
contributions of those that comprise this agency. I want to thank our employees who selflessly have given
of themselves during a very difficult time. They showed up in the face of adversity, delivering services to
the best of their ability. Oftentimes, I think individuals lose sight that we are people in the people business
and moving people, whereas we have feelings, there's emotions and there's a great sense of pride in
reference to what we do. Being a servant leader is something notable, and not everybody is called to serve
the public honorably in that vein.
Moreover, I would like to thank the members of this body, all of you collectively, and a special note to those
that are departing. Chair Davidson, thank you very much for your vigorous leadership, your call to action-your bias to action, as you often say, as it relates to me because I believe it is mutual. Thank you for showing
up and showing out. Thank you, Director Rosenthal for your service, Director Tisdale, Director Sloan,
Director Broom, Director Lewis, Director Dishell, as you noted, who had to depart earlier.

And I'd have to give a shout out to my colleague and friend, Director Williams, who worked in partnership
to ensure that we could bring into existence zero fare for youth. So, with that, thank you all.
As I indicated before. I conclude the balance of my report, I will speak to RTD's ongoing engagement with
the intercity bus carrier Greyhound. For the purposes of this update, I will be using the terms Greyhound
and Flix somewhat interchangeably to collectively refer to the intercity bus service Greyhound and its parent
company Flix, which purchased Greyhound from the British transport firm Firstgroup in October of 2021.
By way of additional background, pursuant to a license agreement with RTD, Greyhound, along with
Burlington Trailways and Black Hills doing business as Express Arrow, have been using specific gates at
Denver Union Station's bus concourse since October of 2020, which preceded my tenure with RTD as the
GM and CEO. On August 6, I informed the board via memorandum of my decision to allow RTD's license
agreement for Greyhound use of the Denver Union Station bus concourse to sunset effective August 31 of
2025
Subsequent to the board's notification, my office sent a formal letter on Tuesday, August 13, to Flix's Head
of Facilities and Real Estate to confirm that RTD intended the lease agreement to sunset with 365 days
advance notice. Actually, it was a little more than that, but close enough.
RTD and Flix representatives later met on September 12 to discuss RTD's decision, and RTD and Flix have
continued to stay in contact since that time. I, along with members of my team, held a virtual meeting with
Kai Boysen, who serves as the CEO of Flix North America, on Tuesday, November 12. And the following
day, Wednesday, November 13, I called Mr. Boysan to convey RTD's continued commitment to assist in
identifying a suitable location on or adjacent to RTD property for Flix Greyhound operations in the Denver
metro area, with a focus on providing connectivity to local transit services.
At that time, I also committed to consider a temporary extension of Greyhound's access to Denver Union
Station, provided that our respective organizations continue to work in good faith to identify such a location
expeditiously. Since the November 12 meeting, a [INAUDIBLE] of RTD subject matter experts has
continued to collaborate with representatives from Flix, including Mr. Boysan to discuss greyhound's
operational needs as well as potential locations in the Denver metro area that would offer local transit
connections and that could best serve as an alternative terminal location.
The teams have held productive meetings on Monday, November 11, Thursday, November 21, and an
additional meeting is occurring later this week. In a call I had with Mr. Boysan just yesterday afternoon, he
reaffirmed that this collaborative team approach is his organization's preferred method of engaging on this
matter. RTD and Flix continue to engage in that manner, and I am optimistic that the outcome of this ongoing
engagement will be mutually beneficial for our representative-- or, I should say, our respective entities. And
with that, Mr. Chair, I will conclude my report and welcome any questions from Directors at this time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, General Manager and CEO, and thank you for providing that
update on Greyhound and Flix North America. As has come up a couple of times, General Manager and
CEO Johnson had agreed to answer any questions the Board may have on that topic. So I'll go ahead and

open up the floor for questions on the Greyhound and Flix topic that was just addressed or any matters that
are to be asked for the General Manager this evening. Director Lewis, please go ahead.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr Chair. As discussed in previous meetings, some of the current Board
members and some of the Board-elects are concerned over the issue of the home base for the Greyhound
bus system. And as an outgoing Board member, I would hope that staff and the board would work
collaboratively together, possibly putting a work group together with two Directors in 2025 to either keep it
in Union Station, look for another RTD asset, or, like you said, CEO Johnson, find a mutually-agreed
alternate location.
I just think it's really important that even though Greyhound is not an asset of RTD, I think it's our
responsibility to make sure it stays in the metro, especially in the Downtown area, to provide people
alternative transportation through a multistate company like Greyhound. And I appreciate the work that your
staff has put in, but I would really like to see two board members involved in those discussions in 2025.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Lewis, for the comments. Any-- Director Ruscha, please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to also just echo appreciation for engaging with
Greyhound on this matter. I won't repeat what Director Lewis just said, except that I concur, and I had a
question for our GM/CEO. You mentioned a temporary extension of their lease at DOS. Are you able to
share with us what that time-- or more details about that?
ERIK DAVIDSON: General manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Ruscha, for the question.
At this juncture, I don't know if that will be needed, as we have identified some potential sites collectively
and assessing what may be needed. What I have committed to-- and I want to state for the record, it is not
my intent to, I would say, abort transit or intercity bus service to the Denver metro area.
The point of the matter is we go forward is ensuring that remains. Due to operational incompatibilities, we're
trying to find different locations. And what we're looking at is something in close proximity that gives access,
as I said, to light rail and bus. That could happen before August of 2025.
If we get to a point, as I've shared with the CEO, where there's additional time, if they needed to construct
a kiosk or things of the like, we would extend contingent upon what that timeline may be. So, at this juncture,
I can't give you any specificity. But if we needed three additional months, that definitely would be something
that we are committed to doing So there could be a smooth transition.
JOYANN RUSCHA: May I?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And so understanding we don't know what we don't know yet, and
these conversations are just ongoing, the last update that the Board had was that this agreement was to

be terminated, which also would have a fiscal impact. And I was wondering if you could share, if anyone
knows, if Greyhound does leave DOS, which I am inferring is likely, what that revenue loss would be.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. I don't have that information at the ready. I do know they pay us a
monthly fee as we go forward, recognizing that, more than likely, we would be working with them and they
could be at another location relative to being on RTD property or in close proximity.
I don't necessarily believe we would have a substantial revenue loss going forward, but at this juncture, I
can't speculate on what that would be, recognizing that they're going to have people on the ground working
in conjunction with our team to identify some areas that may be optimal that gives them greater flexibility
from an operational vantage point if they needed to leave, a bus for a couple of hours whereby, in the bus
concourse, recognizing the throughput of transit service delivery, that's not conducive to our operations.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Just if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So just one more follow-up on the Greyhound, and then I had a question about
procurement and our rail reconstruction projects. And I honestly don't know-- we also have space with
Bustang, with CDOT. And do they pay what we would call market rate?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Once again, I don't have that information. Members of my team
deal with that on a more daily basis, but I'd be happy to provide that in a follow-up to the board. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And then just going back to the comments or-- I'm sorry, your report
regarding the rail reconstruction and progressive design build, I just wanted to say that I'm aware of what
that process is, and it's very common, including here in the metro area.
One concern that I have, and others do who care about these issues, is that there can be, if the contracts
or the systems are not in place properly-- how do I say this-- greater risks for things like labor abuses, like
wage theft and OSHA violations and the like.
And I was wondering, and we could have a follow-up conversation or memo, if we have, as a body-- similar
to what the city of Denver does or the state-- if we have policies and procedures in place to ensure that we
can discourage that illegal behavior, or we can appropriately respond if it's brought to our attention. And,
again, that was a big question. We've talked about it a little bit before. But is that something that we could,
at least discuss before we sign the contracts?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Most definitely, recognizing that we just led the solicitation yesterday, quite naturally,
we have done our due diligence. And that's why we enlisted the help of third-party legal counsel in
relationship to various contract provisions and things of the like. As we move forward, we're trying to be
deliberate and intentional and be good judiciaries. So your concerns are noted quite naturally. We both
share those as we move forward and are going to be most judicious. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, ma'am.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. The winter bus is gorgeous. I approve highly approve for all the team
members that wrapped it and lit it up and designed it. Thank you. And it was wonderful to see it at the first
celebration of the season in District C. Thank you, Directors, for discussing a matter that is in my district so
that I don't have to discuss it directly, since we are always accused of being too parochial. I want everybody
to understand we do work as a team. So thank you for the update with Greyhound and Lynx.
I am very interested in following along with that, but also, I have a concern about buses getting stuck, not
being able to move people through there, people that may be abandoned for any reason because another
automobile can't be procured in a timely manner. And so there are some logistical issues that need to be
dealt with there. So thank you for taking the lead on that. I appreciate all of your hard work on that and the
teams'.
I have a separate question about the A line, and this may be better for other matters, so we can suspend
conversation until then. But between 38th and Blake and 40th in Colorado, I have received a number of
complaints from the public about the horns blaring. Although I understand the reasons why that is
happening, I would like to find out-- and you may not know, but what is the status of the situation with the
sounding of the horns and using ACS, Automatic Control Systems, versus the positive control system that
is not functioning or was not functioning earlier in a communication that I received that needs to be repaired
by our concessionaire DTO. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager, if you'd like to make a comment on that, feel free. And if it's something
that we'd want to follow up on, we could either do that or speak in other matters.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Guzman or Secretary
Guzman, for your question. So, as indicated, there were some signaling issues as it related to positive train
control. As the board knows, positive train control is required on commuter rail pursuant to Federal Railroad
Administration Regulations when PTC is not operating properly to ensure the safe movement of a commuter
rail consists, one has to, as mandated, sound horns throughout those intersections.
In reference to the supplier who provides PTC, which is only one supplier in the entire country, our
concessionaires, Denver Transit Partners operators, have been working with Wabtec and have been

communicating with our assistant general manager of rail operations that have kept me apprised as we've
gone forward.
I don't have, at this juncture, the response. I could look at my phone. I'm going to do that, but I can circle
back and other matters as it relates to where we are. But that was causing the delay. And as you know,
adhering to federal regulations, we will always err on the side of caution as it relates to that. But I will say
publicly that our concessionaire partners have been very responsible and engaging as it relates to this
matter and have been keeping us apprised of the progress that has been made as they have tried to identify
the issue that prompted the problem with the signaling system. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and Director Hartwig, please.
IAN HARWICK: This is just to piggyback off of Director Guzman, the G Line was also affected by these
issues. And when I say this, I'm sure the answer is no, but I'm just going to ask anyhow. So when we know
there's an issue, and when DTO knows there's an issue-- and I understand that, by federal regulations,
they have to sound the horns. I get all this. But I also get texts from my neighbors that have decibel meters
on their phones or devices that put this not above the level, but in the hundreds. And I think they can go up
to 107 or 112. I can't remember right now off the top of my head.
But if we know there's an issue, is there a reason that DTO has to go as aggressive as they're going. Can
they do a smaller, lighter tap? And I know that sounds a little bit ridiculous, but also these people-- I
understand that they're not necessarily our customers, but they are living through this. And when we know
there's an issue, I just don't know why we have to go all the way down.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager, any follow up do you have to that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Director Harwick as he phrased his question, as we
think about the importance of safety and sounding of the horn from a safety measure, I would say, in past
experience, some of the times, the sound could reverberate, as we know. I can't speak to the decibel
reading at this juncture, but we can circle back under other matters, as we indicated. OK, thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. We'll circle back on that item. Thank you for the
questions/comments. OK, not seeing any other questions, GM/CEO Johnson, thank you for your report, as
always. Thank you for the work, as always, as well.
With that, the next portion of our agenda is the public hearing for the 2025 budget. But I'd first like to call
for a brief break. That hearing will start with a public comment section, so thank you for being patient, those
that have joined us to speak on that matter. We are going to take a break as of 7:22. Let's do 10 minutes.
I'd like to get our seats by 7:32, and we will start with the public hearings. 7:32, please. Thank you.
All right, thanks, everybody. For the sake of the record, this is Chair Erik Davidson speaking. We just took
a brief break. We are reconvened as of 7:34 PM Mountain Standard Time, and we're moving to the public
hearing for our 2025 budget.

This public hearing-- so I'll go ahead and call the hearing to order. Ladies and gentlemen, the chair hereby
calls to order the public hearing on the Regional Transportation District's proposed budget for the year 2025
in accordance with both RTD's requirements and local government statutes. Notice that the public hearing
was duly posted in the Office of the Executive Manager to the Board of Directors. The notice was published
in two major daily newspapers of the district prior to this meeting, and on the RTD website. The public
hearing will be conducted under the process that the board uses for its regular public comment section.
I would like to point out that the testimony will be limited to the subject of the public hearing, and
presentations of testimony should be no longer than three minutes. Written testimony should be emailed to
the Board Office at the email address that has been noted many times, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com for
distribution to the board. The 2025 proposed budget was included in the electronic packet for the board
and public to review and has been posted on the RTD website.
Speakers addressing the Board should begin their remarks, as we do with public comment, by stating their
names. And then they will have up to three minutes to provide their comments. I will let you know when that
three minutes has elapsed.
At this time, just as we do for public comment, I will start with those who are in person and have signed up
to speak first. Then I will move to any of those who had wished to speak that did not sign up, and they can
approach the podium, and then we will move to our remote attendees. Our first speaker is James Flattum.
JAMES FLATTUM: OK, good evening, everyone. My name is James Flattum. I'm a transit advocate and E
line rider, so thank you for the opportunity to speak. I also want to briefly congratulate the outgoing directors,
and I want to thank you all again for your service.
So my comment this evening, I definitely want to start by acknowledging the progress that's been made. I
think it's very apparent when you compare this-- when you compare this budget to last year's budget, there
is significantly more detail on a couple of really critical areas that I think should be acknowledged and
appreciated.
There are a few other really important areas that I would encourage additional effort be spent to build out a
little bit, particularly on the capital projects side of things, between looking for something that resembles a
capital investment program book that really actually breaks down itemized pieces of these very, very large
projects, notably the downtown light rail reconstruction. We have about $145 million still to be spent.
And this is a sum that gets close to an amount of money to be spent on an extension of rail, of new rail. So
that's why it's really important. I think there is absolute unanimous agreement among riders that RTD's light
rail system needs to be kept in a state of good repair. There is absolutely no disagreement that this work is
needed.
I think the key questions that are being posed externally is that is the way that rail is being addressed the
only way that it can be addressed efficiently and safely, given the severe experiences that riders on the
light rail in the south have been experiencing for the last several months?

I myself have been a rider of the E line. I have found it to be unworkable for my commute, and my colleagues
have been advising me the same. It has been unworkable. Ridership on the E line is about a third, currently,
as of September of 2024, compared to what it was in September of 2019, and ridership on light rail as a
whole is down double digits in September year over year. So what we're seeing right now is we are seeing
demand destruction.
And when we look at the budget in particular, when the public tries to understand how RTD is prioritizing
its addressing of capital expenditures and state of good repair, we're looking at transit, any transit agency
as a three-legged stool. There's operations, there's maintenance, and, in a growing city, there is urgent
need for expansion. Right now, there has been a lot of focus on maintenance, rightly so.
But there's also operations that need to be done and need to be continued. And it seems to us that we
know that there are external entities, external contractors that can come in and do light rail work and at
least do rail replacement very quickly. And given the fact that we're months into this project and there is still
slow zones, the experience is still radically unreliable, we just must ask, please, if it is possible to present
more information about how these dollars are being spent. Thank you. That concludes my comments.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for joining us, and thank you for sharing your comments with the board. I will
next call on Emma Griffin.
EMMA GRIFFIN: Hi. Thank you for allowing me to speak. My name is Emma Griffin. In reviewing RTD's
budget for 2025, I noticed a lack of any specific line item toward completion of FasTracks projects,
principally the L line expansion to 38th and Blake. Completing this line will connect historicallydisadvantaged neighborhoods, like Five Points to RiNo, as well as the airport.
Opening up the airline to be more to be more than just a quote stub to nowhere, as its current unfinished
state has been called, we at Greater Denver Transit see a vision for the airline as both a local and regional
connector that helps bring much needed vibrancy and life and business to communities surrounding
downtown Denver.
I would echo James comment that RTD must competently maintain operations, maintenance, and capital
expansion if it wishes to maintain and grow its ridership over time, the central aim for any transit agency.
GTD appreciates and supports the maintenance of the light rail that has gone on for the past two years, but
questions the approach taken in attempting to save money by completing these solutions in-house.
While hiring third-party contractors may have been more expensive than an in-house solution, it likely would
have resulted in a considerably more expedient completion of maintenance, which would have prevented
the permanent ridership loss experienced on the E, H, L, D, and R lines. Thank you again for your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for sharing your comments. Next, we have Keith Brooks.
KEITH BROOKS: Hello, Keith Brooks-- what's one more public comment for the road. I greatly enjoyed
reading through the budget. I believe it's 96 pages at this point-- will be hitting Moby Dick lengths by the

end of the decade at this rate. I noticed a few things. I'll try and go over the more trivial ones because they're
the ones that maybe actually can be resolved.
43 maintenance vehicles are being replaced. But it's not clear exactly what's being replaced and with what.
Woe be me, to use a car analogy at the transit meeting, but if you replace a clapped-out '98 Toyota Corolla
with a new Corvette, that is replacing the vehicle, but it is hardly a one-to-one exchange. And I wanted to
see if maintenance of way was getting any new toys to maybe help with some of this work.
What else is there-- 96 pages is a lot. Oh yeah, so we do have the line items for the-- let me see if I can get
my taxonomy levels right-- for the departments, but not for the divisions, which is kind of frustrating when
we're trying to look at smaller divisions/departments-- you'll see what I mean-- like service planning. We
have no idea what their budget is. If there's any way to maybe get some more headcount with them, as
they are currently, like, the 13 most overworked people in this metro area. Same thing with light rail and
operations compared to the N line, our precious little baby-- that has to be special-- and Then DTO
operations.
It's not clear how those are broken up. There's just rail. And then same thing with buses. It's not clear what's
RTD-operated and then which of the three Transdev contracts are being paid what amount. And going back
to DTO, it's not clear because we know they receive two payments, one for their capital debt and then one
for their operations. It's not clear how that's broken down either. Bus operations, again, are not specific, but
none of this addresses the biggest elephant in the room, which is how will you guys possibly spend the
billions of dollars of extra tax revenue you're going to get now that the rest of Erie has joined the district.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments and for joining us for the public hearing. Is there anyone
in attendance here that has not spoken and would like to do so? Please approach the podium. And you'll
introduce yourself and have three minutes. You know the drill. Please go ahead.
JOE: Thanks for the opportunity to speak tonight. My name is Joe, and I would just like to follow up one of
Keith's points. Given the large percentage of service at RTD that's operated by other entities via contracts
to Transdev or DTO, I think it would be really important for the public documents, like the budget, to break
down the operations expenditures to RTD-operated routes and contracts going to third-party agencies so
that we can better understand things like cost per service hour and just the bulk amount of money that's
going to some of these third-party agencies.
For me personally, it would help me better understand what it would cost to get DTO to run 15 minute
service on the G line, and those types of little questions would be much easier to answer if we understand
to whom how much money is going. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for joining us and for your comments and our next speaker. Please
approach. Introduce yourself and you'll have three minutes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Hi, everyone. My name is Christopher-- is Director-Elect for District A, Chris
Nicholson. Anyway, I was beyond delighted when I saw that, in this budget, there is money to implement

Open Payments, credit card tap to pay, whatever you want to call it, for our fare payment system. I think
that for the amount of money that it is allocated in the budget, it will be an incredible step forward for RTD
and in the way that the average person, who never uses the system, interacts with RTD. And so I just want
to say thank you to GM/CEO Johnson and all the people working for you that is underway.
Secondly, the significant increase in transit security funding that is in this year's budget is a wonderful step
forward in addressing what is the number one concern that I heard on the campaign trail, and that is the
perceived, at least, and in some ways actual, lack of security. I know they're-- anyway, lack of security on
RTD at the facilities using the buses.
There are so many people in my district who are proximate to transit who literally live a block away from a
bus line, who live right off the 15, and who say that the experience and the fact that they do not feel safe is
the reason that they do not use RTD. And so seeing us making a significant investment in that is something
that I think the public will view as extremely positive.
And I'll tell you guys right now that one of the things I intend to work very hard on over the next four years
is seeing us deliver the amount of security that will make the public feel safe on RTD. And so I think that
taking this action is wonderful. I hope it to be a very small first step in comparison to what I think we can
accomplish over the next four years, both with officers and nonpolice responders, as a way to make the
general public see RTD as something that they can be a part of and that is a space that they feel comfortable
in. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for joining us. And thank you for your comments. Seeing no other in-person
speakers, are there any hands raised virtually at this time, Mr. Jack Kroll, our Board Office Executive
Manager?
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, at this time, I do not see any hands raised.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, well, we thank those who have attended to share their comments on the proposed
budget. At this time, with no other participants in the queue, we will close the public hearing for the proposed
budget. That will move us forward to a recommended action for the Board's consideration. This is item A.
This is the 2025 proposed budget. It is for the Board of Directors to adopt the resolution series of 2024 for
the adoption of the 2025 budget and of 2024 for the 2025 budget appropriation and series 2024 for the
appropriation of 2025 previously-appropriated capital. Do I have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek-- so moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I had Buzek as the movement and Tisdale as the second. Is there any discussion or
questions on the item? Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'll make it quick. It was a lot of work. Thank you so much, staff, for all of the work that
you did implementing a new budget booklet. That was a request from last year. Debra, kudos to your team
and everybody involved with finance and planning. It was a privilege to serve as Vice Chair of Finance and
Planning Committee to shepherd this through with a lot of feedback from Directors and from staff. And I

feel like we have presented something that is pretty good. There's room for improvement, we know that.
But for a first attempt, this is not bad work to bring to this Board.
One quick thing I do want to mention is that this Board, this agency, the people sitting in these chairs are
putting this forward. And so it was very interesting to see all of the different line items that were brought
forward and the different projects that are already working and going on up to and including line items for
tap to pay that we are about to make a vote on. So that's all I've got. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: [INAUDIBLE] Director-VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Real quick, just for the record, I was a second on that, not the movement. Thank
you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, we'll reverse.
[LAUGHTER]
We'll reverse it on the record. I'm sorry. I heard them both hit me in stereo, so thank you for noting it. Director
Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I was actually the second, but that's all right. So there were some comments made by
the public that I thought were very prudent. And those of us sitting up here know the answers to a lot of
these questions because we've had the privilege of staff memos, conversations with our GM/CEO, and also
our CFO, Mr. MacLeod. Wow. Like, half the room cleared when we started talking about the budget.
So if staff could kind of entertain us but also just help explain some of these things, on the record, I was
wondering if someone could address the divisions and departments. That's something I had also asked in
committee and privately and just why we have it outlined the way we do. And then I also had a separate
question, but I don't know if I'm supposed to ask them all right now or are we-ERIK DAVIDSON: You can go ahead and ask your first question.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Is that OK? So it's been brought up in several meetings, and Directors also received
these complaints. And we've discussed this in committee and such. Just real-time communications. And I
was wondering if we have anything in next year's fiscal budget to address that. Or I don't ask a leading
question, but I will, or if that is something that might be a longer-term endeavor, just given the age of the
system and all of the back-end work that we're-- thank you-- technology we're using.
ERIK DAVIDSON: GM/CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Diruscha-- Director Ruscha. I've
made a hybrid word-- Director Ruscha, for your question. I believe you're referencing various forms of how
we communicate with customers, be it wayfinding, be it automated stop announcements and things of the

like. One thing that's critically important to note as it relates to computer-aided dispatch, or automatic vehicle
locators, what we call CAD AVL, that system provides location data used to enable automatic stop
announcements on board vehicles.
And so we are clearly aware-- and as one of the commenters made reference to earlier this evening, he
indicated he had been bringing forth this issue since 2018. Well, let's be clear that our CAD AVL, we do
have some outdated components. What is contained currently in the budget, more specifically under rail
operations, for instance, updates to be made to the devices that will enable better connectivity for
communications because when you think about an automatic-- or automated, I should say-- train stop
announcement, there is communication that takes place through various transmitters and things of the like.
And so what is included in the rail operations division operational budget for fiscal year 2025 are monies
for given components for aspects that will improve the CAD AVL connectivity, I would say, for real-time
announcements relative to the automated aspect of that. That will be done in-house. More specifically, as
it relates to the CAD AVL devices within the fiscal year 2025 budget, there's 300 CAD AVL devices that will
be addressed in calendar year of 2025.
And then, as we look at our fiscal year financial forecast, there's further allocations-- or I shouldn't say
allocations. There's further forecasting as it relates for additional modifications to outfit the fleet because
some have warranties that we are going to leverage going forward. So I trust that answers your question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, thank you so much. And sometimes, buried in these documents, it's hard to find
the good news or some projects that we do have in the queue. So I just wanted-- if there was anything else
that GM/CEO Johnson wanted to add, just other things that we have that might not be as obvious in this
budget document in the upcoming year that we'll be engaging in that we're budgeting for but because no
public agency gives a budget book that is several thousand lines, I just wanted to ask if you wanted to
address some-DEBRA JOHNSON: If I can, Mr. Chair, one thing we will be doing, contingent upon the board's consideration
of the budget, is disseminating information relative to what lies ahead in our achievements and what we
endeavor to do in the upcoming year moving forward. That will be public-facing as we engage and tell our
story. I think that's critically important.
I have to tell you, I'm not prepared to go into certain aspects of the budget and talk about those key
initiatives. We heard about one that has been in the works for a while, tap to pay. That's something that the
team got-- we've been talking about that, I would say, probably since I got here. So that's something that
has been in the works for the past three-plus years, recognizing contracts and things like that. And I don't
want to delve too deeply in that as we're working towards that.
But that's something that we have heard loudly and clearly and recognizing that we take in feedback from
various constituent groups, i.e., customers, stakeholders, employees, and things of the like. We have been

intentional with our strategic initiatives, quite naturally customer and community initiatives that have been
identified to be a laser-like focus in the upcoming years.
That's critically important, as we want to enhance the efforts to ensure that there's mechanisms and different
ways in which people can get to activity centers. And a lot of that has to do with how we're going to leverage
communication as we talk about interactive signage and things along those lines. So that's how I would
summarize that without being prepared to go in more detail.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And so I just wanted to note that last year, at this time, I was a no on the
budget. And the two of us would have voted no. And I'm speaking for myself, one of the concerns was just
some of the lack of information that we were given, the capital carry-forward questions, not having a SIP
book, things like that. I'm a yes today. I'm fully comfortable-- I really was the second on that motion.
And that is in part because of the work that we've done as an agency in the committee, and also because
Mr. MacLeod, who I'm going to miss very much when he retires next year, was very patient, as was his
team, in getting our questions answered and sitting down with us and going through whatever it is that we
needed to go through and update and share information as needed. So I will stop there. I have no more
comment. I just want to express my appreciation and happy to vote yes and go home soon.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you director. Other questions? And I hope my colleagues will forgive me that
hearing all at once movement and second can be a little tricky to discern. So thanks for bearing with me.
Any further questions on the budget?
I just want to make one comment that certainly the budget book format is appreciated, the amount of
information is appreciated and very grateful to staff for that. Over the course of a couple of meetings, some
more substantive things have been noted, however. What I'm most grateful for here is that we've made
measurable progress on the budget itself.
And, again, would like to thank our Chief Financial Officer and his team and our General Manager and CEO
for the progress in that direction to the way in which we budget, which may not be immediately apparent
and obvious, but is going to show up in our budget variance over time, and would like to thank them again
for bringing and elevating that metric as something we'll be reporting on.
The often-cited now capital carry-forward, the progress that has been made in that area of the budget has
been substantial over the past couple of years. Things can be tough and challenging, but getting better.
Those two things can be happening at the same time, so really appreciate what's being done there.
From a Board perspective, the movement from what was historically what can I have by department to a
what is needed to accomplish our mission, that focus is apparent not just in the format but in the numbers
themselves, which is reflective, even if we rewind a little bit, to things such as being in a position now where
our midterm financial, which was six years, now five years, is showing FasTracks in a more stable position,
just as another example of where the numbers are.

So thank you for the continued work in that area, and would be remiss if I didn't note for the record that,
yes, the format is good, but also the numbers-- even better. So thank you. Seeing no further questions or
discussion, I will call for the vote. Are there any no votes? Seeing none, that will pass with 14 yes votes and
0 no, 0 abstentions. . All right, thank you. Busy agenda ahead. Thanks for bearing with us here, everybody.
We'll now move to our unanimous consent portion of the agenda. There are four items on the unanimous
consent agenda. They are listed as actions B, C, D, and E. Given that we just did proceed with the proposed
budget, those items are item B, zero fares on Transit Equity Day 2025; item C, salaried trustee appointment;
item D, January 2025 Title VI Service Equity Analysis; item E, 2024 GM/CEO performance appraisal and
related compensation change.
It is important to note that item E, the 2024 GM/CEO performance appraisal and related compensation
change came out of the November 21 Performance Committee meeting that was held directly prior to the
November 21 executive committee meeting and was unanimously approved by that committee.
It's also important to note that, according to our bylaws, all those items that do pass through executive
committee, even if unanimous, do not appear on the unanimous consent agenda but rather are on our
Recommended Actions portion. If anyone has a change to, discussion on, or question about any of the
items on unanimous consent, please advise me at this time and I will, of course, be happy to pull it from the
unanimous consent agenda for consideration under Recommended Action. Would anyone like to remove
anything from unanimous consent? Seeing none, may I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?
ALL: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, so I'm going to just-[LAUGHTER]

SPEAKER: Winner.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sorry, Buzek. I'm going to go with what I heard. And it may just be proximity. I heard
Director Ruscha as the movement and the second as Director Catlin. Are there any no votes? Seeing none,
that will pass with 14 yes votes, 0 no, 0 abstention. Thank you very much.
All right, folks, we're going to recommended actions. We have 7 on the agenda listed as F, G, H, I, J, K,
and all the way to L. So the first action, item F, is for the January 2025 service change. This is for the Board
of Directors to approve the January 2025 service change as revised and summarized in attachment A, and
to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute contract amendments as necessary
for private operators impacted by service changes. I have a motion?
BOB BROOM: So moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second.

ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Broom as the movement and the second as Guzman. Any discussion questions
on this action?
JAIME LEWIS: I do have a comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis, please go ahead.
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah, I noticed there was several letters from the area of Boulder talking about Boulder
Depot or Boulder Station. And I think it's something that-- and the 2025 board really-- run board, probably
for the next run board, should be seriously taking a look at. This area has really done some transit-oriented
development. They have grown some businesses around there. And I don't need to tell you guys the history.
They were expecting a train a long time ago. It didn't happen. But this particular area has grown, and it
really aligns with our transit-oriented development goals. So I would hope that our staff would seriously take
a look at that for our next run board in 2025. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. I see, wasting no time, Second Vice Chair
Guissinger's hand. And please go ahead. I think you have comments related to that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Music to my ears, Director Lewis. Thank you. It is a beautiful TOD. They're adding, I
think, 1,000 units to the 1,500 that are currently there. And the good news is it's music to our staff's ears
too. I've talked with Ms. Johnson, and the hope is to reopen the station at Boulder junction by September,
I believe-- this year, anyhow. Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger, and thank you very much, Director Lewis,
for your comments. Just for everyone's edification, yes, the Boulder Junction is a prime example of transitoriented development. One thing is very clear. We have been working closely with our partners at the city
of Boulder.
One thing that's important to note is, as we talked about a budget that was just approved, we have been
intentional and deliberate as we have looked collectively at our core business, which is service delivery,
recognizing that the chair and I had a conversation today where I talked about the importance of how you
build out a schedule and you deduce how many vehicles you have, and then you go into the People Power
aspect.
So while there has been conversations relative to, oh, we could have this bus serve Boulder Junction, it's
not just a bus operator. It's more or less having customer care representatives there. It's having supervisors.
It's having relief individuals that would basically address the needs. So we're talking about not just three
bus operators, but multiplying that by additional support.
With that as a backdrop, as we go forward, it is our intent, as we look at the revenue service hours that
have been annualized in the budget, that we would be in a position, relative to all the progress that has

been made with People Power, that we would able to work in tandem with our partners up in Boulder, and
they would be providing various services in which they operate at Boulder Junction. So that's what we
anticipate. And we have been discussing that.
I'm not a soothsayer. That's our intention. Everything is anticipated. But as Director Guissinger knows,
who's engaged on this issue with me, as well as members of the team that are doing the work relative to
this, that is where we are looking to go, recognizing our comprehensive operational analysis, basically,
notably, are branded as the System Optimization Plan as we look at what we're doing and where we're
going. That is something clearly that we have identified. So I just wanted to add a little more color to that
discussion. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Yeah, thanks. And I will move on to the service change and just say
thanks so much. I think we had a thorough conversation on this in the Finance and Planning meeting, but
this is exciting. We're bringing back a lot of service frequency and extension of hours. Personally, getting
the AB bus to the airport-- it's been standing room only often-- is a huge win, but I know that's true for a
number of other buses and trains in the area.
And at the risk of misquoting you, Mr. Worthen, I think you said that, in January, it would bring us up to 85%
of the SOP, something like that, which is great. And I'm looking forward to 2025 and hoping we can keep
that going. Also, I think the idea of starting a new COA, a Comprehensive Operational Analysis-- I'm not
sure when that's scheduled. I think maybe to start this year-- next year, I mean. But I think I had a good
couple good conversations today with a couple of incoming board members and just hearing how things
have changed. I think that's an exciting thing, too. So thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much Second Vice Chair Guissinger. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Just a question. Did the Boulder downtown station finally get remodeled
and reopened?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger, go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, it got reopened. There was the meth issue and some of the things-- I don't
think it was a full remodel, but they cleaned up a number of things. Ms. Johnson, you had something?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. Thank you for the question, Director Broom. There were
some remediation that was done with the air ducts and things of the like in the floor. And that basically
reopened about a year ago.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you to the team that looked at this board run. In particular, thanks for the 1E/44
improvements through the RiNo art district in the River North area. Something to keep in mind as we go
forward-- transit-oriented development along the north end of Denver, the I-70 corridor in particular, looking

at the Fox Street Station first and Fox Street Station that aligns with the G and the B lines is a perfect
opportunity to create a circulator through the Globeville Elyria-Swansea area and the southern end of the
Adams County along I-70, where there is no connected services right now, and be able to serve that
community as well. I would be remiss not to state that for the community. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I'll be a no vote tonight. I've explained this in previous committees, but
just briefly on the record, I don't want to pick communities or directors against each other. Some are getting
more service. And I understand that excitement. I also represent an area that rides the bus a lot, has a lot
of need, and feels like their needs aren't being met relative to growth.
And I can say, as a person who also rides the bus in my district, some of these routes are standing room
only. And just recognizing that our SOP is from a different era, I don't feel I can ethically, as a representative
of the far northeast and North Aurora, vote yes on service changes until we have more data from staff. And
so I'm going to vote no tonight. But that is not to disparage other-- it is not to disparage any of my fellow
directors or staff's work. And I felt like I should just explain why. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, thank you. I know the board, and especially staff, has a deep understanding of
how meaningful it is to add service that maybe had been there before and was taken away, or new service,
but I would just like to emphasize that, because it was brought home to me recently, where I was told that
there were people refusing to go back to work at NREL until there was transit service on the GSS line. That
shows the impact of additional service. And I appreciate staff adding it in according to the SOP as we're
going along. So thank you very much. It was meaningful to me. I thought I'd let people know.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan. Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just quickly, I just wanted to reiterate something that I think greater Denver Transit
raised in the discussion of the budget, which is the-- I forget what they call the-- but the chart that showed
ridership and the subsidy that RTD did by route, I think, was hugely helpful. It can help answer Director
Ruscha's concerns. It can help get us ready for the COA. I would love to see that back if we can do that.
Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. Not seeing other hands raised, I'll just note,
I spoke earlier about helpers. A lot of folks have been a part of increasing this service, folks actually
delivering the service out there operating and taking care of our facilities and fleet-- service planning
certainly and, of course, as has been noted many times here, people operations. We're really seeing the
fruits of our labor here as an agency to see some of these positive changes.
And I'd be remiss if I didn't say, it's been a hard time nationally for US transit. We've talked about that
financially. But I just also note that agencies continue to struggle right now. So disciplined, focused work

here is paying off. And thank you for that work. It's an exciting service change. Very happy to be able to
vote on this service change before the end of the year here.
With that, not seeing other hands raised, I will call for the vote. I know there is one, but I'm going to ask
everyone just to raise their hand. Are there any no votes? OK, I see one no vote. So that will pass. That is
with 13 yes votes, 1 no vote, 0 abstentions, the no vote being Director Ruscha. Thank you very much.
We will now move to our next recommended action. This is item G for the Centennial State Liquidation
Investment Pool or CSLIP participation. This is for the Board of Directors to approve RTD's participation in
the Centennial State Liquid Investment Pool, also referred to as CSLIP. Do we have a motion?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Motion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, I got Ruscha as the movement, and I got Bouquet as the second on that one.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ERIK DAVIDSON: --pretty close. [INAUDIBLE] Ruscha Got it. Combined word. Noted for the sake of the
record. All right, any discussion on this motion? And I'll note there was a helpful discussion around this at
the Finance and Planning Committee. Any other discussion tonight? All right, seeing none, I will call for the
vote. Are there any no votes? Seeing none, that will pass with 14 yes, 0 no, and 0 abstention. Thank you.
We'll move to our next recommended action. This is item H, the 2025 Legislative and Government Relations
Program. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the 2025 Legislative and Government Relations
Program. Do we have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second-- Guzman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I got Whitmore as the movement, Guzman is the second. Any discussion questions on
this action? All right, seeing none-- thank you for joining us, Mr Davies. I saw the-- yeah. I'll just offer up,
we did have a nice discussion at Executive Committee on this. And I just would like to publicly thank Mr.
Michael Davies for the organization you've brought to this and for the help and bringing forward a program
like this for us to adopt in preparation for the legislative session. So thank you for that continued work and
continued advocacy for the benefit of transit in the region. Thanks for joining us and hanging out and waiting.
All right, so I'll go ahead and call for the vote on this one. Are there any no votes? Seeing none, that will
also pass with 14 yes, 0 no, and 0 abstentions.
Next move to item I-- this is the Independent Audit Committee Membership Appointment, Reappointment,
and Authorization. This is for the Board of Directors to take the following actions related to membership on
the Independent Audit Committee-- appoint Director Buzek to a term commencing January 1, 2025 and

expiring December 31, 2026. Reappoint external member John Olenberger to term commencing January
1, 2025 and expiring December 31, 2026, and to authorize former Director Dishell to remain on the
committee through November 17, 2025. Do I hear a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Catlin as the movement, the second as Bouquet. Any discussion on this item? All
right, thank you. Well, we again had a nice discussion around this at Executive Committee. Thank you to
Director Buzek for putting in your name and application and stepping up to work on that. We also thank
external member John Olenberger for his willingness and interest to continue to serve. He has been a great
value-add. And then, of course, our former Director Dishell offering to stay for an additional year. We've
certainly appreciated his leadership.
I would be remiss if I didn't note to the Board, please continue the good work here. We're a couple years in
now, but there's going to be more to be done. We started the conversation at the last meeting of doing a
lookback and the things that we need to do to further refine. We talked about things about how to take
advantage of other reporting and auditing that we're doing with the federal government, for example.
There's a lot of opportunities to consolidate, to focus, and to really manage risk at the agency. So please
lean into that. It has been one of my-- it's been a real privilege to work on that process throughout my time
here.
I know when Director Buzek was chair, he had asked all Board Directors, what would you like to see
accomplished this year. And I think back that my answer was maybe a boring sounding one, but I wanted
a well-functioning internal audit function and Audit Committee by the end of the year. So I'm grateful to
everybody for leaning into that and our Chief Financial Officer, our GM/CEO, and our General Counsel
Snyder. A lot of hard work went into making that happen. So thank you. Please lean into it. Thanks for those
being willing to serve. Director Catlin, please go ahead first-- Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would really like to thank you for your service, both on the Ad Hoc
Committee, getting this thing going, and then your service on the actual Audit Committee this past year.
And we're going to miss your service. But thank you. And we look forward to working with Director Buzek.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Appreciate it. And it was a good one. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, I would just like to echo the momentum for this very important task, bantered
about a bit, and then really brought home by a couple of faces I see at the front of the room. So I certainly
appreciate that. And perhaps more importantly, but unofficially, I'd like to second Vince Buzek's nomination
to the committee.
[LAUGHTER]

ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, fair enough. Hear, hear. Well, thank you. I will go ahead and call for the vote
here, not seeing other hands. Are there any no votes? All right, seeing none, that will pass with 14 yes, 0
no, and 0 abstention. Moving along here, we will go to item J. This is for bylaw amendments to update
descriptions of the Executive and Performance Committees. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the
proposed bylaw amendments, which will clarify the roles of the Executive and Performance Committees,
as well as adjust several related administrative matters. Do I have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved-- Guzman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second-- Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Guzman is the movement and the second as Bouquet. Any discussion on this item?
First, I'll just thank our Board Office Executive Manager, Jack Kroll. Thank you for leaning into this one and
really helping us with this. Again, there was a good discussion at Executive Committee. There's some things
that we committed to clarifying pursuant to the fiscal performance audit of the OSA in 2024. Appreciate
your leadership in helping the agency pursue those changes and commitments that we had made.
So with that being noted, any questions or discussion on this item? OK, seeing none, I will call for the vote.
Are there any no votes? Please go ahead and raise your hand if-- OK, seeing none, that will also pass with
14 yes, 0 no, and 0 abstentions.
We now move to our sixth action. This is item K, for the Citizen Advisory Committee appointments and
reappointments. This is for the Board of Directors to appoint three new members to three-year terms,
appoint five new members to two-year terms, and reappoint two members to three-year terms to the
Citizens Advisory Committee, also referred to as the CAC. Do I have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved-- Bouquet
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Bouquet as the movement.
[LAUGHTER]
Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Buzek as the second.
VINCE BUZEK: If you insist.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Excellent. Any discussion on this motion? Yeah, Treasurer Bouquet, please.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair. I just wanted to make a comment that it was a pleasure
working with Director Lewis on this and all involved. We had a great pool of applicants who applied, and I
just wanted to thank everyone who applied and looking forward to those who are going to be serving on the
CAC. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer, and thank you-- we had another good discussion at Executive
Committee, but thank you for your work, as was noted there, and Director Lewis, for yours as well, and
Board Office Executive Manager Kroll again for leaning into that and helping with that. Director Ruscha,
please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I just also wanted to express thanks to the directors who worked on this. Treasurer
Bouquet is often known as the CAC guy. And what Director Lewis has done in six months, most of us
couldn't do in six years. So I'm just looking at this list, and I wanted to express appreciation and seeing the
diversity and equity and representation on the CAC. And so I'm very happy to vote yes tonight. And thank
you to staff. Thank you, Mr. Cole and my fellow colleagues for advancing and revitalizing the CAC, as it
were. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And just the closing remark-- I'll thank those who applied
to the CAC, those who are being appointed, those who are not, again, for offering up your help and taking
time out of your life. Volunteering for these kinds of things says a lot about a person's character. So thank
you to all of those who have put their name in.
All right, call for the vote. Any no votes? Seeing none, that too will pass with 14 yes votes, 0 no, and 0
abstention. We are at our seventh and final action, item L. This is for transit passes for former directors.
This is for the Board of Directors to build upon, ratify, and reaffirm the existing agency practice to provide
annual transit passes to all former Board Directors and designated immediately family member by adopting
the enclosed resolution, establishing the right of all former directors and a designated immediate family to
an annual pass in perpetuity. Do we have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Tisdale as the movement.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second-- Guzman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Guzman as the second. Any discussion on this item? All right, seeing none that-oh, that too had some good discussion at Executive Committee. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great discussion at Executive Committee. Thank you so much, Directors Buzek and
Tisdale for bringing this forward and doing this work and clarifying for future boards what it is. I appreciate
the honest and sincere conversations that we had in the struggle to get work done with 15 squirrels, but
you did it, so I appreciate it. And thank you for bringing it forward.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. And I will echo that and thank Directors Tisdale and Buzek for
their work on this and for the discussion at Executive Committee on that. All right, not seeing any other
hands, I will call for the vote on this. Are there any no votes? OK, seeing none, that will also pass with 14
yes votes, 0 no, and 0 abstentions. That concludes our recommended actions this evening. Thanks, y'all,
as we go through a busy agenda here.
So we're now at the Report of Director Activities. Would any Director like to report on their activities for
November and the portion of December thus far? All right, not seeing any hands raised, with that, this is
the final Report of Director Activities with the seven Directors that were noted before that are departing, and
just like to, again, take that time to thank you for your service. Sometimes, we highlight activities here, but
sometimes a lot goes unsaid. It's a lot of work. Really appreciate everything you all do.
So that brings us to other matters. And if there's anything we wanted to circle back on from before, we can
do that. But I'll go ahead and ask any Directors to please raise their hand if they have other matters to
discuss tonight. All right, not seeing any, and I see General Manager and CEO indicating an interest to talk.
So please go ahead for follow-up.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair. Had an opportunity to confer with our Assistant
General Manager of Rail Operations relative to the questions that were posed by Director Guzman as well
as by Director Harwick. We are going to address those questions in this session right now relative to what
is being done relative to the PTC issue that we have with Wabtec, who is a supplier, and then further explain
the FRA regulation relative to the decibels and what we are doing to be in compliance, putting safety first
and foremost. So with that, Mr. Jensen, I'll yield the floor to you, sir. Thank you.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, good evening. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I'm Dave Jensen, assistant
general manager of rail operations. As I understood the question initially revolved around the PTC issues.
So we were having PTC issues. As Ms. Johnson explained earlier, our partner DTO, DTP, we're working
in collaboration with Wabtec, those issues were resolved.
As you know, and as Ms. Johnson indicated, when the trains are not operating under PTC, they're operating
under ATC, which requires the sounding of the horns. There are very specific regulations associated with
that. I would recommend actually going to our website, which does a really good job, I think, of explaining
what those regulations are and why we do that. A lot of that is relevant to speed. There's time and distance.
Those sort of things go into play as it relates to the way that the horns are sounded.
I would note that the engineers don't have control over the decibel level of the trains of the horns. So,
essentially, what they're doing is pushing a button and sounding the horn. There is a sequence that's
required. It's two longs, a short, and a long for every grade crossing, and then, again, a certain time period
with which it needs to be sounded.
So, again, if we're getting customers complaining to us that it sounds like the horns are sounding too loud
at certain times than others, we could look into specifics of that. It's possible that there's a mechanical issue
with the train. We could look at the decibel levels. But the engineers themselves don't have control over

how loud the horn is being sounded. So I think that addresses that in terms of the PTC issue that we were
experienced. That's been resolved for the time being.
We do have one grade crossing right now, which is York grade crossing on the A line, which is requiring
horn soundings because we're getting a failure indication there. That also impacts two other grade
crossings, Steele Street and Clayton. So DTO is working on that right now. And, in fact, they're working on
that this evening trying to get resolution to that problem. And we're in daily contact with them trying to get
these issues resolved. So I believe I've addressed the issues or the questions there may have been, but if
there's others, I'd be happy to take those now.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, go ahead please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. Just for further clarification, PTC-- Positive Train Control. Automatic
Train Control-- Mr. Jensen referenced the website. What we did some time ago, with the help of our diligent
communications and engagement staff, was create a web page, the certain regulations to which we have
reference relative to the Federal Railroad Administration specifying when sounding of horns are required.
That is on our web page. And just wanted to clarify, you could put in Mr. Summers, the web page as it
relates-- slash trainhorns. I knew it had to be something simple. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, General Manager and CEO. Mr. Jensen, thanks for sharing that
information with us and helping with that. I see a couple of hands raised, so I'll go to Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: I know this answer, but I'm just going to ask it just so it's just out in the ether. So a lot of my
constituents, they regularly remind me that it's a quiet zone. And can you address why we still need to
sound horns even when it's considered a quiet zone?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, I think the misnomer is the term quiet zone, which may imply that there's never going
to be a sound. But safety requires us to sound the horn under certain conditions. So, as I explained, the
federal regulation is if we're not under positive train control, then we do going through the crossing. But
there could be other things. There could be construction. There could be a person in the right of way.
There could be any number of reasons why an engineer might believe that it's necessary to sound the horn.
It's always with the intent of safety in mind. So, again, if something occurs, then they really are required to
sound their horn, and it's never going to be completely silent. But it is intended to be as quiet as it can be.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to thank you for your service. I was really moved
by your statement earlier and your report. So I just wanted to thank you. I wanted to thank all my colleagues.
It was an honor and a pleasure to serve with you. Thank you to our General Manager. Thank you to your
staff and to our Board Office. Thank you to our community for always coming and keeping us on our toes.
And thank you to the people of District E for electing me. Thank you and good night.

ALL: Hear, hear.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Thank you for your service. Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I need to return to the train horns. So I just want to make sure that we
understand why this happened. It is my understanding that there was an accident with the arm that lowers
at the York Street crossing, which made contact with the overhead catenary system and caused the issues
with the positive train control requiring us to go to automatic train control procedures. Is that correct? It was
about two weeks ago.
And the reason I bring this up is because the community has been pretty quiet, fairly patient, I think. But
after two weeks of train horn sounding, they're starting to get agitated-- rightfully so. But the reason I brought
it up earlier and want to make sure that this is on the record is that we have all of the information available
for the public because I've gotten a number of questions from city council members' offices as well as the
communities of Globeville, Elyria-Swansea, Cole, Whittier, and Clay.
And if you just pass Colorado Boulevard-- because this is the A line that runs on the side of District C that
would then join up with District B-- and so in order to have a full set of facts to be able to respond to
constituents in an appropriate manner, I just want to make sure that we have that understanding. This was
not something that RTD did or that RTD had control over directly, but we must respond for the purpose of
public safety. So is any of that incorrect or not factual?
DAVE JENSEN: Mr. Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes. So that is factual. That's correct. I would add that we had two situations occurring at
the same time. So there was-- and I don't have the dates in front of me, so I don't want to misspeak. But it
was around Thanksgiving, last week, where we did have a PTC failure, a positive train control failure. And
that was addressed with DTO and Wabtec.
The incident that you're referring to did create a situation where it impacts the PTC inasmuch as it's showing,
right now, train occupancy. So it shows a failure on the grade crossing. But it's not necessarily a PTC failure.
It's actually acting the way it should. It's a result of the incident that you described and finding out where
exactly that train occupancy indication is stemming from.
And so DTO is working on that right now. It's not currently believed that that's a PTC problem necessarily.
Certainly, once all of the infrastructure is inspected, we can go back to PTC, possibly. But that one grade
crossing is still because it's not yet resolved, we're not completely sure exactly where it is, but yes, it's not
something we caused. We do have to respond to it. We are working on it.
Thank you very much, Mr. Jensen. Thank you, Secretary, for the clarification. Any other matters? Yes,
Director Ruscha.

JOYANN RUSCHA: On the PTC issue, as a person who lives in Central Park, I am sorry for those who
have had to join the club. And I hope you don't stay in the club for as long as we did. But as noted, those
horns are sounded for safety, so to reduce the possibility of an individual or motorist getting hit by a train.
And, as Mr. Jensen mentioned, we do have a web page up. Maybe we can just add a few more things so
that folks are a little bit more aware of regulations and such. I think that would be helpful, especially to
Directors. And they can direct them to something more comprehensive. But thank you. And thank you for
taking time at the end of a long evening to speak to us.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And, again, thank you, Mr. Jensen. Again, any other
matters from any Directors on any topic at all? All right, seeing none, I just will note a couple of things here.
So as a reminder for anyone listening in, participating remotely, or here in the room, this is our last regularlyscheduled Board meeting-- nonspecial Board meeting, regularly-scheduled Board meeting for the year.
The new board with seven new Directors will be-- new Board Directors, seven new Directors, will be sworn
in at a meeting on Tuesday, January 7, 2025. The districts that will have new representation in 2025 are
districts A, D, E, F, H, I, and M. And then Director Bouquet was reelected for a second term and will be
continuing his service on the board for another four-year term representing District G. Thank you for
running, and congratulations.
And, of course, as already noted, Director Broom, Director Lewis, Director Rosenthal, Director Sloan,
Director Tisdale, thank you very much for the service. It's been a pleasure. And I don't know what else to
say other than thank you. So, with that, seeing no other discussion, I will entertain a motion to adjourn.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Ruscha. The meeting is adjourned as of 8:41 Mountain Standard Time. Thank
you. Go be helpers.

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the RTD Budget Hearing, December 3rd, 2024
December 3rd, 2024
Erik Davidson, RTD Board Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
2025 Proposed Budget
Dear Chair Davidson,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) would like to respectfully submit public comments on the 2025 proposed budget.
For this we have the version dated November 11th, 2024, in hand.
We note that we have yet to receive a reply to our letter to the Finance and Planning Committee sent on
Thursday November, 14th 2024. If a reply has indeed been sent, please could you provide another copy at
your earliest convenience. We have repeated the questions originally sent in this letter.
New comments and questions since Thursday November 14th, 2024:


GDT has been able to download three different versions of the 2025 Budget Book from the RTD
website since October and has only been able to spot new versions by closely examining the financial
figures. We request that RTD provides document version / revision and date information within the first
few pages of all future budget book documents.



A capital investment program (CIP) book that breaks down the status of each capital project and details
how appropriated funds are due to be spent in the next few years is still absent from the documents.
This was requested at the hearings for the 2024 budget and it is disappointing that, a year later, RTD
has not been able to produce this document.



Despite $152M being appropriated for Downtown Light Rail Reconstruction in 2024, there is still little
specific explanation on how the remainder of the money ($145,003,561) will be spent on various project
aspects over the coming years. An explanation of the entire project spend would be appreciated.(Page
89)



Departmental expenses need to be broken down by division and not by category so the public is able to
understand where the expenses are going. For example it is unclear what Services the General
Council Department will receive for the $25M budgeted. (Pages 63 to 74)



It is unclear how much RTD operated fixed-route buses, TransDev operated buses (via numerous
contracts), Access-a-Ride, Access-on-Demand and subsidized van pools are costing the bus
operations division. (Page 65)

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com



It is unclear what payments go to Denver Transit Operators (DTO) for providing train operations and
what payments are for repaying the capital costs required to construct the A, B and G Lines. (Page 73)

Comments and questions originally sent to Finance and Planning on Thursday November 14th, 2024:


Good to see a Customer and Community Connections strategic initiative (Page 11).



Most tables throughout the budget do not give comparison to 2024 projected and 2023 actual figures.
(and 2024 actual YTD).



Referencing a large increase in health insurance costs - RTD [to] seek strategies to contain ongoing
future large increases - has self-insurance been considered? (Page 45)



Noting The 2025 Budget includes an assumed 4.2% increase in tax collections from 2024, why does
the budgeted sales & use tax revenue decrease from 2024 to 2025? Is this 4.2% increase above actual
tax revenue, extrapolated to the end of 2024? (Page 49)



Why does Other Revenue increase 350% above the 2024 budget? (Page 49)



Do increases in total revenue hours include contractors? (Page 50)



Noting ...energy costs for facilities and traction power, are anticipated to remain relatively flat in 2025
due to expected continued similar volume usage, has this taken into account the increased light rail
frequencies proposed in the January service adjustments? (Page 51)



Noting Replacement parts have experienced sharp increases in prices due to the inflationary
environment, as well as supply chain issues, and it is expected to continue into 2025, what role does
the age of the fleet, and any out-of-production vehicles, play in this increase? Are savings on parts
expected if RTD purchases newer vehicles or have replacement parts prices increased similarly across
the board? (page 51).



Noting the replacement of 43 maintenance vehicles for $2,902,800, what vehicles specifically are being
replaced? Is it a one-to-one replacement or will the new vehicles provide new capabilities to
maintenance personnel? (Page 55)



Where are the headcount and budget figures for the Service Planning and Development Division?
There is a Planning category listed, but the description seems to indicate it is the division focused on
long-term work. (Page 63)



What is the cost per revenue hour for purchased transportation vs in-house bus operation? (Page 65)



It is unclear how $183.4 million for purchased transportation under bus operations is broken down into
the 3x fixed route contracts, FlexRide, Access-a-ride and the 4 providers of Access-on-demand. (Page
65)



Are we correct in our assessment that paratransit ($73 million) is  of the total bus operations budget
($451 million)? How does this compare to peer agencies? (Page 65)



Very welcome inclusion of initiative for Tap-to-Pay Fare. (Page 69)

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com



It is not clear how the rail operations budget is broken down into light rail, DTO operated commuter rail
and the N Line. (Page 73)



If Tap-to-Pay Fare is implemented, does the cost of the Ticket Vending Machine Replacement line item
change? (Page 89)



Can a rough estimate of total deferred maintenance liabilities be included in the capital programs
section? It would be useful information for the public to know how the capital programs budget
compares to the total outstanding liabilities of deferred maintenance. The Appendix seems to offer
some of this in great detail, but a higher-level overview that can be tracked at the monthly board
meetings as this backlog is burned down would be really greatly appreciated. (Page 89)



GDT welcomes the return of detailed financial info presented similar to the Monthly Financial
Statements in Appendix A.



Can subsidy per rider per route metrics be reinstated? It would be nice to see some updated figures
that roughly estimate cost per revenue hour of bus, LRT, and commuter rail service.

Thanks for all you do,

James Flattum

Richard Bamber

Leslie Welch

Emma Griffin

Keith Brooks
CC:

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 3

