Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
October 22, 2015 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
I.

Call to Order

II.

Motion to Approve


Board Protocols for Community Engagement and Events
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt these guidelines for planning RTD public hearings, public meetings and
special events to coordinate with RTD Board members’ schedules, and for
informing Board members and senior leadership of relevant third-party
meetings and events.

III.

October Board Meeting Agenda Review

IV.

Other Matters

V.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - October 27, 2015
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Richard Clinkenbeard – Bus Operator – 20 years
Patricia Marie Jaquez – Special Services Coordinator – 21 years

Special Recognition – American Diabetes Association Health Champion
RTD Wellness Team
Special Recognition – Bus Roadeo
RTD Fixed Route Operator Winners
1st Place – John Johnson – Platte
2nd Place – John Deschner – East Metro
3rd Place – Ron Short Jr. – East Metro
RTD Fixed Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Jon Mitchell, Tim Wallace, Ernesto Perez – Platte
RTD Service and Cleaning Winner
1st Place – Mark Buyalski – Platte
Private Contractor Fixed Route Operator Winners
1st Place – Abniger Ek Chan – First Transit Broadway
2nd Place – Jose Ek Chan – First Transit Broadway
3rd Place – Patrick Rhea – Transdev
Private Contractor Fixed Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Mike Sacchetta, Juan Hinojos, Gerardo Cabrera – First Transit Commerce City
Paratransit Operator Winners
1st Place – Miguel Robles – MV Transportation
2nd Place – Alejandro Quinones – MV Transportation
3rd Place – Jack Rowland – MV Transportation
Customer Service Winner
1st Place – Raymundo Lopez – First Transit Broadway
Special Recognition – Light Rail Rodeo
Light Rail Operator Winners
1st Place – Robert Dennis
2nd Place – Narciso Garcia Jr.
3rd Place – Christina Romero
Light Rail Maintenance Winners
1st Place – Randall Lovegrove

2nd Place – George Sweeny
3rd Place – Andre Leigh
Special Recognition – Snow Plow Rodeo
Single-Axle Snow Plow Truck Winners
1st Place – Leo Dowd and John Prather
2nd Place – Tim Lippstrew and Derrick Smith
3rd Place – James Mohan and Lewis Dorrance
Tandem-Axle Snow Plow Truck Winners
1st Place – Richard Seedroff and Mark Weifenbach
2nd Place – John Oldham and Randy Wagner
3rd Place – Tom Beer and Rod Tuttle
V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Lubow
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Executive Search Committee Update

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 15, 2015

X.

Chair's Report

XI.

General Manager's Report

XII.

Unanimous Consent
A.

January 2016 Service Plan

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the January 2016 Service Change package as revised
and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of approximately
$870,350 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.
B.

Free Rides for Members of the Military

It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free
rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be
extended from the presently approved date of December 31, 2015 to December
31, 2016. Utilization has been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal
impact on RTD.
XIII.

Recommended Action
C.

Recommended Changes to the Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fare Program

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that RTD staff
be authorized to make changes to the RTD Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fare
Program as detailed in Attachment A of this action to be implemented by January
1, 2016.
D.

Board Protocols for Community Engagement and Events

It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors adopt
these guidelines for planning RTD public hearings, public meetings and special
events to coordinate with RTD Board members’ schedules, and for informing
Board members and senior leadership of relevant third-party meetings and events.
XIV.

Executive Session

XV.

Old Business

XVI.

New Business

XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices

Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.2.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

RTD Board of Directors

Date:

From:

Charles Sisk, Chair of Executive Committee

GM

Date:
Subject:

Board Meeting Date: October 27, 2015
Board Protocols for Community Engagement
and Events

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors adopt these guidelines for
planning RTD public hearings, public meetings and special events to coordinate with RTD Board
members’ schedules, and for informing Board members and senior leadership of relevant third-party
meetings and events.
BACKGROUND
As an elected body, the fifteen member Board represents a specific district as outlined in the redistricting map for the Regional Transportation District. It is customary that Board members will be
invited to speak or participate in community events, special public hearings, public meetings, elected
officials briefings, key stakeholder meetings and special events as part of their duties and
responsibilities to the community. These events are an important part of implementing RTD’s programs
and projects. When planning these events, it is essential that RTD staff, including the GM and SLT,
coordinate dates and times with RTD Board members’ schedules for meetings in their districts so that
they can attend if desired. While scheduling meetings to accommodate Board member availability is a
priority, there will be occasions when this is not possible.
In the past, this was an informal process followed by staff to extend an invitation for speaking to the
appropriate Director. However, as this agency transitions and institutionalized knowledge is lost, and
new Board members and staff come onboard, it is perceived important to formalize the process that will
be followed by this Agency to ensure inclusion of all Board members as appropriate. In 2016, RTD plans
to roll out four (4) major corridors, including the US 36 BRT, which will be characterized by a number of
hosted events. Having a formalized process on protocols for public engagements and community events
can provide guidance to the public information team or our event planning team as well as to the Board
members.
DISCUSSION
The attached agency procedure on Board protocols was initially proposed by Pauletta Tonilas, Public
Information. Director Judy Lubow, Board member district I, and Chair Sisk working in conjunction with
David Genova, Interim General Manager, provided the current revisions. Minimal changes to the original
proposal were made.
PROCEDURE FOR PLANNING RTD MEETINGS AND EVENTS AND INFORMING RTD PERSONNEL OF
THIRD-PARTY MEETINGS AND EVENTS
Meeting Scheduling: Typically, RTD staff will refrain from scheduling meetings and events on Tuesday
evenings due to RTD Board meetings. Friday evenings are also avoided unless a special circumstance
exists. Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays are often targeted for meetings and events to maximize
possible media exposure and to offer times that are generally conducive to most people’s schedules.

Packet Pg. 6

1.2.1

Third Party Sponsored Meetings: When local jurisdictions and other third-party entities working with
RTD schedule events and meetings that involve elected officials, policy matters or RTD high-level
issues or matters, RTD staff will notify Board members of the meetings and events in their districts as
soon as possible. While RTD staff does not control the scheduling of these events, RTD Board
members and senior leadership will at least be aware of these meetings and activities in the event that
they want to attend.
RTD Board Member Speaking Events: During some RTD events and meetings, it may be appropriate to
include RTD Board members or staff in the speaking program. RTD staff will engage Board members
and staff as appropriate to participate in a meeting or special event program. The Board Chair and
Board member where an event or meeting will occur will be the designated participants on the Board’s
behalf, at the Board Chair’s discretion, with the Chair informing the Board member if that member is
not chosen to speak. The Board Chair can designate another Board member to participate in his/her
place or defer to the Board member of the district to represent the Board.
If an event is planned by RTD and involves multiple Directors' districts, all such Directors should be
informed of the event. The Directors will be included as to any presentations or speeches with a
shared responsibility at presentation.
Outside Agency Request
If an outside agency invites a particular Director and/or the Chair to participate and it is not an RTD
sponsored event, this policy will not be applicable. It is vital for the Chair/Director(s) to recognize
those Directors in whose district the event takes place.
Procedure for Planning RTD Events and Meetings
 RTD staff leading the planning efforts will work with the respective board members for those
districts and identify some potential dates for an upcoming event or meeting and contact the
Board Office to make sure these dates are not in conflict with other events.
 Board members or the Board Office will respond in a timely manner with the dates/times that
work best for their schedules.
 If, after two attempts to coordinate with the Board member(s) schedules, staff does not hear
back about preferred dates/times, staff will continue with the scheduling of the meeting or
event.
 Once a meeting or event is scheduled, the item will be sent for inclusion in the RTD Board
Calendar. In addition, a notice will be distributed to the RTD Board, Board Office and
appropriate staff.
 Public meeting and special event dates will be posted on the RTD and/or FasTracks websites as
appropriate.
 For RTD policy-level and RTD-related events and meetings, RTD staff will coordinate
participation with the appropriate Board member(s) and staff. Talking points and/or presentation
materials will be provided as necessary.
 For third-party events and meetings involving policy issues, fellow elected officials or high-level
RTD matters, RTD staff will coordinate participation as necessary with the appropriate Board
member(s) and staff. Talking points and/or presentation materials will be provided as necessary.
 If a Board member or staff member is unable to participate after committing to a meeting or
event, he/she will personally contact the staff point-of-contact or notify Board Office staff, who
will in turn notify the staff point-of-contact.
 If a meeting or event date, time or program changes, RTD staff will notify the Board, Board
Office and appropriate staff as soon as possible.

Packet Pg. 7

1.2.1

ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept this recommended action to formalize protocols for Board member speaking engagements
and participation in community events. This will provide a more equal opportunity for the
respective Board members and the districts that they represent. This will also provide clarity and
direction to our public information and event planning staff.
2. Do not accept this recommended action. Continue to operate in the informal manner that exists
today. This will escalate the level of frustration expressed by Board members about events in
their respective districts that they were unaware or not invited to participate. This will leave new
staff public information team with lack of guidance as to Board expectations and appropriate
protocols.

Prepared by:
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 8

2.12.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: October 14, 2015

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 13, 2015

Board Meeting Date: October 27, 2015

Subject:

January 2016 Service Plan

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the January 2016 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A
resulting in an annualized cost of approximately $870,350 and, further, to authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose
service is impacted by these changes.
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also
our responsibility to identify services that are underperforming and recommend modifications,
curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted. The proposals herein include a mix of service
enhancements, adjustments to schedules and several service reductions. These proposals are offered in
parallel with the Board approved US 36 BRT Service Plan and would be implemented on the same date.
We will monitor customer response to the implementation of these service changes and propose
adjustments as appropriate in future service change recommendation.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
 Response to changes in the communities where services are provided
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
Three public hearings were held during the public comment period, which extended between October
16th and October 19th. Comments from these meetings and the service change website are summarized
in Attachment B of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATIONS
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following represent substantive changes proposed to

Packet Pg. 9

2.12.A

the service changes initially communicated to the Board of Directors for implementation as part of the
January 2016 service change:
Route 3 – Alameda Avenue: alternative routing to the proposed change
Route 10- 12th Avenue: reroute on downtown Denver streets
Route 31L – North Federal Limited: (formerly Route 31X) schedule adjustments
Route 120 – 120thAvenue/Brighton: extend trip to Prairie Center Parkway
Route 120X – Wagon Road/Thornton Express: additional morning peak trip
Route 122X – Wagon Road/Civic Center Express: schedule adjustments
Route 204 – Table Mesa/Moorehead/N. 19th: schedule adjustments
Route 205 - 28th Street /Gunbarrel/Heatherwood: schedule adjustments
Route 225 – Boulder/Broomfield via Baseline & US 287: schedule adjustments
Route GS – Golden/Boulder: schedule adjustments
Route N – Nederland Boulder: schedule adjustments
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service improvements:
Route 3 – Alameda Avenue: reroute service at Havana-Alameda and in Cherry Creek area
Route 8 – North Broadway/Huron: extend route to 144th and Huron at 60 min frequency
Route 11 – Mississippi Avenue: discontinue route deviation via Cherry Street and Cherry Creek Drive
South, north of Mississippi in Glendale
Route 15 – East Colfax: new recovery location at 11th/Larimer
Route 31 – Federal Boulevard & Route 30 – South Federal: increase 15 minute frequency span on
weekends.
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue: extend Saturday/Sunday/holiday service from downtown Denver, east to
Colorado Blvd.
Route 79Ltd – South Quebec Way Limited: rename Route 79L as Route 83D
Route 83L – Parker/Leetsdale: add 7:40am westbound trip on Saturday/Sunday/holidays
Route 120 – 120thAvenue/Brighton: extend trip to Prairie Center Parkway
Route 120X – Wagon Road/Thornton Express: due to increased customer demand, an additional trip is
proposed for the am peak period between 8:30am and 9:30am.
Route AB – Boulder/Denver Airport (DIA): add one AM eastbound trip at 5:30am
Route L – Longmont/Denver: add weekday mid-day service, as well as Saturday service
E-Line Light Rail: normalize the 15 minute am and pm peak frequency
Golden Call-n-Ride: add an additional 3.5 hours service on the weekday service.

Routes proposed for service reductions

Route 16 – West Colfax: discontinue evening and late night short-turn trips between Civic Center
Station and Decatur-Federal Station.
Route 206 – Pearl/ Manhattan/Fairview High School: discontinue the route segment between Boulder Junction
at Depot Square (BJDS) and Boulder Transit Center
Route BOLT – Boulder/Longmont: discontinue the Monarch Business Park loop
Route J – Longmont/Gunbarrel/Boulder: discontinue route J south of Euclid/18th Street

Routes proposed for mixed service improvements/service reductions:
Route 10- !2th Avenue: reroute on downtown Denver streets
Route 28 – 28th Avenue: reroute Route 28 and Route 28B

Packet Pg. 10

2.12.A

Route 104X – Commerce City/Denver Express: incorporate this route into the regular RTD services.
145X – Brighton/DIA Express: shift the current 2:45pm northbound trip to 3:00pm
Route 323 – Skyline Crosstown: adjust route to serve an area along Hover Rd, between Nelson Rd and
Diagonal Highway 119.

Routes proposed for routine running time analysis/schedule adjustments
Route 3L – East Alameda Limited
Route 20 – 20th Avenue
Route 21 – Evans Avenue
Route 31L – North Federal Limited
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue
Route 33 – Platte Valley
Route 38 – 38th Avenue
Route 44 – 44th Avenue
Route 51 – Sheridan Boulevard
Route 92 – 92nd Ave Crosstown
Route 100 – Kipling Street
Route 122X – Wagon Road/Civic Center Express
Route 169L – Buckley/Tower/DIA
Route 204 – Table Mesa/Moorehead/N. 19th
Route 205 - 28th Street /Gunbarrel/Heatherwood
Route 225 – Boulder/Broomfield via Baseline & US 287
Route BOLT – Boulder/Longmont
Route DASH – Boulder/Lafayette Via Louisville
Route GS – Golden/Boulder
Route N – Nederland Boulder
W-Line Light Rail
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The total base system financial impact contained in this proposal is estimated to be $870,350
annualized. An estimated $139,750 of the total cost impact is grant funded and sponsored by Boulder
County. Net Cost $730,600.
EQUITY ANALYSIS
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
Executive Order 12898 regarding Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA requires RTD to
evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that exceed the established major service
change threshold, to determine whether those changes will have a disproportionately negative impact on
minority or low-income populations. Our evaluation of the proposed January 2016 service changes does
not reveal any disparities in impacts absorbed by minority or low-income populations.

A LOOK AHEAD – Spring 2016
The following items are service concepts currently under consideration or are planned events that impact
operations in the next service change period:
 A and R Lines Rail and Bus Service Plan (East and I-225 Corridor)
 Grant funded peak period service increase on the Free MetroRide

Packet Pg. 11

2.12.A
ATTACHMENTS:


Atch A January 2016 Service Change revised



Atch B Summary Electronically received Comments - January 2016 Service Changes



Atch C - r3 map

(JPG)



Atch D - r8 map

(JPG)



Atch E - r8_r31X_72 map



Atch F - r10 map

(JPG)



Atch G - r11 map

(JPG)



Atch H - r15 map

(JPG)



Atch I - r28 map

(JPG)



Atch J - r32 map

(JPG)



Atch K - r323 map

(JPG)



Atch L - rJ map

(JPG)

(DOCX)
(PDF)

(JPG)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 12

Route 3 – Alameda Avenue
This proposal discontinues the deviation into the Havana & Alameda Park-n-Ride.
Passengers may instead use stops on Alameda, approximately 300 feet away. Saves 3-4
minutes in each direction for through passengers. It is also proposed to provide more direct
routing through Cherry Creek by operating on Adams Street instead of Madison Street
between Bayaud Avenue and Ellsworth, instead of the indirect routing via Ellsworth,
Madison, and Bayaud. This routing provides convenient access for neighborhood
residents, as well as more direct and faster service for through passengers. No cost
impacts are anticipated.
Route 3L – East Alameda Limited
Schedule adjustments. No cost impacts are anticipated
Route 8 – North Broadway/Huron
It is proposed to extend this route to 144th and Huron at 60 min frequency, all day in
order to provide fixed route service to the Orchards Mall development. In addition, it is
proposed to remove the current ‘selected trips’ from the 124thand Peoria loop and to
operate all trips after Wagon Road Park-n-Ride on Huron. Trips would no longer enter the
Park-n-Ride, but provide connections on-street at Huron and 120th Avenue. Cost impacts
anticipated to be an estimated $165,000 annualized.
Route 10- 12th Avenue
It is proposed to reroute eastbound trips to operate on Wazee Street between 15th and
17th streets, and on 17th Street between Wazee and Market streets. Service would be
discontinued on Wazee Street west of 15th Street, on 14th Street and Market Street. No
cost impacts are anticipated with this proposal.
Route 11 – Mississippi Avenue
Discontinue deviation via Cherry Street and Cherry Creek Drive South, north of Mississippi
in Glendale. Most passengers boardings are within 500 feet of Mississippi, others may
use Route 46. Saves approximately 3 minutes in each direction for through passengers.
Reroute via Blackhawk Street instead of Abilene between Mississippi and Exposition
Avenues in Aurora. More conveniently serves the overall residential and commercial
development in this area.
Route 15 – East Colfax
New recovery location at 11th/Larimer requires revision to the exit from the Auraria
Campus. New routing will be 11th Street, R-Auraria Pkwy, C-Market St, R-17th St, to
regular route. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 16 – West Colfax
It is proposed to discontinue evening and late night short-turn trips between Civic Center
Station and Decatur-Federal Station. Anticipated cost savings is estimated to be $63,000
annualized.
Route 20 – 20th Avenue

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Atch A January 2016 Service Change revised (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

2.12.A.a

2.12.A.a

New eastbound time point at 17th/Larimer. No cost impacts are anticipated.

Route 28 – 28th Avenue
Reroute Route 28 onto 26th Avenue between Lowell Blvd and Clay St. Reroute Route 28B
to remain on 26th Avenue between Quitman St and Lowell Blvd. Route 28B to continue
service on Lowell Blvd and 29th Ave. Minor schedule adjustments are proposed.
No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 31 – Federal Boulevard & Route 30 – South Federal
To improve on time performance on weekends, it is proposed to add an additional bus to
the cycle on both Saturday and Sunday. Minor schedule adjustments are also proposed for
weekday. Anticipated cost is $44,000 annualized.
Route 31L – North Federal Limited (formerly the Route 31X)
Schedules adjustments are proposed to improve connections at Denver Union Station. No
cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue
Extend Saturday/Sunday/holiday service from downtown Denver, east to Colorado Blvd.
with new recovery location facing westbound at 22nd Ave./Colorado. Reestablishes
weekend service to the Denver Zoo. No cost impacts are anticipated, due to using present
recovery time at Civic Center Station.
Route 33 – Platte Valley
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 38 – 38th Avenue
Minor schedules adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 44 – 44th Avenue
Minor schedules adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 51 – Sheridan Boulevard
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance. No cost
impacts are anticipated.
Route 79Ltd – South Quebec Way Limited, becomes Route 83D
Rename Route 79L as Route 83D, and fully integrate schedule with Route 83L.

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Atch A January 2016 Service Change revised (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

Route 21 – Evans Avenue
Late evening schedule adjustments for recovery distribution. No cost impacts are
anticipated.

The following changes are designed to extend the period of 15 minute frequency along
Leetsdale and through Cherry Creek by one hour at the end of the AM peak, and by one
hour eastbound at the beginning of the PM peak.
- Convert existing westbound Route 83L trip at 8:39am to a Route 83D (79L) trip.
- Add late AM peak westbound trips from Nine Mile Station at 9:09am and 9:39am.
- Add new midafternoon eastbound trips from Civic Center Station at 1:16pm and
1:46pm.
With these additions the 15 minute trunk frequency on Leetsdale/1st/Speer would then
operate until 10:45am westbound arriving Civic Center Station, and would begin at
1:00pm eastbound departing Civic Center Station. Current Route 83L midday productivity
is 65.0 boardings/hour. .
On Saturdays during the period of 15 minute frequency on Route 83L, approximately
10:00am to 6:00pm, reroute one trip per hour as Route 83D, providing Saturday service
along South Quebec Way and South Dayton. Cost impacts are anticipated to be an
estimated $60,000 annualized.
Route 83L – Parker/Leetsdale
Add 7:40am westbound trip on Saturday/Sunday/holidays, relieving overloads on existing
7:25am westbound trip. Cost impacts are anticipated to be an estimated $6,000
annualized.
Route 92 – 92nd Ave Crosstown
Schedule adjustments to improve on-time performance. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 100 – Kipling Street
Weekday minor schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance. No
cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 104X – Commerce City/Denver Express
Grant funding for this route expires as of January 16, 2016. It is proposed to incorporate
this route into the regular RTD services since ridership warrants its continuation, as per
RTD Service Standards. Hourly ridership for this service averages 24 passengers per inservice hour. However, the last trip in the northbound direction averages 5 passengers per
trip and so it is recommended that this trip be discontinued. Cost impacts are estimated to
be $140,700 annualized.
Route 120 – 120th Avenue/Brighton
This proposal extends the 7:05am westbound from Wagon Road pnR trip further east to
Prairie Center Parkway/27th Avenue to balance passenger loads between existing
westbound trips. Cost impacts are estimated to be $10,400 annualized.
Route120X Thornton/Wagon Road Express
It is proposed to add one southbound morning peak trip from Wagon Road pnR to Denver
Union Station at 8:35am Cost impact is estimated to be $8,200.

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Atch A January 2016 Service Change revised (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

2.12.A.a

2.12.A.a

Route 122X Wagon Road/ Civic Center Express
Schedule adjustments. No cost impact anticipated

Route 169L – Buckley/Tower/DIA
Running time adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 204 – Table Mesa/Moorehead/N. 19th
Schedule adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 205 - 28th Street /Gunbarrel/Heatherwood
Schedule adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 206 – Pearl/ Manhattan/Fairview High School
Discontinue the route segment between Boulder Junction at Depot Square (BJDS) and
Boulder Transit Center due to low ridership averaging 8 passengers per service hour or
1.5 passengers per trip and duplicative service provided by Routes 205 and HOP.
Increase the frequency between BJDS and Flatiron Business Park to 15 minutes in the
peaks with a timed connection with Route BJCC. Boulder Junction at Depot Square will
be the new western terminal for this route. This is part of the recently revised Boulder
Transportation Master Plan. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 225 – Boulder/Broomfield via Baseline & US 287
Schedule adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 323 – Skyline Crosstown
Due to the reconstruction and re-opening of Twin Peaks Mall, it is proposed to adjust
Route 323 to serve the location along Hover, between Nelson Rd and Diagonal Highway
119, similar to its former routing. This would result in the discontinuation of routing along
Diagonal Highway 119 between Hover and Nelson Rd, as well as along Nelson Rd
between Diagonal Highway 119 and Hover. This re-route comes at the request of the City
of Longmont in order for the route to better serve the reconstructed Mall directly. Average
daily Ridership affected: 26 passenger or 2 passengers per trip. No cost impacts are
anticipated.
Route AB – Boulder/Denver Airport (DIA)
Add one AM eastbound trip at 5:30am to address current overloads. Anticipated cost is
estimated to be $23,000 annualized.
Route BOLT – Boulder/Longmont
It is proposed to discontinue the Monarch Business Park loop due to ridership averaging 56 boardings per day, or 0.75 boardings per trip serving this location. No cost savings

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Atch A January 2016 Service Change revised (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

145X – Brighton/DIA Express
It is proposed to shift the current 2:45pm northbound trip to 3:00pm, from Denver
International Airport, in order to better match work shift end times for DIA employees. No
cost impacts are anticipated.

2.12.A.a

realized, due to current buy up agreement; saved running time on Monarch Loop will allow
for better on-time performance and balanced layover/recovery.

Route GS – Golden/Boulder
Schedule adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route J – Longmont/Gunbarrel/Boulder
It is proposed to discontinue route J south of Euclid/18th Street due to ridership on this
segment of the route averaging 15 boardings per day and duplication of local service via
Routes DASH, SKIP and 204. It is also proposed to discontinue the current 6:03pm
northbound trip due to ridership averaging only 9 passengers. Cost savings are estimated
to be $11,000 annualized.
Route L – Longmont/Denver
Boulder County and City of Longmont have been awarded grant funding for additional
weekday mid-day service, as well as Saturday service and new Sunday/Holiday service. It
is proposed to increase the weekday mid-day service to hourly frequency and extend the
service span to 10pm, northbound. In addition, Saturday hourly service frequency span is
proposed to be extended from approximately 9am to 10pm and Sunday hourly service
frequency to be added from 9am to 10pm, matching Saturday service levels and
frequency. The anticipated cost impact is $140,000 annualized funded through a CMAQ
grant sponsored by Boulder County.
Route N – Nederland Boulder
Schedule adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts are anticipated.

Light Rail
E Line
It is proposed to add one train in the operations (total of seven trains) to complete the transition
to a full 15-minute headway in the AM and PM peak periods. Southbound trips from Denver
Union Station would be added at 6:58 AM, 8:13 AM, 3:58 PM, 5:28 PM, and 5:58 PM.
Northbound trips from Lincoln Station would be added at 6:24 AM, 7:54 AM, 3:39 PM, and 4:39
PM. This increase in service will help with transfers to/from the new Flatiron Flyer and new
commuter rail lines opening later in the year in addition to transfers to/from existing routes such
as the W Line. Additionally, it helps increase capacity on RTD’s fastest-growing light rail line
(11% ridership increase between 2013-2014) and provides an alternative service to the F Line
and H Line, the latter which is near capacity during the peak hour. Additionally, it is proposed to

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Atch A January 2016 Service Change revised (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

Route DASH – Boulder/Lafayette Via Louisville
This proposal discontinues the Sunday interline to the Route JUMP in an effort to improve
on-time performance. Cost impacts anticipated to be $39,000 annualized.

2.12.A.a

W Line
It is proposed to adjust times slightly to space trains better at Denver Union Station (most
westbound trains would depart one minute earlier) and adjust the time by about one minute for
eastbound trains arriving at Auraria West Station. No cost impacts anticipated.

Call-nRide
Golden Call-n-Ride
The Golden Call-n-Ride began operating in April 2013 with the opening of the West Line
under a Congestion Mitigation Air Quality Improvement Grant (CMAQ) sponsored by the
City of Golden, the Colorado School of Mines and the RTD. The RTD contributes 50% of
the local match contributed towards the grant. The Call-n-Ride operates one vehicle as a
Flex Route and two vehicles as a non-flex route Call-n-Ride on weekdays. The Call-n-Ride
operates Monday-Friday 5:30am – 8:00pm and Saturdays 8:00am – 7:00pm. On
Saturday, the Call-n-Ride operates one vehicle as a Call-n-Ride. This recommendation is to
add an additional 3.5 hours service on the weekday service. Weekday service is currently
at 7.4 boardings per hour. This additional service will provide additional am service to the
Call-n-Ride to meet customer’s service demand. Cost impact is anticipated to be an
estimated $28,789 annualized.

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Atch A January 2016 Service Change revised (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

adjust evening trips (between 6-8 PM) by 15 minutes southbound from Denver Union Station to
create a more balanced schedule along with the C Line, similar to the midday schedule.
Total hours required: 9:23 hours daily (Mondays-Thursdays and Fridays), 2,391 annual hours.
Cost impacts are anticipated to be approximately $283,000 annualized.

Route

Support Opposed

11

1

11

1

21

Inquiry

1

100

1

101

1

101

1

120

Last Name

Additional Comments

McMahon

Opposed to cuts in service - alternative
doesn't run after 8PM
Opposed to changing routing
Route 21 needs more buses - always
standing loads/crowded
Requesting Sunday service on route
Please bring back SB E line at 8:18AM At
Auraria West
Would like to see more service
systemwide
Eliminated bus between 6:00 AM and
7:AM - needs to return
Would like to see 205 and HOP have
better connection - Bound into Depot
Junction
Requesting hourly weekend service
Opposed to cutting 5:50 PM trip
Wondering if any changes are planned for
the 120X/122X Will there be bus from Westminster to
CCS?
Suggestion for more BMX service from
Denver to Boulder in AM
Will Bolt be Express or Local with changes

STERRITT
Mink
PARENT
Jurkey
Suhaka
Forbes

1

Wolcott
206

1

209

1
1

104X

120X

1

86X

1

BMX

1

Bolt

1

BOLT

1

DASH

1
1

J

1

J and Bolt

S

1
1

T

Total
Route

8

5

7

Duran

Clifton
Genty

1

BOLT

Casson
Henrichs
Cox

2.12.A.b

Attachment: Atch B Summary Electronically received Comments - January 2016 Service Changes (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

Adtl Comments
January 2016 Service Changes

Opposed to changes in route - transfers
always difficult - now will be impossible
Hackett
Supports taking bus out of Monarch
business loop - takes too long
Withrow
for proposed routing that does not go
through Louisville - would also like earlier
AM trips
Steenburgh Against cutting service - uses daily
Hull
would like stops added near CU and don't
discontinue the latest J route
Olivarez
Opposed to cutting service from Denver
to Boulder - uses daily for work
Zimmerman Opposed to changes to the Route T - not
certain if it will change

9

Letters to the Board - Public Officials
Summation of letter of support for extension of
Support Opposed
Inquiry
Route 8 to 144th
1

Northglen Mayor Joyce Downing

Packet Pg. 19

Adtl Comments
January 2016 Service Changes
1
1
1
1

Smart Commute Metro North, Chair Erik Hansen
St Anthony North Health Campus, Chief Executive
Metro North COC, Chair Troy Whitmore
Westminster Mayor Herb Atchison

Attachment: Atch B Summary Electronically received Comments - January 2016 Service Changes (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

8
8
8
8

2.12.A.b

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Atch C - r3 map (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

2.12.A.c

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Atch D - r8 map (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

2.12.A.d

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Atch E - r8_r31X_72 map (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

2.12.A.e

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: Atch F - r10 map (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

2.12.A.f

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: Atch G - r11 map (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

2.12.A.g

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: Atch H - r15 map (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

2.12.A.h

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: Atch I - r28 map (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

2.12.A.i

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: Atch J - r32 map (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

2.12.A.j

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: Atch K - r323 map (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

2.12.A.k

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Atch L - rJ map (2550 : January 2016 Service Plan)

2.12.A.l

Packet Pg. 30

2.12.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: October 15, 2015

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 15, 2015

Board Meeting Date: October 27, 2015

Subject:

Free Rides for Members of the Military

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free rides on RTD for active
duty members of the United States Military should be extended from the presently approved date of
December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2016. Utilization has been minimal to date and this extension will
have minimal impact on RTD.
BACKGROUND
At the October 30, 2006 Special Board Meeting, the RTD Board of Directors approved a resolution
allowing active duty U.S. Military personnel to ride free on all RTD services through the end of 2006.
This offer has been extended annually by the Board since that time and is now valid through December
31, 2015. As a result of these actions, all active duty members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines,
Coast Guard, National Guard, and Reserves are entitled to ride free on any RTD service including special
services such as SkyRide and BroncosRide. To be eligible to ride for free, active duty military personnel
must either be in uniform or present an active duty military ID card.
DISCUSSION
Staff recommends that the RTD Board of Directors extend this offer beyond the current expiration date
of December 31, 2015 and that the expiration date be extended by one year at this time and revisited
again next year.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The exact financial impact of this action is not known, but is expected to be minimal.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Extend free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should from the
presently approved date of December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2016. This is the staff
recommendation.
2. Do not extend RTD’s program offering free rides for active duty members of the United States
Military.

Prepared by:
Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 31

2.12.B

Packet Pg. 32

2.13.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: October 15, 2015

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 15, 2015

Board Meeting Date: October 27, 2015

Subject:

Recommended Changes to the
Agency Reduced Fare Program

Non-Profit

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that RTD staff be authorized to
make changes to the RTD Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fare Program as detailed in Attachment A of this
action to be implemented by January 1, 2016.
BACKGROUND
RTD’s Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fare Program has been in existence for more than 25 years. The
purpose of the program is to offer government agencies and nonprofit organizations the opportunity to
purchase discounted RTD fare media for distribution to their low income clients. There are currently over
240 participating agencies. Those agencies purchase approximately $5.8 million annually in RTD fare
media at a variety of reduced rates.
Many agencies currently participating in the program and agencies that have chosen not to participate in
the program have indicated that some of the program’s administrative requirements are somewhat
burdensome. Those requirements include the submittal of quarterly and annual reports and maintaining a
distribution log for each pass or ticket distributed.
DISCUSSION
In March 2015, RTD staff surveyed 360 staff members of current participating agencies to seek input
regarding desired program changes. 140 responses were received, a 39 percent response rate. Many of
the staff recommended program changes were suggested by agencies in that survey. A second survey
of the same participating agencies was conducted from September 28 through October 15. Agencies
were asked to comment on the staff proposed changes that were presented to the RTD Board at the
September 29 Study Session. Thus far, 28 responses have been received from agencies. The
recommended changes to administrative requirements received overwhelming support, as did the
simplification of discounts on monthly pass products. Several agencies did express concern over the
proposed change in the discount for 10-Ride Ticket Books from the current 60 percent to 50 percent.
After consideration of the input from the agencies, staff feels that the overall package of changes to the
program will provide a net benefit to agencies and will enable many current agencies to expand their
participation and for new agencies to join the program. The staff recommendations are contained in
Attachment A of this document.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
In 2014, RTD received $2.5 million in revenue from participating agencies in exchange for fare media
with a face value of $5.8 million. Staff anticipates that the demand for discounted fare media will
increase under the proposed program changes and is recommending that an annual cap of $6.8 million in
fare media face value be implemented initially until such time as the financial impact of the proposed

Packet Pg. 33

2.13.C

changes can be better evaluated. If the proposed $6.8 million annual cap is met, revenue to RTD would
increase to approximately $3.4 million annually.
ALTERNATIVES
1.
Adopt the proposed changes to the RTD Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fare Program to be
implemented by January 1, 2016 with an annual cap of $6.8 million in fare media face value that
would increase program revenue to RTD to by approximately $160,000. This is the recommended
alternative.
2.

Adopt the proposed changes to the RTD Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fare Program as detailed in
Attachment A, but cap annual sales at the current level of $5.8 million in fare media face value.
This is not recommended because with the changes in prices of fare media associated with this
program having increased with the pending fare increase, agencies would be able to provide
fewer rides to their clients.

3.

Do not adopt the proposed changes and maintain the program with current fare media discounts
and administrative requirements. This is not recommended as staff feels the recommended
changes will improve availability of reduced fare RTD fare media for low income individuals.

Prepared by:
Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 34

