Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 26, 2011 at
5:30 p.m. Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

July 27, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 26, 2011
at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer and
Tobiassen.
Directors Cohen and Riley

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Jeff Becker, Jessie Carter, Carolyn
Conover, David Genova, Adrina Gibson, Mike Gil, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Carla
Perez, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Walt Stringer, John
Tarbert, Christina Tubb, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington,
and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Stan Gronek – ATU 1001, David Hollis – HNTB, Steve
Neumeyer – Deputy Director, P.O.S.T.

****
I. Call To Order
Chair Kemp called the Study Session meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
II. EEO Training-Civil Rights
Christina Tubb noted that the purpose and vision of the Civil Rights office is to
go beyond legal and regulatory compliance. Equal Opportunity, ADA, Title VI,
and Title VII all center around anti discrimination regulations and laws.
For ADA compliance, RTD is required to adhere to Titles I, II, and III because
we are a transportation entity and we provide public service and
accommodation. To ensure that we have covered all ADA requirements, the
ADA committee was formed which includes representatives from Light Rail,
Bus Ops, Legal, Human Resources, Facilities, and members of the disabled
community as well. The purpose of this committee is to share information,
and eventually form sub committees to work on specific initiatives to better
serve the needs of our public.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 26, 2011 at
5:30 p.m. Page 2 of 6
The complaint process for EEO is distinguished by two types, internal or
external. If it is determined that the complaint is not EEO related, it will be
referred to the appropriate division. All complaints are to be resolved within 30
days.
Service changes require a fare and service change equity analysis. A policy
will be prepared that will determine what we consider to be a major service
change. Until now, we have been using the FTA’s example threshold which is
a 25% service change. Our policy will lower that threshold and that number
will dictate when a Title VI equity analysis to determine if there have been any
adverse impacts to low income minority populations based on the service
changes being proposed. All fare changes, regardless of the amount must also
have an equity analysis completed.
Director Daly asked if there are a percentage of handicapped parking spots in
relation to the number of spaces in each lot. Christina Tubb indicated that
there is a ratio that must be adhered to which will indicate the amount of
parking spaces that are required to be disabled accessible out the total number
of spaces available in one particular lot.
Director Deadwyler inquired if there is a time when complaints cannot be
handled in house and they must be handled by an outside agency. Christina
Tubb explained that investigations would not be sent to an outside agency
unless there was a conflict of interest that we could not get around.
Director McMullen asked how we ensure all RTD employees share our
organizational values. Carla Perez explained that we have training, education,
coordination, communication and planning with employees.
Director Tobiassen added that he would be interested in being a member of
the ADA committee and further added that today is the 21st anniversary of the
Americans with Disabilities Act.
Director Tayer inquired as to how many complaints go through the system on
an average basis. Christina Tubb indicated that official complaints that are
fully investigated are averaging 15 per month, but we receive 60 to 80 calls
per month that are inquiries.
III. Transit Security Models
John Tarbert explained that our Contract Security force includes 100 armed
uniform security officers that patrol the system. There is a comprehensive
officer qualification and training requirement which require 2 years of previous
experience. However, our fare inspectors are not authorized to arrest an
individual as a police officer could. Our Off-Duty Police Program currently
includes 75 Denver Police Officers on contract with RTD that patrol light rail,
bus stops and transfer centers. They may make arrests for other crimes based
on outstanding warrants, but that is limited to the officer’s jurisdiction.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 26, 2011 at
5:30 p.m. Page 3 of 6
RTD is below the peer agency average for both the Total Security Budget and
the Transit Police Budget. A majority of our peer agencies have transit police
authority and utilize local enforcement agencies. RTD is the only agency
where contracted police officers are unable to work across jurisdictions.
A full time police department is great for going beyond fare enforcement, but
start up costs are very expensive and could discourage local law enforcement
assistance. Also, there would be the issues of salaries and benefits,
equipment costs, training costs, recruitment processes, and the physical
location of department.
An alternative security model would be a part time employee model that
would develop MOUs with jurisdictions fin the district. We would hire police
officers to work part time for RTD and by working for us and wearing our
uniform; they can travel to wherever we operate. This would add law
enforcement without staffing an agency and not change the liability level
between off-duty vs. part-time. However, this would increase the security
budget to implement this model.
Director Tobiassen noted that he has been pushing for the Aurora PD to get
into the system so that they can patrol our system as well.
Director Deadwyler asked how we can make the alternative security model
happen to have part time employees that are able to cross jurisdictions. David
Genova explained that the part time alternative would require a bit of
coordination between different agencies and time to implement. Also, we
would have to consider budget implications of adding those officers.
Director Bagley inquired as to what the budget increase would be to add these
officers. David Genova noted that the model had not been analyzed enough to
determine an estimated cost, but it would most likely be more than double the
current security budget.
Director Hoy asked if we only hire Denver Police Officers. John Tarbert noted
that we only have a contract with the Denver Police program. In cooperation
with the Denver Police Chief’s office and the Office of Outside Employment,
we have our pool of 75 officers.
Director O’Boyle noted that San Diego uses their entire security budget for
contract security and asked for that to be explained. John Tarbert explained
that they respond to calls for service, but they do not patrol.
General Manager Washington added that RTD plans to have conversations
with local jurisdictions to enable cross jurisdiction coverage as we expand our
system.
Director Anderson indicated that it would be helpful to know the crime

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 26, 2011 at
5:30 p.m. Page 4 of 6
statistics that we currently have including how often they occur and the types
of crimes that are committed on and in our facilities.
IV. Service Optimization Part II
Bruce Abel noted the two issues with service planning is the level of service
we wish to provide, and the distribution of that service to the public. With
regards to service distribution; do we try to maximize ridership or distribute
service to maximize geographic coverage?
The strategies addressed previously to alleviate our structural financial
challenges included an $18 Million dollar service reduction, which translates to
12-13% of our service hours, and a reduction of 155-165 operating staff from
both bus and light rail.
Since then, Finance has reworked the numbers and the service reduction
scenario at present will only need to be reduced $12 Million which equates to
8-9% of our service hours and 100-110 operators. The question then remains
do we want to use our resources to maximize ridership, to maximize
geographic coverage, to carry the most people we can for every dollar that we
spend, or to provide something for everyone.
Next steps would include the proposed January 2012 service changes at the
August Study Session and September committee meeting, public feedback,
final recommendations to the full Board, then service implementations.
Director McMullen added that the Board needs to figure out a way to get more
money into our system. Every time we raise fares and cut frequency it’s the
working poor that suffer the most and we have an obligation to our
community to get back to frequent and affordable service.
Director Malpiede indicated that a 10% reduction would mean the lay off 110
employees and there should be another alternative because that scenario is
awful and is not comfortable with the operator reduction.
Bruce Abel explained that lay off is not the correct term. It is difficult to
determine what will be a pro active lay off versus being accommodated
through attrition, or through transition to another division/corridor, but there
will be individuals impacted by the service reduction.
Director Tayer noted that the optimization goals of the Task Force where
RTDs dollars are used most efficiently to serve the most people would be our
best approach. However, there are people living in areas in this vast region
that we cannot afford to serve because of their location which does not
accommodate efficient transit service.
Director Deadwyler added that she doesn’t believe this organization has turned
over every rock and there are still other options available that we have not

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 26, 2011 at
5:30 p.m. Page 5 of 6
explored. We should look closely at the day to day operations and functions of
this organization to see where we can cut costs before trying to cut service.
Director Tobiassen noted that he had recently attended a Denver Options
seminar where ways to reduce cost of ADA service were explored and would
like to see us work with similar organizations to reduce the cost of the accessa-ride service.
Director Anderson indicated that a fare increase is something we should
consider.
Director Bagley noted that our fare recovery ratio of 20% needed to be
increased in the future.
V. 2012-2017 Strategic Budget Plan
Terry Howerter explained that at this point in time, the 2012 SBP is expected
to have a shortfall of $14.4 Million dollars.
Doug MacLeod noted that three Fiscal Sustainability Task Force
recommendations were identified as being items that could be addressed in
the near term, specifically 2012. Those three items were, remove the volatility
risk from sales tax projections, optimization of service, and to create a fund
balance policy and capital acquisition fund.
Terry Howerter explained that RTD is not the only agency facing financial
challenges, but we have the opportunity to set a sound fiscal policy to guard
against future economic downturns. We also have the chance to right service
size, and allow for controlled growth in the future. The staff SBP option is
sustainable and allows for the fulfillment of RTDs mission.
Doug MacLeod added that the Final SBP recommendations will be presented
to the Financial Administration and Audit Committee on August 9 th, and will
request adoption at the August 16 th Board meeting. The adopted 2012-2017
SBP will form the basis of the 2012 Requested Budget, and we will then begin
the pursuit of alternative revenue sources per the Fiscal Task Force
recommendations.
Director Deadwyler noticed there were a lot of upcoming projects and
wondered if they could be reconsidered for a later date such as the Leadership
Program, and the Security for Aurora in order to save those funds for the time
being. Terry Howerter indicated a response would be put together for those
two specific items.
Director O’Boyle indicated that a fare increase should be included in the SBP.
Director Daly mentioned that Director Bagley had referenced our 20% fare
recovery ratio and added that the 20% does not mean that our fare structure

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 26, 2011 at
5:30 p.m. Page 6 of 6
is wrong. Other larger regions such as New York and New Jersey are high
density populations with over 100 years of tradition of people utilizing transit.
Chair Kemp added that our service area is 2300 square miles and 2 million
people whereas Jersey City is 200 square miles and 12 million people.
Director Tayer noted that we are moving progressively toward more
responsible budgeting practices, and while painful we will see great benefits in
the long run. Also, a compliment to Director Deadwyler for reading the line
item budget items and bringing forth questions to both Staff and the Board
related to those.
Director O’Boyle indicated that ridership increase is not the objective. If we
are trying to get ridership in balance with our capabilities, a fare increase is a
legitimate tool to achieve that. Our goal is to become sustainable and we need
to think like we are running a business, and we need to realize that our overall
product is hours of service that we put on the street.
Director McMullen added that we are a public transportation company and we
have the ability to collect taxes to help subsidize our fare. I have an obligation
as a Director to look out for the ones that pay the highest fares, which are the
poorest people in our communities. The individuals who pay cash are usually
unable to purchase a weekly or monthly pass, or works for a company that
will purchase that pass for them.
Director Daly explained that we are not a business, but a public service.
VI. Other Matters
General Manager Washington indicated that the crossover this weekend
worked very well and the bus bridges are going smoothly. Another item is that
the FFGA signing event will be August 31st at 2:30 p.m. Secretary LaHood
and FTA administrator Rogoff are confirmed, and other dignitaries are likely.
We will keep the Board abreast as more information comes to us.
Director Daly added that he had attended the Bell demonstration at 13 th and
Teller for the audible chimes for pedestrians and noted that if there is ambient
noise nearby, the chimes adjust their level so that they can be heard.
VII. Adjournment
The Study Session adjourned at 8:30 p.m.

