February 12, 2019
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
KEN MIHALIK: My apologies. Just getting some clarification. And I lost my spot. I found my
spot, yes. Pardon? Yes, I'll-- let me read this motion.
It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors that the Board approve a motion to
adopt the attached resolution number TBD series of 2019, along with the associated revised
Board Operating Guidelines governing specific aspects of the conduct of business by the Board
and its members, specifically the guidelines address governance, policy setting, meeting
efficiency-DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, point of order?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes?
DOUG TISDALE: Actually, I thought we were going to proceed with the discussion of revised
Committee Charters before getting to the-KEN MIHALIK: You are absolutely right. I mentioned that. And then when I got to it, I forgot
to change the order. Yeah, I forgot to do it. So you are absolutely right. There's just a lot of
documents in between them.
So yes, this is the revised Committee Charter motion, as recommended by the Chair of the Board
of Directors that the Board approve a motion to adopt the attached revised Charters of the
Board's Standing Committees. This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager's
2019 Core Goal Number Two, Strong and Ethical Leadership. Is there a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you Director Williams and Director Guissinger. And Chair, I will turn it
over to you to elaborate.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that, Mr. Chairman. The report is selfexplanatory. We've discussed this before, but just by way of two highlights, the purpose of
amending the Charters is to provide some reasonable uniformity and consistency across the
charters. They have been adopted at different times, looked at at different times, and grew
divergent in their expression by virtue of that process. This is an attempt to bring them back into
a consistent presentation, which is also then compliant with the state audit that we had in 2010,
addressing the adoption of Committee Charters.

And then the second element is to change the name and in a minor way to expand the function of
the Government Relations Committee to make it become the Communications and Government
Relations Committee. And the Charters are attached, both clean and red line, and have been
circulated before. And I would be happy to respond to any questions as the need may arise, Mr.
Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely. Thank you. Director Menten, you are first.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Will we be addressing-- how do you want to address all of
these separate items?
KEN MIHALIK: Well, this is going to be the-- start with the Committee Charter element of it,
followed by the Bylaws and then the guidelines.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So the Charters I'm wondering about, will these be addressed
separately because-- no, there's differences. There's differences in these Committee Charters. So
how are we going to do that as a package deal? I don't quite see. Unless we determine these rules
right now on what way the Board wishes to direct or address each of these. I have-- and I'm sorry
I'm going to say, there's one common theme I have between all of them. But then each one of
them have very separate things that personally I think should be corrected.
KEN MIHALIK: Please begin. And then if it gets too complicated, we'll maybe try to figure out
something else.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And this will be-- the Board Directors are going to just have to
flip to these pieces. So it's going to be a little bit painful, folks. Yeah. So, I mean, I've got my
printouts, but for the rest of you-- all right.
OK. So the first up is civil rights. Now, I did send you all a document that we'll address later on.
And it was numbered by lines. I would say if we ever do this again, or perhaps even moving into
the next Board meeting, we should follow what the state legislature does and do line items-- line
numbering, I'm sorry-- so that it's very easy to reference where somebody is pointing to. But I
did not have time in my schedule to do all of the charters in that way.
So I will try to point you to-- first of all, in the first paragraph, this is just a small typo but the
word "organizations" is misspelled. It needs to be corrected. It's wrong in the printout we had in
one of our Board packets. I don't know if it did get corrected or not.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Miss Chair. Can I just inquire-- what page?
NATALIE MENTEN: The very first paragraph of page one. Oh, this is going to be tough. OK, I
will try to-- this typo may have been caught. I know there were a couple that others had
mentioned. As long as we've got "organizations" corrected-KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten, if I may, things other than just typos that may be a bit more-I know they're important, but if you wanted to get to more substantive--

NATALIE MENTEN: That's the only one. We got her out of the way. Then I'll have to refer to
the electronic document. But in my printout, this would be the last page. Civil Rights Committee,
yeah.
So packet page 40. And it will be the second paragraph from the end, starting with "An action
item passed by committee does not become an official record"-- sorry, "official action of the
district unless approved in the formal Board meeting by the full Board." This is the one common
statement made in every one of these documents, and I feel a little bit, just reading it to me, it
looks like it means approved by the full Board.
KATE WILLIAMS: By all 15 votes.
NATALIE MENTEN: If you read this-- so I will ask for your feedback on whether you think
that is a clear statement. But that is present in all of these. So now what do we do?
DOUG TISDALE: If the Chair would like me to respond to the questions as they are raised, I'd
be happy to.
KEN MIHALIK: I think that would be a way to speed it up and make it clearer.
DOUG TISDALE: And it's the formal meeting by the full Board. This cannot change the Bylaws
nor the statute that sets how many votes it takes for approval. That's set by Statute and Bylaw,
and the Charters don't change that. So it remains eight votes, except for 10 under certain federal
circumstances and Bylaw changes themselves.
NATALIE MENTEN: May I respond? It says a minimum of eight votes. So minimum there. I'm
just trying-- we're going through a-- what to us is a very important document. I'm just-KATE WILLIAMS: Can't we just strike "by the full board," the last four words?
KEN MIHALIK: In the formal Board meeting?
KATE WILLIAMS: It would still be valid, and then we wouldn't have any discussion.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that would undoubtedly work. And if that will facilitate and accelerate
the discussion, I would be happy. If the movant and the second would agree to make a global
change that staff will undertake to adopt, which is just remove the words "by the full Board" in
each similar charter under the approval process section.
KEN MIHALIK: Is there a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.

ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Mihalik, Rolf Asphaug. If there is unanimous consent by the entire
committee, then you can just agree to that without the need for a formal motion and vote.
KEN MIHALIK: In opposition, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm in agreement. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. It's unanimous. And moving on to your next, if you had
one.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. We're going to skip on down to the Financial Administration and
Audit Committee charter I am finding the packet page here. If I knew how to do a Find on this, I
would do that. 61 and on? Thank you.
All right. So I am on package page 63, Staffing Requirements. And I apologize. That goes down
into the next page, page 64. So please jump to 64. And the last bullet point. "The Internal Audit
Manager will schedule two or more meetings based on the circumstances and perceived need."
And trust me, I'm working hard to get all my papers.
But to summarize-- and Rolf can probably help me with this, but within our Bylaws it says
quarterly. This says two times a year, and Bylaws say quarterly. I'm catching you off guard. I do
have it noted.
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is Rolf Asphaug. I apologize. I can't see the language that you're-- on
my packet page, 63 electronic.
KATE WILLIAMS: 64. In the second bullet point.
KEN MIHALIK: Third bullet point.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Oh, I see.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. And I will refer-- just to make this easy. Trust me I'm jumbling
here. On page, what I'm showing, 17 of our Bylaws, to paragraph D, Financial Administration
and Audit Committee, the last sentence of this paragraph, "The Audit Subcommittee of this
committee will report out at least quarterly as an item on the agenda." So this is in conflict with
saying twice within the committee charter.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, if I may respond.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I'm making a motion to change this to quarterly.
DOUG TISDALE: The Audit Subcommittee is referenced in the Bylaws. This isn't talking about
the Audit Subcommittee. It's the Internal Audit Manager who's to report. So they're talking
apples and oranges.

NATALIE MENTEN: Excuse me, I'm sorry, but having served on the Financial Administration
and Audit Committee, I would disagree. When we have the Internal Audit Manager coming to
us, it is to report on the audit reports. And that is a subcommittee of the Financial Administration
and Audit Committee. I'm afraid I don't see the difference.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, if I may.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, you may.
DOUG TISDALE: The Internal Audit Manager is not Director. It cannot therefore be a
subcommittee. So no, the Internal Audit Manager is a separate employee who pursuant to the
state audit in 2010 we agreed was going to report on a periodic basis to the Board. The purpose
behind the charter is to express exactly when that will be. The Audit Subcommittee of the
Finance Administration and Audit Committee is a separate body, and it has pursuant to the
Bylaws the obligation to report out at least quarterly.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
KEN MIHALIK: You may continue.
NATALIE MENTEN: It's up to the Board to decide. I've stated how I'm interpreting what our
Bylaws say, that it would be quarterly. So I've made a motion. So it would be changing-- for
everybody to be clear-KATE WILLIAMS: Change it from "two or more meetings" to the word "quarterly."
NATALIE MENTEN: To quarterly, correct. And may I speak once more?
KEN MIHALIK: You may.
NATALIE MENTEN: With such an important position which not only deals with the dollars but
the efficiencies, I would not want to shortchange that very valuable information that we get.
KEN MIHALIK: So it would read "The Internal Audit Manager will schedule quarterly
meetings," and then the rest would be unchanged.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Is there anyone opposed to that change?
SHELLEY COOK: Actually, I'd like to ask a question if I may.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: You know, I understand the Auditor, the External Auditor and the Internal
Audit, to be two different functions entirely. And these seem to be referring to those individually,

not as sort of a generic audit. So I just wanted to clarify that. I'm just brand new to this
committee. But as I understood it, we have the External Auditor, and the subcommittee that's
referenced here means that external auditor, and we would meet with them, whereas the internal
auditor, I believe, has a different portfolio. So maybe you all could clarify that for me, because if
my understanding is right, I'd prefer to leave it as it is, with the separate reference to the internal
auditor as at least twice a year. I don't know, Mr. Genova, can you clarify? Or can somebody-Heather?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: If you don't mind, Mr. Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I don't know if I might clarify or confuse, but we have never had an
Audit Subcommittee as long as I've been here, which is not quite four years. So I think that
might be part of the confusion, is that there has never been a subcommittee of the audit and
financial committee. We bring the external audit as well as the internal audit on separate
occasions. But we bring them all to this committee of the whole. And so I think that might be
where there might be a little confusion, is probably at one time there wasn't a subgroup of this
committee of a whole that function as an audit subcommittee that would come forward on a more
regular basis. But that has not occurred, at least in the last almost four years. So I just-- I don't
want to add confusion, but I think that's where some of the issues are coming in. So-KEN MIHALIK: No, I think that will help clarify, at least for me, Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And it, I think, establishes the point too that the
proposed committee charter is not in any way, shape, or form inconsistent with, in contradiction
to, or in violation of the Bylaws. And so therefore I would suggest that the amendment should
fail and that the charter should be approved.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. The internal audit function here is grossly understaffed, and
the person that heads that up has enough to do without having two more presentations to the
Board each year which would take away time from what little time that they have to do the actual
internal audit work, which I think is more important. It seems to me like we get frequent enough
updates from the Internal Audit Office. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Then I will just mention, if this is the case, then when we do get to
Bylaws later, I would suggest then that we need to be addressing Paragraph D, which has a
requirement in it that we are currently not. Right? If we don't have an Audit Subcommittee which
shall meet quarterly, perhaps that should not be in the Bylaws.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska, any comments or questions on the motion to
amend this bullet point?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: My thoughts, Chairman Mihalik, and thank you very much, I think that
we've had quarterly reports by our auditor is quite right understaffed. It's my understanding,
though, from last year, where there was discussion and money allocated to bring more staff on to
support her. And I would be in favor to continue with the quarterly reports that's so critically
important for the Board to be informed. And it is a big job. And Mr. Genova, you can correct me
if I'm wrong, but I think you are putting more resources into that department, as well as looking
for additional people to support our auditor. Is that correct?
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair, we do have-- so we have Ann Marie, who is our Senior Manager
of Internal Audit, and we currently have two vacancies. And we're looking at those job
descriptions now. One will be Senior Auditor, and one will be an Auditor. We did go through a
recent recruitment, and we couldn't find actually a qualified person that kind of fit into the
market ranges. So both those jobs are in the process of going out for recruitment again. But then
she has some other support in terms of a couple of part-time positions.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Mr. Genova. So therefore, I would be in favor of continuing
with quarterly reports from our Internal Auditor.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Thank you. Let me go next to Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to point out that I believe the information is always available, that
it's not necessarily only that we get that information when we get a report from Ann Marie, and
that two or more is pretty close to quarterly. Two or more could be three or seven, and that based
on the fact that we've decided that this is not in conflict with the Bylaws, I'd like to see us move
on past that, since we have a lot of stuff to look at and agree that if we need to know, Ann Marie
has always been great at responding to anything. So thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. And seeing that it's not going to be unanimous, we will
move to a vote. Again, this is the motion to-- oh, I see Director Lubow has joined the queue.
Sorry about that.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I'm sorry I didn't press the button sooner. I just wanted to say a
point that merely saying that something is not in conflict with the Bylaws doesn't mean that that
is so. I mean, to me, it's obvious on its face. I just wanted to give that legal interpretation. Thank
you.
KEN MIHALIK: And that this language also may survive quite some time for people that aren't
sitting in the room right now as well. So we'll get back to-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Pardon me, Mr. Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I would like to make a motion to separate these two items from this
motion. So the concern of the Bylaws, not the Bylaws but the Charter changes, I think it would

be better if we could separate that from changing the name of the Government Relations
Committee to Communications.
KEN MIHALIK: I believe those are separate.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Mr. Chairman. Just to address the concern, I think there is
pending a motion to amend the Financial and Audit Committee Charter. I think it frames the
issue, and in that sense it is separated from all other discussions, including the change of name
and function for Government Relations. So I think to expedite the meeting, we could easily vote
the motion and vote up or down on the amendment and then proceed on with other comments
that Director Menten may have as to the balance of her thoughts on the charters.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, I agree. If that's all right with you, Director Folska, we've already got this
motion to amend that we're addressing.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So if I could just be clear, then-- so voting up or down on this will not
have an impact on changing the name of the Government Relations Committee-KEN MIHALIK: Correct. This is just to-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: They're separate, OK.
KEN MIHALIK: --to this bulletpoint.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, sir?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Would you mind if I make a quick statement? This is Rolf Asphaug, General
Counsel. It's important that right now there is an amendment, a motion to amend these Charters.
Amendments to the motion to amend need to be germane to the motion to amend. It's not an
opportunity to go ahead and start making additional independent changes that don't have
anything to do with the motion to amend in the first place. And that's kind of a standard concept
in Robert's Rules of Order. It's not an option to go ahead and start proposing-- say there are other
pages where there have been no changes to the current motion, to go ahead and just start adding
new things. It has to be a motion to amend the current motion to amend, if you see what I'm
saying. Determining germaneness can be difficult. But I just ask that the Board members keep
that in mind as they're looking at this.
The second point I need to make is that motions to amend the Bylaws, the fact that we are going
to bring up certain Bylaws amendments later tonight, it's even more important that any motions
to amend the proposed amendments need to be to those amendments. It's not an invitation to
make open book changes elsewhere to the Bylaws, because the Board must have notice ahead of
time of changes to the Bylaws. That doesn't mean it can't come back at a later date with proper
notice, but there can't be motions that just bring in new language that have nothing to do with the

previously proposed amendments to the Bylaws that have already been circulated. I hope that's
somewhat clear.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much. Thank you for your clarification. I appreciate that.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, Rolf, I'll ask that you keep us germane.
ROLF ASPHAUG: And ultimately, Chairman Mihalik, I just feel I need to let the Board know
that. But I just want to make sure that there's nothing that somebody can come back later and
say, oh, this was illegal or something like that.
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. To help me out, would you mind restating the
motion to amend the amendment?
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely. So it's that third bullet on packet page 64. "The Internal Audit
Manager will schedule quarterly meetings," and then the rest reads as such. Director Menten, I'll
go back to you one more time.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Yes, so what I want to do is make sure that our charter and
the Bylaws are correct. And I think what I'm going to do is pull this motion. I can do that, right?
Yep, OK.
All right-- because in the meantime, and I want to ask a couple of other questions here about this
procedure, to me it appears that our Bylaws do need a correction. And I also want time to further
review, which generated all of this, the State Auditor's Report from 2010, which along with an
annual review of our Board Operating Guidelines had some other financial oversight items that
we were supposed to perform.
So if we are going to do this annual review, then I want time to look at what the State Auditor
said about some other items. And I am concerned, because Mr. Asphaug, you just stated that-- it
sounded to me like when we're looking at Bylaws tonight that we're limited on what we can
make modifications to. But how is that possible? I mean, I'm fine to push this off, because I was
struggling to get this stuff in a regular working type of a schedule, regular life. I'm happy to push
this on for a month so that we can fully-- just could you please explain that to me?
KEN MIHALIK: Counsel, please explain.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes. Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I guess the best way is from Robert's, when
they talk about determining the germaneness of an amendment, they say "As an example of a
germane"-- and this won't take long. As an example of a germane amendment, assume that a
motion is pending, quote, 'that the society authorize the purchase of a new desk for the secretary,'
close quote. It would be germane and in order to amend by inserting after quote, 'desk,' close
quote, the words quote, 'and matching chair,' close quote, since both relate to providing the
secretary with the necessary furniture. On the other hand, an amendment to add to the motion the

words, quote, 'and the payment of the president's expenses to the state convention,' close quote,
is not germane."
So the point is simply that if there is a motion that's been presented to make certain amendments,
a motion to amend the Charters, for example, and then somebody wants to amend the language
of that amendment, that's fine. That's germane. Or if it's in the same spirit, that's fine, that's
germane. But if it's something that's completely outside the bounds where it's like, oh, we happen
to be looking at the charter, so I would like to amend to do something else that hasn't been
changed, then that probably would not be in order and would not be considered germane.
Ultimately, the decision of whether something is germane or not is initially made by the Chair
and then is subject to a point of order and to a decision by the Board as a whole if need be. But
the point is that as far as, if there's unanimous consent to withdraw this discussion at this time,
that certainly wouldn't prohibit bringing up another motion like this at a subsequent meeting to
make some additional changes, be it to the charters or, with proper notice, to the Bylaws.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so I just want to quickly follow up. When we're talking about
amendments, that's one thing. But if somebody wanted to bring up a separate motion about the
Bylaws tonight, they can do that.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, they can do that, with proper notice-NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Proper notice. They can bring up the motion tonight, though.
ROLF ASPHAUG: I'm sorry, can you not hear? Yes, with proper notice as set forth in our
current Bylaws. And I believe there's some language as well in the open meetings law. But I'm
not sure about that. But the point is that the language, the proposed changes to the Bylaws, need
to be brought up ahead of time.
Now, that doesn't mean that you can't-- once Bylaws, amendments are brought up-- excuse me,
once bylaw amendments have been brought up, you can move to amend those specific
amendments. But you can't bring up issues that are completely not germane to the amendments
that are already in front of the Board.
KATE WILLIAMS: So can you just clar-- you've opened up the book.
DAVE GENOVA: So I think there's a distinction, and I'll ask Ralph to make that. So let's just
say there's a statement in the Bylaws that is not recommended for change tonight that's already
been noticed to the Board. So is that fair game to make a change to, or just the things that have
been identified for possible change tonight? Does that help clarify?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yeah. If there are changes proposed to the Bylaws tonight that have already
been circulated, notice has been given, then there can be discussion. And there can be a motion
to amend those. But there can't be something completely unrelated, like OK, because we're
talking about the Bylaws today, let's also make some other changes. And that can't be done
without advance notice.

DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, call for the orders of the day. The subject under discussion
now is the charters. And I think we've gone afield, and I think we've extended a lot of courtesies
to a Director relative to changes. I suggest we continue extending those courtesies so that we can
talk about potential other amendments. But I think we should focus on the charters. We've now
had the one amendment withdrawn concerning page 64. If there are others, perhaps we could
address those and that might help all of us get through this.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. All right. So now we're going to move, last one. We are going to
packet page 90. At the top of page 90, the first paragraph is Committee Purpose for the Planning
Capital Programs Fast Tracks Committee Charter. And the last sentence in this paragraph states,
"Updates are also provided to the Committee on a number of areas, including the Annual
Program Evaluation." And as far as I know, the Annual Program Evaluation has been renamed to
the Annual Midterm Financial Plan. And so that should be corrected if we have opened this
document.
KEN MIHALIK: Is there a motion?
ROLF ASPHAUG: And Chair Mihalik, may I suggest, if there is unanimous consent on making
that change, then you can go ahead and do that. And staff will just make sure-KEN MIHALIK: Director Folska, any opposition to the change on updating the Annual Program
Evaluation to the Annual Midterm?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No. I mean, I support it.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Any other opposition in the room? Seeing none, we will make that
change. Director Menten, any other changes in the charters?
NATALIE MENTEN: No. But does this mean now that I don't need to attend or send notice to
the Executive Committee for Thursday? Because the lineup here was discussed tonight, submit
motions by today, they get numbered, the Executive Committee goes through them on Thursday.
So these are all now on the record and I don't need to worry about them? Is that what happened
here?
KEN MIHALIK: Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, if I may respond to that. Yes, the function of the committee is
to make changes and then ultimately a recommendation to the Executive Committee. The
Executive Committee then determines whether the matter goes forward onto the agenda for the
full Board. It's not there typically. It's not intended to be there, at least during my time as Chair,
to nitpick and second guess. We take the recommendation as made by the committee and bring
that forward to the full Board.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Good, thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. We will move on now to the original motion to pass the Committee
Charters. And Director Folska, can I get your vote on the revised committee charter motion?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I am in support, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And then Director Williams, you were the first. Director
Guissinger, you were the second. With Director Folska's yes, that's 14 yeses and one no, no
being Director Broom. And we will move on to-- and I believe that I have the order correct. It's
the minor change to the Board Bylaws regarding the name of the Government Relations
Committee. It's hard to keep all this straight.
It's recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors that the Board approve a minor change
to the Board Bylaws regarding a modification to the name and function of the Government
Relations Committee to Communications and Government Relations Committee. This
recommendation is consistent with the General Manager's 2019 core goal number two of strong
and ethical leadership. Is there a motion for this change?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Tisdale and Rivera-Malpiede. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm going to speak to a separate motion when it's time.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Director Folska, any comments or questions on the change to the
committee name?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, and I'm in full support.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Seeing no other speakers, we will move to a vote. And Director
Tisdale, you were the mover. Director Rivera-Malpiede, you were the second. And with Director
Folska's yes, that's 15 to 0, and moved to the Unanimous Consent Agenda. And now it is
recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors-NATALIE MENTEN: There-KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I wanted to make a motion on the Bylaws.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, I don't-NATALIE MENTEN: See, that's why I lit up or pressed the button, which was the discussion
that I was having with Rolf. Because your reading was a minor change--

KEN MIHALIK: Yes, General Counsel.
ROLF ASPHAUG: I'm sorry, but the motion was to make a change to one part of wording in the
Bylaws. And that was circulated in advance. It's a change to the Bylaws, and it's been approved.
If there are other requested changes to the Bylaws, they can be brought up ahead of time and
circulated to the Board. But it would be out of order to make another change to the Bylaws other
than what was already voted on, in addition to the fact that it's already been voted on. There's no
pending motion to change the Bylaws that's currently properly in front of the Board.
KEN MIHALIK: So Director Menten is-- is it germane-NATALIE MENTEN: Well-KEN MIHALIK: The fact that it doesn't meet the notification period?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Right.
KEN MIHALIK: Not sure what-NATALIE MENTEN: Well, we make motions to other items. So here's-- and I reviewed it again
just before leaving my home as to what the process was on this. And what the wording was, we
needed to submit motions by today to the Chair, whichever we want to count that as, to then be
brought forward to on Thursday, and then move forward. So I feel like I am complying with
what we were told.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, if you wouldn't mind sharing what your motion is.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. And I have presented you all with a very short four-pager. It says,
"Front page Bylaws," so you notice that, and then the motion. Very simple.
Motion number one, and I made this very nice and easy for you-- that it has numbered lines, so
on page two, you would see the line 126-DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, point of order.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes?
DOUG TISDALE: And I do apologize. And I am more than happy to discuss this at the proper
time. But the Bylaws do say-- and actually, you have a full copy of the Bylaws attached to the
agenda item that we just approved. And if you look at Article 15, Modification of Bylaws,
"These Bylaws may be amended by at least 10 Directors present and voting affirmative at any
regular meeting of the Board of Directors or any special meeting on the Board called for that
purpose, provided that in either instance notice of proposed revisions or amendments has been
delivered, faxed, or mailed to each Director not less than 10 days prior to the meeting, at which
such revisions or amendments are considered."

I think it's perfectly appropriate to have this before us now, and we can schedule it for the next
meeting that is at least 10 days from now and then talk about it. I think the only comment I
would make as my point of order is that it's out of order now, but it's perfectly appropriate 10
days from now, because now we have notice of it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
KEN MIHALIK: I appreciate that.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so we don't vote tonight. But I get to talk about it and give you a
heads up as to what I would like to add in. Is that what I-- is that what you heard?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, point of order. I mean, it's just-- I'm sorry, no. It's out of order.
And so I'll call for the orders of the day again. We have another item to proceed to. And we have
notice of this and can, my belief-- and I think General Counsel will concur but I leave that for
General Counsel to speak for himself-- is that we have notice. And 10 days from now, or
whatever meeting follows that, we can talk about it. But you don't get to talk about it before,
because that's kind of unfair. Because, you see, everybody has to have that 10 days.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, I will postpone this until old or new business at the end of the
meeting, whichever you would prefer, Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: New business would be just fine.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'll be happy to speak then.
ROLF ASPHAUG: And Chair Mihalik, just to be clear, it's correct that now this has been
presented that there cannot be discussion about this in the context-- discussion occurs in the
context of a pending motion. And there can't be a pending motion tonight on this based on it
being a Bylaw change. Although there's nothing preventing it from being brought up very shortly
later to make this change, if the Board desires.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you for that. And we are on the motion to change or to amend the
Operating Guidelines. This is the one I started reading previously.
"It's recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors that the Board approve a motion to
adopt the attached resolution number TBD series of 2019, along with the associated Revised
Board Operating Guidelines, governing specific aspects of the conduct of business by the Board
and its members, specifically the guidelines address governance, policy setting, meeting
efficiency, communication, collaboration, and cooperation. Furthermore, the Chair recommends
that the Board renew annually at the first meeting of the Board each year its commitment to
uphold the principles memorialized in the revised Board Operating Guidelines and to amend the
guidelines periodically as necessary to reflect current best practices. This recommendation is
consistent with the General Manager's 2019 Core Goal Number Two, Strong and Ethical
Leadership." Is there a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Moved.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you Director Williams and-VINCE BUZEK: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Buzek, thank you. And Chair Tisdale, I'll let you elaborate.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that, Mr. Chairman. Most of you are
familiar with the history, but for the benefit of those who may not, I will very briefly go through
this. In 2008, excuse me, the Board did operate pursuant to Board Operating Guidelines that
were adopted at that time.
And then, in 2010, the Regional Transportation District was-- actually, 2009 and '10-- was
subject to a state-ordered audit by the Colorado State Auditor. That performance audit was
concluded and agreed to by the RTD in March of 2010. At that time, the state auditor said that
RTD Board of Directors should improve its governance and oversight practices by, A,
developing a written governance manual, describing the roles and responsibilities policies and
procedures for key areas of Board activity and function. Once developed, the Board should
review and update the manual annually.
The RTD Board authorized a response indicating in March of 2010 that by October of 2010, that
would be done. This is page 63 of the report of the Colorado State Auditor. In that response, the
RTD Board responded that it would in fact establish a more detailed manual associated with the
overall governance of the district. As with all new procedures addressed in this audit, this manual
will be continually reviewed and updated to ensure it is accurate, effective, and up to date. So the
state auditor required us to do annually. The RTD Board undertook to do it continually.
That having been said, we did it last in 2014. And so therefore, Board office staff suggested to
me that it was appropriate for us to look at this and update something that we had not touched for
five years, despite the fact that we had undertaken that we were going to do it at least annually
and, according to the Board response, continually.
In 2014, as I said, we did make some changes. And Chair Charles Sisk was here at that time, and
Director Walker signed those Operating Guidelines as the Secretary of the Board back at that
time. We present them to you now because, again, it is an effort to, A, comply with the state
audit, B, comply with our agreement that we made in the state audit that we would review and
update these at least annually, and, C, because it's just best practices for a Board to do this.
In looking at this, I note that some people have been concerned that these might constitute a
constraint on the Board. Let me give a couple of quick responses, and we'll be happy to respond
to questions. The first response is that the Board, when it operates under guidelines like this,
accepts them just as that-- guidelines. They are subject in all respects to the Bylaws which are
subject in all respects to the RTD Act. We can do nothing unless it is authorized in the Act, and
then we can do nothing even if authorized in the Act if it is in contravention of our Bylaws.
And to that point, for example, it has been noted that the General Manager-- I'm sorry, that the
Board has full administrative authority. That's been circulated to you this evening. What was not

circulated to you was section 109.5 of the same statute that says that the Board may, in fact,
delegate its administrative powers, which the Board has done in Article 7, Section 12 of the
Bylaws. Because in Article 7, Section 12 of the Bylaws, we appoint our General Manager as the
person responsible for operating.
It's kind of like for any of you who have been on a city council where-- in Colorado we have a
manager-council form of government. The council has all authority pursuant to statutory or home
rule charter. And then the council delegates all that authority to the city manager, and that's how
you run. That's how a city runs. That's what the RTD has done pursuant to the Bylaws, and that's
Article 7, section 12.
So again, overall, we've done it before. We did it because we were required by the state, but also
because it's just a good thing to do, and we agreed to do it. We said we'd review it at least
annually. We haven't. We should.
We updated it, including various input that we received during the course of our two Board
retreats that we had last year-- the Board-only retreat in February, and the Board-SLT retreat in
March. We tried to distill that. And I know there is concern on the part of some, you're giving up
our ability to manage the agency. My response is we don't have an ability, let alone the authority
any longer, to manage the agency. We have the job of governing the agency. Thank you, Mr.
Chairman.
KEN MIHALIK: You are welcome. Director Williams, you are next.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd just like to point out that I don't think that any of these new Directors are
going to quit, regardless of your efforts. So thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: I am definitely one of the people that have been concerned with these proposed
new Guidelines. I did appreciate hearing that history, and the history being that the state audit
required us to review annually something. I'm not sure if it was these Guidelines or the Bylaws. I
couldn't tell, really. And if it is these Guidelines, then I think we should indeed review them
annually.
But that doesn't mean that they need to be changed if they don't need to be changed. And what
I'm concerned about is that there seems, in my opinion, to be throughout the changes an
assumption that Boards only should and only do appropriately high-level policy. And I don't
think that's accurate at all for an elected Board, which is elected by their constituents to make
sure that this place is run appropriately and that taxes are spent appropriately.
It seems to me we have the authority to do that. And I don't know why we would relinquish that
authority when that's what our constituents expect of us-- at least I believe that's what mine
expect of me. And my own experience, the work that I've done that has had the most value,
required digging and digging deep. And I don't want to give that up for the sake of saying, kind
of blithely, deliberate high-level strategy. I mean, that's very restricting in my opinion.

So I personally think that we should not pass these. I'm glad if indeed we have the legal
requirement to review these annually, then I welcome this review. Thank you. But that doesn't
mean I like these. As I said before, I appreciate your work. I think it was misguided.
And I'm not sure how to do this, and I'd like some direction on this. I personally will vote no on
these things for the reasons I gave. But but if the Board votes yes, I would like these things
amended. And so I'm not sure how to do that. And perhaps Rolf might be able to help.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, I'm going to look to Rolf to help as well.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Well, the proper course is that if the guidelines are sought to be amended-or if the amendments are sought to be amended, then the amendment has to take place before you
vote on the actual amendment, if you understand what I mean. You go up a ladder and down a
ladder. Right now what's in front of the Board is a motion to amend the Board Operating
Guidelines. You either vote those up or down, or you can move to amend the amendment by
substituting language, by taking out some language in the amendment, whatever you want. That
motion, if it's made and seconded, gets voted on. Then you move back down the ladder to the
primary amendment.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. So if I'm concerned that this thing, in spite of my best efforts, might pass,
it makes sense to do amendments to the amendments?
ROLF ASPHAUG: I really can't answer that question for you. But I can tell you that there's only
two things that can be done-- well, as far as amendments are concerned. Right now there is a
motion to amend the current Board Operating Guidelines. The Board can either vote that up or
down without having further discussion on any amendments. Or the Board can move to amend
the amendment.
Or there can be a motion to amend the amendment. And then that's voted on first. And if that
passes, then the Board goes down to consider the main motion.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Well, I think-- and I'm sorry to do this, but in order to be safe, I should be
moving to amend the amendment, see how that goes. Sorry. It's going to be pretty complicated,
because as Natalie mentioned, it isn't lined.
So where are we? Page one, which would be-- hello, page eight of the packet. Page eight. Could
that be? Wait a second. I'm trying to get up here. I'm having trouble moving-- oh, there it is. I'm
having trouble moving this. Somebody-- thank you. It says I'm done speaking.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
KEN MIHALIK: Well, this was the right night to get an update on-JUDY LUBOW: I know. Oh, there it is-KEN MIHALIK: --Board procedure and how to do all the fundamentals.

JUDY LUBOW: This is painful. OK, page eight. It is the first "whereas." Oh, yes. I move to
delete in the first "whereas," "high-level." And then the sixth "whereas"-- four, five, six.
KATE WILLIAMS: The Board-JUDY LUBOW: No, leave that in, because apparently that's required. Sorry. OK, let me cross
that out. OK, so that's just that on page 8. OK, page 3.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow, is it every reference to high-level?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. That would be cool.
TROY WHITMORE: Those are Direct Menten's.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Did you also do "strategic"? Well, why don't we-- OK, I'm just going to go
with hers. Why don't we wait till-- and I'm just going to list stuff that she didn't do. Page three,
nine, 10. Page 10. Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Come on. Eight, seven-DOUG TISDALE: Will the speaker yield for a question?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Go for it.
DOUG TISDALE: What I'm wondering is you've got one theme on the first change, "high level,"
which would be a document-wide. Might it be more efficient if we went through these one by
one and voted them up or down, as opposed to presenting sort of a shotgun of a slew of changes,
where we might agree with some, disagree with others? I'm just wondering if the speaker would
perhaps be inclined to take the first shot-- IE, the high level-- and just present that to the Board?
JUDY LUBOW: OK, so what that would be-- an amendment to do that, and we're voting yes or
no on that amendment. Correct?
KEN MIHALIK: Well, someone's going to-- you need to make your motion to restrict it to that
first instance, and then someone would second. Yes, General Counsel?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Mihalik, that not only would be the appropriate-- that would be the
appropriate way to handle it. Because otherwise, if you had a bunch of different things, then it's
very difficult to decide what you're voting on. So that would make perfect sense to take, if you
have one area, such as the words "high-level," deal with that first. Then you've dealt with that
amendment. Then if someone else wants to make another amendment to the amendment, they
can do that. Or they can go to vote on the now amended main motion.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, I think I got it. So I make a motion to amend the amendment to delete the
words "high-level" in these Operating Guidelines wherever they appear. No?
KEN MIHALIK: Well, they could. That's just-- and you're welcome to do that, but I think the
recommendation from General Counsel was to restrict it to-- no, no, to leave it. Oh, sorry.

JUDY LUBOW: It's a puzzle.
KEN MIHALIK: I've got-- there's a lot of room up here.
ROLF ASPHAUG: No, that would be perfectly fine.
KEN MIHALIK: Sorry. My apologies. I'm behind. So that's your motion, to remove instances
where "high-level" is-- the phrase "high-level."
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. No, no. Throughout the operating-KEN MIHALIK: Throughout the document.
JUDY LUBOW: There are five instances.
KEN MIHALIK: Five instances.
JUDY LUBOW: So the vote will be on approving that as an amendment to the amendment. If
you vote yes, it's like, yeah, I want that. Is there a second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Williams.
ROLF ASPHAUG: And Chair, if I may, then to be perfectly clear, what exactly, as you've said,
what you'll be voting on now, if you vote yes, you're moving to delete the words "high-level." If
you're voting no, you're saying no, leave the original main motion as it is.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: I just want to check with Director Folska real fast to see if she caught all of
that. There was a lot of back and forth.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, Chairman Mihalik. I caught every piece of it. Thank you very much.
I support the deletion. I support the amendment to delete "high-level" throughout the document
where it appears in the guidelines.
KEN MIHALIK: Wonderful, thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I believe this will be a friendly amendment in that in the fifth instance, to
make the language correct, it would also, beside the word "high-level," we would also be striking
"high-level discussions regarding," just so that it is a complete and accurate sentence. But
everybody has been provided this.

JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: So would you accept that friendly amendment?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, good.
KEN MIHALIK: So just to clarify, I'm going to restate. Is there anybody opposed to Director
Menten's change to the amendment?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chair, I apologize. I need to hear it again. I could not hear it.
KEN MIHALIK: There was-- in this document, but I'll read it for the record. In the fifth instance
on-- I don't have what page that is. If someone gets there before me, please let me know. It's line
107.
NATALIE MENTEN: It was actually packet page 10-- 10 or 11.
KEN MIHALIK: Packet page 10, OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: The paragraph has steps to-DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, point of order. Are we going to be recognized to speak? And
if so, are we going to be on microphone, so that we have a record that can be heard by the
public?
KEN MIHALIK: That is a good point. We do need to make sure that we maintain order and that
we are properly heard for the record. And I'm just trying to find that fifth instance that required
an additional edit.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Mihalik, this is Rolf Asphaug again. If I could, it's under the paragraph
with the heading "Steps to Enhance Board Effectiveness."
JUDY LUBOW: What page?
ROLF ASPHAUG: 10, packet page 10.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Is that correct?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, I found it. Thank you, that first bullet.
ROLF ASPHAUG: And under "regarding Governance Policy Setting," there is the sentence "To
recognize that a line existed between governance and management, as such, the Board places a

premium on conducting high-level discussions regarding policy setting." And the suggestion was
to take out in that instance not only the word "high-level" but also the words "discussion
regarding" so that it would just say "on conducting policy setting and strategic planning."
And to be clear, there is no such thing as a friendly amendment. Once a motion is made and
seconded, if there is unanimous consent, then that change could be made. If there's not
unanimous consent, then you have to conduct actually a third level motion to amend the motion
to amend. But I hope that maybe there might be unanimous.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ROLF ASPHAUG: It's just important-- the friendly amendment thing can just be a real problem
sometimes.
KEN MIHALIK: The motion to amend the motion to amend. And this is to-- on packet page 10,
have it read as under the last section Regarding Governance Policy Setting, it would read, "To
recognize that a line exists between governance and management, as such, the Board places a
premium on conducting policy setting and strategic planning at official meetings and retreats and
avoiding attempts to engage in management." Is there anyone opposed to that change?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes. And to be clear, when you're saying, is there anyone opposed, you'll
now be adding that into the amendment about the "high-level" stuff to be voted on.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, thank you. I'm glad you're there, Rolf, to keep it all straight. Claudia, any- sorry, Director Folska, did you catch that, the amendment to the motion to amend?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: This is like the Russian dolls, one inside the other inside the other. But I'm
following just fine. And yeah, I will support that.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. It is unanimous.
JUDY LUBOW: I'd like to say something because I have to say it. One, I think this is a really
painful, difficult, horrible process. But I'm just saying it. But the other thing is, I don't recognize
that a line exists between governance and management. There had been a line in here that was
crossed out that said "There is not a clear line between governance and management," and I think
that's more accurate. So I just have to say that. I know, it's like too difficult-DOUG TISDALE: Call for new orders of the day, Mr. Chairman, and move the previous
question, on the motion to amend the amendment.
KEN MIHALIK: We will stick with the original motion to strike-JUDY LUBOW: What are we voting on?
KEN MIHALIK: To strike your original motion to amend, on removing the references to "highlevel."

JUDY LUBOW: And what about the one that she-KEN MIHALIK: There was no one in opposition to Director Menten's-JUDY LUBOW: I see, OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: You get the credit for it.
KEN MIHALIK: --motion to amend.
NATALIE MENTEN: In other words.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: So we are now moving to vote on Director Lubow's motion, which would
remove the references to "high-level" plus the "high-level discussions regarding."
KATE WILLIAMS: You have another speaker.
KEN MIHALIK: My apologies, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'd like a definition of the difference between "high-level policy" and
"policy."
KEN MIHALIK: I will ask that Chair Tisdale address that, because it was his phrase.
JEFF WALKER: Actually, I would like to know from the mover what the intent of the
differentiation is, between "high-level policy" and "policy."
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow, I'll allow you to respond. Director Walker had asked on-well, I would actually ask that Chair Tisdale answer that, because I believe it was his original
suggestion to change it.
JEFF WALKER: But the motion is to remove the term "high-level" from "policy," to separate
those two and delete "high-level." I want to know what the intent is, what the difference is
between "high-level policy" and "policy" in the mind of the mover.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, Director Lubow, if you care to-JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, I'm going to wing this. "High-level" means very rarefied items of
governance that doesn't relate to details and factual issues. It's basically-- I don't know how to
state it more than that.
KEN MIHALIK: If I may, I may add on just a little bit to that. I think my definition of that, at
least how I understand it, is that we won't need to meet 46 times of the year, if that's the case, if

we're just doing high-level stuff. And then also when I get questions and concerns from
constituents I'll say, I don't deal with that stuff, if we're just restricted to high-level.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I would find it hard to support that motion, given that the definition
isn't that firm, isn't that formed, without knowing what the purpose of it is from the mover, other
than to remove those words, without having that definition of exactly what it means and what the
consequences of removing those words might mean to the agency, to our roles, and our
responsibilities. So I guess I'm ambivalent. They're words, but words have meanings. And if the
meaning of these words can't be clearly defined by the person asking to remove them, then I can't
support that motion.
JUDY LUBOW: I'd like to respond.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Walker. Let me go through the rest of the queue. It started
sparking some interest. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And just the mere fact that we're having this discussion
indicates to me that the term "high-level" is not defined. And to Director Walker's comments, in
my mind, that is reason enough to remove it from the document. It is not a defined term. We
don't know what it is, so we should just leave that out.
We're policy setters. High-level, low-level, middle-level-- we're policymakers. So because it's
not defined in any of these documents, it should go. That's my comment. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to read you the definition of high-level right here. It says, "At or
above that which is normal or average, related to or involving people of high administrative rank
or great authority." So there's the definition. It's not spelled out anyplace in our document beyond
a term, you know. It could be green. It could be green policy or cap policy or high-level policy.
So I think we're really, really killing semantics here for a lot of time and not much else.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. I agree with Director Buzek that, yeah, there's kind of
not really a reason to get into this argument. We're setting policy, and if high-level creates some
selectivity, I think I'm OK with taking that out.
I'm trying to look at the overall concern here. And the first "whereas" acknowledges our
statutorily established role of providing governance to and establishing, if we take out "highlevel," policy guidelines for the Regional Transportation District. And I guess governance is also
not a totally clear word, and we talked about whether that is different from management.
But I think we all agree that we have an obligation to do some financial oversight and related
oversight, so that I would put that under governance. And I guess I feel like I'm not convinced
that all of this is necessary. But I think that generally I guess I would ask Chair Tisdale, it doesn't

seem like the intent of this is to bind our hands. And you pointed out that really statute and the
Bylaws are what control us. Is that a fair reading?
KEN MIHALIK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Actually, in response to Director
Buzek's remark, you had me at not defined. I think it is fair to say the phrase is not defined. I
certainly like Justice Stewart, know it when I see it. But it's nonetheless not defined. And I think
for that reason I'll probably end up voting in favor of the amendment for these particular changes
as indicated here.
JUDY LUBOW: Maybe it can be unanimous, and we can move on.
KEN MIHALIK: We can certainly try. Is there anybody opposed? I know Director Walker had
mentioned it previously, that you would be opposed to the amendment to remove "high-level."
We're trying to do just a show of hands, or whether we need to do the recorded vote.
JEFF WALKER: Would you like me to speak?
KEN MIHALIK: Please.
JEFF WALKER: So, yeah, I'm fine with it. I just felt that if the word was important enough to be
removed, then it has some importance that we needed to discuss. I know what high-level means
to me. I've looked it up. But I wanted to make sure that my definition and the mover's definition
were the same. So that's why I wanted to bring up that discussion. So thank you for entertaining
it, and thank you for all of your input. So I'll be supporting the motion.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chail Mihalik? Then in that case, this is Rolf Asphaug again. It sounds like if
there is unanimous consent to make that change to the amendment, then you don't have to have a
motion. But if there's unanimous consent, you just strike all those references to "high-level," and
you strike that one reference to "high-level discussions regarding," and then you go back to the
main motion and keep discussing the main motion. But if there is anyone who objects, then you
simply have a vote on that motion.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, I don't want to try to sway one way or another. If there was anybody that
wanted to oppose that, speak now. Yes, Director Cook, sorry about that.
SHELLEY COOK: Can't get my-- sorry about that. I actually wanted to make a separate motion.
So if we were concluded with that item, I was just going to queue up to make a motion of my
own.
KEN MIHALIK: Just one second. I wanted just to make sure that we're all clear that we are-that Director Lubow's motion to amend has passed. We will strike those references. And now
you are free to-JUDY LUBOW: I have other areas. But I don't know--

KEN MIHALIK: We'll come back. We'll come back to you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, cool.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair Mihalik, just for the record, I also support Director Lubow's
amendment. I apologize, Director Cook.
KEN MIHALIK: No, you're right. I actually had-- I had actually, a while ago, before we went
down another path. But I had it written down that you had originally said yes to that. Director
Cook, you are up.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Piggybacking a little bit on Director Guissinger's remarks about
oversight. I actually think that's a key role of the Board and would like to move to include a
specific mention of oversight in a couple of spots. And one is in the opening paragraph about
Board commitment. At the very bottom line, I'm in packet page 15, which is the red line version.
"We also recognize that the Board by statute has both--" now with "high-level" deleted, "has
both policy setting and executive functions it must perform." I propose to add, we also recognize
that this Board, by statute, has-- delete "both," "has policy setting, comma, oversight, and
executive functions it must perform."
And then would add the same sort of wording, if Mr. Asphaug thinks I should do it in the same
motion, otherwise in a separate motion, under Regarding Governance and Policy Setting on that
same page, first bullet, under that Regarding Governance Policy Setting, "To recognize that a
line exists between governance and management, as such, the Board places a premium on
conducting policy setting, oversight, and strategic planning at official meetings and retreats and
avoiding attempts to engage in management." Was that clear? No?
So I'm adding the word "oversight" in a couple of instances. And if you'd like, I could take them
separately. The first one is the bottom of the paragraph of the opening section, Board
Commitment, on page 15, packet page 15. Just adding the word "oversight" after policy setting,
comma, "oversight," and executive functions it must perform," just highlighting that key role that
we have, not only as a policymaking body but as one that exerts oversight as well.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm so excited, can I second this? I rarely do this.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chairman Mihalik, there's no problem with doing that.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're gonna vote yes, Natalie?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook? Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So the end of that sentence, at the end of that paragraph, there was
another amendment. And it says "has policy setting, comma"--

SHELLEY COOK: "Oversight, and executive functions it must perform." So it has both-- well,
because we now have deleted "high-level," we must delete both, because I'm including a third
item. So "has policy setting, comma, oversight, and executive functions it must perform."
KEN MIHALIK: And Director Menten had seconded that.
ROLF ASPHAUG: And just to be clear, in the second part of that was under Regarding
Governance Policy Setting, it would say "On conducting policy setting, comma, oversight, and
strategic planning at official meetings."
SHELLEY COOK: Correct. Yeah, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Both instances on that same page, three inches apart. Is there any objections to
that? Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No objections, thank you, Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I don't see anyone in the room, so that one is also-- we will count
that as an addition.
KATE WILLIAMS: Do we need to vote? If we want it to be unanimous, say yes.
KEN MIHALIK: And we are going back to the main motion, thank you, to amend the Board
Operating Guidelines. Is there any other-- Director Cook, I believe, you're done speaking.
Director Menten, this is on the main motion.
NATALIE MENTEN: I have another amendment.
KEN MIHALIK: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I've given you all this document that's titled To The Existing CRS on
the first page. I am going to skip motion two, so I'm not bringing that forward.
But motion three I am still interested, which would strike and that would be in your red line
document, if I could find it in here in our electronic copy. But on the red line paper copy I gave
you, it was lines 115 through 117. And I will try to figure out where that is.
KEN MIHALIK: I believe it's package page 16 at the very top.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten, I apologize. But are you not doing your motion
number two? You're skipping that?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm skipping that. Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry. Thank you.

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. OK. So I'm sorry, we are on page 16?
KEN MIHALIK: The first bullet.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. "To utilize the Chair in his role as a designated representative of
the Board as a first point of contact in Board communications with the General Manager." I think
this is one that may be determined by interpretation by different people.
And so in this written motion that I've presented to all of you, it strikes that line. And I believe
there is reference as one Board Director may have mentioned that that's already present in the
Bylaws. But this is guidelines. And that's a motion. Can I go into just a little more reason before
this?
KEN MIHALIK: Sure.
NATALIE MENTEN: I try to be a very self-sufficient Board Director. And this goes back to
"high-level policy." So when there's-- I'm going to just tell you. When there's been some needles
out on the Western Line laying next to the camps, instead of bothering our F&M staff, I'll get my
heavy-duty gloves on, my picker pooper rake, and go scrape the needles and go properly dispose
of them, because that's the kind of Board Director I want to be. Is that down in the weeds? You
bet. That's literally down in the weeds.
But with that, there's times-- and I'm off track a little bit-- there's times that I want to speak to the
General Manager directly, and there's times that I want to speak to the head of one of the AGMs
directly. So by referring to I should always take the step of depending on the Board Chair,
whoever that may be at whatever time-- and we've had a variety of Chairs in my time on this
Board-- I would just rather take care of the communications myself, especially because
sometimes I want my words to be the direct thing going into his ear, whoever may be sitting in
the chair. And so that's why I ask to strike this under our guidelines.
Thank you very much. And I apologize. The title is corrected, it's lines 115 through 117, lines
112 through 114 in the paragraph are supposed to read the same. Thank you very much for
consideration of this motion.
KEN MIHALIK: And Chair Tisdale, before I get to further discussion, I was going to see if
there's a second to that. Director Lubow, thank you. And now I go to you for further discussion.
Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And I believe that Director Menten
may have said this. But I just wanted to confirm that it was understood. This is merely a
quotation from our Board-adopted Bylaws. That's all it is. It simply restates the Bylaws, Article
7, Section 5, third sentence.
The Chair is the first point of contact to the General Manager on matters related to the district's
business, personnel matters, or in the execution of his duties. It's just quoting the Bylaws. It

doesn't change anything. If we were to take it out, the implication would be that we are in the
back doorway amending the Bylaws. So I think it should stay.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, I'm learning a lot tonight. But nonetheless, I appreciate hearing that it's a
direct quote from the Bylaws, and that's useful to know. Because that makes me realize that we
need to change the Bylaws about that, in my opinion. Basically I've been doing this work for six
years, and, you know, if I need to speak to General Manager Genova, I just do and get the work
done that way.
Sometimes it is incredibly more important to go to the staff person himself than to try to go
through the Chair, period. So it's useful to know this is in the Bylaws, but then those are wrong
too. And I would suggest not having two wrongs making a right. But I appreciate being notified
of that problem. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams, you are next.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Chair Mihalik. I don't see the word "only" in this sentence
anyplace. Or in the Bylaws, I don't believe that it says "only." So I think it's unnecessary myself
that we remove this. I think it's a suggestion that we take advantage of the Chair's expertise and
immediate contact with the General Manager, and that it's not binding in any way. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: You are welcome. Director Folska, I haven't forgotten about you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, and I haven't forgotten about you, Chair Mihalik. You know,
it's unnecessary. It's unnecessary, and I think I concur with Director Lubow, then the Bylaws are
wrong. And frankly, it is inconsistent with the changes we've already made and with the
amendments and so forth.
So I just think it's unnecessary. And it adds to the bureaucracy. I don't know why the Chair
would want to be burdened with 15 people calling to talk about A through Z, whether it's to the
General Manager or anyone else in the organization. I, for one, don't support it, and I will speak
directly to whom I need to when I need to. Thank you, Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, just to clarify, because in your comments, you were not in favor of the
language. But we were talking about the motion to remove that language. You're in favor of the
amendment, OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, I support the amendment.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, that's what I thought. I just wanted to, for the record.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: Is there any opposition to the-- seeing no other speakers, is there any
opposition to the amendment to remove that clause, to utilize the Chair in his role as the
designated representative of the Board? Opposition-- we'll go to a vote. One was enough.
BOB BROOM: Are you going to take additional comments?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, there is time for additional comments, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: I don't think we want to lose track, or we need to be cognizant of the fact that we
can't have single Board members giving direct orders to the General Manager, because it may be
that 14 other Board members would disagree with the direct order being given. And that's where
the Chair comes in, to kind of act as a referee as to whether something is appropriate or whether
it needs to be brought to the full Board and discussed before an order is given. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: So it doesn't talk about giving instruction. I understand that. That is a bright
line because otherwise how do you reflect the will of the Board? But it does seem like the
practice is anyway for people to contact the General Manager directly more often than to try to
go through the Chair. I don't have a problem with including it for the purposes of being
consistent with the Bylaws, but if at some point we do take up that issue, maybe it's worth
clarifying instruction versus inquiry or something.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. And we will move to a vote. And again, this vote is to remove
that language. And the mover was Director Menten. second, Director Lubow. With Director
Folska's yes, the motion does not pass. OK. Back to the main motion. Any other discussion on
the main motion?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Again, referring to the document that I've given you all, and
we are now on motion four. I hope everybody is referencing this. And that is in that-- OK, let me
figure out where this one is now. It's line 118, 119. I should have had titles on this. Oh, dear. If
anybody has quicker fingers-KEN MIHALIK: I believe it's just right below.
DOUG TISDALE: First two lines on agenda packet 11.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. OK. My motion is to strike this because I don't know what it means.
"To adhere to established"-- so the motion is to strike. "To adhere to established protocols
regarding action items that need not come before the Board. What is that?

DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chair, I will actually defer to Board office staff on this after I make an
introductory comment. And that is that we have-- and some of that is included in the customs
memo that General Counsel has produced-- a description generally of matters that simply need
not take the Board's time. And I think we've seen examples of that. Part of this exercise tonight-part of this exercise tonight-- may even be that. But I yield to Board office staff because this was
obviously a collaborative effort.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So, this to me means-- and General Manager Genova, jump in at any
time-- any of the items that the Board has given the General Manager authority to decide on his
own. Now, there have been some discrepancies in the recent history where there was some
overlap with the authority that the General Manager had. But the Board felt that there was
enough interaction on their part with a particular vendor that they would want to bring forward a
full vote of the full Board, even though it fell under the authority of the General Manager. And
that was the contract for Brandeberry-McKenna as my example.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chair, if I may supplement. And I apologize for imposing upon Board
staff and not being able to respond more directly and fully myself. But that is now my
recollection, having been refreshed what we were talking about. If the General Manager has
signing authority, the Board does not on an item-by-item basis revisit the signing authority. The
Board may on an annual basis look at the signing authority and decide we want to amend our
contract with the General Manager or our resolutions authorizing the General Manager to reduce
or change that signing authority. But actually in an artful and precise manner, this is an
expression of if we've approved it, we don't revisit it each time something may bother one or
another of us. That's what we mean by "To adhere to established protocols regarding action items
that need not come before the Board." We don't have to bring it back to the Board if the General
Manager has the authority that we vested in him, pursuant to the contract and pursuant to Article
7, Section 12 of the Bylaws. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: We're gonna have a little fun with this one. So the matter that we
referenced there was the decision that normally this Board approves the contract with our
government liaisons. Now, this evening, I printed out our Communications and Government
Relations Committee Charter. Under the committee purpose here, which is not in blue-- I know
you can't see this, and you don't have the document-- actually, it's here on your computers. I'll let
you hunt it up.
We already had the right as a Board to review and recommend approval of any contracts with the
federal, state, or local liaisons. So while that sounded a little bit confusing, we were told by
somebody that we didn't have to approve that. It was under a certain dollar amount. That was the
example just given, correct? But it's part of the charter, has been part of the charter. Why did the
Board have to get a little bit upset-- at least a few of us-- to bring it to us to vote?
I will go back to I'm not sure what things might be brought forward under lines 118, 119. And
sometimes we're not clear on our protocols. I hope that made sense, what I was just describing to
all of you. But the Board already had that authority, and we were just told that we didn't.

KEN MIHALIK: And my apologies, I did not get a second on that motion before the discussion.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Folska.
NATALIE MENTEN: And Director Mihalik, I'm sorry.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: I think this is just one line that apparently we already have protocols. And
to add this gray area into our Operating Guidelines created questions for the group here where
we had to refer to staff to get an interpretation. So it'll create confusion going forward, and it
should be struck if these are already somewhere else in language.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So there's a couple of ways that I might clarify this a
little bit on the protocols. So when there's a Board adopted resolution that gives dollar authorities
on all contracts and the dollar limits on whether their requests-- and there's different limits
depending on whether the contract originates as a request for proposal or an invitation for bid.
And then in that same resolution, there's also dollar authority on transfers-- budget transfers. It
has a General Manager limit. And so I'll take a look at that charter language and see if it actually
conflicts. But that's one way in which the Board authorizes the General Manager that that
authority, or those authorities.
And then similarly, there'll be Board actions from time to time where the Board will make an
approval. I'm thinking about in particular some of the fast tracks related approvals that have been
done in the past, where authority has been given to the General Manager to do all things
necessary with contracts and with projects as long as it's in the Board adopted and approved
budget for that particular corridor or capital investment.
So those are a couple of examples of either protocols or resolutions or authorizations that the
Board has passed on to the General Manager. And so in that case of that one particular contract,
it was under the dollar amount. So it was it within the GM authority.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And I apologize again. It is my hearing
deficiency that causes this quite often and not any problem with the speaker. But if you turn to
packet page 41, 42, 43, 44, 45-- that's the clean version of the Communications and Government
Relations Committee Charter. I see nothing in there about the committee's duty, power to
approve contracts. I do see oversee relations and so forth. I do not see anything about approving
contracts.

And in fact, Article 7, Section 12 of the Bylaws expressly says that the General Manager will
oversee all contracts, and we have authorized the General Manager with signing authority up to
certain amounts. We did last year run into an issue which the Chair took responsibility for and
apologized for and said, you know, we'll present this to the Board for informational purposes
from now on. But let's acknowledge that, in fact, the General Manager has the signing authority.
And if you wish to amend the signing authority, then for heaven's sakes, amend the signing
authority and change it. But that's what it is. And that's the purpose behind this is to say, if we
have something in place, we will abide by our own rules unless we take action to amend the
rules. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And I'll just take-- when you gave me those page numbers, page 41, packet
page 41, under Committee Purpose, the last bullet reads, "review and recommend approval of
any contracts with federal, state, or local liaisons."
DOUG TISDALE: Right. And I'll write a reply on that, Mr. Chairman, and that's recommend
approval. It does not create the approval. The General Manager has the authority.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chairman Mihalik, when it's appropriate, I have a comment that-KEN MIHALIK: I think this would be a good time.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. You know, for the new Board members especially, I think it's
important to know that we spend, if you haven't already, a lot of time with our liaisons, our
governments, local, state, and federal. And so it is important that we weigh in on who we work
with. We're representing our constituents as well, so it's a direct relationship.
Unlike other contractors or vendors, we have little or zero real interaction with them. But in this
case-- and that was what was brought forward before, and it wasn't just informational, we
actually voted on it. So I think it is appropriate to exclude or to support Director Menten's motion
to amend.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I don't think it's in the best interests of the agency or in society in
general to dispense with the protocols, with following protocols or adhering to protocols. I think
that if we want those rules or those protocols to be changed, then we change them. But we follow
them once we set them. So whether it's the government relations or whatever committee or
action, if we give the GM signing authority, then we adhere to that and we respect that authority
that we gave to him and we respect our decision to give that authority to him. But I don't think
it's in the best interest of anybody to dispense with set expectations on what we do and how we
do it. Thank you. So I won't be supporting the motion.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Seeing-- Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I pressed my button, but it's not coming up. I wonder if there's a simple
way to sort of make this clear. It is kind of a broad thing. And maybe it's too restrictive to say
something like, "to adhere to established protocols, including matters on which we've given the
General Manager authority to act regarding action items that need not come before the Board,"
or something along those lines. It is kind of taking us a while to figure out what this means. Is
that too restrictive, Chair Tisdale?
KEN MIHALIK: I'll allow you to respond. Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the idea. And I think that what we
might refer to as the legislative history-- that will be after all transcribed available for public
review from now until kingdom come, should anyone be so inclined-- I think we have expressly
stated what it is. And that's why I think I oppose the motion. I think it's important as a guideline
to say to this Board, if you set a signing authority, that's something that needs to come before the
Board, then live by it, unless you want to change the signing authority. But don't pick and choose
from contracts, because maybe you like a contractor or maybe you dislike a contractor and you
want to bring it up.
No. That's not how you should operate. That's getting into not only management, petty
management. I think it actually works as is, and I would respectfully oppose the motion to delete
the language.
KEN MIHALIK: Anything else? Director Menten, one last time on this one.
NATALIE MENTEN: I know we got off on the lobbyists, but just for future reference, I don't
care what toilet paper we buy. But I do care what lobbyists we hire. So for future reference, all
right? But the matter is a very strange sentence is added in. We've sat here and said-- I didn't
create all these agenda items tonight, really. This is only a response to what was presented. But I
think it's a confusing sentence, and if it's already stated somewhere, why do we have one more
thing to complicate our lives?
KEN MIHALIK: OK. We'll let that be the last word on this motion to remove that language. And
it's to-- just one last time, the motion would be to remove the language "to adhere to established
protocols regarding action items that need not come before the Board." And Barbara, we will
need to electronic vote on this one. And the mover was Director Menten. Director Folska, you
were the second.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, you can't hit her second.
KEN MIHALIK: She may hit it for her? No.
JUDY LUBOW: I'll second. And we all vote.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow, would you second? Sorry. Let you do it. With Director
Folska's yes, the motion does not pass. 10 nos, five yeses. And we are back to the main motion.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: If it would be appropriate, I have a motion.
KEN MIHALIK: Please do.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I hope this is pretty straight forward and simple. I think we should amend
the word "January," that these Guidelines be reviewed annually every January. And the reason
for that is that every other year we have new Board members who are already overwhelmed
about voting for their Executive Board, and perhaps other positions they may be taking. My
suggestion would be in April. That would give people time to get their feet wet.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. So to change the date of review from January to April. I'm trying to find
where it references January.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I think it's in the very beginning. Of course I don't have it in front of me,
but when it was read by Chair Tisdale as a recommended action, he said January, every January,
on an annual basis-LYNN GUISSINGER: Is it the last page? Doesn't it say-DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, response, if I may.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, please.
DOUG TISDALE: I believe I did mention January. And I think that's what we had talked about.
But I do not recall that we included the word "January" in here. And I think we just said
annually. And I beg forgiveness on that. Can you point-KATE WILLIAMS: It's the first meeting of the year.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And that's on packet page 10? Packet page 10? No, OK. Where? And I
apologize. Oh, yes. Furthermore-- it's in the resolved clause, packet page 8 of the TBD resolution
which says, "Board acknowledges its desire to recommit annually during the first meeting of the
Board each year." And I think that's the point. It doesn't say that word "January" but Director
Folska is absolutely correct that that's what it implies, and that we could change that. And I think
the reason it was phrased as "during the first meeting of the Board each year" was to demonstrate
to the State Auditor, the State Legislature, and those bodies that control us that we were
absolutely as a first order of business doing it. But I think we could say during a meeting in the
first quarter of each year, and that would probably cover the opportunity for Directors to update
themselves.
So if I may, I would suggest to the movant, whom I believe may have left the room for a
moment, and the second-- and if we could ask--

KEN MIHALIK: Director Folska was the mover. It has not had a second.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I'm sorry. This was-- as to the main motion to amend, if we could just by
unanimous consent change "during the first meeting of the Board each year" to read on packet
page eight, the second paragraph of the action clause, "during a meeting in the first quarter of
each year."
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I would be happy to accept that, Chair Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Is there any opposition to-- well, we need a second-ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Mihalik. This is Rolf Asphaug again, and that's appropriate. Since
there hadn't yet been a second, the motion was changed by agreement. So now, I guess the
question is, if there's unanimous consent to make that change, then you don't need to have a vote.
If anyone objects, then you have a vote on changing it to read "during a meeting in the first
quarter of each year."
KEN MIHALIK: Any opposition? OK. First quarter of the year, good change. Back to the-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No, thank you. Back to the main motion. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. I want to bring up-- skip motion five for the moment. And we're
going to get into the one that Director Lubow, I think you may have sent this to most people.
This one's going to get a little-- we thought we were getting complicated before. This one's going
to get a little more. And Rolf-- get in this one.
So you had sent us a document that is referenced within the Board Operating Guidelines, the
proposed Board Operating Guidelines. And where this is on your electronic Board packet is page
11.
I'm in the guidelines. Sorry, the guidelines reference Rolf's document. It's under Regarding
Meeting Efficiency. And it's the last paragraph. I hope everybody's catching up here.
So page 11, Regarding Meeting Efficiency, last paragraph. Got it, Rolf?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Mm-hmm.
NATALIE MENTEN: "To be mindful of and act consistently with the Board's established
customs and practices, as described in the November 14, 2018 memorandum from RTD General
Counsel Ralph Asphaug, attached." And why this is going to get to be a little bit twisty here is
because in Mr. Asphaug's memo, he is talking about the custom of how three Board Directors
can bring to the Board agenda-- agree, those three Board Directors-- approve to put something on
the Board agenda.

And so trying to make this simple for you, I gave you copies. It's tied into this one, the one that-yes, Bylaws. We're not touching those. We're only using reference for right now. You're going to
go to the last two pages, because this is what Mr. Asphaug was citing, which is Section 3, titled
the Regular Board Meeting Agenda. And it's important that you note that-- the Regular Board
Meeting Agenda.
And in Mr. Asphaug's memo, there is a section which is stating custom that when three Board
Directors have signed to bring something forward to the Board agenda, they need to-- that needs
to be presented to the Board Manager by a certain time. But then it also mentions-- I'm going to
read it here. I'm sorry. I'm trying to paraphrase it myself.
OK. So "The notifications must be received prior to noon on a Thursday preceding the regular
Tuesday night Board meeting. Should items of an emergency nature arise after the meetings of
the Executive Committee, the placement of those items," meaning what, the way I read it, the
three Board Directors were putting forward, "the placement of those items will be at the Chair's
discretion." Then further, as referenced in Mr. Asphaug's memo, it also quoted Paragraph C,
which then describes what is the lineup for a Board Agenda.
So to me, I'm reading that as, if we have an emergency, it's up to the Chair to say, should that be
item number 2, should it be item number 5, or should it be-- but in the interpretation as
presented, it has now added in language that it is up to the Chair and the Executive Committee to
take it off the Board Agenda and send it to a committee. And I would disagree with that
interpretation. And I know that sounded confusing and painful. But this is very important for
having that last chance for three Board Directors to get together and say, we want to add
something to the agenda.
So I have all of the documents. But I know that I've read the Bylaws. And the Bylaws-- well, this
is kind of irony in a way. Because by referring to Rolf's statement, we are amending the Bylaws.
And we are in a circular little vicious circle right now.
So I would like it to remain that when three Board Directors on a Friday-- you know, let's hope it
all all turns out it's a Wednesday and they get it all done. But that it's not sent back to a
committee. And I think that's what I was-- sent to a committee. I think that's what I was reading
from that. And it should proceed, and it should be on a Board agenda.
If you want to back me up-- because you've read it. You know what I'm talking about. Please.
KEN MIHALIK: So Director Menten, that motion is to-- can you summarize-NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I guess, what it's saying-- yeah, I will summarize it for you, I'm
sorry, to make that all-- is that-- going back to other pages now. Packet page-DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Mr. Chairman. There may be an easier fix. And respectfully, if
the speaker will yield for an extended point of order, if we could ask General Counsel if perhaps
he would wish to comment on the presentation made by Director Menten, because I will confess
that I find the presentation persuasive relative to agenda packet page 28. Packet page 28 is what

we're talking about. It's at the very top of that page. It says in ellipses, "To encourage careful
debate and consideration, the Chair may refer such an item to a standing committee and the
Executive Committee for approval prior to the item being placed on the Board meeting agenda."
That would appear to give to the Chair-- and the Executive Committee, but the Chair in the first
instance for referring it-- a power of delay as to such item. And I don't see that power in the
Bylaws as referred, specifically Article 5, section-- yeah, Article 5, section 3, B and C.
And so perhaps if General Counsel could comment on it, it may be that General Counsel might
feel obliged to submit an amended statement of protocols and customs, or perhaps explain
whether in fact this is what we've done in the past. This Chair has not done it, I know that. Thank
you, Mr. Chairman.
KEN MIHALIK: General Counsel.
ROLF ASPHAUG: My understanding-- yes, this is Rolf Asphaug. My understanding has been
that this is what has been done in the past. But the point is taken that if the Board-- these were
statements of custom. And they were created by staff because in the absence of Operating
Guidelines like these, and in the absence of any other general rules of how to conduct meetings
that kind of fill in the blanks with the Bylaws-- and Robert's Rules recognizes that you have
Bylaws-- then you can have addition to rules that are approved by the Board on how things
should be handled.
In the absence of Bylaws and rules, then there are customs that develop over time. And this
memorandum was intended to encapsulate those understandings of staff as to what the normal
customs were. However that's subject to change by the Board, by a change at any time. It doesn't
need 10 votes or anything like that to change that.
I have no problem if you wish to, for example, state that we should do an amended version of
this to reflect the current sense of the Board on that. You could perhaps state the November 28-what is it, the November 14, 2018 memorandum attached, parentheses, as amended with Board
approval. Or I don't know if that would be an easy way to do it-- so that we could simply take
that out if the Board so desires. But I will say, it's my understanding that that's what has been
done in the past, that it's been run through the Executive Committee to have additional
discussion.
KEN MIHALIK: Chair Tisdale, are you-DOUG TISDALE: I think that Counsel points to a very easy fix. And that is in reference to the
November 14, 2018 memo that we would simply add "memorandum from RTD General Counsel
Asphaug, comma, attached," insert "and amended by the Board," period. And then we could
remove the reference to the top of packet page 28, everything after the semicolon in the second
line.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair? Chair?

KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Tisdale.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry, Chair Tisdale. Just for clarification, could you read to the
Board that section in the Bylaws, just so they're familiar with it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Referring to the Bylaws themselves, and Director Menten is quite
correct in saying this is in Article 5, Section 3, which is labeled the Regular Board Meeting
Agenda. In Section B, it says "All agenda items"-- and one would take it that refers to the regular
Board meeting, then, because it's in that section. "All agenda items require approval from one of
the standing committees as well as the Executive Committee." And here's the central language.
"At least three Board members may add an item or items to the agenda by providing written
notification to the Chair and the Executive Director to the Board. These notifications must be
received prior to noon on the Thursday preceding the regular Tuesday night Board meeting."
And then it goes on relative to items of an emergency nature that may be placed on the agenda.
And if you look at Subsection C of that bylaw, Section 3, the Regular Board Meeting Agenda, it
actually gives a placement for where in the agenda at a regular Board meeting these additional
items would be placed. They would be last. It's items from groups of three Board members in the
order they were received. And I was just reading from Article 5, Section 3, Sub C, Sub 4.
ROLF ASPHAUG: And Chair, if I may. And that's right. And the problem has been in the past,
staff has tried to reconcile the first sentence, which states all agenda items require approval from
one of the standing committees as well as the Executive Committee with the next statement that
says that it's not all after all, that at least three Board members may add an item or items to the
agenda. And that's been the custom in the past has been that process that's described. But I have
no problem at all if the Board wishes to delete that phrase that ends with "however." It's a custom
that's been noticed by staff, but it's not defined anywhere in the Bylaws. And it's not defined
anywhere in a rule or other written document.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, thank you both. Director Menten, I'm going to go back to you, who made
the original motion. It hadn't been seconded. I'm really getting my parliamentary
ROLF ASPHAUG: Sorry about that.
KEN MIHALIK: --experience tonight. No, that's fine. Does the recommendation satisfy the
intent of your motion?
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so as long as the red line in the Board Operating documents
under the last paragraph, Regarding Meeting Efficiency, to be mindful and act consistent with
Rolf's agenda, or memorandum, sorry. I'm going to read amended, and then we're going to go to
your Customs Relating to Board Meetings, and we are going to make that read just the way that
the Bylaws read.

ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, if that's what the Board desires to do either by unanimous consent or by
vote, what I would do is reissue that November 14 2008 memo, with a note that it's as amended,
and then with a footnote essentially explaining exactly what happened. And I'll probably just
issue it with a red line version so you can see what was struck out, if that makes sense.
NATALIE MENTEN: That accomplishes what I wish to do.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. And so I will-- I don't know who wants to make that motion. Yes, is there
any objection or any additional discussion? I see a couple hands up. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. Could you just, for a point of
clarification, just restate what it is and why you're doing it for me?
NATALIE MENTEN: The Bylaws allow three Board Directors a path to get on a Board Agenda.
And I believe the interpretation in Rolf's memo of customs reads differently than our Bylaws do
and adds in another barrier that the Executive Committee or the Chair could stop that current
bylaw path to get on the agenda. And I believe Chair Tisdale described that pretty much as the
same, unless I'm misreading anything. And so it is a correction of that interpretation.
KEN MIHALIK: With that, any-- Director Folska, any opposition to that change?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, Chair Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Mihalik, sorry, but just to make it clear then, what we'll do is we'll
change-- we'll put in "with reference to the memo, as amended effective February 12, 2019."
And then we'll make that change to the memo that's attached to that and tie that back to that
amendment so everyone will know exactly what happened.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Any other opposition or-- I think we're good. OK, that one stands. Back to
the main motion.
NATALIE MENTEN: Did we get unanimous?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes. Director Lubow, we are on the main motion.
JUDY LUBOW: I have one more thing to add. I'm not sure where in the process I should be
doing it.
KEN MIHALIK: This would probably be a good time.
JUDY LUBOW: Speak or forever hold your peace. OK, then it would be page 10 of our packet,
under Board Commitment, that big paragraph. And it talks about in the middle the current
organizational shift in focus from capital development to operations and maintenance, comma.
And I would like to add "with the exception of continuing focus on capital development for the

four unfunded fast tracks corridors," so that it doesn't look like we are forgetting them. I'm
certainly not forgetting them. So I would hope the rest of the Board feels the same way and that
this is considered important.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: I'll just ask if there's any opposition to that. This is on the-- sorry, yes, we will
clarify. We clarify-- packet page 10, the first section, first paragraph, halfway through it, it says-and if I may, Director Lubow, I'm going to try to capture your sentiment if not verbatim-- "The
Board appreciates that it must position RTD to be able to respond flexibly, responsibly, and
transparently to unique factors as they present, including the current organizational shift in focus
from capital development to operations and maintenance challenges in optimizing service levels
in order to meet customer demands and introduction of disruptive transit technologies in order
better to serve our constituents in new and varying ways." So that's one sentence. And that's-JUDY LUBOW: That's a long sentence.
KEN MIHALIK: It is, it is. And so in the middle of that, it would say-BOB BROOM: It's a good three sentences.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow, I'm going to allow you to say what you wanted to say with
respect to that. I don't think I'll capture it properly.
JUDY LUBOW: Change the phrase, OK. Well, with the exception-- oh, after Operations and
Maintenance, comma, "with the exception of the Capital Project of finishing the remaining
FasTracks Corridors," comma.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Any opposition-JUDY LUBOW: It is such a big sentence.
KEN MIHALIK: Any opposition to that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry, Director Lubow, but you weren't speaking loud enough, and
we need to capture that.
JUDY LUBOW: I quit.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Could I repeat it? Could I repeat it?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chair, as the second, perhaps I could-KEN MIHALIK: Please do.

DOUG TISDALE: --satisfy that. In the ninth line of the first paragraph on packet page 10, after
the word "maintenance," comma, insert the following language-- "with the exception of the
Capital Project of finishing the remaining FasTrack Corridors," comma, end of insert.
KEN MIHALIK: Any opposition? Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair Mihalik, I support the amended motion.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. That one is also in the record. Back to the main motion. Seeing
no additional discussion on the main motion, we will move that to a vote. Is there any opposition
to the-- oh, yeah. Sorry, yes, we will need to record that.
And forgive me, I've written down a lot of names on here. It kind of got out of track. But I
believe it was Director Williams and Director Buzek as the-VINCE BUZEK: Yes, I believe so.
KATE WILLIAMS: We'll take it.
KEN MIHALIK: OK-- as the first and second on what is affectionately called the main motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: A friendly name.
KEN MIHALIK: And we will move to vote on that. Director Folska, how would you-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: My vote is yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Just queuing it up. Are we waiting on Director Cook's vote?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JUDY LUBOW: Come on, Shelley.
KEN MIHALIK: With Director Folska's yes, it passes 12 to 2. The two no votes are Directors
Menten and Director Lubow. OK. 12 to 2.
And now we are on to our series of updates. But I'm going to give a long five minute-- sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, I don't think Director Cook's vote was recorded.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, I think it happened just as she was walking in the door. But if-ROLF ASPHAUG: If no one has-- Chair, if no one has an objection, you could add Director
Cook's vote.
KEN MIHALIK: And that's an abstention.

ROLF ASPHAUG: Oh, it's an abstention. All right.
SHELLEY COOK: I'd rather not abstain. Yeah, I would rather that have been recorded as a yes
vote.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, a yes vote. We will make that in the record. OK. And-NATALIE MENTEN: Can we get a break?
KEN MIHALIK: A long five minute break, even though-- yeah, we're ready to keep moving. But
yeah.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
KEN MIHALIK: Directors and others, the sooner you sit down, the sooner we will begin.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
KEN MIHALIK: All right. Let's go ahead and get started. Director Cook. We still have quite a
bit of good information to get through. I'm going to turn it over to Mr. MacLeod to introduce our
first update.
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Doug MacLeod, Controller. Tonight,
RubinBrown is with us, our external auditors. To my right is Cheryl Wallace. She is the Lead
Partner from RubinBrown. And Matt Marino next to her is another partner with RubinBrown.
But tonight they're here to talk on this first item about the General Manager Contract Review.
Each year, we have an independent external auditor look at our General Manager's contract and
review it for the actuals versus what were expected based on the contract language. So they're
going to give a few disclosures this evening. Cheryl?
CHERYL WALLACE: Thank you. You can hear me. Good evening. As Doug mentioned, my
name is Cheryl Wallace. I am the engagement partner for RTD with RubinBrown. I will go
through the report that's in front of you.
As Doug mentioned, every year RTD has requested a review of the cost of the GM, General
Manager contract. The initial process begins with the agreement that's signed, and we are
requested to provide RTD with estimates of the cost of the contract and then annually come back
to the Board and present the actual cost of those contracts, review any amendments or revisions,
and provide revised estimates for the next year's contract. So with that, I'm going to go through
the report that gives the cost of the General Manager's contract.
On the first page, first page articulates the procedures we performed. We did review the
executive agreement, and that agreement was dated January 2016 through December 31, 2020.
There was an amended executive agreement. It was effective January 1, 2019, through December
31, 2025. So that is included in this report.

We used those two agreements to determine the cost of the GM contract going forward and to
give you revised estimates. I'm going to ask you to turn to page two on the report. Page two in
the report has a table. The table gives you the actual costs for the first three years of that
agreement, the initial agreement I mentioned on page one. It then gives you the revised estimates
of the GM contract, starting with the amended executive agreement, starting 2019, all the way
through 2025.
A few items to point out, the objective of the report was to come back to the Board and give you
the costs for 2018, which is the third column from the left of the cost of the GM contract. And
that total is all the way at the bottom. We did verify and validate the amounts that were paid out
to the GM contract throughout the year for 2018.
The 2018 actual amounts were less than the original estimated amounts. The biggest item noticed
was the smaller amount that was paid out than what was estimated for the discretionary payment
performance payment. It was estimated to be paid out at 28,500, and it was paid out at 2,850.
If you look towards the future on the estimated contract amount for 2019 through 2025, we've
updated it for the extension. Also in the amendment was a change in the base salary. The
increase was changed for an annual salary increase percentage of 1.5% for 2019 to 2025. We
updated it for the health insurance growth rate of about 5.5%. And every year the update changes
for your Social Security and Medicare amounts. And so we update the estimates based upon the
most recent information.
I'm on page three. I'm going through those estimates. There is an estimate in there for the pension
compensation amount for the 9%. And then the amended contract, number six, did remove the
discretionary performance payment provision. So as you can see on page two, that discretionary
payment provision is no longer an amount and has gone to 0.
On page three, we do kind of present to the Board, just to remind the Board, the original contract
was signed, and the original estimates were in 2016. So on page three, with the remainder of the
assumptions, that's just reiterating what was in the '16 report, so that if you wanted to go back to
what the original estimates were, you have those changes.
On page four, you do have those original estimates that were presented to the Board back May
17, 2016. At the end of the day, the actual amounts were less than the estimate, with the
significant item being the discretionary performance payment. Are there any questions on the
report?
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten, you are first.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's like a rollover-KEN MIHALIK: Oh, not a-NATALIE MENTEN: I may have a question, but I hadn't, as far as I know, pressed the--

KEN MIHALIK: All right. I'll come back to you. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for your report.
We appreciate that. I just wanted to confirm two things with you, please. If you would look at
page four, under 2020 Original Estimate, am I correct in reading that the original estimate for the
year 2020 for the General Manager's contract was $407,494, correct?
CHERYL WALLACE: That's correct.
DOUG TISDALE: And then if you would turn to page two, and this is the revised contract term,
if you would look at the middle column, which is labeled 2020 Revised Estimate, am I correct in
reading that you have concluded the revised contract estimated cost for 2020 is $362,786?
CHERYL WALLACE: That's correct.
DOUG TISDALE: And am I correct in understanding that the difference between those numbers
is a savings of $44,708? Is that correct?
CHERYL WALLACE: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: No more questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Folska, any questions on the General Manager Compensation Audit
Update?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I don't have anything. Thank you very much.
CHERYL WALLACE: I think we're ready for number two.
KEN MIHALIK: And you guys were presenting the next update. Yes, thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair, just a quick introduction of what this topic is. This is Doug
MacLeod. So Cheryl and Matt are still here, and they're going to talk a little bit about our 2018
financial statement audit as well as the single audit. Each year, RubinBrown of course comes in
and does an audit on our Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, our CAFR, for the year ended
December 31. So they will be doing their audit during middle to late March. They've already
done some preliminary audit work at the beginning-- well, late last year, about September,
October time frame. They'll be coming in to do their field work in mid to late March, with a final
audited financial report presented to the Board in May. So this particular update item is kind of a
kickoff to that audit process.
CHERYL WALLACE: Thank you, Doug. Will it be up on screen?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. We have a presentation, Barbara, if you can switch us.

CHERYL WALLACE: Quick update-- and this is our report to the governance. As Doug
mentioned, we are engaged to perform the financial statement audit of your comprehensive
annual financial report and of your federal funds. This will be the engagement team. This is the
key management of the engagement team.
I am the Lead Partner. I am your engagement partner, so I make decisions on the audit approach.
Beside me is Matt Marino. He is the Concurring Partner. We have a quality control process
within our firm that means that somebody independent of the engagement team also looks at the
information in our files and the report. And then the last item would be our Audit Manager,
which is Max Haberkorn for the engagement. He's not here tonight.
We do rotate our key management team. That's a rotation that we do because we have a lot of
depth in public sector. We do a lot of governmental entities. And we view that rotation as getting
a fresh look. And so we have a new manager on the engagement for 2018, and he's Max
Haberkorn. There are more team members working on the engagement. Those are your lead
partners and managers.
The objective and scope of the audit, without reading too much, the objective of the engagement
is for us to provide an independent opinion on your financial statements and on your compliance
with your federal funds. We do conduct this in accordance with generally accepted accounting
standards and governmental auditing standards because you have federal funds.
The limitations of our engagement is we do not give an opinion on internal controls. We do go
through processes. It is management's responsibility to make sure that you have internal controls
and that they are effective and implemented. The audit process, you can think of it in three
stages. We do plan. Planning is looking at your minutes, seeing if there's any significant items
we need to take into account. Interim fieldwork, which is the middle one-- we go through your
key processes. We're going to look at how you're cutting checks. We're going to look at how
you're recording your disbursements. We're going to look at how your payroll is processed.
We're going to look at how you're receiving federal funds, how those federal funds are spent.
We're also going to look at how revenue is recorded and received within your organization. And
we look at your federal funds. And as Doug mentioned, we'll be out in February, and we do that.
And we do look at the compliance and any controls related to those compliance with respect to
those federal funds.
We will come back for year end. And at year end, that's when we're really looking at your
account balances more. What's the debt? What's the cash being reported? How are you valuing
your assets and your liabilities? And then we do complete our federal funds procedures. So we
kind of-- we're here throughout the year.
If you look at the next one, the audit process. So every audit process, after you've become
familiar with processes and the entities, you are required to look at anything that's in a high-risk
bucket. You do your assessment, and you either have high risk, moderate risk, and low risk
areas. And for that, you can see high-risk areas would be complex transactions, non-routine
transactions, or significant estimates. Moderate would be transactions that basically have new
pronouncements in them. You've changed your estimates, or there's been a change in key internal

controls structures. And then a low-risk area would be those routine processes that you have. So
at this point, we'd like to ask if there's any areas of focus that the Board would like for us to
incorporate within our audit process.
KEN MIHALIK: Just waiting for the speaker queue. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, is it possible to contact you directly?
CHERYL WALLACE: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: And what would be that contact information? On the top of the packet?
CHERYL WALLACE: I can give it to you right now.
NATALIE MENTEN: Sure. I will write her down.
CHERYL WALLACE: 303-952-1288.
NATALIE MENTEN: 303-952-1288?
CHERYL WALLACE: Mm-hmm.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you very much. That's all.
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chairman, may I make a quick comment? We will provide to the
Board office contact information for the audit team too, just so you have that available to you.
And I do believe that they're available anytime to answer any questions, because essentially they
do report to the Board.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Anything else, Director Menten? Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Since like most governmental organizations, labor is probably our biggest
expense item, could you maybe explain what type of payroll audits you've done in the past, or
maybe what you're planning to do this time around?
CHERYL WALLACE: So we typically don't discuss our complete approach, because we like an
element of unpredictability. So that way we know processes are working within the organization.
But what I can speak to is what we typically would do. And it depends on the organization, and it
also depends on what's happening during the year. We have taken the approach-- and you're
right, with most governmental entities, payroll is the biggest cost. We've taken the approach
where we will do what I call intensive controls for payroll.
And what that really means, we're not looking at every transaction, but we're taking a sample of
transactions. And we go through the beginning and ending of that process from when it starts, so
that would be employees' time, how they're recording that time, how that time is getting
captured, how that time is getting approved to make sure it's accurate, and then how it gets into

your records. And how it's being charged out, whether it's being charged out to federal funds or
non-federal funds.
And then we also look at the control around that. And depending on what your control is, that
control is typically someone in management's position reviewing that person's time, whether
they're salaried or non-salaried, and approving it. And then how that gets in through and paid out,
and then the approval of the payout. So that would be a test of controls that we would typically
employ.
The other thing is we also employ other information. So we have what we call data analytics
which allows us to kind of, for lack of a better word, play with the information. So we ask for a
lot of information. And then we're able to slice and dice it to where we can kind of see some
trends.
What those trends would be is how much payroll is each month, how much payroll is each week,
to see any high or low levels, and based on the operations of that entity what we would expect.
And then anything that comes out of the abnormal, we would go and look specifically into that.
We also look at other information from an analytic point of view. So we kind of do some
benchmarkings. I guess in a best practice way I can say that.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I don't see-- Director Folska, any questions on this item?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, I have no questions, Chair. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. OK, thank you both.
CHERYL WALLACE: So if we go on to the next-- we're not done, and it clicked off, I
apologize. We clicked over to go to the Q&As. Just to describe the single audit, if you have an
organization and you receive, you expend more than $750,000 of federal funds, you are required
to get what's called a single audit. That is a different audit than the financial statement audit of
your Comprehensive Annual Financial Report. That requires the auditor to follow what's called
Office of Management and Budget compliance supplement requirements from the federal
government that tells auditors how are they to look at something, what are they to look at to see
if you're in compliance and to see how you're spending the funds, and make sure that you're
spending those funds in accordance with how those grant documents are described. And so that
is the purpose of a single audit. And that is what we do, also in addition to the financial statement
audit.
Here's our engagement timeline. As Doug mentioned, we will come out in February to do some
of our single audit procedures. We come at year end in March 18, we're here for a while, and
then we are back presenting here in May the final results of the audit for the 2018. Now I'm done
if there's any questions. So we'll be back in May.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Yes, we'll see you in May. Thank you.

CHERYL WALLACE: Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Ms. McKillop, I'm going to let you provide us the update on the Commercial
Banking Contract.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you very much. So over the last six to seven months, there has
been interest in our Commercial Banking Contract by the Board. And so we promised-- the state
was going through a procurement process, and we promised we'd come back and give you an
update of what happened there and where staff is moving on this issue.
So just to familiarize with everybody, I've listed in there what is the scope of our Commercial
Banking Services. It seems large, but the actual cost of this contract is quite small. So before we
net out our earnings that the contract allows for, the fees are approximately 100,000 per year.
So the bulk of our cost that we spend is in merchant banking. So all of our credit card,
processing, those type of things, and really the large dollar amounts are with our large
investments. So when we make investments, that's where we keep our millions of dollars a day is
in those large accounts, because they earn significantly more funds. Every day we do
transactions to move money from our large accounts to our commercial banking accounts. That's
why when I tell you in second what we earn on that it's extremely low, because we only keep
enough money in there to pay the bills for the day, and then we replenish that every day. So
there's somebody that actually-- in my staff that monitors that on a daily basis and makes those
transactions and moves that money around so that we can get the largest investment for our
money.
As I have mentioned previously, our current contract is with Wells Fargo. And I've also listed all
the other kinds of accounts that we have in that first paragraph, so you can see where we have
our money invested. It's pretty diverse. We have it all over the place. And really, that's depending
on where we get the largest bang for our buck, so to speak.
We have had Wells Fargo since 2004 and 2012. It was rebid by the state. We piggyback on the
state's contract because we tend to get much better pricing than if we went out by ourselves. Our
current contract, I mentioned here, is expiring and actually expired, so we're on kind of a monthto-month process right now. And we need to decide what our next steps are. I do want to mention
that due to the dollar amount of this item, this is not typically something we would bring forward
to the Board. But we have been bringing it forward for information purposes because the Board
has been interested in that particular vendor.
The State of Colorado finally did finalize the request for proposal and awarded the banking
contract in January of 2019 or last month. The contract, as I mentioned, allows local
governments, including political subdivisions of the State, to piggyback on their contract. If we
decided not to piggyback, that means we would go out with our own RFP process.
I did list for you the evaluation factors that the state used to determine the contract, which would
be the similar factors that we've used in previous financial contracts, banking contracts. There

were four banks that proposed. I've also listed those for you. And the selection panel at the State
unanimously selected Wells Fargo.
The new fee structure that went into effect in January will save RTD approximately $6,000 per
year, or approximately a 5,000-- I'm sorry, 5% reduction. The biggest bang we're going to get for
our buck is that they improve the amount that we earn on that small time frame that I mentioned
of when we have money in their accounts. We have estimated that those earnings would result in
about $75,000 per year based on previous experience. That is then netted out against our fees,
which results in an overall cost of only $25,000 for all of those commercial banking services for
a calendar year. That is a significant reduction.
Were we to change banks through an RFP process, we are concerned about the amount of work
and overlap that that is going to necessitate because of the amount, especially payroll. You want
to make sure that's kind of a smooth process when it gets moved over. And I wanted to let you
know that we have had extremely positive experience with Wells Fargo. And the fact that they
have modified their systems to accommodate our electronic transfers, they have recommended
changes to our processes to make them more efficient. And they have been working with us on
cybersecurity issues that we have been exploring the best way to approach those.
It is our feeling from a staff perspective that we want to keep Wells Fargo and continue to
piggyback on the state's contract. If we went out with our own RFP process, there's nothing that
says we would get-- well, most likely we would get less favorable rates because we wouldn't get
the benefit of the large pooling of assets that we have. I know Director Mihalik, Chair Mihalik
asked me about, well, could we go out and prohibit somebody that had had any SEC findings or
other things. I have searched out there. And I cannot find an institution that in the last 10 years
has not had an SEC filing in the negative aspect.
The more comforting part is they have had no issues with their commercial banking. And we
have had no improprieties as it relates to our accounts. And so I did want to mention that, like I
said, we feel they've been a great partner to us. If the state had changed their bank, we would
have considered changing because we still think we get the best deal after piggybacking on the
state's contracts. But the state did decide to go with Wells Fargo. And as a staff, we feel
comfortable that that's a place that we should be. So with that, I'll be glad to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. It kind of seems like economically a slam dunk to
stay with them. But I've been concerned, and other Board members have expressed concern,
about the criminal activity that Wells Fargo had been involved with, but a different part of the
system. But nonetheless it was part of this bank. And it was a notorious problem. I think they
created fake accounts.
Bad malfeasance. And if I had my druthers, I would rather be with a bank that didn't have that in
its system, didn't have that big black mark. And it does. I was wondering, have you priced what
going out would look like, to know the difference in cost?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So to respond to that, so I'll respond two ways. One, yes, and
remember our banking contract is not that large. So on $100,000, we could see another $25,000
to $50,000 increase, maybe even double that if we went out. In the scheme of things for RTD,
that's not a huge dollar amount. But when we look at each individual contract, we're always
trying to get the best deal for the district possible.
As I mentioned previously, it would be nice if there was a bank out there that was not being
accused of criminal activity at this time. I have not found one that we would be able to contract
with. So whether it be on the mortgage front, it be on the commercial banking front, it be on the
personal banking front, there is not a bank that hasn't been accused and pay fines in the last 5 to
10 years on that issue.
So my job is not to deem the moral compass of those particular banks. My job is to tell you the
benefit that we get from this particular contract. And piggybacking on the state is a benefit for
us. And I can assure you that we have had no-- they have not been accused of any of those
criminal activities on the commercial banking side, and we have not experienced any of that. In
fact, we've experienced very positive relationships with them and them helping us secure our
operations and funds. Not just in this area, but the merchant banking side is where they've been
very helpful.
JUDY LUBOW: Can I ask another question, which is, there are criminal activities and there are
criminal activities. And I'm just wondering, when you mentioned that basically all the banks are
involved with something, were they involved with something as destructive as what Wells Fargo
was reported to have been involved with?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, I don't know that's a fair question for me, because I believe
mortgage fraud and the people that have suffered through that crisis, which is some of these very
large banks that are listed on that page, is significant if you're one of those people that lost your
home or your mortgage. So it's hard to answer that. If you were one of the persons that was
affected by Wells Fargo's issue on personal banking, then you would feel very affected by that
also.
So that's a really difficult question for me to answer. I think they're all not spotless is a good way
of putting it. And what I'm trying to do is look out for the best interests of this organization at
this time. If we were to find out this bank would not was not performing the way they were
supposed to perform, we would immediately seek to remedy that situation.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Walker, you were next.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks for the presentation. I know that there was some concern about the
activities of Wells Fargo. I know that they've made changes at the top level. The CEO, some of
the board members have been dismissed, or are no longer with the company. And like you said,
I've also looked into that. And all of them-- all of them have had some type of fine, from nine-

figure fines. That's common among all of them. So that's a couple of hundred-- at least $100
million. And then some of them had several fines on top of those.
I don't know of anyone who's gone to jail for those activities. So I don't know if they've been
criminal or if they've just been civil. But at any rate, trying to find a clean, fault-free financial
institution is next to impossible. So as long-- changes have been made at Wells Fargo. And as
long as they're performing as our contract specifies, then I'm fine with-- and especially if we're
saving money.
And that's not to discount the pain that some people have felt, extended credit when they didn't
apply for that. And like I said, those have been addressed. And if they've made those changes
and if they're performing well now, then we should court them and us in that effort. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Does Wells Fargo support our bond issuance, and does Wells
Fargo provide free checking or low interest loans to employees of RTD?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So they do provide free checking to our employees. They do not
provide low interest loans for our employees. But they do have a checking benefit if an employee
is interested in that. And I'm sorry, your first question-BOB BROOM: Do they support our securities issuance?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So they have been involved in the team, the investment banking team,
Wells Fargo has in the past. And in fact, a couple of years, I believe, ago they took the lead.
They were the lead banker in that. So they are part of the existing pool right now. We are going
out for a new pool of bankers at this time, even though we don't have an issuance schedule for
the near future. But yes, they are currently part of our banking team.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I may have missed it in the notes here. But what is the term
that the state of Colorado is going to set up with Wells Fargo? And if we're piggybacking off
that, does that mean we have the same term?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So they have 3 plus 2, which is a common term that we use. So three
years, plus there's two option years. And we have the same ability to exercise those option years.
We could terminate at anytime also, so we don't have to sign the full three years if we don't want
to. And we don't have to sign the option years. But they are available to us if we are interested.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So you've brought it to the Board as an informational item. And
the Board has indicated they're interested in weighing in on it. So first, if somebody were looking
up these penalties, these different things, where do they go to look at banks, because you're
saying many of them have problems.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, I Googled them. I just Googled them, and it gives you the page
after page after page of all the issues and the fines and penalties over the years.
NATALIE MENTEN: So do you go to one clearinghouse to get that information and what the-HEATHER MCKILLOP: I did not, but you might be able to.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So that's really the question. I would surely prefer instead of one of
these megas-- to me, I kind of wonder as a consumer, when you see, oh, they'll give you these
what we call loss leaders to get you in the door, and then they nail you later with pennies here
and pennies there. I would prefer more of really a community driven type of bank. But none of
them seem to have proposed.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, they're not going to propose. They're not large enough to
support the requirements that we have for collateral for having our business. So we wouldn't
have access to those community banks because they don't have the wherewithal to meet the state
and our legislative requirements on collateral and the ratings that they need to have.
NATALIE MENTEN: So later, off-- or one-on-one, we would have the option to weigh in with
you on our personal thoughts after we thought about this a little bit more? I'm not looking for a
yes or no.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. I mean, I was looking for tonight just some feedback. But I'm
letting you know the direction that we are planning on going, unless there's huge opposition to
that by the Board.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Well, I'll try to do a little research tonight on wherever I can. But
what is the date that you're looking to move forward?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So right now we're on a month-to-month contract with Wells Fargo.
So we would like to solidify that sooner rather than later. So hopefully by the end of this month,
we'll be able to get that moving.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you, that's all.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate very much the report
because concern had been expressed last year in particular by a former Chair of this Board
relative to Wells Fargo. I appreciate very much the information being provided to us.
I do note it is a matter for the General Manager to make the final determination based upon input
from the Chief Financial Officer, but it's good for us to be updated. And I think it justifies your
decision that you are reporting to us. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Heather. I really appreciate you taking the time. As I've said
previously, I feel really strongly about not doing business with Wells Fargo. This dates back to
2014. And a lot of the constituents in which all of us represent have been impacted by their poor
behavior. And so I'll leave it at that. I trust Dave and you to continue to plow forward, but I do
feel very strongly about it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. And I just want to make it clear, I am not endorsing one
particular bank or another. I am just trying to tell you our experience with them, and kind of
where we see it from a financial view and an operational view.
KEN MIHALIK: Just an objective information. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I've got to move my microphone around. Just for the record, if it was coming
to a vote, I would vote against it. I did some research based on Chair Mihalik's suggestion and
found that there is not just that one instance in 2014. There have been repeated and across
multiple divisions, not very many in the wholesale sector as you talked about, but a couple. Not
always criminal, but some that were unethical or that impacted and harmed people, as recently as
August of 2018. In fact, most of what I found was in the latter part of 2017 and 2018.
Now, some of that was settlements. So they may have been years in the making. But it was
enough to give me pause. So-KEN MIHALIK: OK, thanks. One more. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I have to add my voice to this as well that I also
have such a serious concern with Wells Fargo based on everything that everyone else has said.
And I think just-- I do believe in working through the General Manager and through our CFO.
But I do think at large, in my constituency base, they're very concerned about the issues that have
come up with this bank. And I just want IT to be part of the record. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Well, I guess-- thank you. I guess I'll speak in favor of Wells Fargo. I've had an
account with them for a number of years. I've never had a problem with them. I've never been
offered the kinds of accounts, I guess, that were offered by some branches or actually accounts
opened on my behalf without my knowledge or anything like that.
I mean, obviously everybody here is against that type of activity. And I'm sure Wells Fargo, if
you've read and followed that, has taken a terrible black eye out of this. But when you look at the
fact that the state's going forward with them, and they have the capabilities to meet our needs, I
think we're wasting our time trying to pick somebody else.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. I'm going to check with Director Folska. Do you have any
questions or comments?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, Chair Mihalik, I do not. Thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Can I just add one thing? Just to make sure everybody's clear too, if
we went out with our own RFP, we could not exclude Wells Fargo from applying, or any bank
for that matter, unless we experienced personal issues with them or there was something on the
current contract that they did not perform. Then we could use that as a reason to exclude them.
So I just wanted to make sure we're clear that even if we went out on our own, we couldn't
exclude anybody in particular unless we had reason to do that.
KEN MIHALIK: Understood. I don't have anything else.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you for your time. I know it's been a long night, so thanks for
paying attention. The next item-- do you want me to move on to the next item-- is the quarterly
investment report. I'm actually just going to mention real quickly, we're up to 2% earnings. Very
exciting here, since we haven't made that in a long time. And the good part is we're not issuing
bonds which would affect us on the other side. So we're happy with the earnings we're getting
right now, and we're still benchmarking slightly above, just slightly above the benchmarks that
we use. So with that, I'd be glad to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Any questions on 2%?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Congratulations.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, if you want to finish off with the-- wait, never mind.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We have two things real quick. So the monthly financial report, Doug
is up here again, we still have estimated numbers. And that's a little unusual. But we're still
waiting on the final number, so we're going to reissue December's as soon as we get the final
numbers for year end and not just have estimated numbers. With that, I'll see if Doug wants to
add anything to that.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thanks, Heather. Yeah, the only thing I would mention is that these are still
unaudited numbers. So they're subject to change as we go through the audit process. We still
have invoices coming in, still have to have a review by RubinBrown. One thing I would mention
is on the ridership, we've talked to the Board previously about-- we're going through the process
of becoming certified on our automatic passenger counters on all of our vehicles.
Last year we got certified by the FTA our rail vehicle APCs, Automatic Passenger Counters. We
just received notice from the FTA that they granted us certification on our bus APCs. So some of
these ridership numbers will change. We're very close to having that process automated. So
when we come back to you, we'll probably have pretty solid numbers.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And as we mentioned in our previous report, we're going to restate the
previous year so that you can see the comparison about what it looked like before and then after
we restated it with the actual passenger count information in there. So it may change slightly.
And then are there any questions on that? I'm sorry, I was just moving on.

KEN MIHALIK: I won't fault you for that. Any questions? I see Chair Tisdale is in the queue.
DOUG TISDALE: One quick comment, if I may. Page 161 of the packet which is the
Dashboard, obviously news media will look at things like the ridership arrows going down,
particularly year to date 2018 versus 2017. Am I correct in reciting, however, to news media and
others that while bus ridership is down, rail ridership is either flat or increasing year over year,
correct?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. This is Doug MacLeod. Yes, that is correct. So those numbers will
change a little bit. And we've seen some preliminary numbers based on this new methodology
using APCs that will change the numbers a bit. But the comparison will all go in the same
direction. So yes, you are correct in saying that.
One thing I would mention too is that we do report these numbers to the National Transit
Database. So one of the other processes that RubinBrown goes through is they check our
National Transit Database filing. Those numbers that we report in NTD, National Transit
Database, determine how much grant funding we get. So this is a really critical component that
we get this right. And Heather I think wanted to-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, I just want to point out the last page of your financial packet, the
monthly financial packet, does have those ridership numbers by quarter, as you can see the
differences between rail and bus.
DOUG TISDALE: I know, but the media will grab the Dashboard first and focus on that. Thank
you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And then-- oh, I'm sorry.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, we've got a couple more. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. This is a question you probably get numerous times
throughout the year. But I got an email today from somebody who lives in Aurora but is not in
the RTD district that when he checked he was charged 1% on a new car that he bought. And how
does he get his money back?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: He needs to file with the Department of Revenue for a refund. And
then he'll have to prove he was outside the district.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thanks. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I know we look at all these all the time and we talk about
what's up and what's down and how ridership is. It might be of interest at some point for us to
look at how our standards relate to what the national trends are in relationship to riders on buses
and riders on trains. General Manager?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, we can do that. We've been looking at that lately, actually. And
the national trend is that bus ridership is down and rail ridership is up slightly and that overall
ridership is down. So we're actually trending slightly better than the national average because
their percentages are slightly worse than ours, I guess, is the right way-- that's like a double
negative I just said.
So we have looked at that, and we keep an eye on that. But yeah. And part of it is, as we build
more rail lines, we do modify our buses to support those lines, which results in some cases
purposely changing those bus so that we're feeding them into the rail system, which is what's
happening nationwide also.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: I would just add that Heather is correct in the observations of those trends,
and I talk about them quite a bit. But one other thing I'll point out that's on that last page is when
you look at just our total revenue service-- so when you take out things like the mall shuttle,
MetroRide, Access-a-Cab, Access-a-Ride, and Vanpool, we're only down 0.5% when you look at
all total revenue lines between fixed bus and rail. So it's interesting to look at these different
things and to be able to kind of observe some of the nuances that are in there as well.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Just in terms of how all of us have to deal with the public and with our
constituents, something we might want to get some talking points on, I was in a meeting today
talking with some people about how scooter and jump bike and Lyft and whoever else do and do
not affect transit ridership. And so those are just some things that we need to be able to address.
Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: We'll do that, thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair. The other thing is, I am a transit rider. And
what I hear and what I experience is that service has gone down as well. And I wonder how
much that has an impact in the numbers of low ridership. So for instance, this morning I had to
be at work before 8:00. But Route 28 didn't go this morning at 8 o'clock where I had to be.
And so I'm wondering, as I'm looking at the Dashboard, how much service levels of transit
impacts that number. It's just a question that I have in terms of actually being out in the system
all day long. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I think we're on to the Fare Implementation Update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we told you we'd come back to you each month with just a quick
brief update on where we are. We implemented January 1 with very little issues, so we pretty
happy about that. It was one of the smoothest fare changes we've had, I've been told. I've only

been here for one other one, and it was a little rough. So this one was better, but I don't know the
history of things. But we'll take credit for that.
So we are now moving on to our big project that's coming up, which is the implementation of the
Low Income Program. We have been working very closely with the Office of Information
Technology at the state. As we put in here, we are in the requirements finalization process. They
have given us some initial quotes on the funding, which is below our forecasted budget, so that is
good, as well as on our ongoing forecasted budget. When those numbers are solidified, we'll
bring those back to the Board so you can see where we stand against that, because we're not sure
what else we might have to contract for.
For finalizing the scope of work and the IGA, it's been going back and forth between our
attorneys and their attorneys. So hopefully we're getting close on finalizing that. I do have to say,
the state has been very generous about working without a contract. And they are not charging us
for any of their costs. They're charging us just for the costs of their consultant and what it takes
for storage operation of the system, those type of things. So they're not charging us for any of
their costs which is good, because they've been meeting with us daily for almost three months it
seems like. So I think that would be expensive.
We're still looking at production ideas for the cards. Do we produce them in-house like we do
now, or do we use a third party vendor? So we're exploring that. And we're planning for the
programming changes for the actual MyRide cards to have the discounted card available on time.
So those are where we're at. Each month I expect to have a little more information for you about
how we're doing, what it looks like as far as timing, if we have any issues.
We do have a Market Committee that's been working that's kind of a subset of the past working
group plus extras. And Michael's in the audience to talk about that. They have a total of three
meetings planned, two of which have been held, and the idea behind that is to provide feedback
to us on a name perhaps other than the Low Income Program, and how we might be able to do
outreach more effectively.
We've also had some great conversations with the state on outreach through the existing PEAK
system as it is. So I think we're making quite a bit of progress. It's kind of one of those things
where you make a lot of progress one week, and then it seems like you don't make any progress
for a week or two, and then you make a lot of progress. So last week my understanding is we
made a huge amount of progress.
We have been aided by Boulder's Department of Human Services as well as Denver's
Department of Human Services. They recently have come into the picture and offered them some
insight on their dealings and how they work with their customers, and that they'd be willing to
offer this service as part of helping their constituents as they work through other programs that
are out there.
So I think we have seen an outpouring of support that we weren't expecting, especially from the
State Office of Information Technology. I can't say enough about how wonderful they've been to
work with. So I'd be glad to take any questions.

KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Michael's in the audience too, if there are questions on the Marketing
Outreach Group too.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, thank you. So the number that always sticks in my head with the
portal, I think of it as the portal at the state that we're going to be using, is the million dollars.
But that was the annual-HEATHER MCKILLOP: That was the annual maintenance cost.
NATALIE MENTEN: And so the setup was close to three?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So I look at it. And I'm not totally inexperienced, and it seems really,
really expensive that we're paying $3 million to start up a portal where people can apply for a
reduced fare bus pass, and then $1 million on top of that. So if somebody could get with me
offline, just send me something [INAUDIBLE]. We need this much server bandwidth-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. We have-NATALIE MENTEN: Something to explain, because that's huge.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, we have a budget identified. Now, right now those costs are not
going to be that significant based on what we've gotten. But the costs that we utilized was what it
took King County and Seattle to implement their system with their agencies there. And so that's
the best we had because at that time they were the only organization that implemented. Since
then, we know that there's been some others that have attempted to do some implementation. But
they're the closest to what we're doing on a very broad scale. Some of these other agencies are
quite contained in what they're offering.
But I'd be glad to do that because we've set up the budget. So we know line item by line item
what we're expecting.
NATALIE MENTEN: So coming in this month, I was hoping that we finally would get whatever
those numbers are supposed to be below that budgeted amount. But you're telling me we don't
have those yet.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, because we can't finalize those until we have the IGA language
finalized. And then we also are looking at what other additional costs we may need to spend to
verify those that aren't in the system and that need to get into the system.
NATALIE MENTEN: I also have some concerns I'll just share with you now that when I hear
that we're doing marketing plans for this, when there is a reduced anything, whatever it may be,
there's a sale. And there's a sale. People are sharing the word. If they're on Facebook, they're

talking to their buddies. I'm concerned that we're going to be spending a lot more money on a
marketing plan when I think it should be the school districts that should be sharing. They've
already got the email addresses of all the parents. Hey, if you need to-- here's the fare for kids.
I'm concerned that we're going to be spending a lot of money selling the program, and it should
sell itself. Those are my thoughts. So thank you for listening. OK, bye.
DOUG TISDALE: Go
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I think there's another meeting after this.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams, you're next.
KATE WILLIAMS: On a similar note, I mean, have we thought about having a naming contest
or something so that people could get involved and think about what they wanted to call it, since
we all know that we can't call it the-HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Michael's bailiwick.
KATE WILLIAMS: The Low Income Program, because that has all kinds of stigmas attached to
it. But I don't know, we could call it the Scratch My Back Program. I mean, there must be some
way that we could get input that would be fun for everybody. Pauletta?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: This is Michael Washington, Transit Equity Manager. So our
thought was that we really wanted to focus on minimizing stigma. And so we actually just
assembled a group of individuals that have experience in implementing and marketing programs
like this. So that includes individuals from the Denver Department of Human Services and folks
of similar skill set, if you will.
And seeing that we're pressed for time, we wanted to just gather a group of individuals that have
this expertise and can give us the feedback quickly so we could make a decision. So while that's
a great idea, It was just due to us being pressed for time. Does that make sense?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I just would, like, put it up on the website and offer a year pass to
whoever's name got chosen. And if nobody answers at all, what are we out? And there could be
somebody from a completely outside of this whole situation who comes up with some wonderful
name that we keep for 20 years, hopefully my mouth to God's ear, but just a thought. That's all.
I'll shut up. Bye.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I think we're trying to be very conscientious that there's a lot of people
out there that have some very sensitive feelings about this program. And so we wanted to make
sure those people were involved in coming up with something that they could recommend to us
that we might be able to adapt, or at least in some way, shape, or form incorporate.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lewis, you're next.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I have two questions and a comment. The first question I have is
if you all are working with service non-profits for implementation. And I know oftentimes they
have satellite sites and so they are often good partners. It takes a little longer, but do it right the
first time.
Also I've had a few constituents ask me about the 12 and under free bus rides. And so I've
wanted to know if you guys are continuing to have conversations about that. And if so, can I
have an update, please?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, yeah. We're having lots of conversations. We have been
continuing that conversation. But we've been very honest with people about-- our priority right
now is the Low Income Program. And we had committed to having that discussion again after
we have successfully-- I want to emphasize successfully-- implemented the Low Income
Program.
So it's still in our mindset. It's just we only have the bandwidth to concentrate on one thing. So
those conversations, we continue to meet with the transportation directors and conversations with
Nicole Portee, who's been involved in issues with us, while working on the Low Income
Program. So yes, the issue has not gone away, but we've been very frank with people that we'll
come back to that after we've been able to implement the Low Income. Did you want to add
anything?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Service, non-profits.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, non-profit. Sorry, yes. So we have a huge amount of non-profits
that we work with now. And they've been very anxious to find out what their role is going to be
in the new one.
So we're not sure exactly what their role is going to be. We're hoping to eliminate the role of
having to determine income eligibility. But we'd like to expand their role in helping their clients
make sure they have the card. Yeah.
So we've just been working. It's one of our items to work on what that looks like. And then we'll
start a process of talking to the larger non-profits first so that we can get some feedback from
them and then kind of work our way down. Because we have all shapes, sizes, as you probably
know, of non-profits with all different kinds of capabilities. So we're trying to figure out how this
fits into all of their models and makes it easier for them instead of more difficult.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thanks. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Heather. I think we all have a lot of people in groups that are
very excited about this. Are you still targeting a summer rollout?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, I love the word that you used, "summer." So we are doing our
best. We've been saying in the past July. That's still our goal. Although we have to work with the
state because they have their own cycle of rolling out this stuff. So we have been targeting
midsummer right now is what we're saying. We don't have the final schedule from them to be
able to plot everything out, but that's what we're working from right now is midsummer.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And just briefly with the state, are they tying this in with
SNAP or one of the other programs? Or they're setting up a whole separate-HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the way we're working it right now is that an individual-- so there's
kind of a-- I categorize them into three groups. So there's the group of people that are already
within the PEAK system. They're already receiving some type of benefit. What we're looking at
right now-- and this could change, so something's going to quote me I know-- is that anybody
that's already pre-approved and meets our criteria being in the district in the 185 level or below
would automatically, all they have to do is go in and reapply for us and they'll get instructions on
how to check that box, so to speak.
We're calling it the Short Application. You go in and check a box and say, if you're already preapproved-- that's our lingo right now. If you're already pre-approved, then we would issue a
discount card. We have the next group of people that would go into-- may already not be in the
system but they're in one of the social services. So there is a process by which you can get
benefits because you're in CBMS, but you don't have a PEAK account. So we would be targeting
those people to make sure they got a PEAK account, so that they could go in and just check our
application. And then if their information was already in there, we might be able to extract it.
Otherwise they may have to enter some basic information. So it's going to be relatively easy for
some of those people.
And then we have the people who've never accessed anything, any services, but might be
interested. So when they go into this system, they'll be able to either apply just for our
application, for our services, or they'll be reminded that there are all kinds of other services that
you may want to apply for also while you're in there. And so that's one of the things the state sees
as a benefit is they can do broader outreach also through us, in addition to us doing outreach
through them. It could be reciprocal. And they may get more participants in their programs as a
result of participating in ours. So there's these different groups of people, and we're trying to
figure out the easiest way for each kind of group to access our services.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. As you know, this is close to my heart. I want to
commend you for all the work you guys have done. And I've been receiving phone calls from
folks on your committee that have been meeting together. And I just want to make a statement
about how RTD has come to the table not in the name of equality but in the name of equity. And
the difference to me is that equality is when you invite someone to dinner but equity is when you

invite them into the kitchen to help you cook. And when you do that, then they're invested and it
is their program.
And I don't think we need to worry about marketing dollars because the community will do that.
And they are anxious to partner with us, and I think it goes in line with our vision of
collaboration. And I'm really excited to see how this is progressing. So I just would like to say
thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Heather, Michael, Doug. I think we're on to other matters. This
here. Director Menten, other matters?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So next time we go to look at our Bylaws, it talks about our public
notice within our Bylaws, providing the public with notice of our meetings. And at the beginning
of each year, our first action is stating where we will post notice of our meetings. What? Oh, I
thought I-- OK.
And it says down in the lobby, 24 hours in advance is the minimum to post notices. And it says
as feasible, we should also put it on the website. And I would like that to be a requirement. And
this is not the only agency that at times has used the minimum of notice. And we did it recently.
And I would like to make sure that we don't do this again. The example that I give is for our
Board retreat, Board-only retreat. We used the bare minimum to post notice of that meeting. So it
was not posted on the website. And I know that because that day I went to go make sure of the
time that I was supposed to be down here, I couldn't find it on the website. It was because it was
only posted in the hallway here.
And so I would like to see in the future that it is a requirement within our Bylaws that we use the
website, because I do note in here under our guidelines, we're not really that fond of paper. We
like the internet. So we should be using the internet to post all of our meetings.
And I would like to ask that for the Board SLT retreat that we do require that to be posted on the
internet. So let's say a citizen from the Citizen's Advisory Committee or somebody else may
notice that we are getting together for a strategic planning session. As just someone in the
audience, we don't expect them and we don't invite them to join in, but to open up that door and
post it I think is a sign of respect for the public. And I'd like to ask that we do that.
And as a follow up, tomorrow the State House is hearing a bill, and I've already submitted my
written testimony on behalf of myself, that will require every local government within Colorado
to post their public notice of meeting on the internet because we're not the only agency that at
times decides to go with paper for whatever reason that may be. So that is my other matter.
Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska, if you're still with us, any other matters?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm still here. And no other matter from me. Thank you, Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Seeing none else, our next meeting is March 12, and we are
adjourned. You can take a short five minutes. And don't go home. Half function.

