Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on January 8, 2007
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

February 14, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting held
on January 8, 2007 at 4:30 p.m. in 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

***
Committee Members
Present:
Barbara Yamrick, Vice-Chairman; Chris Martinez, Bill
Christopher, Neill Quinlan, Lee Kemp, Bruce Daly, Bill
Elfenbein, Daryl Kinton, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, Dave
Ruchman
Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Errol Stevens, John Shonsey, , Susan
Altes, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Bill Van Meter, Jennifer Heisler,
Pauletta Tonilas, Larry Warner, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Jeff Leib, Johnny Thomas
***

Call to Order:

Vice Chairman Yamrick called the meeting to order at 4:34
p.m.

I. Updates
 University Station Transit Oriented Development – Errol Stevens, Senior
Manager, Property Management presented this update. He provided an
aerial map of the area in question. The area is immediately North of the
University of Denver parking structure. The concept being discussed with
Mile High Development has changed several times. It would be an eleven
story building with apartment housing. There are two formal actions moving
forward right now that must occur before RTD can do anything with this
project. The City would have to vacate ownership of the land and then RTD
would take ownership of the property. If this doesn’t happen, nothing can
move forward because RTD would not own the property. The City has
reviewed this action and signed off on it with the exception of CDOT. This
has to be resolved before a serious proposal can be brought to the Board.
The second action is the rezoning of the property. This action is coming
before the Denver Planning Board in February. If this is successful, the retail
space would not have to be “accessory to transit” which is how it is
currently zoned.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on January 8, 2007
Page 2 of 2

Director Christopher wanted to know if the development would go out for
proposal rather than just having Mile High develop the property. Cal
Marsella replied that the board has a policy of accepting unsolicited
proposals for TOD on site.


Nine Mile Park-n-Ride Parking Issues – Liz Rao introduced this agenda item.
Since Southeast Corridor opened, the Nine Mile Park-n-ride has been full or
close to capacity. Staff is looking at several ways to help mitigate this
problem. Perhaps signs to direct people to Dayton and Southmoor if the
park-n-Ride is full. Johnny Thomas from TREX said that the highway signs
are planning to be tested the week of January 15, 2007. Errol Stevens has
been meeting with the City of Aurora about setting up private parking areas.
The District is considering running advertisements in the Aurora Sentinel
promoting Dayton and Southmoor park-n-Rides.



Right-of-Way Manual and Acquisition Policy – Liz Rao spoke to this item.
The District follows a policy that was adopted by the Board in 1982 in terms
of right of way Acquisition. With the advent of FasTracks, staff feels it is
time to formalize the Right of Way and Relocation policy. Staff will ask the
Board for approval of this policy in February 2007.
Susan Altes, Manager, Real Property distributed brochures on Acquisition
and Relocation as well as an Executive Summary on the Right of way
Manual for Acquisition and Relocation. These items are available for review
in the Planning and Development Meeting Minutes Notebook.
In 1982, the Board adopted policy for acquiring property with locally funded
projects. The Board has never adopted a procedure for acquiring properties
using Federal funds. On T-REX there was an IGA and a memorandum of
understanding between CDOT and RTD. RTD agreed to use the CDOT right
of way manual for acquisition of all properties. FHWA has approved this
manual. Real property has taken CDOT right of way manual and adapted it
for use by RTD changing everything to relate to transit instead of highways.
Two copies of the manual are available for review in the Board Office.

II.

Other Matters – Director McMullen asked about signage at 9 Mile station
and expressed concern about signage at bus boarding gates.
Director Daly mentioned that the RTD Color Guard will do the opening
ceremonies at the Colorado Senate on Wednesday, January 10, 2007.

III.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development
Committee will be determined at a later date.

IV.

Adjournment - There being no objection, Vice Chairman Yamrick adjourned
the meeting at 5:30 p.m.

