2021-05-04 Financial Administration _ Audit
Committee - 5-4-2021
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, are we ready, Nicole?
NICOLE CAREY: You can go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Good evening. The Finance Administration and Audit Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone
attending this meeting to mute yourself, unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety,
and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meeting, will be posted as soon as possible on the board's website. Please visit rtd-denver.com and scroll
to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before
proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like
to speak by pressing star nine. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, please press star six.
I'd like to note for the record that Director Cook will not be joining us this evening, and apparently, Director
Lewis will not be as well. So for the record, there are 13 board members present. Please note that we will
not be taking public commentary during this meeting. Members of the public interested in speaking
directly to the board are encouraged to do so during the monthly board meeting, which is scheduled for
this coming May 11.
I should note that this meeting will follow a special meeting of this committee, where the APTA Peer
Review team for internal audit will present their report. As such, members of the public wishing to provide
comments to the board may need to wait for a few minutes until the regular board meeting convenes.
At RTD, safety is our core value. And I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing, which
we've heard on a regular basis at this point. Once again, there are five reasons to continue to wear a face
mask and maintain physical distance, even after you've been vaccinated. It takes time for the vaccine to
kick in. You won't reach the 90%-plus effectiveness rate until two weeks after your second dose of the
Pfizer or Moderna vaccine. For the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, you're considered fully vaccinated two
weeks after your single dose.
No vaccines provide 100% protection. And although they're incredibly effective, they offer 94% to 95%
protection, which is better than even the flu vaccines, I understand. However, there's no way to tell who
the 5% will be and who don't respond to the vaccine. And they may still be at risk for COVID-19.
Those who have been vaccinated might be asymptomatic spreaders. We still don't know for certain. But
in the event that you could be an asymptomatic spreader, experts are concerned that vaccinated people
can still become infected without symptoms and then spread it to others who have not been vaccinated
yet. We still need to protect those with compromised immune systems and those who cannot be

vaccinated. So even if you are fully vaccinated, it is recommended to steer clear of those considered
high-risk who are not vaccinated.
There are still limited doses of the vaccine, although we are on pace to vaccinate, I believe the president
said 160 million people by the 4th of July. Although there are 330 million people in the US, experts say
that 50% to 80% of the population will need to be vaccinated to reach herd immunity, which could take us
past the summer months. Thank you.
So we have a very brief agenda this evening. We have one recommended action on the agenda this
evening. And that action is for the RTD Board of Directors to authorize the general manager, or her
designee, to amend contract number 19DD-001 with Rasmussen Mechanical Services to increase the
not-to-exceed amount from $278,182 to $838,000 and to authorize a budget transfer of $324,519 from
the general manager's contingency fund to fund the purchase of three replacement boilers at the Platte
Division.
In your board packet was a fairly detailed explanation of this. And at this point, I'd like to ask for a motion
to approve this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So approved.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
BOBBY DISHELL: Second.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is there a second?
BOBBY DISHELL: Dishell.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Dishell is a second. Now, I'd like to invite Henry Stopplecamp to give a
presentation on this topic. Henry?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Thank you, Madam Chair. So on page three of the packet is the recommended
action, and I'll keep it brief. As you pointed out, there is the detailed summary of what's in there. The big
question that I believe will be for the board is, why are we going from the 278 to 838, basically tripling the
price?
So we've got three boilers. They went in in 2014. They didn't live up to our expectations, and so we went
after the insurance carrier for those that installed, provided the boilers. And we prevailed on the first
boiler. And we went forward last year with Rasmussen to go ahead, and we put out on the street to find
an outfit that would install that boiler. In the process, we found out the other two boilers needed to be
replaced at the same time. So we put them on hold.
We are still in litigation. We should be in court July of this year for the other two boilers. We have looked
at the capabilities of the contractor. They have given us a fair price that met our independent cost
estimate for replacing boilers number two and three. It's very difficult to replace one boiler and keep the
other ones going. You basically had to pull all three out to make it work.
So with that, we did do an evaluation through the sole-sourced process and determined, based on the
need of having heat again in the fall, we've got a lead time anywhere between six and eight weeks for the
two boilers. We have one boiler on site. We'd like to go ahead, and we will be replacing the one boiler,
based on previous authorization. I was in front of the board February of last year for the transfer for the
one boiler and indicated that we may be back if we had luck with the insurance company for the other two
boilers.
So that's why we're here. We're asking for two things. One is to increase the contractor value to
Rasmussen, and then also, the project amount and transfer it over for some of the other items that need

be taken care of, as far as integration testing, safety testing, and staffing, to oversee the installation. So in
a nutshell, we're asking for those two items. Are there any questions?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Stopplecamp. Are there questions for Henry? I do not see any hands
raised. Thank you for that explanation. At this time, I would like to ask and see if there are any no votes
on this motion. Seeing none. It appears that this motion has passed 13 to zero, with two members absent.
We do not have any discussion items before us on the agenda, so I will move to other matters. Are there
any other matters to discuss? Chair Rivera-Malpiede, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to take a point of privilege to say, on
behalf of the Board of Directors, that Nicole Carey, who is a board staff member who's done an amazing
job for us, has accepted another job in the agency, and she'll be leaving us at the end of this week. So
Nicole, good luck. We're going to miss you, and keep in touch. And if you get bored, come back.
NICOLE CARY: Thank you very much, everybody. I appreciate it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, we all wish you the best and-NICOLE CAREY: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: --know that you'll continue to do a wonderful job for this agency.
NICOLE CAREY: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I wanted to repeat that we will be having a special board member with the APTA Peer
Review next Tuesday, where they will present their report. And I, for one, am incredibly pleased with the
work that they have done. And they are highly-credentialed individuals. It's very impressive. And so tune
in next Tuesday for their report, and then we'll see where we go from there. Are there any other matters to
discuss?
So in addition to our special committee meeting next Tuesday, our next meeting is, I believe, scheduled
for May 15. So I think this is a record for shortest meeting of the FAA Committee. We are now adjourned
at 5:42 PM. And because it's such a short meeting, I'm not sure that we need a break. And we can go
directly to Director Williams for the Operations Committee meeting. Thank you all.

