Dec 4, 2018
Special Board Meeting
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: December 14. December 4, 2018 RTD Special Board Meeting. The record
will reflect that we are convened as of 9:13 PM Mountain Standard Time here in the RTD
Boardrooms at 1660. I would again respectfully request everyone to please silence their phones.
Also note for the sake of the record and for the benefit of the public, once again, that this
meeting is being video and audio recorded.
Tonight's meeting has been convened as a Special Board Meeting for two specific and limited
purposes. Number one, to address an item of business relative to the agency's safety plan, which,
due to the timing requirements of its submittal, must be formally submitted by the full Board
prior to our regularly-scheduled Board meeting, which will be held December the 18th. And we
ask your kind indulgence in that, and I'll say another word about that in a moment. The second
purpose is for us to be able to adjourn into an Executive Session so as to allow legal counsel to
update Board members regarding matters related to Denver Transit Partners, and the Federal
Railroad Administration, and the Eagle P3 project. Once the Board concludes its Executive
Session, there will be no further business to come before this Board this evening.
As to our first item, the action item on this agenda-- this is noted on your agendas as agenda item
number 2, action item number 1. It's the approval of the 2018 Public Transportation Agency
safety plan. You will note this is the matter that we just approved, and recollection serves it was
unanimous on the vote for the safety plan. So, if you will, this would be on our consent agenda
were this a regular meeting, but I point that out for the sake of the record and for the ease of
convenience of anyone who might otherwise feel compelled to say something on the topic.
The timing, I will point out, is unfortunate because it was imposed upon us by the Colorado
Public Utilities Commission, who said that in order for them to consider their approval of the
plan, they had to have formal Board approval before they would do it. They weren't going to
approve the plan pending our approval. Their rationale was, why should we spend time on
something if in fact they don't end up approving it. So it's presented to us now.
It is recommended by the Planning Capital Programs and the FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the 2018 Public Transportation Agency's Safety Plan, the PTASP, as
required by 49 CFR Part 674, State Safety Oversight Regulations. The recommended action
proposed supports the following GM goals. Task goal number three, assess asset management
and state of good repair. May I have a motion?
CHUCK SISK: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Sisk, and I have a second from Director
Lubow. Is there any discussion on that motion? I hear no discussion. I think we are ready to take

a vote on the motion as submitted and made by Director Sisk and seconded by Director Lubow.
If the Board office will set up for the vote. Director Sisk has voted, and Director Lubow has
voted, and we are ready to vote here.
And based upon-- and we need-- who do we need?
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
And by a vote of 12 in favor and none opposed, it passes unanimously. We may pass on the word
to the Colorado Public Utilities Commission that we did approve this, and unanimously and
timely. Are there any other matters to come before the Board before we address the question of
an Executive Session?
All right. Hearing none, let me then bring to your attention that we are looking for a motion to
proceed into an Executive Session. I will state, for the sake of the record first, because the
question has been raised by one or more directors, as to should there be some public comment
made relative to the recent news reports and media reports relative to the RTD, and the state of
affairs with the Federal Railroad Administration, and the issuance of a letter that threatened a
termination of the waiver granted by the Federal Railroad Administration for the operation of the
University of Colorado A line.
And it should be noted for the sake of the record, before asking for a motion to enter into an
Executive Session, that your agency, through its general manager and CEO and through the
offices of Henry Stopplecamp as AGM for Capital Programs and through others, have engaged
in extensive meetings, discussions, negotiations with the Federal Railroad Administration in
Washington, DC in person.
Last week, Dave and I spent almost an hour with the Assistant General-- the Deputy
Administrator for the Federal Railroad Administration. Yesterday, Henry and David, our general
manager, participated in a telephone call with the Federal Railroad Authority for almost three
hours in discussions with DTP, who were present in DC so they could hear directly from FRA
what the concerns and the fact that they need to be addressed in a timely manner.
Today, Henry, and Joe, and David and I spent just about six hours with representatives from
DTP, including David Rushton and John Thompson, and Peter and Roger, that was it from them,
discussing the same thing. Without burdening this record, without the benefit of Executive
Session, but to answer the concerns raised as to the public's right to know, I can tell you that the
FRA letter is being addressed meaningfully, substantively, and timely, and it is reasonably
anticipated that a response that is designed to be satisfactory to the FRA will be submitted in a
timely manner by the parties.
That having been said, so that we have something out there for the public to understand, that this
is quite serious and is being addressed, we will now entertain a motion to move into an Executive
Session for an update from legal counsel on DTP and FRA matters pursuant to Colorado revised
statute Section 24-6-402(4)(b), conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the
purposes of receiving legal advice, unspecified legal questions.

And so I would ask for a motion to that effect. I have a motion from Director Lubow. I have a
second from Director Folska. Is there discussion on the motion to enter a new Executive Session.
Hearing none, let's proceed with a vote.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Excuse me. I could not get my-DOUG TISDALE: And not being able to sign in gives you an absolute right to give us an oral
vote of yes in favor of the motion.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I can vote, and I want to vote directly.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, yes. And before announcing the vote, let me recognize Chair Anderson.
Because I know this is a matter of direct, personal impact relative to your district. And I regret
that I proceeded so hastily that I did not recognize you. So let's hold on announcing the vote for a
moment, and I'd like to hear from Chair Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I'm sorry. I could not make that work. I prefer doing the public's
business in public. I also know that, sometimes, there are legal issues and we can't. But I will
reluctantly go into Executive Session this evening because it is important to my community, very
important. But I prefer that my community be kept informed of what is going on, and I thank
you, chairman.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chair Anderson. And Forgive. Me for having
proceeded with too much haste at that point. That having been said, are there any votes
outstanding? Are we prepared? By a vote of 12 in favor and none opposed, the motion to move
into Executive Session has been passed.
I will note for the sake of the record that immediately upon our conclusion of the Executive
Session, which is limited in scope and topic, as we have directly said, and that's all that we will
talk about, and it will be to hear further report from General Manager, Assistant General
Manager, General Counsel, and your Chair relative to these meetings that we have described in
open session, we will then adjourn, because there is no additional business to come before this
Board.
We take a moment now to allow those not allowed to participate in the Executive Session to exit
the room. And I believe, and I will look to General Counsel, for an affirmation relative to those
left in the room before we actually formally commence with the Executive Session.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, Chair Tisdale. This is Rolf Asphpaug, General Counsel. We have a few
more people who are leaving. Once they have left, in addition to the Board, there will be Mr.
Genova, myself, Mr. Stopplecamp, Mr. Christie, Mr. Jensen, Mr. Ford, Mr. Meader, Ms
McKillop, Mrl-- let's see. We've got Ms. Ross-Amato, Mr. Miller, and Mr. Van Meter.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much.

ROLF ASPHAUG: Oh-DOUG TISDALE: And, of course, the Board's Executive Manager, our consigliere, Barbara
McManus.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Ms. McManus.
DOUG TISDALE: And I say that with the greatest affection, as has been noted by those who
were at the APTA Leadership Summit, where it was explained that a person in Ms. McManus'
position is, in fact, throughout the industry referred to as the consigliere.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Well, it looks as if we are ready to go, Chair, if you and the Board are ready.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Then we have a representation by general counsel that we are at
this point in time prepared for an-- [AUDIO OUT]
Anything further staff would like to add? Anything further that any director would like to add?
No further discussion. Seeing none, I'd like to have a motion to adjourn the Executive Session. I
have a motion. There's a second. Any discussion on the motion? Hearing none, all those in favor,
indicate by saying aye. Aye. Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously.
We're now in regular session. Motion to adjourn, please. I have a motion--

