April 9, 2019
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
KEN MIHALIK: This meeting is being recorded and made available to the public via the Board's
website. At RTD, safety is a core value. And I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety
moment. The National Work Zone Awareness Week is an annual spring campaign held at the
start of construction season to encourage safe driving through highway work zones. The key
message is for drivers use extra caution in work zones, and that the Work Zone Awareness Week
is this week. And the American Traffic Safety Services Association, along with several agencies
and partner organizations, will celebrate Go Orange Day on April 10. So be careful driving
through work zones, and look out for the workers.
This evening we have two recommended actions. The first one reads as follows. It is
recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract to 6e Technologies for BI Work Order Contract Contract Number 19 DH0XX (delta
hotel zero x-ray x-ray) for an amount not to exceed $2.5 million over five years. Work is
administered on an as needed work order basis. Funding for these work orders will be included
in the budgets of the projects on which the work is performed.
And this action supports the following General Managers' goals. Core goal number three, strong
financial management, task goal number three to ensure efficient ensure fiscal sustainability, and
task goal number four, address future transportation needs and methods. Is there a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Guissinger and Williams. Heather, I'll allow you to
leverage if need be.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. I'll just be really brief. This is, as it mentioned, a work order.
And this is for business intelligence activities. Those are the folks that we have on staff that
create all the reports out of our data warehouse. And this is basically supplementing those tasks.
We only have so many employees, and we have a lot more requests and projects than we have
employees. And so on an on call basis, we execute work orders against this faster contract, and
then the funding comes from the project that's going to benefit for that particular work.
So the amounts stated in here are not to exceed, but most likely we won't spend all that money. It
only gets budgeted and executed as the work is required. So with that, I'd be glad to take any
questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow, you are the first one.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Heather, when is it decided, or how do we decide
that we're going to get more employees as opposed to having these contractor services?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Mr. Chair, we tend to look at how often the work is needed, what is
the core staff we need, are there sometimes expertise that we need that is not easily available that
we can afford to bring them on as staff, but that we can get them through a work order type
contract like this.
And so we look at all of those type things. What does it cost to bring them in-house? What does
it cost for consultant services? And then we make the determination of whether we're going to
ask for additional FTEs, or we use consultants to be able to do that.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. And looking at the information here, walking away from our Board
retreat, transparency was one of our main components that we wanted to see. How will this
company help us advance past where we're at right now in terms of dashboards that better
display ridership analysis, operational trend, financial transparency? There's some companies
that really do a great job at that. And since that was one of our goals and we are being asked to
approve this contract, how will this advance that goal?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So specifically as it relates to, I know, the financial information you
would like to see on the website, this is not a contract to be able to do that because remember, we
would have to have a project and money for that. That money doesn't exist at this time.
What these folks do is we have a long list of projects and priorities for reports that need to be
done, information that needs to be digested, information that needs to be manipulated so we can
put it in a format that we need to be able to analyze data, all kinds of data, whether it be ridership
data, whether it be utilization data for fares and past pricing, all of those type of things.
The staff that we have is not sufficient to get to that in a timely manner. So we can use our
existing staff and delay projects, or we can use this staff to supplement that. But it's not
specifically designed to do the financial work that you have commented on in the last several
meetings. That would require a project and money to be set aside for that, and that's not part of
this. These people assist us on projects that are already in the pipeline, already have money
assigned to them. Does that help answer that question?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. It does. And then so that I don't get off track on this one, then under
other matters, I'll bring up the rest of the questions I have related to that. But I think that would
be more appropriate instead of asking here under this subject. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Menten. And Director Williams, you're next.

KATE WILLIAMS: Actually, Director Lewis and I are sharing in the interest of preserving the
climate. So she has questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I could not log in, so I do apologize. Heather, if you
wouldn't mind, could you talk more about examples for the predictive maintenance and the state
of good repair?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So probably Mike could answer some of those questions better, but
our BI group has been helping the asset management and the state of good repair with the
inventory systems and being able to keep track and log all that information, and then being able
to pull reports together to be able to generate, for instance, the information I need for budgeting
purposes when we bring it to you to say this is what we should fund and not fund.
So that's the type of work that they are working on for them. Did you want to add anything to
that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's actually sufficient.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And I did just have a couple of things. And so these are-- essentially they're
building macros to run reports and stuff to be able to do this repeatedly.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. Most of the time they're trying to build reports that can be run
on a regular basis or on an ad hoc basis as needed. So they might not run automatically all the
time. Every once in a while we do use our staff-- and that tends to be our internal staff, not this
contracted work-- to be able to pull certain data.
So if we have, say, a request from the public or a Board Member or somebody that we can't
retrieve that data easily ourselves, then we would go to this BI group to retrieve it for us because
they have those tools to be able to do it. Typically would not be the consultant work doing m but
it would be our internal staff.
KEN MIHALIK: And I think you told me previously that RTD previously done work with 6e
and it was a positive experience?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct. So 6e has been a sub to another contractor on some of
this work. So in this case, they've been selected to be the prime. And I did talk to the IT staff, and
they've been very pleased with their work, and one of the reasons they were selected now as a
prime instead of being used as a sub.

KEN MIHALIK: Seeing no other directors in the queue, we'll go to a vote. And again, Director
Guissinger is the mover. Director Williams is the second. And this passes unanimously 15 to
zero. Not that it's two zero. 15 yeses. Got scores on my mind or something.
KATE WILLIAMS: You've been calling the Rockies.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah. We will move on to the second of two recommended actions tonight. It
is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
execute an IGA, intergovernmental agreement, to develop and operate software to help manage
Live eligibility applications through the state Peak software system, state contract management
system, CMS number 128691, for an amount not to exceed $1.8 million, $1,800,000.
The IGA is for five years of development, operations, and maintenance, and this action supports
the following. General Managers' goals core goal number three of strong financial management,
and task goal number three, to ensure fiscal sustainability. Is there a motion?
SHELLEY COOK: So moved.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: I've got Director Cook as the mover and Director Lewis as the second. And
Heather, it's up to you again.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. I'll be really brief, but I just want to let you know we're very
excited about bringing this forward to you because it's a major step forward in being able to
accomplish and implement the new program. And so we have gotten to the point that we're
finalizing this IGA with the Office of Information Technology over the five-year period. It
exceeds the GM's authority, so we wanted to bring it forward to you.
We're also very excited about bringing it forward because we have had a great working
relationship with the Office of Information Technology. And in this case, these costs have come
in significantly less than what we were anticipating for this portion of the implementation, as
well as the ongoing maintenance. As we mention in here, we're expecting about $200,000 in
ongoing maintenance, and the difference of that would be the implementation costs.
The first implementation is currently scheduled-- we're still getting the final-- but in the July time
frame still, so that's good. And then we'll probably have a second phase of it where we're able to
get more enhancements for the user as well as reports and things like that. So we expect work to
be going on throughout the rest of the year.
This is one piece of the puzzle. As we mentioned, there might be other vendors. We're looking at
working with the city and county of Denver in processing transactions that need additional
processing beyond what goes through the Peak system. They do that for other cities and counties
now. And so we'll probably see a contract coming back for that in the May time frame. And then

we'll probably have some printing contracts to print the cards, the discount cards. And that
probably will be a low dollar amount.
But again, major first step. OIT itself, so the Office of Information Technology themselves, has
done all of the work free of charge. They have not charged us anything. We're only paying the
consultant, Deloitte, to do the programming work. So we kept waiting for the shoe to drop when
they were going to say, and this is what you owe us. And they have been very clear that no, that's
part of their job. So I have to say it's been incredible to work with them. And we're really happy
to meet this point, and we'd be glad to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: I see at least two. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Heather, yay. Yay. We're excited it's happening.
Is it Live or Live?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It's Live.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's Live. OK. Like Liv Ullman. We'll remember that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: You're going to live your best life.
KATE WILLIAMS: Live. Got it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That's how I remember it.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I'm not going to live my best live. Yeah. No, Live. Got it. I think this is
great. I want you to know that I'm 100% in support. I think it's great. I think the price is
reasonable. I think that we owe it to move forward with all the work that has been done. And I
just have one quick question. What percentage-- ballpark-- are not going to be? You made a
comment about riders, I guess, and programming. Who's not covered under the Peak program?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So everybody will go through the Peak process and have to fill out an
online application. But that's when it veers off in various back office processes. And I'm
probably not going to see them all. Monika might have to come up and help me.
But so we have those that would be kind of automatically approved because they're already in a
program in the state or with a county that's already in the Peak system. So those people will be
checked automatically, do they meet our qualifications of being in the district and with the age
group, because we will deny them if they're under 19 or over 65.
And they'll get a notice that they there's a better program for them, a better discount than what
they're going to get through this. So we have that criteria. If they meet our criteria and they're
already in the system, and they've been income verified and household verified already, then
they'll be kind of automatically approved.

Then we have a group that wants no other services than RTD, in which case they will have to
upload some basic information. Those people will not get processed through the Peak system-well, they'll be processed through the Peak system, but it will go a different avenue. We're
hoping to Denver Human Services to do that verification because they already do that, so we
don't have to hire staff and they can do it a lot cheaper than we can do it.
And then there's another process that if you apply for ours and you, while you're in there, decide
to apply for another program that you might be eligible for, you will take a path through that
other program eligibility process. They will then verify it. They'll also verify it for us. And if you
meet the eligibility for our program, then you'll be approved. So everybody goes through the
Peak interface and system, but then in the back end it gets divvied out based on what criteria you
meet.
KATE WILLIAMS: One more quickie. Are we going to be tracking? Are we going to get some
kind of, like, attaboy for people who come in through us and then go on to get other benefits?
Are we going to keep track of that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I think they're going to keep track of that. We're not going to be
entitled to know what programs they qualified for because that is very protected information.
Yeah, we'll just know that they got approved through that process. But we won't-KATE WILLIAMS: I don't want another name or their address or their social security number or
anything. I just think that we might want to know how many people we are steering to have a
better life.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I think we'll be able to kind of in gross numbers. But like I said,
they're very protective in us being even able to use that information. Do you want to answer that
better?
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: I think very protective.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, very protective. And that's because they don't want to lose their
federal funding, and these programs are federally eligible. So we've agreed that we don't need to
know what they got approved for. We just know that you did your thing, and they're approved.
But I can tell you that the reason OIT has been very helpful, and the reason Denver Human
Services-- as well as she has a working group with Boulder Services and a few other counties-have been very helpful to us is they're really looking at this as an opportunity to get more people
into the system to help them do more outreach.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you very much, and congratulations on that again.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Heather, the $1.8 million contracting authority is over five years.
It's not just the first year?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. The $1.8 million is $200,000 a year for maintenance, and the
remaining amount is for implementation this year.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. That answered my second question. And then when you talked about
Denver Services, when are we going to know ballpark what our agreements with them will look
like and how much?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'll be hopefully bringing those back to you in May. But we're
estimated, even with using them and the printing services, we're going to be significantly under
budget for implementation as well as the annual cost.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I just didn't know if there were going to be any surprises.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. And we'll bring you a final kind of reconciliation of where we're
coming as we get those numbers. They just kind of seem to be dribbling in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Awesome. I was quite frankly surprised at the low number. So I'm pleased.
Pinching yourself?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We keep thinking that they're forgetting something, but we keep going
over and over the scope of work with them and stuff. So I think we're going to sign this baby if
you approve it so we can get it locked in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, good. OK, thank you. I just was really quite surprised. Well done.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Lubow, you have a question or comment.
JUDY LUBOW: Actually, it's been asked and answered, so I don't need the time.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just really quickly, I think this is great, too. And the numbers look great.
Do we have an estimate of how many people we're likely to be bringing in?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, we do, but I don't know the number. Do you know it off the top
of your head? We can get that sent to you guys. So we'll furnish that way because we do have the
number because we've needed to give the number out to be able to estimate costs. So I just don't
have it off the top of my head. I'm sorry.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Heather, I promise not to be in the weeds like this ever
again, but I have to ask these questions.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That's OK.

SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Ever I try not to, anyways. I wanted to know about the free and
reduced lunch qualifications. Like is there a button or a box that folks could check if they already
qualify for that service? And then additionally, for folks who are experiencing homelessness or
are receiving homeless services, is there a box or coordination of systems that can be checked?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm going to turn that over to Monika because she might know those
questions. I'm pretty sure I know the free and reduced is not a check box. But I know we've been
working on the homeless issue quite a bit.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: So I'm Monika Treipi-Harnke. I'm Senior Manager of Revenue.
And let's see. You can definitely check. I think free lunch and reduced lunch is on Peak. You can
check however many programs who are on the Peak applications and apply at the same time,
including for us. Or you can apply for is separately in kind of a separate process.
However, the system can really only check you for enrollment for some of the programs. And if
you're familiar with the system, you are CBMS programs. So it will be able to check against
Medicaid and SNAP and TANF and see if the people are enrolled, the applicants are enrolled in
under the 185% threshold. So that can be an automatic matching.
But if it's, for example, the free and reduced lunch, that's also not in CBMS and the RTD
program. Then the data will go its separate ways, but for the customer, for the client, they apply
at the same time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Can I have a follow-up?
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: And you had the homeless question also. What we've done, in
Peak there is an option to check yes, I'm homeless. So then we still ask for a mailing address.
And that could be where the person receives services.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So like a shelter?
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: And then we will check that mailing address against the RTD
district. But basically, since the card will be produced by a vendor, so we'll send the data and the
photo data. And they will turn out, process the printing, the mailing. So there's some mailing
address required. If there is none given, then kind of that's the current Peak functionality where it
defaults to the county. And that's where it would be sent.
So that's why we're hoping for help from the community partners that have been involved with
the outreach to basically help people and say oh, this is where you receive services, or this is
where you can go, give this as your mailing address, get some help applying.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And the community partners actually leads into my next question
around immigrant and refugee populations in the climate of the nation right now. And then I was
wondering if you have heard anything from your partners around folks being able to access those
services as we're thinking about undocumented folks, immigrant folks, refugee folks, and the
fear around access to services.

MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: The way it will work in our application is that there is no social
security number required. It is highly encouraged if you have one, because then you can be
matched up to services you might already be receiving. Your income verification can be done
electronically rather than someone having to ask you for some statement, pay stub. So it's really
suggested to use it, but it is not required. So the application will not stop.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And then my last question is if you all could give to the Board, or just
to myself, unless the Bord is interested, in a marketing brief on how you all are working with
your community partners to get the word out about the program. You don't have to answer that
now.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: Yeah. We just got a marketing department and communications
department planning update so we can definitely ask them.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And we have a presentation later on where Michael will be up here
and he'll talk about that.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Malpiede, I'll let you have the last word on this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. So we all know how happy I am to be seeing this.
But I do have just a clarification is that when you're rolling this out to people who are already
qualified, you're working with the over 300 nonprofit organizations and that program currently,
correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So yes. We're working on what the outreach is going to be to the
nonprofits because one of the benefits will be to them is that they don't have to do means testing
anymore because it will be done through this process. But we also would like to use them if they
have participants that need help in applying and access to a computer, or just helping them
navigate.
The process, we were surprised, is quite easy and self-explanatory. But if you haven't used a
computer, it could be a more difficult. So one of the things that we would like to use those for-and we're working on how that communication is going to happen-- is I'm hoping that those
nonprofits can also help their constituents navigate the system to get the card in the first place.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So one of the things that we're seeing in the community is
multiple languages. I mean, multiple languages. And so I want to make sure that there's access to
that being translated. That's the first thing. And then the second thing is are we still on track for a
rollout of July?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So right now, if I can get the IGA signed-- no. Right now they have
just started programming, and their date is in July. Like I said, we're not sure all the exact
functions that will be available. I think some of the bells and whistles might come a little later in
the year. But the basic functions, we're hoping for July right now. We have not been told that

they can't meet that date at this time. But I know they're working very hard to do that because
they have some other major projects that are also due at the same exact time in June and July.
But as of right now, we know that.
On the language issue, we understand there's a lot of them out there. We do have it translated
into Spanish. That's part of the Peak process is to have it translated. I'm not sure if they can use
Google Translate to translate it into other languages or not. We'd have to check on that for you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You cannot. I mean, we are literally translating in Burmese,
Korean, so many different languages. So I think-- yeah, I think we really need to take a look at
them.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: But right now we did translate everything into Spanish.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Thank you.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: Maybe to clarify, in Peak the application will be in either English
or Spanish when you go through. All notification letters will be in either English or Spanish. We
cannot accommodate other languages in there. We did talk with our communications department
about providing handouts or other, basically, information on our website, kind of like what you
see maybe at UPS if you're a parent or so, where you have explanations that, unfortunately, we
can't program into the system.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams, I promised her the last word. But I'll give you a quick-KATE WILLIAMS: Quick little one. So are we going to have a place on our website where you
just go there and then it sends you on?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, yeah, I think we expect to have something now that will take
you to the Peak system.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was my quick yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Let's go ahead and vote on the IGA for the Live program.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair Mihalik, I had made the motion. And I'd like to defer to one of the
other folks who have been more active on it, if they'd prefer to make the motion. No? OK.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. So Director Cook as the mover, Director Lewis as the second. This passes
14 yeses, one no, and that being Director Menten. Thank you both for that. And we will welcome
the gentleman from the CU Leeds School of Business.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. I'm going to leave for a few minutes, and we'll bring that crew up.
And Doug is going to introduce them.

KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Welcome. Welcome. And Doug, I'll let you make
introductions.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Good evening. Doug MacLeod here. Semianually we have the
gentlemen from the CU Leeds School of Business Research Division come and present right
after they submit their September or their March forecast to us. The March sales tax forecast
we'll be incorporated in the 2019 amended budget, as well as the midterm financial plan and the
long range financial plan. So tonight Robert McNown is with us, Brian Lewandowski, and Rich
Wobbekind, and they will do a presentation of what they see in the economy currently.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Thanks. Thanks, Doug, and thanks to the RTD Board for having us
back again to share some of our findings and our outlook for the economy. I'm Brian
Lewandowski. I'm going to start by giving you a brief economic update, and then we'll transition
over to Robert, who will talk about the economic model and what we expect for the near term
and the long term for RTD revenue.
So just starting out, very briefly, in terms of what we see for the economy, what we're seeing is
that there is a bit of a slowing in the national economy right now. National GDP peaked at 4.2%
annual growth in the second quarter last year. And then we saw it slow down to 4% and 2.6%.
The consensus forecast for Q1 of 2019 is 1.3%, so we're seeing this general slowing trend.
For the full year 2019, the consensus expectation is about 2.4% growth, and then in 2020, 2%
growth. I think that should allay a little bit of fear about an impending recession. When we look
at the recession outlook, it's still pretty low even though there's some jitters in the market. And
we see it in the stock market sometimes. We see it in some volatility in the labor markets and
other aspects.
But it still looks like we're on pretty solid footing for the next couple of years, even though it's
slower growth than what we've had recently. So the average from 2010 to now is about 3%, so
2020 should be below that trend in terms of GDP growth.
We used Moody's forecast for the RTD model. So I put this slide up here to show you how
Moody's expectations have changed over time. So this is looking at the September 2017 forecast
through 2020. The March forecast in 2018, the September 2018 forecast, and the March 2019
forecast.
And one thing I think that's interesting here is taking a look at Moody's 2020 forecast and seeing
how in 2017, Moody's was expecting about 2% growth. Then Moody's got really bearish and
they were below 1% for 2020. And now in this most recent forecast, they're back up over 1 and
1/2%. They're about 1.6% or 1.7%.
So it shows a little bit more optimism in terms of what Moody's is expecting. It's still a little bit
below the 25 forecasting agencies that we track. But again, it's showing that some of the
uncertainty has gone away, perhaps, in the marketplace. And that's brought up the expectation
for GDP growth in the short term.

The Consumer Confidence Index is something that we track as a barometer for how consumers
are feeling because we know that consumer confidence can largely impact spending. So the
consumer confidence shows that through a healthy labor market, people are finding jobs. They're
seeing incomes rise generally, that this is translating to optimism among consumers if you take a
look at long term. But if you take a look at the tail end of the Consumer Confidence Index, it's
decreased pretty sharply from where it was last October. So again, reflecting some more jitters
more than anything in the marketplace.
My clicker stopped working. Oh, there we go. I may have clicked too far now.
OK. So this is showing the Colorado employment growth rate. And one thing that we find
interesting is like the US, Colorado's employment growth slowed down. It peaked in 2014, and
it's been slowing since. This was a trend we saw in many economic variables nationally, and it
was true in Colorado as well.
But an interesting thing happened in 2018. We actually had a re-acceleration in the employment
growth rate. And we sometimes wonder how this could happen. When the unemployment rate
got so low, almost to historically low levels, how do you actually reaccelerate the employment
growth rate? And in fact, we think that this has to do to the increasing labor force participation
rate, which I'll get to in just a moment.
But nonetheless we do see slower growth in employment in Colorado in 2019. And this was our
forecast from last December. In fact, this is showing up in the data. Through the first three
months of 2019, we're down to about 7% growth through the first three months.
So the labor force participation rate. This is taking a look at the percentage of the population 16
and over who are participating in the labor force. And what's notable about this statistic is the
sharp increase that Colorado has experienced since about 2016, and also how much higher the
Colorado labor force participation rate is compared to the nation.
So where we are about three percentage points higher than the nation is in general, Colorado has
the second highest participation rate nationally and the third highest rate if you take a look at the
last 12 months. So that kind of smooths out any monthly volatility that you may have.
But we've looked at this in terms of our demographics to understand if it's because we have a
younger population, which we do have. But even when you take a look at the individual age
cohorts, we have among the highest participation rates for almost every age cohort.
And if you take a look at this increase over the last three years, it's really been the source of over
100,000 jobs, 100,000 workers. So this is where that additional supply of labor force is coming
from that helped us reaccelerate our employment growth rate and sustain strong job growth over
the last few years.
So in terms of where the growth is now in Colorado. We take a look at the seven metropolitan
statistical areas in the state. And this is a slightly different story than we've told you for the last
five or six years. We're actually seeing some strong job growth out in Grand Junction. We're

seeing some pretty good job growth in Colorado Springs. Pueblo is the one area that still seems
to be struggling. They kind of bounce between positive growth and negative growth, depending
on the month.
In terms of the unemployment rate, this is true as well. We're seeing unemployment rates drop
around the state in general. But we still see the lowest unemployment rates in the Denver region
north up through Boulder, Fort Collins, and over to Greeley.
In terms of home prices, this is another story that has shifted. So Colorado, there's a couple of
indices that we look at when it comes to home prices. And in terms of the purchase only index
from the Federal Housing Finance Agency, Colorado still ranks fifth nationally. If we take a look
at the All Transactions Index, which takes into account appraisals, we slipped to 13th. It's the
first time we've been out of the top 10 in awhile.
But if you take a look at the Metropolitan Statistical Areas around the state, now we see Pueblo
among the top MSAs nationally. So this slide is showing all 330 plus MSAs. Pueblo's in the top
five. Colorado Springs is in the top 15. And then we see Greeley, and then further down we see
Fort Collins and Denver and Boulder and Grand Junction.
So all of our MSAs are still in the top half, but I think it's interesting now that we're seeing
Colorado Springs and Pueblo, which really lagged in the economic recovery and in the home
price appreciation. We're seeing those MSAs catch up now.
In terms of inflation, the story also that we've told you for the last five or six years is that
Colorado is outpacing the nation in terms of price growth. So while we're a star performer in
terms of almost every other economic metric-- employment, personal income, wages, home
price, growth, et cetera-- we've also been outpacing the nation in terms of price growth.
That price growth has led to negative real wage growth some years. So some individuals are
seeing their wages not keep up with inflation, which can be a problem. But what you cannot see
up here is that the January number, which just came out for the Denver Aurora Lakewood MSA,
actually was up only 0.4%. So it's the slowest growth in prices that we've seen in quite some
time.
And if you take out the volatile components of food and energy, prices went up 1.1%, which is
also the slowest rate that we've seen in quite some time. So one data point doesn't necessarily
suggest there is a slowing trend in prices. But that's something that we'll certainly keep our eye
on.
So in general, what we see is some of the headwinds for the nation and for Colorado over the
coming year. We're looking at slower global growth. We're watching the value of the dollar and
seeing how that impacts not only economic growth locally, but how it impacts our exports
explicitly. We're watching the national policy to see how it impacts trade through trade and
tariffs. And then at the state level, watching commodity prices, how it impacts our agricultural
sector, how it impacts our energy sector.

Drought and weather. We took drought off this concerns list. Our drought index fell to only
about 10% of the state is in severe drought, so we see this as an improving condition. It's not as
much of a worry as it was. Housing affordability, even though prices are slowing, they're still
growing at a faster rate than incomes and inflation, so that remains a concern for us. The never
ending talent shortage, and watching real wage increases.
So that sets the backdrop for Robert, who can share some insights about what we see for RTD
revenue.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Thanks, Brian. And thanks to the Board for supporting our effort. We
really appreciate this collaboration. And so it's my task to present the forecast for RTD revenues.
And of course, the background that Brian's provided for the overall economy and the state
economy are integral to the forecasts that you're going to hear about from me.
So we've developed different models for our short term and medium term forecasts, and then for
our long term forecast. This slide gives you an idea of the key variables that are driving those
forecasts. The top section there, you can see that those variables are pretty much typical cyclical
economic variables like employment, personal income, retail sales, taxable sales. And so those
are the key drivers in our short term and medium term model.
For the longer term forecasts, it's much more supply side oriented. And in particular, that model
incorporates the drag on the economy from the slowing population growth and the aging of the
population as well. We'll talk a little bit more about that later.
So sales tax revenues, obviously, are going to be strongly driven by retail sales. Unfortunately,
the state of Colorado, the Department of Revenue is no longer reporting retail sales, or hasn't
since early 2016. So we've overcome that obstacle by linking the RTD taxable sales to taxable
sales at the state level. And you can see these two variables do track each other fairly well. The
big spurt in the red line there, it's pretty obvious you would recognize that as the time when the
FasTracks program was adopted. But otherwise, those series are going to track pretty closely.
So here are our short term forecasts in terms of rates of growth. And so you can see that for
2018, those are actual data. The revenues were boosted tremendously by this use tax revenue
growth of over 25%. And that gives you a hint of the magnitude of the task of forecasting that
highly volatile item, that you can see our forecast is going the other way for 2019, where we're
projecting, actually, a decline of 5%.
But overall, then, our tax revenue forecasts, total revenue forecasts for 2019 and 2020 coming in
at about 4 and 1/4%. And that's a bit of a reduction from what we experienced in 2018. And that
reflects the projected slowing of the economy that you already saw in Brian's early slides, say, at
the national level in particular, GDP growth slowing from 2018 down to 2019 and 2020. And so
that naturally, then, is reflected in these figures, too.
There we go. So we always recognize that our forecasts are going to have some errors. We
would like to minimize those errors. But it's important for us to report on the historical record
and how we've tracked the actual experience here, going back to forecasts that started in 2015.

So to help you interpret this table-- and there's a lot of numbers there-- we could just focus on the
ones that are highlighted in red because those are the forecasts for the entire year, or the errors in
the forecasts for the entire year rather than each quarter by quarter.
So for example, in March 2015, the forecast was made for that entire calendar year based on data
that were only available through 2014. So it's the first true forecasts for that year. So you can see
that forecasting essentially a year ahead, we were high by 1.8%. So a positive number indicates
our forecast is too high. Negative means it's too low.
And then, say, skipping down to the most recent forecast, again, in March 2018, we made the
forecast for the entire year. And we came in low by, in this case, 1.8%. So it seems-- and we've
looked at all these numbers and tabulated it-- that we're roughly 50-50 in terms of forecasts that
are too high or too low. And overall, particularly on the annual forecasts, they come in at 2%
errors or less, which we think is a pretty reasonable record.
So for the medium term forecasts, we go out six years and we provide alternative scenarios.
These are based on alternative scenarios that are developed by Moody's Analytics. So there's the
baseline scenario that we've mostly been talking about so far, an optimistic scenario, and a
pessimistic scenario that Moody's projects as a below long term trend rate of growth. And these
scenarios are actually pretty tightly clustered. There's only a little over a 5% difference in the
forecast out there in 2025, which is the ending point of this forecast horizon.
And then turning to the long term model, these are the projections going out to 2045. And that's a
daunting task. As I said, we rely heavily on demographic projections coming from the census
and from the state demographer's office. And the governing principle here is that the growth in
the labor force is, of course, going to be constrained by the growth in the working age
population. The aging of the population also has detrimental effects on productivity and on
investment and saving rates. So those are all going to retard the long term growth rate.
So for example, over this entire period of 30 years over which we're forecasting, the average
annual rate of growth, at about 3 and 1/2%, is roughly one percentage point lower than what is
being projected and we've already observed also for the current decade. So that shows a
substantial slowdown in the pace of growth in the long term, which we think is pretty realistic.
So finally, we like to compare our forecasts to what our associates in the Colorado Legislative
Council and the Office of State Planning and Budgeting are doing. And of course, they're not
forecasting RTD revenues, but we can get some idea of whether we're roughly on track relative
to them by comparing some of the forecasts of these key economic indicators.
And so you can see that certainly in terms of personal income, we're very close. Similarly for
2019 unemployment, we're quite close again. But our forecasts for employment in 2020 are
substantially lower than our two associates, and I think the reason, again, is our strong emphasis
that we're putting on the changing demographics.
All right. So just to conclude here, giving you an overview of the principles behind our forecasts- sorry about this. I won't touch it now. I didn't do that. OK.

So we update semiannually, as Doug explained to you. And that enables us to use the most
current economic data. Sometimes we'll revise our equation slightly, although the basic structure
of our model remains pretty much unchanged. The forecasts are generated on what we consider
to be theoretically sound economic principles using state of the art econometric methodologies.
We do not bring in ad factors. We think the best value we can provide to you will be a modelbased forecast.
And finally, the BRD is independent of RTD. We don't have any particular political or financial
stake in these forecasts, and we want to give you the best forecasts we can in an objective
manner. So thank you for your attention and your patience with my clicker.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for the presentation I'm sure that sparked a few questions. I just
don't know. Did anybody have a-- oh, there. I see Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Did you see any evidence that the new tax law has increased
disposable income for individuals and/or has increased business investment?
ROBERT MCNOWN: I would say yes to the first part and no to the second, that certainly it did
increase disposable income, and that's had a significant impact on overall spending, and therefore
overall economic growth that we saw in 2018. So I'm sure that some of that higher growth in
2018 that Brian mentioned compared to the previous years was due to that tax cut.
Maybe I was anticipating this question, but I was personally curious as well because I hear a lot
of conflicting stories about the pace of business fixed investment. And I was looking at those
figures today, and over the past four quarters, I did not see a substantial increase in the rate of
growth of business fixed investment relative to previous years' averages.
I don't know. Maybe my colleagues have a different answer.
RICH WOBBEKIND: I have a slightly different answer. So it was higher last year, but it was
forecast to be higher, business fixed investment. So it's going to be very hard to tell after the fact
whether that piece of the tax cut worked. Certainly we saw higher disposable income. And we
had record automobile sales again. And so on the consumer side, it certainly seems to have
worked. I think the jury's still out, d Robert indicated, on the business investment side.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: And the one thing I'll add to that is think back to our forecast last
year. When we were doing our forecasting, that law hasn't gone into effect yet, so we think that's
why we were under shooting a little bit on RTD revenues. And then we caught up as the year
progressed.
KEN MIHALIK: Anything else, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: I guess not. I could probably ask a lot more questions, but I won't.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Lubow.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I probably ask this every year. But you know, I've
looked at The New York Times, and it would be headlines, and it would say economists predict
recession. And I think one of the issues was there was an inversion of a curve with bond yields
and something else. And whenever that's happened in the past 60 years, we've had a recession
soon thereafter, according to these articles.
You guys don't look at that stuff, right? You look at other things. So do you factor those outlying
things in?
ROBERT MCNOWN: So you're right that that particular indicator, the yield curve inversion, is
not a part of our model. It may influence the Moody's forecasts. I'm not sure. But just a slight
tweak on your interpretation of those articles you've been reading. Some of the economists who
have looked at that indicator carefully say well, it's not enough that that inversion occurs. It has
to be sustained for some longer period of time.
And so I think that that inversion now has been reversed. And so oh, all of a sudden the game's
over. No, I don't think that's the case. In fact, I don't think there's anything really magical about
zero as far as the interest rate differential. I think the fact that it is so close could be a warning
sign. And maybe that's consistent with the slowing of the economy that is figuring into our
forecast. So not so much a recession. But I think that that particular indicator could also be a
signal for a slowing economy.
JUDY LUBOW: So do you bother to tell us those things, those that are outside of your model?
ROBERT MCNOWN: No, in the sense that I said we just provide you with the model forecasts.
But I think the model forecasts are consistent with some of this other information. In fact, if they
were not, they might make me question some of the equations and go back and revisit that. But
nicely, the forecasts seem to be consistent with the indications of slowing that many other
observers are seeing as well.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
RICH WOBBEKIND: So it's a weak indicator. And I think I'm going to say a second thing. I
think it's changing times, too. But it has overforecast recessions, number one. It starts at six
months or it goes all the way out to 18 months. So it's not a predictable timeline even when there
is a recession in the economy. So it's very hard to sort of put that in a model.
But with all of liquidity in world markets right now, we have crazy stuff going on. In monetary
markets there's just so much liquidity out there that there's a question whether or not it's even a
reliable indicator period anymore. So just embellishing that.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
RICH WOBBEKIND: Sure.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Catlin, you're next.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I guess depending on what source it is or who's speaking, they go
anywhere from the sky is going to fall versus something else. With regard to the recent passage
of the oil and gas legislation, and some folks, particularly up in Weld County, are predicting
lower employment, and I mean just some economic indicators for that. Have you factored that in
at all, or do you have any thoughts about what that might do to maybe your next forecast?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: So we did not explicitly work that into our forecast. That was
legislation that was passed after we submitted our forecast to RTD. I even wonder how we would
explicitly work that into our forecast in the future. When we've studied the oil and gas industry
intensely in the past, what we found was that a slowdown in the oil and gas industry can impact
the state's economy. We think it will slow down the state's economy.
And when we looked at the price decrease a couple of years ago, we saw the state economy slow
down. But we saw a sharp decrease in Weld County, that this is really the epicenter of our energy
industry now. Over 90% of the state's oil comes from the one county. Over 30% of the state's
natural gas comes from that one county.
So the last time prices fell, we saw the county GDP actually fall so you could look at it and say
almost that the county went into a recession, but the rest of the state did not. And the Denver
Metro region did not. We still continued to grow at a pretty strong rate. And so some people
point to this and say that we have a well-diversified economy to the point that we're able to
weather those types of storms.
But when we take a look at a place like Weld County and compare it to Wyoming or North
Dakota or Alaska, places that have a similar concentration of energy activity to their overall GDP
or employment, we see that Weld County does look like those states in terms of how they
perform during price downturns. And so we use that as a proxy for what happens if there's a
downturn in activity because of policy.
So we think that if there is some sort of moratorium-- which we're not sure exactly what will
happen in Weld County, but if there is-- we think that it could be detrimental to the Weld County
economy. The question is, how does that spread to the rest of the state? And based on what we
saw a couple of years ago, we think that there could be an impact on the rest of the state's
economy, but not necessarily a recessionary impact on the rest of the state's economy.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I don't see anybody else in the queue. So I just want to thank you
gentlemen, and we'll see you in a few months.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And we will move on to the update of the 2020 to 2025 midterm plan and
budget assumptions.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sorry, just changing seats here. So I'm going turn it over to Jannette to
walk you through. It is that time of the year again, so we're going to be working on the '20
through '25 midterm. And then also, that will prep us for the 2020 budget moving forward. So
with that, I'm going to go ahead and turn it over to Jannette.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Thank you. I've been advised we may be having some difficulty with
the clicker. So I've been given a keyboard, OK? Old fashioned way. Yes, indeed. OK. OK.
There you go. All right. So our agenda tonight, we're going to talk about the midterm financial
plan on a very high level basis, but a little bit deeper than the last time we met and it went a little
too far. There we go. So we will talk about our assumptions around revenue. We'll look at our
operating elements, capital elements, our cost assumptions, issues and challenges, and our next
steps.
So the purpose of the midterm financial plan is to provide overall guidance to our budgeting
efforts for both base system and FasTracks. This is a six-year capital and operating plan, and it
must be balanced. It provides input for our planning efforts around the annual budget, and also
the long term financial plan. It will align with the General Managers' core and task goals as
determined by the Board. It will incorporate our performance measures, and it sets targets for
development of our fund balances.
The process consists of the base system, which was, as you remember, formerly known as the
Strategic Budget Plan, SBP, and also FasTracks, formerly known as the annual program
evaluation. And the objective is to integrate both base system and FasTracks into this six-year
plan, and also a long term plan.
Our revenue assumptions are the same across the board. However, cost development is
somewhat different for base and FasTracks in that FasTracks is more project based. And our
development processes are a little bit different in that we do not have a call for projects on the
FasTracks side. We do in base.
So our revenue assumptions revolve around our sales and use tax growth rate that was just
spoken about. We saw our sales and use tax revenue increase 6% in 2018, and we are expecting,
per CU Leeds, an increase of 4.4% in 2019 and 4.2% in 2020. We're showing you the six-year
forecast, the baseline forecast.
The gentlemen from CU spoke about how economic metrics have changed in the medium term
since the previous forecast from September. And what this is doing is leading to changes in the
revenue forecasts such that the forecast has been revised lower compared to September of last
year. In fact, we are seeing a difference of about $134 million between the March and September
forecast of last year over this 2020 to 2025 period. So over the six-year period, we're seeing a
decrease of $134 million from the previous forecast.
They spoke about retail sales. The forecast is an average growth rate of 4.5% over the medium
term. Personal income is projected to be somewhat slower, and future employment growth rates

will be constrained by slow growth in the working age population. All of these factors contribute
to what we will see in the way of sales and use tax collections.
Our revenue assumptions also include fare revenue. And we are assuming fare revenue growth in
accordance with the recommendation that was adopted by the Board last year. FasTracks is
expected to deliver on fare revenue growth in the near term due to the opening of new corridors.
However, our largest increases will be seen in 2022 and 2025 if we assume fair rate increases in
those years. And I will note that, per policy, the Board considers a fare rate increase every three
years.
For ridership, we are assuming it will be flat on the base system. And growth in ridership will
occur in FasTracks in the near term. Our federal grants, we base our projections on what we
receive in 2019 and any known project-specific grants, and there will be some. As regards debt
financing, issuance of new debt may become necessary to finance fleet acquisition or
construction.
And this is the sales and use tax forecast being shown graphically. The bars represent either base
or FasTracks, take your pick. But the blue and orange, or yellow lines, if you will, bars-represent the forecast from 2019 to 2025. And I just want to point out that in the years '20 to '21,
we are seeing a little bit of a slowdown because the bars don't increase as much in those years.
And if you look at the percentage increase, the forecast is for 3.1% in 2021. So it does slow
down a little bit. And then it picks up steam again in 2022 per CU Leeds.
So the operating elements include our bus service. We will see a small increase in service hours
in fixed route. And we have a committed increase for the Flatiron Flyer ADA service hours will
be scheduled to meet demand. In rail service, we also expect a growth in rail service hours from
full year service on the J Line Southeast Rail Extension and the opening of the N Line.
With regard to operating and passenger facilities, we need to maintain our facilities in a state of
good repair, and we will see projects that will help us meet that objectives. The operating
elements also include operating and maintenance of our completed FasTracks projects, which we
have listed here.
Capital elements. Let me just remind all that capital projects have a cost greater than $5,000 and
a useful life greater than one year. If a project meets that criteria, we capitalize the project, we
put it on the balance sheet, we own it. Becomes an asset. So the fleet plan is probably one of our
largest capital expenditures on an ongoing basis. And we will have the need for bus replacement,
also rail fleet expansion to meet our service needs.
We also have capital needs for operating and passenger facilities and equipment. And these are
projects to replace and improve assets and facilities. And again, we have state of good repair
needs for capital as well. We will have completion of ongoing FasTracks projects. We are
closing out some existing projects. And we will have completion of North Metro over the time
period.

So our cost assumptions relating to operating and maintenance costs. We base our forecast on the
proposed amended budget for 2019. That becomes our baseline year. We then escalate our costs
at the rate of inflation. And you will hear us say inflation and CPI synonymously, the CPI being
the Consumer Price Index.
For diesel fuel costs, we have locked our cost at $2.30 per gallon in 2019, and we use that
assumption in all years of the forecast. We escalate that dollar amount per gallon at the national
inflation rate. We do monitor the futures market for an opportunity to lock our diesel costs in the
future, and right now the futures estimate is about $2.25 for 2020. With regard to debt service,
we will continue to show our interest and principal payments on existing debt. And if we do have
a debt issuance, we will rein in assumptions about additional principal and interest payments.
And then let's touch on those inflation rates that I talked about, or the CPI. We use the Moody's
forecasts for our estimates of inflation over the life of the plan. And as of March 2019, the
Denver Boulder inflation rate is 2.6% in 2020, and the national inflation rate is 2.2% in 2020.
Those rates are a little bit lower than what we had last year at this time,
We also have reserves that we pay attention to. And we are planning for moderate increases to
our fund balances for both base system and FasTracks, and that includes all the funds listed
there. We do this to have sufficient reserves to withstand economic fluctuations. And our goal is
three months of operating expenses in our reserve balances. You hear us say that a lot.
FasTracks, at this point in time, appears to be meeting that goal base system. We're probably a
few years out yet. We also have the FasTracks internal savings account, or the FISA, which is
actually growing rather nicely and is providing another stopgap for us.
So our issues and challenges. Challenges are always opportunities, are they not? Our Board
priorities for 2020, we will try to incorporate those to the best of our ability. We want to continue
to fund our reserve balances. We want to maintain an adequate unrestricted fund balance. We
will be faced with, or have to make decisions about, a lot of deferred projects, projects that we
have put off over the past few years.
We have needs around state of good repair. We will have to monitor the diesel fuel markets. We
will have increased O&M costs. We will have competing projects. And we will have the need to
prioritize our projects. We will see funding constraints and limited funding sources. Nothing new
there. And we will need to address construction and operation of the unfunded FasTracks
corridors.
Finally, we see that our Tabor exemption on the base system will expire at the end of 2024, and
we will be faced with a need to do something about that, whether that be a potential Tabor refund
or addressing the legislation.
So our next steps. This is what we will do in the next several weeks. Review our fuel options for
2020. We will continue to review and prioritize departmental requests for capital and expense
projects. This is a large undertaking. It involves our executive management, SLT. We will
review and update our costs to complete and operate ongoing FasTracks projects. We want to

make sure that those costs are current. We will develop funding strategies and forecasts. We will
track ridership and fare revenue, our estimates against actuals.
So our key dates. You will see us again on May 7, where we will have a first draft of the
midterm financial plan. On July 9, we will bring a second draft of the midterm financial plan
forward and a first draft of the long range financial plan. On September 7, we will present the
final version of those plans, as well as the 2020 requested budget. September 24 we will look for
adoption of the midterm and long range financial plans. And then finally, in November, we hope
for adoption of the 2020 budget.
So that concludes my presentation. We will take questions, of course.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Jeanette. I'm sure there's at least one. And Chair Tisdale. You're
recognized.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I did want to point out one thing just in
the event that any Board member had pause looking at page 45 of the packet that is labeled
Board Priorities for 2020. Please understand that's not an official statement of the Board
priorities. It's a very abbreviated shorthand version of the same that was utilized for purposes of
this report. It's not, as I say, the official statement.
The actual statement of our Board priorities will be circulated tomorrow. You'll receive that
tomorrow, together with Susan Spero's three- to four-page summary of the Board SLT retreat,
just so you have everything. And I just want to do that because for example, the word transparent
was used tonight in talking about the strategic priorities. And it's there. So I didn't want people to
get the wrong impression just by seeing this. But I understand it was needed because it generally
captures the essence of those, and I just wanted to add that comment. Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that clarification. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. First I'll speak to-- or ask a question about a statement on
packet page 44. And that is about midterm financial plan reserve assumptions. And the last bullet
point speaks to FasTracks' internal savings account, FISA, and states continued growth through
savings from rubber tire service increases. I'm going to need more information for that statement
to seat into my brain.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Excuse me so when the Board adopted their contributions to the FISA
account, the largest contribution is from the rubber tire service. That comes from the base
system. So rather than increasing the base system by, I think it's 1%, that money instead is
funneled into the FISA each year. And that's been going on since the FISA was established. It is
the largest funding source. And if you look under the monthly financial statement, you can see
where that is accounted for on an annual basis.
NATALIE MENTEN: So in other words, that statement could read continued savings from
decreased rubber tire service.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, it's not necessarily decreased. It's not increasing rubber tire
service on the base. It's taking that money, instead, and putting into FasTracks.
NATALIE MENTEN: Then I'll just move to the statement on page 45. And thank you, Chair
Tisdale, for bringing up what I'm going to bring up, in that I would like to see-- because this is a
matter of the record-- I would like to see in those five bullet points-- for the record, for me
especially-- strengthen communications and transparency, as there is room on that line.
And if somebody is looking back at our records and trying to search through financial goals-and I know they're people interested in our priorities for 2020-- it leaves some important things
out. So that's my comment on that one. And I do understand tomorrow we'll get that information.
But again, when citizens are looking for something, I would like to have it included. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. Director Lubow, you're next.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I have a bunch of little comments. By the way,
thank you for a very useful report. I appreciate it. That being said, revenue assumptions. One of
them is that the fare increases will happen every three years based on the Board policy to at least
review the fares every three years. And I've been saying for quite some time that if we really are
the highest price transit, or close thereto-- and that's what you see in the newspapers, that RTD
has the highest prices-- that keeping increasing them may not be a good model, that it might
behoove us to look at some alternatives. Really, I think that's very important.
Another assumption is that bus ridership is going to be flat. And we all know what's happening
around the country. However, there were a couple of transits that have increases, like Houston.
And Houston did something like what we're going to do, which is that transformation thing. So
they went up. Maybe we'll go up.
And I would just like to leave that open, that we're not just assuming that the ridership is going to
stay flat. I mean, we may have to at this point, but I'm hoping that that won't continue, that we'll
turn that around. And I also think that we keep kicking the can down the road about just
increasing the fares as our means of staying solvent, so to speak, and at some point it just may
not continue to work. So I urge us to be aware of that.
A couple more things. Heather, as you know, I live for that cash flow graph that you do every
year. It's like my Christmas present. And it's not going to be as nice this year under the tree,
right? No, because it went really up last year. And is it going to go down as much as it went up?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It probably won't go down as much as it went up. But it will not look
the same. We have not run the long range plan model, so I don't have that information. But just
based on the forecast changes, it will be significantly different, yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Right. OK. I assumed that was the bad news. God, I had a couple more things.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you want me to address the other two issues just real quick? So I
think the opportunity to have that discussion about the fares definitely will start next month when

we bring to you a very high level outline of where we're at, which is-- remember, we always
bring that big one, that first one, and it's kind of a shocker because it always shows a big deficit
in it. And then we spend the next three months working on how to alleviate that shortfall through
bringing revisions to you and getting feedback.
So again, be prepared, because we already know that we can't fund what we had funded last year
because of the revenue forecast different. I think that's a really good time to have the
conversation around fares because we do have that built in every three years between now and
the end of time. And so that will make a significant change to how we move forward if the Board
wants to change that policy, which it is the Board's right to do that. But I think next month is a
really good time to have that conversation when we start showing you real numbers and not just
the assumptions that go into the plan. And we'll be prepared to have that conversation next
month with you.
And then I think on the ridership issue is we've even talked about how do we show-- because we
have seen an overall decrease in ridership, even with the tremendous increase in commuter rail
and light rail. Not as much in light rail, but definitely in light rail-- we still have seen, over the
last few years, a 2.2% decrease in ridership. So even showing maintaining ridership is a bit
optimistic based on our past.
However, we do have opportunities. And I know some of that will be presented to you as you
move forward with the tactical plans at the end of April about areas that where we might be able
to change that direction. The question will be is do we make those assumptions based on a plan
that hasn't come forward yet? We're just now going through the stages of hiring someone for
that. Or do we wait till a later time when we have a more solid approach of how we may move
forward, and what that means as far as ridership in the system.
And so we tend to take, from our perspective, a more conservative approach of how are things
looking now versus what might happen in the future. So we just need to have that conversation
moving forward.
JUDY LUBOW: Great. Thank you. Just another point or two. I noticed that there was a
statement that we might be having to finance rolling stock. And I thought last year we said we
just couldn't because I think of that index.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. So you're talking about the debt service coverage. So last year
we had rolling stock financed in 2022 because that's when our numbers got to that point that we
could issue debt again. And also, with the new plan that goes out to 2025 now, we had additional
COPs issued for a maintenance facility in 2025. So now that 2025 is being rolled into this plan,
that cost will be rolled into. And it's part of the discussion we'll be having about projects. Did we
put enough money in the maintenance facility? Do we need it in 2025 or sooner? Those type of
activities.
So that's when she said we're probably anticipating we'll need some type of debt financing
through a COP, a Certificate of Participation. When that will occur and for how much is still the
question. That is on the base system, on FasTracks at this time. We're still working on the

numbers. I don't know that we'll need to see any kind of debt, but we'll have to see how that
works. And a lot of that will be driven by the conversation around the resolution that was done
and the plan that we bring back in two months.
So there's a lot of stuff happening right now that will influence the midterm and long range
plans, and we're trying to just bring those all together for you. But they'll probably be brought
together over the next several months in pieces, and we'll need to get your input as we go along.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Lubow actually brought up my first point. Page six of
your presentation, which is packet page 37, I had underlined the third bullet. Per policy, Board
will consider a rate increase every three years. But then it says next scheduled increase is for
2022 and then 2025. Have you run a model yet that would not include a fare increase for those
two years?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, we have not.
PEGGY CATLIN: It would be interesting to see that because I share the concerns about
automatically assuming a fare increase, particularly with some of the pushback that I got from
some of my constituents, and others did, too, about fare increases this last go round. So I think it
would be helpful to see a bracketed scenario that does not include those fare increases. So thank
you, Director Lubow. I had that underlined on my printed out page from home this morning.
You mentioned that over the six-year period, there would be $134 million decrease from the
previous forecast. Have you started looking at what might be impacted, what projects might be
cut, where those reductions might need to take place in the mid-year financial plan?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: We are going to begin that effort. Right now the midterm financial
plan, at least for the base system, has the projects that were approved in last year's midterm
financial plan. We've brought those projects in. We've built those projects in. And already we are
seeing a gap that needs to be closed in order for the plan to be balanced.
So we will begin to have those discussions around what projects come in, when, where, what do
they look like, where are our priorities?
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So I'm assuming that in one of these subsequent meetings, that some of
those suggestions will be brought forth.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Will be brought forward, exactly.
PEGGY CATLIN: And then my last question, on page 13 of your presentation, you talked about
a reserve balance of three months of operating expenses. Where are we on that?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So for FasTracks, we were able to reach the three months for 2019 and
out into the future. For the base system, I think we were out to about 2025 or '26. I want to say
'26, but it's somewhere in that time frame. And we'll have to look at that again. So we have about
a month and a half, I believe, right now.
PEGGY CATLIN: That was my question. OK. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I have two questions, please. The first one, you
mentioned developing funding strategies, and I'm curious as to what that means and what that
looks like, and what that has looked like in the past. And to page 45, I want to know how we
arrived at issues and challenges, as the Board hasn't received how you define strengthening
communications, or how we've defined addressing equity. And so is this generally we just put
the 2020, or the next year's goals, in issues and challenges? Or is this unique?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. So yes. Our common is every time we list the Board priorities,
we're early in that Board priority process, so we don't know what they'll be as far as issues and
challenges until after those tactical plans are submitted to the Board and the Board comes up
with the actual goals. And then we'll be looking at that.
So we just list the Board priorities at that time that we have. And like I said, this is all that I have
right now. And so we want to make sure those are out there front and center because that's what
we're supposed to be focusing funding projects on. It's a little hard to pick the projects when you
don't have the plans fleshed out yet. And that will happen towards the end of this month and into
May time frame.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And a follow-up, and then I'll get back to the funding strategies. So will you
all provide to us plans for each one of those just to let us know as a Board that it's difficult to do
this for these reasons, or we can address equity in these ways.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So do you want to answer that? But yeah. Why don't you go through
the tactical plan process?
DAVE GENOVA: Sure. So at the April study session-- and the date's escaping me-- is it the-HEATHER MCKILLOP: 23rd.
SPEAKER 2:DAVE GENOVA: 23rd. We'll present a tactical plan. So it'll be an outline that the
staff would describe to be able to address each one of the priorities. So we will present that to the
Board and seek your input and answer questions and things like that. Then we will take your
input and feedback on the tactical plan.
And then the staff, then we take that, and then we start to develop the very specific General
Manager task goals for 2020. And then those will come back. Those kind of get massaged
through the general manager oversight committee process. And then once that committee

approves those, then they come to the full Board for approval. But that's probably not until about
a June or July time frame, maybe.
And so, as Heather said, there's a lot of different things that are going to influence both the
midterm financial plan and then the annual budget. But those priorities for 2020 are going to be
more reflective of driving the annual budget, which comes a little bit later than the midterm
financial plan in the year.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. That's helpful
KEN MIHALIK: Did they address your other question?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, I don't think we did. Oh, did we? OK.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thanks. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. I just wanted to add my agreement with the concern about
automatically assuming the increases. And I'm hoping that-- it's something I talked to Heather
about earlier today-- I'm hoping that as we proceed into the optimization study, the T2 study, that
we can focus not just on modeling, for example, no increases, but consider ways that ridership
development or a restructuring might lead to revenue increases without the fare increases that
we're anticipating. So I'm just underscoring that one piece that I hope we're able to carry forward
into the optimization study, and I'll be able to get with staff to talk about that in some detail.
Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I hold in my hand a list of the restated
strategic priorities. And I just wanted to point out because we just had one final editorial change.
So they are ready. And I think for the sake of this record, it should be noted that the presentation
prepared by staff is simply staff's accumulation of information, presentation to us, but that our
priorities are as we have stated them.
And then also to address the other question, the strategic priorities are something that the General
Manager, then, in collaboration with the General Manager Oversight Performance Committee
and this Board , then put together into a strategic plan, which gives all the detail relative to that.
But it's all 2020. Remember, these are 2020 priorities we're talking about. Not the 2019
priorities. But those will be included on the memo to you tomorrow so that you can compare
2019 and 2020. I just wanted to provide that further amplification. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I don't think anybody in this Board should assume that we will
increase fares every three years. I know right when I get on the Board, I think we're in the midst
of a five- or six-year period where there hadn't been a fare increase. There might have been a
special circumstance to that. I think we were looking at restructuring the whole fare program not

too long. So we didn't increase fares because we knew that there would be a significant-- or I
guess we imagined that there might be a significant change not too far ahead in the future at that
point, where it would have been a three-year consideration.
But we definitely--I think we should consider it, whether or not we act to raise or not raise. I
think there are a number of things that influence that decision. But it's not a foregone conclusion
that fares will automatically be raised or that this board will automatically-- or that staff will
suggest, even recommend, a fare increase every three years. That's it. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. I don't see anybody else. Thank you for that presentation.
We'll move on to the February monthly status report.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And Doug's coming up to give that presentation.
DOUG MACLEOD: Good evening. Doug McCloud. So in your packet, we have two of the key
factors as estimates, sales and use taxes and ridership. I'll talk a little bit about ridership here in a
minute. But we did get sales and use taxes for February. We received those tonight at 5:00, so we
will update the package and repost it with the final numbers.
But just to give you an idea of where we ended up for the second month of the fiscal year, on
sales and use taxes we are up $4.4 million over last February, which is about a 5% increase year
over year. You'll recall that Leeds School of Business mentioned that they're now forecasting at
4.4% increase over 2018.
And in the budget, we actually have a 5.6% percent increase from the September forecast. So
we're kind of falling right in between there. We're a little bit under what we have budgeted, but
we're over last year by 5%. We're also over the revised forecast of 4.4%. So good news on the
sales tax front, at least for the first two months of the year.
I will skip over ridership and come back to that. Oh, well, let's go ahead. Sorry, John. Yeah, go
ahead and go to ridership. So you'll notice that ridership in your package, we put estimated on
those numbers because as we told the Board before that we're switching over to the APC method
of gathering data. We're fairly comfortable with all the numbers with the exception of the light
rail numbers at this point. The light rail numbers for ridership or in that middle section there,
starting with C Line down through, I believe it's-HEATHER MCKILLOP: W.
DOUG MACLEOD: W Line. Thank you. So you can see that the percentage over on the far
right, that's the change year over year. And you can see there's some pretty wild percentages
going on there. So we're not really comfortable with the numbers. You might recall that we
talked a little bit about how light rail vehicles are only covered by Automatic Passenger Counters
or APCs, to the extent of about 30%. So we think there's something going on with the factoring
in the data that's extrapolating that 30% count factor across the entire population. So we are
looking into that, and we expect those numbers to change.

Regardless, if you look down to total revenue service, it shows that we're 2.5% lower than last
year, but that also includes that 12% decrease that we're seeing in light rail, which we don't think
is real. So right now those numbers aren't really solid. So we just want to put that out there for
the Board to not be alarmed until we get these numbers straightened out.
John, if you could go back up to the first page, please. So finishing up with the final statistic, fare
revenue, you can see for the year to date, we are 7.6% higher than last year and 11.1% higher
than last year for the month of February itself. We're still a little bit under budget because we
made some assumptions about the G Line opening at a certain point in time when we developed
the budget, or the budget was approved by the Board back in November. But really, the green
numbers, the 7.6% increase, really are a reflection of the fare increase that we saw, or that was
implemented in 2019.
So we're doing fairly well, at least in sales and use tax and fare revenue, at least at this point in
time. With that, we'd be happy to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Broom, you have a question or comment.
BOB BROOM: Just a comment. For my purposes, it seems like it makes more sense to wait until
you get the data in rather than just putting out a report because the report really looks bad that
we've got. And then you've made significant verbal modifications. And I'd rather wait know until
you're comfortable with the numbers you're releasing, and then release them. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. In regards to the headways on the R Line, we had a planned
potential reduction at one point because of low ridership, and then figured out, because of the
federal funding, we were required to keep the headways at what they are. How long are our
hands tied in that scenario?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, the conversations we've had with the FTA, it's not just the R Line. It's
the combination of all three lines as far as the grant goes, the E, F, and the R. And so while we
haven't really agreed on a time frame, what we will be doing is reporting what the ridership
figures actually are over time with the FTA, and have those conversations within a year or so, I
would estimate, depending on what we're actually seeing with ridership. But I don't believe
we've agreed on a time frame of when we revisit it. We're open to conversations about what we
see through monitoring.
NATALIE MENTEN: So they do understand the efficiencies that we need to achieve?
DAVE GENOVA: They understand efficiencies, but we also-- in the grant, the grant is a
contract. And so they're very reluctant to make any changes to that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: I don't see anybody else. So thank you for the February update. And the last
update is one concerning the fare implementation.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. This is Heather McKillop, really quickly while Michael's
coming up. I'm just going to give you the good news on some things that have happened in the
last month that we think has been big progress. And then Michael's going to walk through to
address some concerns that came up at the last-- I think it's last week's meeting, but I could be
wrong-- about the naming of the program and the process behind the name. So we want to spend
the time on that.
But I did want to let you know that the technical design document as well as the business
requirement documents were all submitted. We did get final buy-in on the IGA, and that was
presented to you tonight and will be moved forward to the full Board for approval. And we're
going to get that accomplished. We are making progress, as I mentioned with Denver Human
Services on doing some back end work for us so we don't have to do that internally. And we've
made progress on the card design and submitting that to the vendor. So that's moving forward,
too, all in the effort to meet those dates.
So this month we've made a considerable amount of progress. Things are finally starting to gel
and come together. And I'll leave it at that and then turn it over to Michael for him to walk
through the process, and we have a PowerPoint for that.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Good evening. This is Michael Washington, the Transit Equity
Manager. And so I will go through the presentation briefly. Oh, yeah. Thanks. And with me is
Kimberly Ford, the Transit Equity Specialist. She and I actually orchestrated this process, and
we're going to tag team this presentation with you guys tonight.
So which do I use here? Clicker or?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: All right. Works now. All right. Cool. So one of the things that we
understand, as I had stated previously, is that the success of this program really does hinge upon
us stating our intent and ensuring that the population that it's intended for feels welcome to use
this, and that this is intended to be of aid to their lives as opposed to a hindrance or some sort of
badge of disgrace. And we know that the equity of our fare structure and the recent fare change
definitely hinges upon the adoption rate of this program.
And so we took this issue of stigma and the potential for it very seriously. And that's why we
went and developed this process, by which we could get feedback from people that actually have
experienced-- I should say marketing these programs, and ultimately mitigating the potential for
low adoption rates, and more importantly, having these communities feel further marginalized by
the way in which we attempt to help them. And so I'm going to actually turn it over to Kim and
let her go over the process that we developed and went through.

KIMBERLY FORD: Thank you. Hi again. Kimberly Ford, Transit Equity Specialist. And as we
move along-MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Maybe.
KIMBERLY FORD: Potentially.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: I tried. I did try.
KIMBERLY FORD: There we go. So the advisory group members that we recruited were
specifically people that have worked with low income populations, also have an expertise in
marketing and outreach. And so this is a group that we developed. You can see their names and
organizations. We had a facilitator. Her name is Celia Hererra. And she'd the owner of Human
Media, who has specific work in marketing to low income communities.
In addition, you'll see Denver Human Services and WACP. The list is there. So quite a variety.
We also had two Pass Program Working Group members, Nicole Portee and Dionne Williams.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: I swear I'm using it, guys.
KIMBERLY FORD: I see him clicking. All right. This is just a picture of some of the advisory
group members. Not all of them are pictured, but just giving you a feel for the group that we had.
The process and timeline. We started in January, and we had a collective impact event which
brought RTD marketing team and the advisory group together. And we went over a few activities
to bring us to a collective understanding of the purpose of the advisory group and the intention.
We then had an advisory group meeting. We went over deficit language and how that can affect
the program marketing as a whole, and then switched between the advisory group meeting and
internally so that we have clear understanding between each other, clear communication of the
process. And then we had the Board meeting, which we presented the name-- was it two weeks
ago? You presented the name. Yes, two weeks ago.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Or three weeks ago, I think.
KIMBERLY FORD: Two or three weeks ago. Any additional? OK. The objectives, as we stated,
were to minimize stigma, also have the group recommend a program name, and also stay in line
with the RTD branding guidelines. And then we sought feedback on the actual card design that
was presented by the marketing team.
In our process there were five core values that we developed. In the picture we have, basically,
some of our meetings. And the core values that we decided upon through a process of what is
this program and what is this program not, the core values access community, inclusivity, being
helpful and eco-friendly were the core values that the group decided on, which led us to our final
decision, which Mike will go over.

MICHAEL WASHINGTON: And so with the final decision-- and actually, can you go to the
next slide, because I noticed that these are actually out of order. So I wanted to talk about the
feedback first. So the feedback that we received regarding the co design and the name that we
presented to you last time was generally positive in that the group was saying that they really
liked the notion of Live, and that the concept of live and living definitely has the positive
undertones that we ultimately want associated with programs of this nature, as opposed to the
deficit language, talking about things being lowly, low income, things of that nature. These are
considered to be words of deficit language that ultimately tell these groups that they are lesser
than, and that this is to be a reminder of that.
Instead, Live actually serves as a notion of life, that we're trying to promote positivity in their
lives. There definitely was some concern about the opportunity to mispronounce it as live, as you
guys all noted on site. And so we acknowledge that as well. But we know through appropriate
marketing, that we can ensure that people understand the true intent. But live isn't so bad, either.
In any case, we also did hear from the group. They had a lot of questions about the design and
saying, OK, we realize that this is going with the new design guidelines. Will everything go with
the new design guidelines, all of the products? And that's where we can actually go back to the
next slide-- or I mean, the previous slide. I'm sorry.
And this is where we explained to them yes, eventually the intent is for all of our products to be
uniform with the new design guidelines. And so this is what we have out there right now. And
this is just we wanted to make sure that everyone understood that the design for the Live My
Ride card in particular is really just the beginning of the new era of our design for all of our fare
products, and that eventually these other products that you see here on the screen will move to
that design.
We also want to show you the special discount card IDs that accompany all of our discounts, that
will also accompany the Live My Ride card as well. And so we'll conclude there and take any
questions that you have. Thank you for your time.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. On page
67, which was the picture of all the cards, those are how they look now, right?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: But eventually the special discount card, Youth and-- they're all going to
have this same pattern on them.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: The intent is for them to all follow the same design guidelines.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. And they'll all still have a picture on them, though.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Yes.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. And that's just until we have some advancements, hopefully, in our
technology, particularly our Smart Card technology, that will allow us to move away from the
need for an eligibility card. It's the limitations of our technology that require us to use an
eligibility card right now.
DAVE GENOVA: So be clear. There's the pass, there's the My Ride card, and then the
eligibility.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. Let me clarify. So there's two different cards. So right now we
have a My Ride card, which says discount on it, and one that says Youth. You have to have a
company special discount card that matches that. So you have a discount card for seniors,
potentially, and disabled, which is the pink card, which kind of looks orange on this. And then
we have the blue card, which is the youth discount card.
So right now they have to go hand in hand. So you have to have the discount card, My Ride card,
plus you have to have the special discount eligibility card. What he's talking about is in the
future, as we move to our account-based system, the goal is to have all that embedded in the
person's account behind the scenes so that they don't have to come and get a special card or we
don't have to issue a card that shows they're eligible for that particular program, that that would
all be embedded in the back office, so to speak. We're not there yet, but we're moving towards
that in the future.
So until then, the driver needs to be able to tell that I'm eligible to use this discounted fare
because I've been vetted appropriately by having this special discount card.
KATE WILLIAMS: So I have a couple questions about that. Number one, why can't they just
use their school ID or their driver's license or whatever?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So if they are a senior, they can use their ID. If they're youth they can.
But we have a lot of seniors that wish to have a special discount card. And we have a lot of youth
coming in to get the youth discount card. In addition, you need to have the disabled card. You
can't just show an ID if you're a disabled passenger.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I'm pondering that. There's not very many seniors who don't have some
kind of an ID.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm just telling you they come in and get one. They don't have to, but
they do.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm down with that. Then I'm just pondering the fact, for example, that I
have a ski pass, you know? It used to be that the thing was that it had your picture on it. But
nowadays it doesn't because they're not really up to policing. If I let Lynn use my ski pass,
they're not policing that. And are we policing the fact that the person who gets on the bus doesn't
really look like the picture? Do we do that? Do we say, like, get off because obviously Shontel is
not me?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, I think we look at the fact that if they're being checked by an
enforcement officer, yes. If their ID does not match who they are, we know that they're probably
trying to use that discount card fraudulently.
KATE WILLIAMS: And how many times do we do that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'd have to get the numbers.
KATE WILLIAMS: I mean, what percentage? 1%? Half a percent? Do we have a clue?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. We want the ID card to be tied to the individual because they are
the only individual eligible for that particular discount.
KATE WILLIAMS: I get that. And like I'm saying, it would be real obvious that I wasn't Shontel
by age or skin or anything else. But many, many times, it's not a relevant issue. I'm just
wondering if we might look at other industries who are moving away from a photo ID because
it's such a small percentage of a problem and it's not worth policing it. I just want to put that
thought out into the ionosphere.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: And I will just say that that is something that we are continually
looking at. And so this is just the beginning of the program. As technology evolves and our
capabilities do as well, this will change.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm down with that. I just want to be first to say it. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. A couple of things. I really
appreciate this presentation because I couldn't figure out for the life of me where the word live
came. And the first thing that came in my mind was low income verification. And I thought, boy,
that is like a red flag for me. That's the first thing.
The second thing is the group that you put together I respect very highly. So I know that they
really vetted this, so it makes me feel better. But I do think a lot of people are going to make that
same assumption. So that's the first thing. The second thing is are you looking in the future of
doing collaborations? For instance, the Mayor of Denver told me on Saturday night he wants to
revisit the My Denver card to include the fare component to it. And so I wanted to know where
you were on that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So you want me to answer? So that goes along with our new system.
So right now we do not have the capability to do that. And we've been in those-- it's been two
years now we've been in those conversations of how we can do that. But the goal would not only
be to accommodate that particular card. Example is a college. So you have a college card. All
your information is tied up to that particular college ID card that you have for the college get you
your food, program, everything else. Could also load your fares on there and things like that.

So the idea is that you wouldn't be tied to a My Ride card or a mobile ticketing. You'd be tied to
your account, like your Starbucks card that you can do mobile ticket and your gold card. You can
pay with cash. You can do whatever you want. So that's the direction we're heading. We just do
not have those capabilities right now. But we are trying to build that into what our model will
look like in the future, and how far can we go with that.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director. Thank you, Chair. Sorry. I wanted to tell you all thank
you for this program because of course, I'm excited about it. If anyone knows me knows that this
is something to be excited about. I did want to talk about the core values, particularly access
community, inclusive, helpful, and eco-friendly. I think I may understand how those are defined
or I may not understand how those are defined. And so it would be helpful to know how you all
were working within those core values and those definitions.
And I will underscore that I really respect the folks that you all have been working with in
partnership to come to this decision. And lastly-- I see you're excited to respond-- and lastly, I
am curious about the folks who aren't at the table. And so as we talk about language-- and
Director Malpiede brings up language often-- we do we have interpretation at those meetings?
Are we translating documents to make sure that from a cultural standpoint, if I'm Vietnamese,
how does this all land on me on from a cultural aspect? That's all.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Yeah. Thank you for the fake softball there. So one of the things
I'll say is that, as it relates to language in particular, Kimberly and I are actually revamping our
limited English proficiency plan, where we'll be redefining all of the language assistance tools
that we need to provide to ensure that people have access to not just this program, but all of our
services, for that matter. And you'll actually see that in the Title VI program update that I'm
hoping to bring to you all in May.
Also, as I think the-- I feel like I was doing double dips here for a second and forget what else I
was going to say. I think you said-- core values. What I will do is actually send you the meeting
notes that actually go into detail about how we arrived at those values and all that we considered,
and some additional photographs that show the Board that were full of values that we extracted
these five, I believe, from, or four. Yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Yeah, five.
DAVE GENOVA: We'll send them to the whole Board.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. I don't see anybody else on this subject. So I thank you both for that
update, or all three of you. Actually. Thank you, all three, for that update. And we are going to
move on to other matters this evening. And yes, I know Director Menten had one from
previously.

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So I would like to-- Heather, you may need to stay where you are.
I'm going to ask about Oracle and reporting, and especially in light of the BI recommendation
earlier in the evening, Business Intelligence.
With Oracle, historically we've bought a plan, waited till we were just barely-- sounded to me,
what I heard in my head, a lot of labor to make the system work because we had held off on
updating modules and all the things that some other companies may not hold off on doing. And
then we approved a fairly substantial amount of money, several million dollars, which we have
been implementing since last fall, late summer, last year? Somewhere in there.
And this does play into financial transparency, and really, also, knowing that we as a Board
made the right decision in approving Oracle, what are we going to get out of it? And with all of
that, for me personally, financial reporting for both being able to generate more competitive
bidding because vendors can see the things we're buying is a big plus for the agency.
The reporting for the average citizen to know, OK, if I'm worried about how a card looks or
something like that, compared to rubber service, and they see we're going to need to save $134
million or adjust the budget, that financial transparency is really important to me. So I'm
wondering, from the retreat you said, well, we really need to see what Oracle can do. When are
we going to know?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is the time frame. This is what we've done so far. So we went
live on April 1 with our new budget module, which is good. So that's a process of being able to
develop our budgets not on spreadsheets, but in this module. We are currently in the
requirements stage and getting a vendor on board to assist with workday. We made the selection,
and so that will take care of our payroll and our HR Human Services performance planning type
activities. That's scheduled to hopefully go live sometime early in 2020.
In the meantime, we have been working on requirements gathering for the movement of all our
financial information from the current on premise Oracle system to some type of cloud or
Software As A Service Oracle-based system. Those requirement gathering is just started for that
process. We have had the discussion of what the Board discussed at the retreat as far as seeing if
we can include in those requirements the type of reporting that you've brought up in the past, and
also the ability to do more ad hoc reporting in case we get special requests from people.
We're not really able to do that at this time without going through our Business Intelligence
team. And of course, that takes time for them to be able to reprioritize other things and be able to
schedule that. So it will be part of that requirements gathering process. We're not expected to go
live-- I need to check on that. But I don't think we're expected to do that until towards the end of
2020, maybe early 2021.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So on that last part, getting the end result on-- when you say the
business reporting requirements, what exactly does that look like?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So what kind of reports do we want the system to generate on a regular
basis so that we can publish them internally for our managers to use to manage their budgets on a

regular basis, or that they can view electronically online, because right now they can't do that in
Oracle. They have to have somebody piece all that information together for them. And then what
do we want to have as outward facing documents that are available to the public on a regular
basis.
NATALIE MENTEN: And so again, you said toward the end of 2020?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Requirements gathering is starting and going on now. When it will
actually be implemented is, I believe, at the end of 2020 or 2021. I don't have that exact date yet.
I'd have to check on that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. That seems like a really, really long time for a system to spend a lot
of money on.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It's actually probably a really aggressive time based on what we did
last time. But yeah, so we got the budget module up within three to six months. That's pretty
impressive. We're taking them one at a time so that we implement it not all at one time like we
did last time, but that we're phasing that process in.
So the next one, and the next most critical one that we believe internally, is HR and payroll. And
then it will be finance, accounting.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: But I can get you a more specific date on when we're anticipating all
that. I'm just throwing that out there right now.
NATALIE MENTEN: And this is all cloud subscription. But also, when we've got updates
coming and coming, this is not going to all of a sudden be stale.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Absolutely. That's the reason we're moving to Software As A Service.
It will be built in to the ongoing price.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Thank you
HEATHER MCKILLOP: You're welcome.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. I don't see any other matters. And with that, our next meeting
is May 7, and we will adjourn this meeting. Take a long five minutes.

