Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on February 12, 2008
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

February 13, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting held on
Tuesday, February 12, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T and D
***

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Bill Christopher, Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck, Juanita Chacon,
Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein, Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Wally
Pulliam, Neill Quinlan, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer and Barbara
Yarmick.

Chair Kemp, John Tayer and Daryl Kinton

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Carol Duecker, Mike Turner, Nadine Lee, Rolf
Asphaug, Scott Reed, Dave Genova, Dennis Cole, Kevin Diviness,
Bill VanMeter, Rick Clarke, Bill Sirois, Genevieve Hutchison,
Jennifer Heisler, Ashland Vaughn, Liz Telford, Susan Wood, Susan
Altes, Henry Stopplecamp, Daria Serna, Shonsey, Reed EverettLee, Paula Perdue and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Tom Wootten, Alameda Station LLC, Al Colvsey, Alameda Station
LLC, John Binder; Kephart, Ken Schmidt, Alameda Station LLC,
Alison George, Tyler Lowe, HCL Engineering & Surveying, Lloyd
Herrera, Alameda Station LLC, Anthony L., JLB Parking, Don
Ulrich, CH2MHill, Barry Schulz, PBS&J, Kevin Flynn; Rocky
Mountain New, Jeff Leib; The Denver Post, Bob Kochevar, Robin
Knieln; FRESC

Call to Order:

***
Chair Christopher called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on February 12, 2008
Page 2 of 3

I. Recommended Actions
Tom Wootten and Al Colvsey, both from Alameda Station LLC, discussed and
answered questions about the project. Some highlights from the presentation are as
follows:
 Project team assembled
-Retained Klipp to refine TOD design and establish vision
-JLB joined Alameda Station development team
 Items completed
-Environmental due diligence
-Traffic study – submitted to city for review
-Comprehensive neighborhood outreach
-Pre-application meetings with city planning department
-Draft Covenant for pedestrian bridge submitted to RTD
 Participated in the City’s transit station area planning process
 Design development phase for entire project under way
 Pedestrian bridge
-30% design completed
-Submitted for review to RTD, City and Burlington Northern and
Union Pacific Railroads
The next steps are: Zoning application will be submitted immediately upon receipt of
board approval, closing on property following zoning approval.
A copy of the presentation is available in the board office for further details.
Councilman Chris Nevitt expressed his strong support and eagerness to see the
redevelopment move forward. He also indicated that there is strong support from
the surrounding neighborhoods.



Application for Rezoning 350 South Santa Fe Drive
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents that may be necessary for RTD to allow for the
rezoning of property located at 350 South Santa Fe Drive, to allow
Alameda Station, LLC, the successful proposer, pursuant to the RFP
issued in 2004, to proceed with the City and County of Denver process
for the rezoning of said property on RTD’s behalf, and to close on the
property upon approval of the rezoning application by the City and
County of Denver.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on February 12, 2008
Page 3 of 3

Motion:

Director Brohl moved to add this item
to the agenda for the February 19,
2008 Board Meeting.

Second:

Director Ruchman seconded the
motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed unanimously.

John Shonsey, Senior Manager, Engineering/Chief Manager,
presented this item to the Planning & Development Committee.


Request for Approval of the West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement
with the City of Golden
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City of Golden and the
Regional Transportation District, the purpose of which is to set forth the
rights, duties and obligations of Golden to fund a portion of the project
costs and the obligations of RTD to design, construct, own, operate and
maintain a light rail transit project within the boundaries of Golden. This
IGA does not commit any present funding by either Party.
Implementation of the IGA implies future approvals and is subject to each
respective agency’s legally required budgeting, authorization and
appropriation process. Nothing in the IGA shall be construed as a
multiple fiscal year obligation by either Party.
Motion:

Director McMullen moved to add this
item to the agenda for the February
19, 2008 Board Meeting.

Second:

Director Yamrick seconded the
motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed unanimously.

II.

Other Matters – No other matters were discussed.

III.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development
Committee will be on March 4, 2008.

IV.

Adjournment - There being no objection, Chairman Christopher adjourned the
meeting at 6:09 p.m.

