Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, November 7, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Vice Chair Doug Tisdale

A. Call to Order
Committee Vice Chair Tisdale called the meeting to order at 6:48 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District C
Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Present
Absent

6:43 PM
6:43 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Remote

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Absent
Present

6:43 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik

Director, District I
Director, District G

Present
Present

6:43 PM
6:43 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K

Remote
Present
Absent

6:43 PM

Doug Tisdale

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

6:43 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Committee Chair
Director, District A

Present
Present

6:43 PM
6:43 PM

Director Folska and Menten participated via phone.
Francone, and Solano were absent.

Directors Anderson, Deadwyler,

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Lacy Bell, Steve Bodie, Nicole Carey, Lou
Cripps, Nate Currey, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova,
Bob Grado, Anne Hillyer, Robin McIntosh, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Allen Miller, Ed Neuberg,
Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Zamy Silva, Bill Sirois, Yong Song,
Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian
Welch

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Doug Gragg, William Gross, Emily
Snyder, Paolo Solorzano, Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions

• Federal Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter
into an agreement for Federal Liaison Services with Squire Patton Boggs LLP
for a one-year option at a cost of $270,000 (January 1 through December
31, 2018). This action represents the fourth year of a five-year contract.
Funding for this contract is included in the annual budget.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move this item
to the full Board at the November 28, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, provided the
background on the Squire Patton Boggs (SBP) contract and
stated that having the team in Washington D.C. allows them
to constantly stay in touch with legislatures and other federal
agencies that RTD deals with on a regular basis. She noted
that just this week, SPB sent a letter to Elaine Chao the
Secretary of Transportation in regards to RTD’s application for
the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery
(TIGER) grant. She added that Mike Dino and his SPB
colleagues continue to keep RTD in the forefront of the
congressional delegation and they are extremely important and
valuable to RTD.
Director Folska commended SPB and stated that RTD needed
the support in Washington D.C.

Director Walker supported the recommendation because SPB
has supported RTD in keeping the legislative delegations in the
loop.
Director Menten stated she would be a no vote
Committee Vice Chair Tisdale stated RTD could not achieve
the same results without this team.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 1]
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
Natalie Menten
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Tina Francone, Paul
Solano
Folska, Menten

Committee Vice Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Inc.
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, Inc., was unable to provide the update
himself since he was out of the country but Ms. Ellebracht stated that there
was no additional information to report.
Director Lubow asked for additional information regarding the Metro Mayors
Caucus favoring a larger sales tax increase.
Ms. Ellebracht stated she would have Mr. Sherman send the information
when he returned.

• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
Jennifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry McKenna (BBMK), followed up on the
written report adding that the firm continued to schedule and coordinate
meetings on behalf of the District with key legislators on a variety of
subjects. She added that the firm provided an update on the G-Line and
FasTracks to the following officials:
 Director of the Public Utilities Commission, Doug Dean
 Governor’s Director of Legislative Affairs, Kurt Morrison
 House Majority Leader KC Becker
 State Representative Paul Rosenthal
Ms. Brandeberry highlighted the following firm activities:










Future meetings are scheduled with Representative Lebsock, Kraft
Tharp, Gray, Garnett, Winter, Bridges, Covarrubias and Senator
Martinez Humenik.
During the September meeting of the Transportation Legislation
Review Committee (TLRC) a bill draft was requested to implement
a low-income transit fare reductions pilot program.
BBMK continues to meet on behalf of RTD with the lobbyists and
lawyers for Scientific and Cultural Facilities District (SCFD) and
the Special Districts Association on potential legislative options to
address the drafting error in SB267.
RTD will be presenting to the TLRC on November 2nd at 10:15am
and encouraged Board members to attend.
BBMK organized a briefing on Public Private Partnerships to
legislators and members of the Denver Metro Chamber Public
Affairs Council. The briefing highlighted successful projects such
as FasTracks and Denver Union Station.

Director Broom requested additional information on the marijuana tax
marijuana tax issue and how the tax could be reinstated or reset up to a
certain percentage.
Ms. Brandeberry stated that the firm could provide the legal analysis and the
current status of that issue.
Director Folska commended BBMK for all of their work.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, SBP, followed up on the written report and said that his firm had
assisted in receiving four delegate signatures from the Colorado House of
Representatives (Buck, Coffman, DeGette, and Perlmutter) for RTD’s TIGER
grant application. He explained that the proposal was for $12.85 million
which would fund the replacement of the light rail track and switches in the
Denver central business district that was in need of heavy repair as it was
the most utilized part of the light rail system. Mr. Dino added that the new
administration had released its tax legislation package and there were two
elements which were surprising: they want to eliminate private activity
bonds which funds a lot of public financing and they want to also eliminate
public refinancing bonds which are used to secure lower interest rates. He
noted that this is currently in the House and is being argued in the Ways and
Means Committee but the Senate is also working on their version and they
tend to be more supportive of local and state activities. He added that this
package would also remove the deductibility of state and local taxes, which
would not impact Colorado as much as the higher tax states. He stated that
the firm continues to press the issue for RTD’s refund of the $29 million
credit risk premium associated with the Federal Railroad Administration

(FRA) loan for Union Station and will continue to do so until it is refunded.
He further added that the 2018 appropriation budget may be extended past
December 5, 2017 that may impact the full funding grant for the Eagle
project.

D. Other Matters
There were no Other Matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - December 5, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Vice Chair Tisdale adjourned the meeting at 7:13 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

