1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, November 7, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Federal Liaison Services
C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Inc.
• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - December 5, 2017
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: November 1, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 1, 2017

Board Meeting Date: November 7, 2017

Subject:

Federal Liaison Services

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager or his designee to enter into an agreement for Federal Liaison Services with Squire
Patton Boggs LLP for a one-year option at a cost of $270,000 (January 1 through December 31, 2018).
This action represents the fourth year of a five-year contract. Funding for this contract is included in the
annual budget.
BACKGROUND
A solicitation for proposals for Federal Liaison Services was issued on August 12, 2014. This solicitation
was a Best Value Procurement where technical factors and cost were all considered. Ten responsive
proposals were received, and they were evaluated by an evaluation committee that recommended Squire
Patton Boggs LLP. The recommendation of the evaluation committee was subsequently referred to the
Government Relations Committee on November 11, 2014. The Government Relations Committee
recommended that Squire Patton Boggs LLP be offered a new contract for a five-year period. Squire
Patton Boggs has been RTD’s federal lobbyist since 2000 and has assisted in RTD’s receiving over $2.5
billion in federal grants and loans. In addition to constant monitoring of Congressional and Executive
Branch activities, status reports are issued and special reports are prepared when required by the Board
of Directors or the General Manager.
DISCUSSION
Constant monitoring of federal legislative activities that relate to RTD is required, and RTD’s interests
must be conveyed to appropriate members of Congress, including the Colorado delegation and other key
Congressional committee members. The Squire Patton Boggs team has excellent rapport and respect
from the Colorado delegation and serves as a resource for the delegation staff. When RTD has a Full
Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) in place as it now does (Eagle P3 Project), the annual appropriations
process requires intense attention to committee hearings and to the status of the Congressional budget
process.
The Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST) was passed on December 4, 2015, and the
federal lobbyists played a key role in representing RTD’s needs in this reauthorization bill. With the build
out of FasTracks, the lobbyists need to be especially attentive to the federal financing needs for the new
corridors, and they will monitor discussions and advocate for RTD’s best interests regarding new plans
for the Executive Office’s infrastructure bill to be introduced sometime in the near future. When the bill
is revealed, Squire Patton Boggs will play a key role in advising RTD as to the contents of the bill and
monitoring the amendments and progress of the proposed language.
In addition to helping with Congressional activities, assistance is also necessary with the Executive
Branch of the federal government, including the US Department of Transportation (the Federal Transit
Administration and the Federal Railroad Administration). Squire Patton Boggs provides guidance and

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

assistance in applying for and receiving federal funds from the Department of Transportation, as well as
advising staff on proper protocols for these agencies.
The Denver office of Squire Patton Boggs serves in an important advisory role in RTD’s connection to
relevant national personnel and issues. In addition, annually, or as required, meetings with the Board of
Directors are also held.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Government Relations Committee’s Recommended Action to authorize the General
Manager or his designee to enter into an agreement for Federal Liaison Services with Squire
Patton Boggs LLP for a one-year option at cost of $270,000 (January 1 through December 31,
2018). This action represents the fourth year of a five-year contract. Funding for this contract is
included in the annual budget.
2. Continue the contract on a month-to-month basis, if amenable to the current Contractor (Squire
Patton Boggs LLP). This option is not recommended because continuity and stability in liaison
services is an important consideration.
3. Do not accept the Recommended Action and issue a new Request for Proposals (RFP) for Federal
Liaison Services. This option is not recommended because RTD’s RFP process was properly
utilized for this procurement, and all the proposals were reviewed and subjected to the evaluation
criteria, resulting in a recommendation from the evaluation committee—pursuant to RTD’s longstanding procurement procedures.

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: November 1, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 1, 2017

Board Meeting Date: November 7, 2017

Subject:

Local Update - CRL Inc.

ATTACHMENTS:


CRL LGR Report 10-27-17

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

Date:

October 27, 2017

To:

Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer

From:

Roger Sherman

Subject:

Local Government Relations Update

Below is our update for November 7:
1. Local Municipal Elections – As you know, local municipal elections are being held
today in Arvada, Aurora, Boulder, Brighton, Broomfield, Centennial, Commerce City,
Edgewater, Englewood, Golden, Greenwood Village, Lafayette, Lakewood, Littleton,
Longmont, Louisville, Northglenn, Sheridan, Thornton, Westminster, and Wheat Ridge.
We will provide a preliminary report of results ASAP, and a final snapshot once results
are certified (including runoff elections where applicable). If you would like to meet with
newly elected official in your district, please let me know and we can help set the
meetings up.
2. Metro Mayors Caucus - The final full caucus meeting was held on October 4, and the
mayors engaged in a robust and length on statewide and regional transportation funding
options. The MMC favors a larger sales tax increase than has been previously
contemplated. The Chamber-led coalition continues to meet and discuss input from the
MMC and other stakeholders around the state.

1660 Lincoln Street, Suite 1800 Denver, CO 80264

p. 303.592.5450

f. 303.592.5460

www.crlassociates.com

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 10-27-17 (3299 : Local Update - CRL, Inc.)

1.C.1.a

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: November 1, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 1, 2017

Board Meeting Date: November 7, 2017

Subject:

State Update - Brandeberry McKenna

ATTACHMENTS:


November Board Update

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

1.C.2.a

1410 Grant Street, C-307 | Denver, CO 80203
office 303.539.1320 | fax 303.861.0683

RTD

From: Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK)
Date: October 30, 2017
Re:

November Board Update

BBMK continues to schedule and coordinate meetings on behalf of the District with legislators on a variety
of subjects.
To date BBMK and RTD Senior staff have met with the following to provide an update on the G-Line and
FasTracks.
• Director of the Public Utilities Commission, Doug Dean
• Governor’s Director of Legislative Affairs, Kurt Morrison
• House Majority Leader KC Becker
• Rep. Paul Rosenthal
We have future meetings scheduled with Reps. Lebsock, Kraft Tharp, Gray, Garnett, Winter, Bridges,
Covarrubias and Senator Martinez Humenik.
During the September meeting of the Transportation Legislation Review Committee (TLRC) a bill draft was
requested to implement a low-income transit fare reductions pilot program. The Colorado Fiscal Institute
(CFI) had suggested this legislation to the committee. BBMK met with Kathy White from CFI to discuss
the proposed legislation. BBMK is meeting with Michael Washington from the pass working group to
discuss opportunities to educate legislators on the work the group has been doing without prescribing
legislation. BBMK will coordinate a meeting with Senator Moreno as he has expressed interest in this
particular issue.
BBMK continues to meet on behalf of RTD with the lobbyists and lawyers for SCFD and the Special Districts
Association on potential legislative options to address the drafting error in 267.
RTD will be presenting to the TLRC on November 2nd at 10:15am and we strongly encourage Board
members to attend our briefing to the committee. Legislators always appreciate seeing Board members
at the Capitol.
BBMK organized and facilitated a briefing on Public Private Partnerships to legislators and members of
the Denver Metro Chamber Public Affairs Council. The briefing highlighted successful projects such as
FasTracks and Denver Union Station and was an excellent opportunity to speak to the value of these
projects.

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: November Board Update (3300 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

To:

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: November 1, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 1, 2017

Board Meeting Date: November 7, 2017

Subject:

Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

ATTACHMENTS:


Federal Update 11 7 17 (DOCX)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

1.C.3.a

FEDERAL UPDATE FOR REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT: NOVEMBER 7, 2017
White House Floats Possible Federal Gas Tax Increase with House Lawmakers

While there have not been significant developments on the specifics of an infrastructure package,
President Trump’s chief economic advisor, Gary Cohn, recently told a bipartisan group of House
lawmakers, the Problem Solvers Caucus, that they would have an opportunity to consider increasing
the Federal fuel tax to pay for an infrastructure package. Relatedly, it has been widely reported that
the White House may propose a 7 cents/gallon fuel tax increase as part of its infrastructure
proposal.
When asked about the prospects for including a fuel tax increase in an infrastructure package, House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) said there are currently
not enough votes in the House to support a fuel tax increase. Chairman Shuster also recently called
on the Administration to send Congress its principles for an infrastructure package so both the
House and Senate may begin drafting a legislative proposal that incorporates the Administration’s
priorities.
No Recent Progress Made on FY 2018 Federal Spending Bills
The Federal government is continuing to operate under a Continuing Resolution (CR) that funds all
programs and agencies through December 8, 2017. The CR provides Congress with additional time
to finish consideration and negotiation of legislation providing full-year FY 2018 appropriations.
With regard to transportation spending specifically, Congress has not made progress on the House
and Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) spending bills since the
passage of the CR in early September. While the House has passed legislation funding
transportation programs for FY 2018 as part of its FY 2018 omnibus appropriations bill, the Senate
has not yet brought its THUD appropriations bill to the Senate floor for consideration.
US DOT’s Build America Bureau Leader Resigns
In October, Martin Klepper resigned his position as the Executive Director of the Build America
Bureau. Then-President Obama named Mr. Klepper as the Executive Director in January 2017,
shortly before President Trump’s inauguration. There is no indication that Mr. Klepper’s departure
signals any change of course by US DOT on P3s or infrastructure finance, and the long-time head
of the TIFIA office within the Bureau is still in his position. As a result, we do not anticipate that
this departure will have any effect on RTD’s outstanding TIFIA loan on the Eagle project.

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Federal Update 11 7 17 (3303 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

Currently, Congressional Republicans are focused almost entirely on advancing tax reform
legislation, and the Trump Administration has repeatedly said that an infrastructure package will be
addressed after tax reform efforts have been completed.

