1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, October 7, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L

Status
Present

Arrived
5:30 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

4:51 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:21 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Committee Chair

Present
Present

5:23 PM
5:25 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District I

Present
Present
Absent

5:29 PM
5:26 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Absent

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:28 PM
5:27 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:20 PM

Chair Sisk and Director Lubow were absent. Director Menten arrived after the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee meeting concluded for the Planning and Development Committee
meeting.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Mike Barnes, Lacy Bell, Rachel Carson, Rick
Clarke, Wayne Cochran, Kevin Diviness, Phil Eberl, John Elias, Sherry
Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Ken Fleck, Marcia Fraley, David Genova,
Terry Howerter, Genevieve Hutchinson, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins,
Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug
McLeod, Jeff Miessel, Vivian Morales, Andy Mutz, Scott Reed, Gary
Schear, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Stan
Szabelak, Yong Song, Brian Thye, Pauletta Tonilas, Li-Wei Tung, Mike
Turner, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna, Vishwakarma,
Michael Washington, Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Karen Young

Others Present:

Tim Baldwin, Dan Cohen, Michael Dunlap, Kimaron Hallford, Eugene
Howard, Joni Goheen, Doug Gragg, Pedro Ramos, Josh Russell,
Cindy Stovall, Joe Triplett, Chris Waggett

B. Citizens Advisory Committee
Cindy Stovall, Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Co-chair, thanked the Board for
the opportunity to keep them up-to-date on the CAC’s activities. She said that the
last quarterly public meeting was held on September 17th in Aurora with Director
Tobiassen in attendance. There was an update from RTD staff on the East Line as
well as a presentation by Bob Watkins, City of Aurora Planning and Development
Services Department Director, on Transit Oriented Development in the area. Cindy
Stovall shared that the next meeting for the CAC will be a work session in October.
She noted that the application process for becoming a CAC member was now open
and would be closing on October 17th.
Committee Chair Hoy asked how many openings there were for the CAC. Cindy
Stovall stated there were three.
Committee Chair Hoy thanked the CAC for all their hard work; the Board really
appreciates everything they do.

C. Recommended Actions

• Approval of Budget Transfer for North Metro Sidings
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the transfer of $16 million from FasTracks Railroad Right
of Way budget to a project to construct additional track sidings (see
attached) on the North Metro Rail Line (NMRL). These sidings will improve
system reliability on the entire RTD commuter rail network. They provide for

a more robust, reliable operation on the current North Metro segment to
124th Avenue and facilitate the future construction of the remaining segment
to 162nd Avenue. Funding for the FasTracks Railroad Right of Way Budget is
included in the 2014 Amended Budget for the FasTracks capital program.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 28, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Lasater Seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs,
reminded the Board that the North Metro Rail Line is largely a
single track railroad with passing sidings. Trains in opposite
directions meet on these sidings, pass, and then both reenter
the single track. He noted this works fine until something
goes wrong such as breakdowns, power problems, inclement
weather, etc. He explained that once a delay begins it can
become difficult to manage and create a ripple effect with too
much single track.
Ashland Vaughn, North Metro Project Manager, reiterated that
the North Metro currently is primarily single track with a series
of passing tracks. He explained that these additional sidings
will help the system recover from any problem so that they do
not compound and spiral out of control. He stated that this is
not just important for the reliability of the North Metro but
really the entire commuter rail system.
Committee Chair Hoy pointed out the schematic of the sidings
that was included in the October 7, 2014 FasTracks
Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet. He thought this was a
great illustration of the request. Ashland Vaughn noted that it
is much more financially feasible to integrate these track
sidings into the system now versus coming back later.
Rick Clarke reminded the Board that RTD has a very good
experience of moving forward with enabling works that benefit
the agency down the road. He stressed that once North Metro
is built to end-of-line these sidings would still need to be built
but at that time it would be at a much greater cost. He stated
that while RTD’s motto is to build as much as we can as fast
as we can we also need what we build to be done right. Rick
Clarke said that RTD does not want to open a line only to have
it be continually behind schedule because these sidings were
not approved. He commented that another important reason

to approve this action is that there is budget available. He
reiterated how important it is for this to be done now while
RTD has a contractor ready and service has not yet started.
Director Folska noted that the funding for this work would be
coming from the FasTracks Railroad Right of Way budget.
She wondered what the ramifications would be of using all the
funds from this budget. Rick Clarke stated that there would
no longer be any funding available if unforeseen expenses
arouse as it relates to BNSF and Union Pacific right of way;
however, the Eagle project was built almost entirely along
railroad right of way and any issues were successfully handled
within the Eagle project’s budget.
Director Solano thinks it is great that staff is looking forward
and being proactive in their recommendations. He thinks this
is a great recommendation.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 1]
MOVER:
Paul Solano, Director, District K
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Committee Vice-Chair
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lasater, RiveraMalpiede, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Claudia Folska
ABSENT:
Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

D. Updates

• Central Rail Extension Mobility Study
Andy Mutz, Project Manager, reviewed a Power Point presentation with the
Board that is available in the October 7, 2014 FasTracks Monitoring
Committee Agenda Packet. He reminded the Board that the purpose of the
study is to determine the best way to provide a direct trip between the
38th/Blake Station and Downtown Denver while establishing a long-term
vision with the local community. The study elements include alignments,
vehicles and operational elements such as stations, ridership capacity, RTD
system integration, future expansion, etc.
Director Bagley inquired what the cost of the Central Rail Extension is
budgeted at in today’s dollars. Andy Mutz said it is roughly $65 million.
Director Rivera-Malpiede shared that she was overwhelmed and touched by
how many community members have participated in the study. She asked
how staff plans to keep them updated on the status of the project. Andy

Mutz stated that the process would be the same as it was at the start; there
will be an elected officials briefing followed by a task force meeting and then
a public meeting.

E. Other Matters
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, said that in some recent
conversations with Northwest Corridor stakeholders it became clear that not
everyone has an understanding of how this line will operate as part of RTD’s
contract with Denver Transit Partners (DTP). He explained that in the original
Request for Proposal (RFP), the operations plan was always defined as an express
service between the Westminster Station and Denver Union Station without
stopping at any intermediate stations, which are the 41st Avenue and Pecos Street
stations. He stated that per staff’s discussions with the stakeholders, including
DRCOG, Adams County, and Denver County, there is now a common
understanding. Bill Van Meter noted that this is also a great opportunity to test
express service as this has been requested on many of RTD’s existing lines.
Director Anderson pointed out that the Environmental Impact Statement for the
Gold Line indicated a concern that there be a way to transfer at the Pecos Street
station to the Northwest Rail Line. Bill Van Meter acknowledged that the
opportunity for transfer is recognized by staff; however, until the line goes further
north there is not a demand for transfer. He said this will be addressed as the
corridor gets built out further.
Committee Chair Hoy thanked Bill Van Meter for the update.

F. Next Meeting Date - November 11, 2014
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 5:55 p.m. to the Planning and
Development Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

