1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

AGENDA
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, October 7, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
B. Citizens Advisory Committee

• Citizens Advisory Committee
C. Recommended Actions

• Approval of Budget Transfer for North Metro Sidings
D. Updates

• Central Rail Extension Mobility Study

E. Other Matters
F. Next Meeting Date - November 11, 2014
G. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 2, 2014

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 1, 2014

Board Meeting Date: October 7, 2014

Subject:

Citizens Advisory Committee

Information

Prepared by:
MinuteTraq Admin,
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 2, 2014

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 1, 2014

Board Meeting Date: October 28, 2014

Subject:

Approval of Budget Transfer for North Metro
Sidings

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
transfer of $16 million from FasTracks Railroad Right of Way budget to a project to construct additional
track sidings (see attached) on the North Metro Rail Line (NMRL). These sidings will improve system
reliability on the entire RTD commuter rail network. They provide for a more robust, reliable operation
on the current North Metro segment to 124th Avenue and facilitate the future construction of the
remaining segment to 162nd Avenue. Funding for the FasTracks Railroad Right of Way Budget is
included in the 2014 Amended Budget for the FasTracks capital program.
BACKGROUND
Implementation of this action would advance the 2015 RTD strategic goals of: (1) advancing/completing
FasTracks; and (2) improve service delivery. One of the major challenges of FasTracks has been securing
railroad right-of-way at a cost consistent with our budget. Many challenges and unforeseen costs have
occurred. In response to these challenges, the FasTracks program had set up a Railroad Right of Way
budget of $16 million to address risks in this area. This is a programwide element and not assigned to
any specific FasTracks project
Through prudent management of this area, our projects have been able to address these railroad issues
within their project budgets and contingency. Our FasTracks projects, most of which have a high level
of interface with the railroads, are now far enough along that we are projecting that these issues can be
addressed within the project budgets without needing to use this programwide $16 million Railroad Right
of Way account.
DISCUSSION
The North Metro Rail Line is designed as a single track railroad with passing sidings. Trains in opposite
directions are scheduled to meet on these passing sidings. This can work well as long as trains operate
exactly on time with no disruptions.
However, train operations are subject to a number of factors that can cause delays including equipment
breakdowns, inclement weather, passenger boarding/medical emergency issues, power problems, etc. A
delayed train will cause the train in the opposite direction to wait at the end of a siding until it clears the
single track section. Once a delay begins, it may ripple through the scheduled service for hours,
affecting customers on other RTD trains as well as the delayed train(s). Single-track operations increase
the pressure on the operating entity to turn trains promptly at terminals within tight schedule windows;
this may require additional staff members (hostlers) to be added so that trains can run on time.
Updated computer simulations of train operations for North Metro were performed incorporating the
latest information about the alignment, performance of the Hyundai Rotem commuter rail vehicles and
positive train control (PTC). The updated simulations have shown that small delays or disruptions can
compound to create significant delays. This could lead to an inherently unreliable operation that would

Packet Pg. 4

1.C.1

not meet ridership expectations or result in a longer headway that provides less service. Providing
additional sidings (or reducing the length of single track) gives trains more opportunities to pass each
other without waiting, even if one train is delayed.
Delays on the NMRL can also affect the entire commuter rail network as these trains interface with
trains from the East, Gold and Northwest Rail at Denver Union Station.
In addition, installing these sidings now would facilitate the ultimate goal of construction of the entire
NMRL to 162nd Avenue. Waiting to install these sidings until later when the line is in service would be
significantly more expensive than now when the project is under construction.
RTD has previously launched enabling works on this corridor (maintenance facility expansion, double
tracking, and electrification modifications) in a similar manner before full construction was funded.
These board decisions to proceed with early enabling works were critical in RTD being able to afford the
current project to 124th Avenue.
The work on these sidings would incorporate design, trackwork, special trackwork (turnouts/crossovers),
signaling (including positive train control), electrification and communications. The work would be
performed by the Regional Rail Partners (RRP) contractor who is the design-builder for this corridor.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The work will be funded by a transfer of $16 million from the FasTracks Railroad Right of Way budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
transfer of $16 million from FasTracks Railroad Right of Way Budget to a project to construct
additional track sidings (see attached) on the North Metro Rail Line (NMRL). These sidings will
improve system reliability on the entire RTD commuter rail network. They provide for a more robust,
reliable operation on the current North Metro segment to 124th Avenue and facilitate the future
construction of the remaining segment to 162nd Avenue. Funding for the FasTracks Railroad Right of
Way Budget is included in the 2014 Amended Budget for the FasTracks capital program.
2. Do not accept the recommendation and do not construct the additional sidings.
recommended as it could lead to an unreliable operation or longer headways on NMRL.

This is not

3. Do not accept the recommendation and use the $16 million for other, unbuilt FasTracks corridors.
This is not recommended as it could lead to an unreliable operation or longer headways on NMRL and
would not be sufficient to fund any other segment on FasTracks.
ATTACHMENTS:


northmetro track schematic

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Richard Clarke, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.C.1

Packet Pg. 6

North Metro Track Schematic
September 2014

TK3

72ND AVE

STOCKSHOW

UNION
STATION

88TH AVE

104TH AVE

112TH AVE

124TH AVE

TK2
TK1
Eas
tC

* NOT TO SCALE

orr
ido
r

LEGENDS
Current North Metro Design
Additional North Metro Track Sidings
East Corridor

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: northmetro track schematic (2091 : Approval of Budget Transfer for North Metro Sidings)

1.C.1.a

1.D.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 2, 2014

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 1, 2014

Board Meeting Date: October 7, 2014

Subject:

Central Rail Extension Mobility Study

Information

ATTACHMENTS:


CRE Board Update Oct 2014

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
MinuteTraq Admin,
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 8

CENTRAL RAIL EXTENSION MOBILITY STUDY

RTD Board Update
October 7, 2014

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: CRE Board Update Oct 2014 (2090 : Central Rail Extension Mobility Study)

1.D.1.a

1.D.1.a

Attachment: CRE Board Update Oct 2014 (2090 : Central Rail Extension Mobility Study)

Project Purpose
• Determine the
best way to
provide a direct
rail transit trip
between the
38th/Blake Station
and downtown
Denver without a
transfer.
• Establish a longterm vision with the
local community for
the entire Central
Rail Line.
Packet Pg. 10

1.D.1.a

Alignments

Vehicles

Operations
§

Stations

§

Use of existing
tracks &
overhead
catenaries

§

Ridership
capacity

§

RTD system
integration

§

Use of
Downtown Loop

§

Future
expansion
Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: CRE Board Update Oct 2014 (2090 : Central Rail Extension Mobility Study)

Study Elements

How it
operates
today
• F line from Southeast
into downtown loop
• H line from Southeast
into downtown loop
• D line from Southwest
into downtown loop
and through Five
Points to 30th/Downing
and back to loop

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: CRE Board Update Oct 2014 (2090 : Central Rail Extension Mobility Study)

1.D.1.a

How it would
operate with
CRE
• D line would no longer
go to 30th/Downing
but would circulate in
downtown loop
• New CRE line would
connect to East Rail at
38th/Blake, go down
Downing and Welton
and into downtown
loop

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: CRE Board Update Oct 2014 (2090 : Central Rail Extension Mobility Study)

1.D.1.a

1.D.1.a

Attachment: CRE Board Update Oct 2014 (2090 : Central Rail Extension Mobility Study)

What We’ve Heard
• Enthusiasm for the possibility of
near-term implementation
• One-seat ride is a priority
• Concerns with existing service &
future capacity
• Desire to look at future expansion
options – Civic Center, Golden
Triangle, other downtown
destinations
• Low-floor vehicles & minimal
station infrastructure generally
perceived as more neighborhoodfriendly
Packet Pg. 14

Recommendation
1: Use Downtown
Loop with new
infrastructure
• One additional train
every 15 minutes
• Pocket track somewhere
on south end of loop (at
“throat” near 14th/Stout)
• Provides better
operational reliability

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: CRE Board Update Oct 2014 (2090 : Central Rail Extension Mobility Study)

1.D.1.a

Recommendation
2: Long-term
vision for
serving
downtown
• Civic Center
• Southeast downtown/
Golden Triangle
• New Central
Downtown Loops
• Consider low floor
technology

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: CRE Board Update Oct 2014 (2090 : Central Rail Extension Mobility Study)

1.D.1.a

Questions?
Attachment: CRE Board Update Oct 2014 (2090 : Central Rail Extension Mobility Study)

1.D.1.a

Packet Pg. 17

