Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Tuesday, January 10, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
A. Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 6:42 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Bob Broom
Director, District F

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
6:43 PM
6:47 PM
6:38 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present

6:36 PM
6:37 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:38 PM
6:37 PM
6:37 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

6:37 PM

Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale

Director, District M
Director, District H

Present
Present

6:47 PM
6:38 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present
Present

6:40 PM
6:40 PM
6:37 PM
6:37 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Jessie
Carter, Jeff Cluphf, Heather Copp, Nate Currey, Sherry
Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, John Hersey, Janet Huhn, Ali
Imansepahi, Tina Jaquez, Russ Larson, Shontel Lewis, Adrian
Mabry, Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, John McKay, Barbara
McManus, Brenden Morgan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed,
Jenifer Ross-Amato, Lindsey Smith, Henry Stopplecamp,
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Allen Archer, Stephanie Bender, Jenifer Brandeberry, Ruth
Broom, V. Duncan, Kristina Evanoff, Emily Glockman, William
Gross, Joni Haughty, Tom Hertner, Claudette Hertner, Kathy
Hoy, Peter Humphrey, Rachel Johnson, Sally Jones, Alex
Khaldy, Jamie Lewis, Susan Macey, Angie Malpiede, Liz
Mihalik, Kelly Mihalik, Kathleen Osher, Jamie Perkins, Dave
Sauls, Jim Schlote, Sabine Shaikh, Roger Sherman, Jeanne
Shrove, Shannon Slack, Karen Stuart, John Thompson, Joe
Tripplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan Wagner, Bob Wilson

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates
Chair Hoy gave a brief overview of what updates are and how the new Board
Directors can use the updates to help inform themselves on future issues that they
will be required to vote on. He also mentioned that they are allowed to follow up
with anyone on staff for further information on issues that arise that they are not
sure of; for more in-depth explanations.

• 16th Street Mall Pavers Contract
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer, provided a brief background about
the Free Mall Ride for the new Board Members. She stated that the Free
Mall Ride runs between Union Station and Civic Center Plaza on the 16th
Street Mall and provides free shuttle rides to approximately 30,000
passengers a day. She stated that a portion of the mall from Civic Center
Plaza to Market Street was built in the early 80’s, with granite pavers as the
surfacing materials. Jyotsna stated that the right of way is owned by the
City and County of Denver but RTD took on the maintenance of the pavers
where the busses run in 1984.
Jyotsna stated that the pavers need to be maintained regularly and for the
past three years RTD has been spending approximately $1.1 million a year
on repairs. Since 2014 the City and County of Denver has contributed
300,000 a year to help with the maintenance, as part of a ten-year
agreement. RTD awards the paver maintenance contract in three-year
increments. The current contract ends in February 2017, and RTD has
advertised the contract during the month of December 2016. She stated

that procurement is currently reviewing the bids and will be requesting
approval of the contract award at the next Planning/Capital Improvement &
FasTracks committee meeting.
Director Williams stated that she has questions and would like to speak with
Jyotsna offline. Director Tisdale also mentioned that he would like to speak
with Jyotsna, too. Director Williams suggested that they both meet with
Jyotsna to get more information.

• Denver Moves: Transit Overview
Lacy Bell, Manager of Corridor Planning, introduced Kristina Evanoff, Transit
Project Manager, with the City and County of Denver. Kristina presented an
overview of the Denver Moves program and how RTD and the CCD will be
working together to coordinate a study to help improve mobility. Kristina’s
overview included the mobility challenges Denver should be expecting and
how transit can be the solution for the growth of our city. The Denver
Moves study will be used to evaluate traffic management strategies.
Kristina’s team will be conducting an outreach study that can assist us in
planning for the future.
Director Folska mentioned that she attended an event with Councilwoman
Black regarding this and thinks it is a good initiative. She also mentioned
that the walkability near the Southmoor Park & Ride is poor. She would like
there to be more discussion about businesses working cohesively to ensure
that walkability around high traffic areas are addressed.
Director Walker informed the Board that he is currently on the Blueprint
Denver taskforce. The City does recognize that RTD transit is part of the
City and they have to work cohesively with us because it affects everyone,
not agency specific. Director Walker encouraged his fellow Board Members
to work with their jurisdictions and districts to encourage them to work on a
plan for transit, not to benefit RTD but to benefit their constituents.
Director Francone stated that she wants to see the State of the System
assessment once it is done. She also mentioned that she hopes that biking
and walking mobility is also being reviewed. Director Francone suggested
enforcement on biking and walking rules, stating that without rules for all
mobility, traffic problems can arise. She believes that rules need to be
enforced across the board. She is also requesting to meet with Kristina offline regarding this study.
Director Folska stated that the protected bike lanes are an issue for blind
people. She expressed her own frustrations of having to deal them and
would have appreciated forewarning about this change.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 7, 2017
F. Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 7:22 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

