1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, December 10, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 7:17 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Absent

Arrived

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

7:18 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Absent

7:14 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:16 PM
7:16 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

7:14 PM
7:16 PM
7:14 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:15 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

7:14 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:14 PM

Paul Solano

Vice Chair

Absent

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Committee Chair
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:16 PM
7:16 PM

Chair Anderson and Directors Deadwyler and Solano were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Will Adams, Martha Bembry, Shirley Bennett, Jessie
Carter, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Martel Dyles,
Heather Ellerbrock, John Elias, Eric Farrington, David Genova, Mike
Gil, Kenn Hardin, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Robin McIntosh, Doug MacLeod,
Brenden Morgan, Amanda Murray, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Richard
Rost, Jannette Scarpino, Dean Shaklee, Zamy Silva, Cherie Sprague,
Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van
Meter, Phil Washington, Julia Yugel

Others Present:

Adrina Gibson, Gary Forbes, Sherman Hamilton, Rita Kahn, Rita Ho,
Stu Livensparger, Mica Maniece, Nicholas Moller, Ron Murphy,
Thomas Peterson, Dan Pearsall, Larry Tenenholz, Joe Triplett,
Christen Villalobos, Doris Vincent, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short Elliot Hendrickson (SEH),
Contract 11 DO-025 - Contract Amendment.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract 11
DO-025 with SEH to allow for additional architectural / engineering design
services in the amount of $1,000,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract
amount of $3,000,000. Work is administered on an as-needed, work order
basis. The amended amount is to be funded by various Strategic Budget Plan
(SBP) approved future projects and existing projects under contract.
Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 17, 2013
Board Meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Contract Award for the District Shops HRU Project.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
award a contract to the low, responsive, responsible bidder, JCOR, in the
not-to-exceed amount of $2,669,400 for the District Shops Heat Recovery
Unit (HRU) project. In addition, a transfer shall be made from the State of
Good Repair federal grant to the project budget in the amount of $322,103.
Committee Chair Tobiassen indicated that this item was being pulled from
the agenda.

• Increase the General Manager’s Signature Authority for the Rio Court
Maintenance-of-Way Renovation/Tenant Finish Project.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager’s contract amendment
signature authority for the Rio Court Maintenance-of-Way Renovation/Tenant
Finish Project be increased from $500,000 to $700,000.
Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 17, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Robin McIntosh, Senior Manager of Facilities, explained that
staff has exceeded their signature authority at this point in
time due to Denver Fire Department requirements that were
unknown at the time this was originally approved.
Director Bagley remembers when RTD used imminent domain
to obtain this property when building the West corridor. He
recognized that there were questions about whether the whole
building would be razed. Director Bagley thinks it is great that
we are now going to use 75-90% of the building for a
maintenance-of-way facility. He thanked staff for their efforts
in reconfiguring this property.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Approval of the Purchase of Four Electric Multiple Units (EMU) Cars for the
Eagle Project
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
approve the purchase of four Electric Multiple Units (EMU) cars for the
Eagle Project through the Denver Transit Partners (DTP), for an amount
not to exceed $18 million.
It is further recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $7.5 million
from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to the Eagle Project budget to
fund the purchase of the additional four EMU cars.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at the December
17, 2013 Board meeting.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs,
stated that this is a request for the Board to authorize funding
for an additional 4 Electric Multiple Units (EMU) cars for the
Eagle P3 project. He explained that the reason staff is
bringing this recommendation to the Board now is due to the
stage of manufacturing our other EMU cars are in; this is
RTD’s last chance to get an EMU car similar to all the other
EMU cars we will have. Rick Clarke noted that in approving
the action to build the North Metro to 124th the Board
authorized the purchase of an additional 6 EMU cars. He said
that if RTD buys 10 cars RTD will get a better unit price per
car so this action will also help the North Metro budget. Rick
Clark said that $10.5 million would come from the Congestion
Mitigation and Air Quality (CMAQ) Grant from DRCOG and
allocated to the Eagle P3 project. The remaining funding
would come from a requested transfer of $7.5 million from the

$30 million FasTracks Contingency Reserve. Rick Clarke
reiterated that if the Board does not more this item forward in
December, should RTD want to order commuter rail cars in the
future we will be doing a very small order and getting a car
that is completely different from the rest of the fleet.
Austin Jenkins, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations,
stated that this is a prudent action for the Board to take. He
said that from staff’s perspective these are extremely complex
vehicles no matter who makes them. Austin Jenkins noted
that with the Siemens light rail cars, there was an issue
related to the breaking system that fell under warranty. He
commented that having enough vehicles to deliver service
while still getting the warranty is a great advantage to
acquiring a few extra cars. Austin Jenkins reiterated that for
his team, having a uniform fleet is critical; when a new car is
introduced into the fleet that requires new parts and training.
Austin Jenkins stated that another critical issue is having extra
vehicles for event service. He stressed to the Board that from
staff’s perspective this is a wise move and they hope the
Board will take action.
Director Bagley asked for a clarification on the number of cars
being purchased. He noted that the recommended action
discusses purchasing four cars but staff had also discussed 6
and 10. Rick Clarke stated that the original Eagle P3 order
was for 50 EMU cars. He said that when staff thought we
would build North Metro to 72nd staff asked for and received
approval to purchase an additional 6 cars. He explained that
this action asks for an additional 4 cars for Eagle P3 on top of
the 6 already approved. This order would be lumped in with
what RTD is already buying for North Metro to get a better per
car price.
Director Bagley commented that the video staff sent showing
the vehicles from the Hyundai Rotem facility was fantastic.
He asked staff to keep up the good work.
Director Lubow said that it seems smart to lower the price per
vehicle but said on the other hand, RTD does not have extra
money. She wonders if this $18 million could be better used
by putting the money into the fund to build the North Metro
line up to 162nd. She believes if we had all the money in the
world this would be very smart to do but she wonders if we
really need these cars in comparison to finishing FasTracks.

Rick Clarke stated that staff struggles with the best use of
RTD’s limited money all the time; however, what staff is really
talking about here is $7.5 million that will not get us any
additional lines. He said that ideally staff would wait to make
a recommendation but they cannot. Rick Clarke believes that
if RTD needs any vehicles in the future we will kick ourselves
that we did not order them when we had the chance because
it will be much more expensive and they will be different
vehicles. General Manager Washington stated that whenever
staff brings a recommendation to the Board they do a costbenefit analysis. He said that over the past 4 or 5 years RTD
has been inundated with riders for special events. Staff
believes that ridership is going to exceed projections on Eagle
P3 and North Metro, especially as more of the system is built
out. General Manager Washington reiterated that staff
believes this is the best use of the $7.5 million and this is a
great price for the vehicles if we act now.
Director Lubow asked for clarification on the cost. She noted
that the recommended action indicated the cars will cost $18
million but staff is saying it will only cost $7.5 million. Rick
Clarke explained that the total cost is $18 million but of that,
$10.5 million is coming from CMAQ funding which is
dedicated to the Eagle P3 project; if we do not use the funding
on this purchase it will have to be used on something else for
the Eagle P3 project. He said that $7.5 million will come from
the FasTracks contingency reserve. Rick Clarke stated that
while staff does not like to dip into this fund, the purpose of
the fund is that is can be used when staff is faced with timing
issues like this. He said that staff’s goal is to replenish the
$7.5 million from the Eagle P3 contingency but they have to
wait until the project gets further along.
Director Lubow believes it is almost standards that there are X
amount of vehicles and RTD will need more. She wonders if
this is built into staff’s analysis each time so it is not a
surprise. Director Lubow thinks needed additional vehicles
should not be a surprise nor should the manufacturer giving us
a deadline to order more.
Rick Clarke said that staff has always been tracking this. He
explained that when staff does their analysis they look to buy
the least number of cars possible so projects can stay in
budget; however, if there is an opportunity to buy more cars
and the financial situation allows, staff likes to jump on the

opportunity. Rick Clarke stated that staff’s experience is that
when there is an opportunity to get vehicles at a reasonable
price take advantage of it. He reminded the Board that when
RTD first started FasTracks we bought all of the light rail cars
up-front before we knew if we had funding for all of the
corridors. At the time it seemed foolish but now it seems like
one of the best decisions made by staff’s and the Board’s
predecessors.
General Manager Washington reiterated that purchasing all of
the FasTracks vehicles at once was one of the best decisions
RTD has ever made. He noted that in anticipation of building
North Metro RTD purchased additional vehicles and expanded
the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility without knowing
when the project would commence. General Manager
Washington believes RTD will dramatically exceed ridership
projections on the Eagle P3 corridors and this is an opportunity
to jump on vehicles at a good price.
Austin Jenkins told the Board that one of the things RTD will
struggle with is who we are. The building period is the
shortest period; this is the most intense period but really
operation and maintenance demand that when RTD can take
advantage of items that will pay off in the long term that is
what we owe the taxpayers. Austin Jenkins share that in L.A.
there are six different cars for six different lines; a mechanic
from one line cannot work on another because of the
differences. He reiterated that if RTD does not buy these cars
but later purchases different vehicles, this will be something
that operations pays for forever.
Director Walker stated that he will support this action because
the census figures show that is where the population is going
in the Denver metro area. He said this is the type of foresight
that he appreciates; in the long run it benefits RTD’s
customers and taxpayers.
Director Folska believes that RTD can purchase later and these
funds can be used for a better purpose. She believes that
even if we purchase vehicles now at some point we will need
more and will then have a mixed bag. Director Folska said
that she does not like to be pressured and this feels like high
pressure sales. Director Folska stated that she will not be
supporting this recommendation. She would rather see station
improvements or believes these funds should be saved in case

the money is needed should something go wrong. Director
Folska reiterated that she would like to see improvements like
signs, lighting, painting, parking lots, etc. Rick Clarke noted
that staff’s goal is to replenish the FasTracks Contingency
funds from the Eagle P3 contingency.
Director Menten wondered if there was a problem with the
braking system on the cars staff was recommending RTD
purchase or if Austin Jenkins was just using that as an
example. Austin Jenkins stated that was just an example of a
situation in which having additional vehicles was valuable.
Director Bagley stated that this is an important Board decision
to approve something that makes the most sense. He
commented that if the Board looks at the fact that RTD has
close to $5 billion under construction, $7.5 million is fifteenhundredths of one percent. He reminded the Board that when
there is a project as large as FasTracks RTD has to be
adaptable, thinking ahead, and innovative. Director Bagley
recommends that every member of the Board look closely at
this action and see that staff is coming to the Board as
professionals in the industry and saying that they believe this
is necessary.
General Manager Washington stressed that the CMAQ funds
have to be used on the Eagle P3 project in some way before
the project is finished. He also expressed concern that if there
are funds not being used the FTA could claw back money as
they have been doing with unused Full Funding Grant
Agreement funds.
Director Hoy wondered if this order will be enough to supply
all the cars as the North Metro line goes to Highway 7. Rick
Clarke said that it depends on headway; if the North Metro line
has a 30 minute headway this will be enough vehicles.
Director Hoy noted that we have better headway on the other
rail lines. He asked if there was a possibility RTD would still
need to purchase additional cars at a higher price. Rick Clarke
stated that if staff had the funding available they would
recommend buying all the commuter cars necessary but they
are trying to be prudent with the funding available; this action
is recommending the purchase of as many vehicles as can be
purchased at this time. Director Hoy summarized that we are
in a stretch to get these vehicles, staff wants more, but they

are recommending what can be purchased now to take
advantage of pricing.
Director Rivera-Malpiede agrees with what many of her fellow
Directors have said; it seems that the pricing will just go up
and the Board will be back in a year or two trying to figure out
how to get funding to purchase more vehicles. She believes
that the community really wants these types of vehicles so
she will be supporting this recommendation.
Director James stated that this falls into the category of risk
management; there are many potential positives and negatives
but he trusts staff to have the best judgment. He noted that
they are far better qualified to make this recommendation so
he is in support.
Committee Chair Tobiassen thinks that from a system
perspective, this will provide the managers with a great deal of
flexibility and redundancy for the system. He believes that in
a few years RTD will be looking back saying we are glad we
bought those extra cars.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 1]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Director, District G
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Claudia Folska
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

• Approval of Items 5-9
Motion:

Director James made the motion to consider
items 5-9 together and have one vote to move
these items forward to the full Board at the
December 17, 2013 Board meeting.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Menten requested that the motion be amended to
remove item 7, Englewood Art Shuttle Cost Share Agreement,
and have this item voted on separately.

Amended
Motion:

This motion was amended to remove item 7,
Englewood Art Shuttle Cost Share Agreement.
Director James and Rivera-Malpiede, as movers
of the motion, agreed to the change.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Bill James, Director, District A
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Item 5: DRCOG Vanpool Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the
Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support
and expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver
metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2014 and shall be in
an amount not to exceed $700,000.00.

• Item 6: North Front Range Vanpool Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the North
Front Range Metropolitan Planning Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD
support and continued expansion of the NFR VANGO vanpool program in the
Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2014 and shall
be in an amount not to exceed $450,000.00.

• Item 8: City of Boulder Hop Cost Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement
with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial support for the operation of
the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the City of
Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business and
residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2014 and is for an
amount not to exceed $1,484,378.00.

• Item 9: 5311 Cost Share Agreements
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via
Mobility Services and the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial

support for the provision of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for
Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These Agreements
are for calendar year 2014 and for amounts not to exceed $343,680.00 for
Boulder County, $338,250.00 for Adams County and $104,804.00 for
Jefferson County.

• Englewood Art Shuttle Cost Share Agreement (Formerly Item 7)
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement
with the City of Englewood to provide RTD financial support for the
operation of the art circulator bus service in the City of Englewood. This
agreement is for calendar year 2014 and is for an amount not to exceed
$282,000.00.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 17, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
shared with the Board that the City of Englewood (Englewood)
applied for a CMAQ grant to demonstrate the effectiveness of
a circulator operated from the Englewood light rail station. He
said that performance during that period was very successful
and it operated at a low subsidy per boarding. Bruce Abel
explained that based on this, RTD took over the base funding.
Englewood continues to wish to make this a free service so
they make up the fares that would have been collected. Bruce
Abel stated that staff is recommending that RTD support this
again as performance continues to merit support and this is
the most cost effective method to run the service.
Director Walker shared the Englewood is very appreciative of
this service. It is a great service for the elderly and employees
to get to the local hospitals. He said that Sheridan is also very
appreciative because many people use it to get to work at
their shopping center.
Director Menten confirmed that the cost to RTD is $282K.
Bruce Abel stated that was the correct not to exceed amount.
Director Daly noted the number of passenger boardings per
hour is 30.9 with ridership averaging 828.3 boardings per day.

He believes that is very respectable numbers and that this is a
very good service.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 1]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Jeff Walker, Director, District D
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 3rd Quarter 2013
There were no questions from the Board.

• 3rd Quarter Customer Complaint Analysis
Director Folska commented that in reviewing the complaints, it seems that
there is an ongoing problem with contractors not meeting RTD’s goals and
expectations. She believes this is also in alignment with contractors as it
relates to ADA issues. She requested that staff do an audit to try and better
understand the issues with our contractors. Bruce Abel said that staff
would do a more in-depth evaluation. He noted that there has been an
increase in customer complaints in the last several years, especially with
RTD’s enhanced fare enforcement policy and the priority seating areas.
Bruce Abel said that it would also be beneficial to create a category of valid
versus invalid complaints as currently any complaint is reported even if it is
proven untrue. Director Folska reiterated her concern that our contractors
seem to have higher complaints than RTD drivers.

• 3rd Quarter 2013 Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary
There were no questions from the Board.

• Special Services 3rd Qtr Report
Director Daly noted that under the Call-n-Ride Comments section there was
nothing on the South JeffCo Call-n-Ride. He wonders if that meant there
was anything of note. Bruce Abel said that those comments were related to
Call-n-Rides where it is staff’s desire to improve performance.

• A-Line Cost Agreement
There were no questions from the Board.

• Cost Agreements Under $250,000
There were no questions from the Board.

• Smart Card Project Status Update
Bruce Abel reminded the Board that going forward, staff will be providing
Smart Card updates on a quarterly basis. He said that the highlight of the
program is that staff is completing the CollegePass update for the winter
semester. He shared that staff has begun the EcoPass renewal process as
current contracts expire on December 31, 2013. Bruce Abel said that staff
continues to work with Xerox on web portal improvements.
Director Hoy asked if the CollegePass issue with Metro State was resolved.
Bruce Abel noted that there were challenges with the renewal process for all
of the colleges as summer ended and fall started. He stated that staff has
been working through those issues. He said that he cannot speak to Metro
State specifically but he believes everything with the CollegePass has been
resolved.
Director Sisk noted that previously General Manager Washington indicated
that RTD did not need to have the full implementation of the Smart Card
program prior to beginning the Fare Revenue Task Force. Director Sisk
believes the more information the Task Force has the better handle RTD will
have on the adjustments that need to be made. He wonders why General
Manager Washington thinks this will not be helpful in making fare
determinations. Bruce Abel stated that there are two components the Task
Force will be evaluating: structure and level. He explained that to start the
Task Force will be focused on structure, meaning the types of fares offered
by RTD. This will be done through a lot of peer comparison and a focus on
the number of different fare products available. Bruce Abel said that this
evaluation will be independent of data from the Smart Cards. He stated that
when the Task Force gets to the next phase, which is the level at which
RTD should establish our fares, then the data will be important.

D. Other Matters
Director Menten wondered if vehicle break-ins was broken out in Park-n-Ride
incidence reports. Chief Tarbert said that he would get that information for
Director Menten.

Director Menten inquired about the report from the Denver Police Department that
was going to be sent to the Board. She indicated she had not yet received this
report. This report was sent to the Board as part of the November 26, 2013 Board
Packet and staff said that they would re-send.
Director Walker noted that the Board Member Meet and Greet on Wednesday,
December 11, 2013 was also a benefit for former Director Matt Cohen. He said
that former Director Cohen could really use the support from as many friends as
possible because he is going through a very difficult time.

E. Next Meeting Date - January 14, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 8:25 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

