Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

May 20, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
May 20, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fourteen (14) Board members were present at roll call.

III.

Director Brohl arrived after roll call.

RETIREE AWARDS
There was no retiree present to receive an award.
Special Recognition
Dave Genova introduced Scott Lesikar who described the Phoenix Award, EPA Region 8
Brownfield Redevelopment that was given for the Elati Light Rail Maintenance facility. Cal
Marsella added this facility is a state of the art facility which will be expanded to handle the
entire light rail. He indicated not only is this a big achievement but will save money for the
FasTracks project.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Russell Greear, Denver, indicated things have been going well for the last three months and
offered his help for checking out any problem areas for districts that may need it.
Angie Malpiede, along with other members of the Universal Access Pass Working team, read a
statement of their collaborative efforts and progress to develop recommendations for a fiscally
sustainable and equitable program. They encouraged RTD to allow this process to work and to
incorporate their work into any pricing and administrative decisions that RTD is making on the
issue of budget shortfall recovery. For a copy of this letter and their associated analysis,
please refer to the copy located in the Minute Notebook in the Board office.
Holman Carter, ATU President, expressed opposition to the RTD proposal to “subsidize”
Laidlow and Veolia for fuel costs. He stated these are private companies well capable of
allowing the market forces and free enterprise to run its course.
David Cook representing the University of Colorado alternative transportation spoke on the
article on 9 News about the reverse effect of increased ridership on costs. He stated that
while the larger percentage of RTD budget is funded by sales tax revenue, there is no linkage
between increased ridership and sales tax. There is a dis-incentive for more ridership because
the sales tax revenue does not keep up. He suggested other options such as Safetea-Lu that
would provide incentives to increase ridership beyond the base level.

Bill Roettker, Transportation Co-chair for the Sierra Club, stated they were concerned about the
DUS environmental impact and will want to make their concerns known during the public
speaking part of the environmental impact process.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes or comments to the Committee reports.

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF APRIL 15, 2008
MOTION:
Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the April 15, 2008
regular board meeting minutes.
Director Busck seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15 votes in favor and 0
against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. ULI Panel Report on 16th Street Mall
Cal Marsella, General Manager and Director Elfenbein met with the ULI panel of 10
members as part of the Downtown Partnership to review the issues associated with the
sub-structure of the pavers for the 16th Street Mall. Associated issues include safety
concerns around the sidewalk encroachment from the restaurants on the mall and the $1M
cost element to RTD for maintaining this structure. The panel will review the issues and
provide a report on their recommendations.
Director Busck requested information on the projected sales tax that RTD gets from the
16th Street Mall and the cost to operate the free shuttle service on the mall.
2. Visit by Indianapolis Delegation in October
Indianapolis delegates are interested in replicating the RTD experience and will be visiting in
October to gain knowledge from FasTracks and other RTD key learnings. They possibly
will want to attend a Board meeting.
3. CASTA meeting on May 15th
Cal Marsella gave the breakfast keynote address for this meeting. RTD has benefited from
our relationships with CASTA including having Liz Rao as past president and Sherri
Ellebracht as current president.
4. Employee Forums
Cal Marsella hosts a series of employee forums throughout the year. He is currently in the
process of hosting forums and is encouraged by the interest and attendance from the
employees. Additionally they obtain anonymous questions which are responded to and
posted at the various divisions or in the Q.
Director Daly inquired as to the number of hits that the website receives for the
anonymous question. Phil Washington, AGM responded they get approximately 8-10 hits
per month.
Director McMullen encouraged looking for ways to have these meetings at a time that the
larger rank and file can attend.

5. Press Interviews on Ridership
Cal Marsella indicated that RTD was receiving a large amount of press locally and
nationally. He had conducted interviews with the New York Times and the Philadelphia
Inquiry. He has also had the opportunity to share his views from a more global perspective
on the impact of the dilemma that all cities are facing. There is an inverse relationship
between the increase demand for ridership, lower sales tax revenue and increased costs
(i.e. fuel and material). Subsequently, we are seeing the balance of power shifting which
creates a major challenge nationally for cities to provide transit service.
Director Tayer commended Cal for taking a leadership role in speaking out on this and in
seeking innovative solutions to this issue.
6. Other Issues
Director Martinez shared he had received feedback from a bus driver who drives the route
15 at night concerning security improvements she has noted on this route.
Director McMullen made observations from his Portland trip that he took with the
Downtown Denver Partnership group. He noted our 16th Street Mall is our free fare zone
and that RTD had taken a positive step in the negotiation with Wackenhut for security
guards as fare inspectors. He surmised that fare inspection is not well implemented in
Portland.
Chair Kemp emphasized that RTD is receiving real positive feedback and has assumed a
position as a leader in transit. He shared feedback about his presentation to the Mayor of
Baltimore, investment bankers, elected officials and concerned community groups and how
well received RTD is as a leader in the transportation industry.
Director Daly cited Colorado Springs as an example of a city that could benefit from a good
mass transportation system.

VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

MOTION:

Director Christopher moved that the Board of Directors
adopt the Unanimous Consent Agenda A-F.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Approval for Release of the Denver Union Station Final Environmental
Impact Statement and Master Plan Supplement for Public Comment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to release the Denver Union
Station (DUS) Final Environmental Impact Statement (Final EIS) for public
and agency review and that the Board approve the partner agencies’
Denver Union Station Master Plan Supplement. Completion of the DUS

Final EIS is the one of the last
In the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process and means that
the agencies are requesting official public and agency comment and
feedback on the No Action and the Build Alternative and their impacts and
proposed mitigation.
B.

Disposition of Excess Land Adjacent to Alameda & Havana park-n-Ride
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the proposed Disposition Plan for excess land
for the 2.3497 acre RTD owned property adjacent to the Alameda and
Havana park-n-Ride, known as Lot 1, Aurora Highline Subdivision Filing
No. 4, Aurora, Colorado, and further authorize the General Manager or his
designee to request, receive, and evaluate proposals for the sal e of said
property.

C.

Approval of Contract Amendment with URS for Engineering Work and
Development of a Design-Build Request for Proposals for the Bus
Maintenance Facility
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
contract with URS for the Northwest Rail Environmental Evaluation (EE)
and Preliminary Engineering (PE) that includes the Commuter Rail
Maintenance Facility be amended to add the engineering, design and
environmental work for a new RTD Bus Maintenance Facility. This work is
a direct impact of the preferred alternative refinement process for the
(CRMF) that is planned to displace the current bus facility at Platte. The
scope of work will also include the preparation of a design-build Request
for Proposals for building the new Bus Maintenance Facility. The cost of
this amendment is $2,000,000 and will bring the total contract with URS
to $9,742,882. Funding for this Bus Maintenance Facility project was
approved for inclusion in the FasTracks 2008 Budget by the Board in April
2008.

D.

Approval for Release of the Gold Line Draft Environmental Impact
Statement for Public Comment
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manage to release the Gold Line Draft
Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for public and agency review. This is
the first of a series of steps in the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)
process and means simply that the agencies are requesting official public and
agency comment and feedback on the Bo Action and Preferred Alternative and
their impacts.

E.

TripPlanner On-Call Support Services
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
award a contract in the amount of $100,000 for Personal Services of
TripPlanner One-Call Support Services. The contract is to be awarded to Object
Designs, LLC as a sole source vendor. The sole source vendor was selected a
competitive bid and award of general Forte support services contract that
proved insufficient in support of the TripPlanner application. The TripPlanner
application was off-line for 10 days in January 2008 and required an emergency
contract engagement with Object Designs, LLC. This has been determined to
be a personal service contract by RTD Legal.
The contract allows for an initial year plus one additional one-year option to
renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The annual limit is not to

exceed $100,000. The second year option is to begin on January 1, 2009 and
remain in effect for one year until December 31, 2009.
F.

Database Administration Operational Systems Support
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
initiate the second-year contract option with Dataman USA for time and
materials Oracle DBA support contract was originally awarded on July 1, 2007
through the competitive bid process. Within the contract, Article 6.0, allows
for an initial year plus three one-year options to renew based on positive
performance by the vendor. The annual limit is not to exceed $160,000. The
second year option is to begin on July 1, 2008 and remain in effect for 365
calendar days until June 31, 2009. The Board is being asked to approve this
contract because Legal has determined it to be a personal services contract.

IX.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Upon the recommendation by Cal Marsella to postpone the Executive Session until the
last recommended action had been approved, Chair Lee Kemp postponed the Executive
Session until later.

X.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
G.

Increase Funding for Laidlaw “Group 15” Fixed Route Contract
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
amend the Laidlaw “Group 15” fixed-route contract to cover increased
costs incurred due to service level increases and increased fuel costs over
the term of the contract:


Group 15 – add $13,270,000.00 to increase the amount authorized
from $99,250,564.00 as approved by the Board of Directors on
November 14, 2006, to a revised contract authority amount of
$112,520,564.00.

MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve
increasing the funding for Laidlaw “Group 15”
Fixed Route Contract
Director Quinlan seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON

Director Brohl inquired if when the new contract
comes up will there be a consideration to evaluate
if we want to continue to include fuel costs paid
by RTD. Cal Marsella commented that RTD feels
it is less exposed to windfall pricing from vendors
when we control the fuel prices.

MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, and Tayer) and 1
against (Yamrick).
Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

H.

Increase Funding for Veolia “Group 16” Fixed Route Contract
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to amend the
Veolia “Group 16” fixed-route contract to cover increased costs associated with
service level increases and increases in fuel costs over the term of the contract:


Group 16 – add $4,810,000.00 to increase the amount authorized from
$58,591,878.00 as approved by the Board of Directors on November 14,
2006, to a revised contract authority amount of $63,401,878.00.
MOTION:

Director Christopher made the motion to approve
increasing the funding for Laidlaw “Group 16”
Fixed Route Contract
Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, and Tayer) and 1
against (Yamrick).
Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

I.

August 2008 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve moving the proposed August 17, 2008 Service
Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and comment.

MOTION:

Director Christopher made the motion to approve
moving the proposed August 17, 2008 service
changes to public review and comment.
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Ruchman requested that some form of PI
be included in these August service change
reviews.

An electronic vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick)

and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

J.

RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2008 CONCERNING THE SALE OF PROPERTY
ACQUIRED BY THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT FROM THE UNION
PACIFIC RAILROAD

MOTION:

Director Martinez made the motion to approve the
resolution concerning the sale of property acquired
by RTD from the Union Pacific Railroad.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Kinton requested a short version
summary of this resolution. Cal Marsella provided
that summary.

An electronic vote was initially taken with 12
votes in favor and 3 against. However, due to
some confusion, a re-vote was needed on this
item.
Chair Kemp requested a roll call vote on this item.
The roll call vote showed 11 votes in favor
(Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly, Kinton, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Tayer and Kemp) and
4 against (Chacon, Elfenbein, Ruchman and
Yamrick).
Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

XI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION (postponed from earlier)
Chair Kemp entertained a motion to move into Executive Session prior to the voting on
item K.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to move into
Executive session for the purpose of discussing
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(a) Real Estate NegotiationsAcquisition of Property for Broomfield Transit
Facility,
C.R.S.24-6-402(a) & (e) Negotiations for
property interests and site development with
Aardex—Federal Center TOD and
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) Contract Negotiations
with Denver Transit Construction Group
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed.

The Board adjourned to Executive Session at 6:45 p.m.
The Board adjourned from Executive Session at 8:26 p.m.
A roll call was taken with 11 members present and 4 absent (Brohl, McMullen,
Ruchman and Yamrick).
K.

Real Estate Negotiations-Acquisition of Property for Broomfield Transit Facility
(This item was addressed in Executive Session)
MOTION:

Director Chacon made the motion to move
forward with the recommendation as provided in
the Executive Session for the acquisition of
Property for the Broomfield Transit Facility.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 11 votes in
favor (Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, Pulliam,
Quinlan, and Tayer) and 0 against. Directors
Brohl, McMullen and Yamrick had left and
Ruchman was away from his seat.

Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.
Cal Marsella thanked the Board for their support on this issue.

XII.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Director Chacon asked if we could think out of the box with the solution to the pavers for the
16th Street Mall and encourage some form of community activity to get people engaged. Cal
Marsella responded he did not think having people to color pavers, etc would be accepted by
the Downtown Denver Partnership or the ULI who are focused on symmetry and aesthetic
appearance. Director Chacon felt RTD should still explore creative solutions.
Chair Kemp summarized the discussion from the Executive Committee regarding hosting of the
APTA Annual Conference in 2013. He shared the Committee recommendation to pursue
hosting the conference in 2017 which is the next time the equipment show will be included.
He requested Cal Marsella to advise APTA of this decision.

XIII.

NEW BUSINESS

XIV.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 8:20 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, May 20, 2008

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Christopher Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
William McMullen, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Wally Pulliam
O’Neill Quinlan
Dave Ruchman
Barbara Yamrick

District I
District B
District K
District E
District O
District D
District C
District J
District N
District A
District H
District L
District G
District M
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Susan Altes
Ron Dodsworth
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
Marcia Fraley
David Genova
Reed Everett Lee
Marla Lien

Lloyd Mack
Caitlin Magee
Cal Marsella
Tony McCaulay
Jerry Nery
Paula Perdue
John Perry
Bill Porter
Liz Rao

OTHERS PRESENT:
Holman Carter, Local 1001 ATU President
Janet Arrowood
Russell Greear
Jay Aigner – Spectrum AV
Scott Lesikar – Brown and Caldwell
Ed Colby - URS
Angie Malpiede - UAP
Tom Wambott - CPRC
Linda Wambott - CPRC
Marth Roskowski – City of Boulder
David Cook – University of Colorado
Bill James
Michelle Halstead - CDOT
Molly Gallegos - CRD
Kevin Geinsing - CRD
Bill Poettker – Sierra Club
Matt Cohen
James Bell - CRD
Peter Lorenzon
Ramey Johnson

Scott Reed
Scott Roberts
Daria Serna
Bill Sirois
Stan Szabelak
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Phil Washington
Susan Wood

Aylene Quale - DDP
Robin Kniech - FRESC
Blake Pendergrass - FRESC
Laura Yibia
Aaron Fog

