2024-06-25
Board Meeting
[GAVEL BANG]
ERIK DAVIDSON: I will now call the Tuesday, June 25 RTD Board meeting to order. We are convened as
of 5:33 PM Mountain Daylight Time. This is Chair Erik Davidson speaking, and I would like to thank all of
you for joining us this evening. I would also like to respectfully ask everyone who has joined us to remain
muted unless you are recognized to speak.
As the Board has moved to in-person meetings for our monthly gatherings, please note that our committee
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are still being held remotely via Zoom and are being audio and
video recorded. Those meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted
as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com, and a live stream of this meeting is
also available via RTD's YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office
using the email address rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. At this time, I would now like to ask our First-- or
Second Vice Chair Guissinger to please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, and please leave your
microphone on. Thank you.
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands,
one nation under god, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And at this time, I'd like to ask Director Whitmore, would you please read the
land acknowledgment?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on
which our buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other
contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands.
We honor our Indigenous elders who have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and
plains throughout generations. May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to
dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of the Native and all historically oppressed peoples and
recognize their current and future contributions in the district as we move forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Whitmore. I will now call for the roll and determine the quorum.
Treasurer Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom?

BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell is excused absent. Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha? Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: This is Chair Davidson. I am here. That is 13 present and two absent. We have a quorum.
At this time, I'd like to ask Director Buzek, would you please read out the Statement of Employee
Appreciation?
VINCE BUZEK: I will. Thank you, Mr Chair. The Regional Transportation District Board of Directors
recognizes that RTD's dedicated workforce is the lifeblood of the agency. Every day, RTD employees do
extraordinary things to make lives better through connections.

We honor their work of delivering transit excellence, service, and value to the community, especially
demonstrated during difficult and stressful moments. May the actions taken by the Board of Directors
demonstrate our profound gratitude, commitment, and support toward all RTD employees.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek. This time, we'll move to our retiree awards. This was one of
the rewarding duties of serving on the Board, and it's to take a moment of recognition of RTD retirees. And
the time has come for us to recognize the employees who are leaving the agency to enjoy their retirement.
At this time, I would like to read the names of all employees who have retired since April. Larry Buter,
Manager of Paratransit Services, 29 years. Thomas Crunk, Bus Operator, 16 years. Leo Fautsch, Senior
Buyer, 18 years. Shawn Hughes, Street Supervisor, 22 years. Sandra Kerr, Manager, Transportation
Operating Division, 35 years. Robin Labella, Division Supervisor, 30 years.
Sandra Olivas, Material Management Specialist, 19 years. Art Scott, Light Rail Vehicle Instructor, 20 years.
Gary Turnquist, Structural Engineer, 15 years. Unfortunately, it's my understanding that our retirees have
not been able to join us tonight, but I would like to take a moment of applause and appreciation to thank all
of them collectively at once for their hard work, commitment, and dedication to RTD and its customers.
[APPLAUSE]

I do see that a hand was raised online. That is Director Lewis, and I would like to recognize Director Lewis
at this time. Go ahead, sir.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I wanted to highlight the efforts of Larry Buter, Larry's work with the
Access-a-Ride program. Before I came on the Board, I've worked with him for almost 10 years. And I just
want to say it was a delight to work with him. Can't say we always agreed on everything, but he was
straightforward and gave me straight answers. So even though he may not be there, I just wanted to
highlight his tenure with RTD. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. Next on our agenda is our public participation period, which
is open to anyone who would like to address the Board. As we have both in-person and remote attendees,
in-person comments will go first, followed by those who are participating remotely.
For those attending in person, please come up to the podium when your name is called. If you have not
already signed up to speak and would like to do so, please approach the podium when I call for any
additional speakers.
For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not done so, you may raise your virtual hand
on Zoom, or if dialed in, press Star-9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If
you are dialed in, press Star-6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments can be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or any
reference material for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to the RTD Board Office using the email address rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.

During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at the same email address
noted earlier, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Speakers should please begin their remarks by stating their names, and they will have up to three minutes
to provide their comments. I will let you know when that three minutes has elapsed. Go first to our in-person
speakers who have signed up, starting with Kathleen Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Good evening, and thank you very much for this opportunity. My name is
Kathleen Chandler, and I do live in District F. I am actually submitting my signatures in the next week or so,
so I am running for that position. However, I would like to just comment on the TABOR, de-TABORing issue.
I don't know if this is the appropriate time.
However, I'm very concerned that as citizens we are being led astray by the ballot language. It is a tax
increase, and I think it should be stated as a tax increase. If you really want to continue to have the public
trust, then I think you need to be honest in the language in which that measure is being said.
I'm also very concerned that RTD is already receiving millions, if not billions, obviously, dollars. And I'm not
sure that the citizenry can really pay much more and still only have less than 5% ride RTD.
So I would hope that as you guys consider that coming up that you would think about how that language is
said on the ballot, because deception is really a big problem within government. We want to trust, as
citizens, our government. And I think we are feeling duped by a lot of the ballot language that's coming from
government, and this is a prime example. So thank you very much for your consideration, and I look forward
to hopefully being elected and serving the Board.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. Our next speaker who is signed up is Bob
Denager.
BOB: Hi, everybody. Thank you for allowing me to speak. I do have a few things I'd like to say, both about
tonight's agenda as well as recent events.
Unlike yesterday's public speaker, I do not come before you with a faux RTD pin. Neither do I wear a scarlet
letter, which, if I recall, was the letter A, which is the district that I'm running for to represent.
I'm a big fan of public transit. I think it's hugely important. It's the engine that connects us. I believe very
firmly that what we need to do is come together as a community.
I was in Houston a month ago, and they have a highway to Katy, Texas that's 28 lanes. Obviously, we can't
do that here. We don't want to do that here. One of the purposes of public transit is to avoid that kind of a
nightmare scenario.
And I'd also like to point out, as everybody knows, we hit 100 degrees today, and that's got to catch our
attention. There's a lot of things we need to do.
One of the things we need to do is we need to look at and we need to take a careful look at the wisdom of
what we formerly referred to as competitive bids. We have an item on the agenda tonight regarding my
former employer, Transdev.

And that company bought its largest global competitor. The numbers that are on the table, not to exceed,
if I'm not mistaken, average approximately $37 million a year without fuel. That's not too much more than it
was for the previous five-year term, three years plus two.
I don't see where you're going to solve your people power problem without money. I understand completely
that we need to look to the legislature. And I'm proud to say that I've got the support of the three co-sponsors
of the recent transit reform act, which I opposed. Despite that, I have their support.
I think we need to look long and hard at the wisdom of whether there is truly a benefit or a savings to the
community privatizing RTD services. Most of the public are not aware that 50% approximately of the fixed
route buses are handled by Transdev.
Once upon a time, it was First Transit versus Transdev, and that may have had its benefits. But as far as
I'm concerned, there should have been an audit. There should have been consideration given to whether
there's going to be adequate funds that the people providing the service that is RTD's raison d'etre can
afford to live here. Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the comments. Our next speaker is Emma Griffin.
EMMA GRIFFIN: Hi. Thank you for giving me this time to speak. My name is Emma Griffin. I live in District
A in the Hale/Congress Park area. And I'm a public transit rider and member of Greater Denver Transit.
I'm here today to represent the disgruntled sentiment held by many transit riders currently about the chaos
surrounding the E and H lines. Between the planned reduced frequency of these lines down to hourly in
combination with the unplanned adverse events for these lines, including 10-mile-per-hour slow zones in
sections, as well as safety concerns surrounding tracks, including smoke being seen rising from light rail
electrical lines, there are serious questions about the realistic viability of large swaths of RTD's light rail
system for anyone with any realistic alternative right now.
I have a friend who lives walking distance from the Colorado Station. Despite this, she is an irregular transit
rider, but does use the A Line to go downtown and to the airport.
She has a friend visiting for an extended period, and let me know excitedly that she's planning on taking
her friend on the train near her house downtown-- near her house to downtown, in her case meaning either
the E or H line. Despite being a transit advocate and regular rider, given the current state of the light rail I
advised her not to take the train unless RTD is able to remedy a majority of the issues that have come up
recently by the time her friend comes to visit. This was painful coming from someone who actively works to
convince people in her life to take public transit more and drive less for the benefit of our entire community.
I appreciate RTD collaborating with CDOT to try to bridge some of the gaps in service by accepting RTD
fare on a portion of one of Mustang's routes serving Southern Denver. Ultimately, I think we desperately
need more bus shuttle service to fill in the gap left by the E and H lines prior to service changes and the
current safety concerns. RTD will permanently lose ridership if our area's transit riders aren't given a safe,
reliable, predictable, and frequent means to get to work, home, school, or to spend time with people in their
lives. Thank you so much for your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. Our next speaker is Joe Meyer.
JOE MEYER: Before the time starts, can I hand out [INAUDIBLE] Is that possible? Or are they already in
the back [INAUDIBLE]? I didn't get any confirmation that they made it in. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
JOE MEYER: Good evening. Thank you for the opportunity to speak today. My name is Joe, and I used to
ride the E Line every day between Union Station and Dry Creek. The slashing of frequency combined with
the surprise slow zones and schedule unpredictability put me back in a car, and I'm now part of the I-25
traffic that we all want to see resolved. I'm asking the Board to increase pressure on RTD management to
improve transparency, communication, and service as soon as possible.
I recognize that regular maintenance and repair is necessary to maintain a safe and reliable operating
condition, and accept that it will impact service quality. However, the terrible service we are experiencing is
unnecessarily exacerbated by the inability of staff to provide timely, transparent, and frequent
communication to the people who rely on RTD.
For example, slow zones were not messaged out ahead of time, and the reasoning behind the slow zones
was kept secret for far too long. No additional provisions were put in place to provide riders with reliable,
real-time schedules, or workable transportation Alternatives. The only offering RTD management has given
to riders is, quote, "check the app and plan accordingly."
That response is an abdication of any responsibility to riders and their experience. For some of the
scheduled disruptions, Next Ride has been unreliable, which could not have come as a surprise to staff as
the exact same issue was encountered in January when a train derailed near the Southmoor Station.
RTD had months to learn from this and fix the real-time tracking, seriously investigating and clearly
communicating to the general public the problems and solutions. Actions and communication like this build
trust in the agency and would have better prepared riders to deal with the current situation.
Regarding scheduling, I'd like to walk you through my daily trip and ask about opportunities for
improvements. I arrive at Union Station in the morning on a B or G train and wait until the next scheduled
E Line departure to Dry Creek. That trip from my arrival at Union Station to when I get to Dry Creek takes
between 56 minutes to one hour and 46 minutes, depending on the train I arrive to Union Station on.
For alternatives, I could take the H Line and connect to the R, which gets to Dry Creek only six minutes
earlier than the E Line I would otherwise be waiting for. And that total time from arriving at Union Station to
arriving at Dry Creek is an hour 20 to an hour 50. A huge part of that is a 22-minute connection at Dayton
between the H and R line. The other option is taking the A Line to the R, which is a minimum one hour, 40
minutes from when I arrive at Union Station on the B or G to when I get to Dry Creek. On Friday, I biked
from Union Station to my office faster than everything presented here other than an on-schedule E Line
perfectly timed with an on-time G Line arrival at Union Station, which is a combination only available once
per hour.
I do have a few suggestions to improve this situation that I would like to see implemented before September,
if possible. One, re-time the R Line to reduce connection time with the H, or increase the R to 15-minute
frequency, or run a new route between Lincoln and Dayton, and vice versa.
Two, run an E Line train directly behind the H. The limitation to the schedule, as I understand it, is single
tracking, so two trains close together going in the same direction should be viable. This creates 30-minute
frequency between DTC and Union Station, which is a huge improvement.
And three, factoring in the delays in slow zones, evaluate if any bus shuttles can realistically provide faster
and more reliable service in the areas of the slow zones or between H and R Line trains. I and countless

others are invested in seeing service improve ASAP between the Tech Center and Union Station. From
what I have seen so far, RTD management has not taken that seriously.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Briefly.
JOE MEYER: Yep. Last line. I'm open to feedback and follow-up to further discuss how the situation can
be realistically improved. Thank you for your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Appreciate the comments. We'll now move to Keith Brooks.
KEITH BROOKS: Good evening. I'm Keith Brooks. I'm here as a private citizen. You'll see why. Planes do
not crash, chemicals do not spill, and trains-- what is it? On fire this time?-- do not happen purely for
technical reasons. This Board has been told and will be told in detail technical problems facing the agency.
But at the end of the day, culture has to be taken into account. And a culture of secrecy, unaccountability
in the name of penny pinching has taken hold in this agency.
I don't expect the Board to be rail nerds. There are people you can ask for that. I just ask, please, go after
some things when you hear rumors about them. I know there are things the Board is not allowed to know
or things the Board is not told.
Calling someone a politician is usually derogatory, but I say this sincerely. Please, be politicians. Do a bit
of schmoozing. Try and figure out what's going on through word of mouth if you are not being told because
so much gets unsaid to this Board.
I do not know if there is compartmentalization inside senior management because we don't know what's
going on inside management. We know so little. We should not have to do investigative journalism to
answer basic questions, but here we are.
I appreciate what the Board has done to maintain accountability. No one likes to be mean. No one likes to
tell someone off. But please, for the riders, do something. Well, more.
I understand I'm rambling, but I don't think the Board fully appreciates how little they are being told. With
line items reaching $1 million, with 48-page budgets when it should be close to several hundred, I know no
one wants to go through that, but for us. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker is June Churchill.
JUNE CHURCHILL: Thank you, Chair Davidson, and esteemed members of the Board. My name is June
Churchill. I live in District A, and I'm the first co-lead for Greater Denver Transit that you will be hearing from
tonight. I will start my comments with matters unrelated to the current light rail issues.
We are in very firm support of the deep debrucing measure. Please vote yes on this. If RTD doesn't debruce,
the result will be disastrous permanent service cuts and the possible inability for RTD to take advantage of
the incoming state funds from SB 24-230.
Second, given state legislative changes this year encouraging more sustainable land use and transitoriented development, I am very happy to see the Central Park TOD project on the agenda for today, and
I want to encourage all of you to vote yes. This development will ensure that instead of having hundreds of
empty parking spaces, there will be hundreds of homes filled with transit riders instead.

On to the main subject. I know this is a difficult moment for RTD, and I would like to thank all of the operators
and staff who are working diligently to keep the public safe and ensure the riders of the district can get from
point A to point B reliably and efficiently.
In this moment, I think there are two fundamental questions that I want to ground us in about the operational
conditions of the light rail. One, one needs to be done right now to reduce impacts on riders. And two, how
did it get so bad in the first place?
Right now, RTD needs to be laser-focused on clear and transparent communication with riders to ensure
that members of the public have schedules or real-time information that they can rely upon to use the
system. Every transit system has bad days, and RTD right now is a triple whammy of projects affecting our
light rail system, namely the coping panels project, downtown loop reconstruction, and the slow zones
resulting from wheel burn. In this moment of crisis, RTD needs to have empathy for those affected and
work diligently to mitigate impacts through interventions like bus bridges, scheduling communications, and
also just generally more creativity as you support riders as they navigate the system.
Now on to the second question, which interests me a lot more, actually. How did it get so bad in the first
place? Undoubtedly, some of this is just bad luck, but that's not the whole answer. We now have the
organizational report finalized by Segal yesterday, which I haven't finished reading completely, but I have
been reading, and it's very interesting.
Once you take that report combined with the ongoing communications from the PUC, it paints a picture of
a district saddled by serious organizational and structural problems, which it's doing its absolute best in
spite of those problems. I'm sure that once the newest state audit report is public, we will have an even
deeper look into the problems with RTD.
But as we look, we notice we've got statutory problems, structural problems, and personnel problems. And
the moment demands we rise to meet these challenges. It's going to be rough for a bit, but let's work
together and ensure such a crisis never happens again.
Us here at GDT, we support public transit. We love public transit. We want public transit to be better. The
only way we're going to get there is communication, collaboration, and a commitment from everyone that
RTD may have problems, but we need to work together to fix them and not live in a world that lacks
transparency. Thank you so much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker is Richard Bamber.
RICHARD BAMBER: Thank you, Chair. Good evening, everyone. So the PUC letter was pretty scathing.
I've seen the agency's response. I see there's a certain level of disagreement. But I think nobody can
disagree on the PUC's saying twice in the letter the effect this has had on riders, customers, passengers,
whatever you want to call them.
GDT has questions. We've got them in front of you. You know, we need them answered fully. We've become
aware of a document from 2021 that is your track inspection standards. I think that would be nice to get
that out into the public domain so we can really see what has changed with the inspections.
The second part of our letter talks about, you need to do decisive action to solve a crisis like this. And that,
we don't see. You know, we still hear talk yesterday of massaging schedules, putting extra trains-- putting
extra E trains out on the E line and hoping for the best. You know, muddling through until September.

Contrast that with-- nobody even remembers this anymore. In fall 2022, DTO, concessionaire of the A Line,
had a grade crossing at Dahlia. And this crossing had caused some problems ever since the A Line was
opened. They took decisive action. They said, we need to drop the A Line frequency to half an hour. We
need to run single tracking. It'll be a month.
And because they only took away frequency-- they didn't take away reliability, they didn't take away
punctuality, the A Line still functions-- we've pretty much forgotten about that month as a minor
inconvenience. That's what I talk about when I mean decisive action. And the lack-- the fact that three
weeks into this, there's no emergency schedule out there really is what I mean.
So, I mean, in short, we do see the attempts at transparency. We do see there are staff who are focusing
on this. I do appreciate that. But still, it's still not good enough.
I'd like to finish tonight with a retiree list. I mean, I thank anybody who works for RTD, provides service,
especially the frontline employees. One name on the list, Gary Turnquist, I'd like to personally commend.
I worked with Gary on the FasTracks project. He was a very able, capable structural engineer. Always
happy with a word of advice. Always there to help. And I would like to personally wish Gary the best of luck
in where life is going to take him next. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak tonight.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Next, we will go to Leslie Welch.
LESLIE WELCH: Hi. I would like to thank Chair Davidson and the RTD Board for providing the opportunity
to provide public comment today. My name is Leslie Welch, and I'm one of the co-leads here at Greater
Denver Transit. You probably haven't seen me at a Board meeting before, but I help out on a number of
the behind-the-scenes matters for GDT, including letter drafting.
On June 19, we sent in a letter to CEO and General Manager Johnson with questions and demands
regarding the current light rail slow zone situation. CEO and GM Johnson replied to this letter very
graciously on June 21, providing the Light Rail Speed Restrictions web page.
This web page has provided a higher level of transparency to the general public and answers to some of
our questions. We genuinely do appreciate the posting of correspondence, such as the PUC 48-hour
reports and detailing of scheduling, although we believe some improvements are needed, as well as
additional support provided to riders to help navigate the system.
We genuinely believe that this is an improvement over previous communications regarding the situation,
but that there is still work to be done. We encourage Board members, if they have not looked at the
questions we have sent in, to take a look and use these questions to inform their understanding of the
public's needs regarding the light rail situation. Our understanding is that this letter was distributed to Board
members on June 20.
We would like to provide some context as to why this letter was sent in. The letter is our attempt at obtaining
answers so that the public has the information it needs to successfully understand the conditions that led
to the current slow zone situation, what is being done to ameliorate this current situation for riders, and
what will be done in the future to ensure full transparency to the public to mitigate situations like this in the
future.
We believe that these are necessary components to fostering and restoring trust with RTD on behalf of
riders as well as the general public. Given the current political headwinds, including debrucing measures

and the potential RTD reform, we believe that RTD fostering public trust is a necessity to ensure the best
possible outcomes for riders.
As of writing this comment earlier today around noon, there are still some questions that have remained
unanswered regarding our correspondence. We have passed along our clarification requests regarding
those things. Our initial letter indicated that we would like to receive responses by July 3, and we will
continue our correspondence to ensure that the public receives transparency regarding this project. Thank
you so much for your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker is James Flattum.
JAMES FLATTUM: Good evening, Chair Davidson, RTD Board, staff. Thank you for the opportunity to
speak. My name is James Flattum. I am with Greater Denver Transit.
While there has been extensive conversation online that has raised the responsibility for the avalanche of
trip-breaking delays on RTD's light rail system, the responsibility for these delays was almost completely
absent from the discussion at last night's Board meeting. One thing that is painfully clear to the public, but
does not appear to be clear to everyone in this room, is the simple fact that RTD is failing on its
responsibilities to provide workable service to riders on the light rail system.
RTD has not been proactive in the execution of its State of Good Repair program to inform the public and
minimize impacts to riders. While the new APTA standard may be considered proactive, RTD's execution
was absolutely the opposite of proactive. We know this because proactive execution activities impact riders
very differently than reactive activities.
Proactive maintenance implementation can be layered incrementally, gradually, and for limited periods of
time over normal system operations. This causes minimal and otherwise short periods of inconvenience to
riders. This is not what RTD did.
Reactive maintenance action is required when problems don't get addressed individually as issues arise,
but are allowed to build up and snowball out of control, not in just one or two spots on the network, but
across many different parts of the network. This necessitates bitter medicine that is most disruptive to riders.
And similar to last summer on the Southeast, the utility of transit to riders gets wiped out.
The failure does not stem from any one person at RTD, but rather a culture of complacency and reactive
management. What we see is a failed culture in the organization that was unable to address deficiencies
before they turned into a crisis, then a failure to take responsibility for those crises publicly, even when the
regulator came knocking.
While no one person at RTD makes the culture, like any other enterprise, management sets a tone. At RTD,
management manages at the direction of the Board of Directors.
My question for management and the Board of Directors tonight is, what are you doing to change the culture
at RTD? How are you going to break down the silos between departments that resulted in a train schedule
that failed to contemplate the fixes needed to apply the new APTA standard? How will you foster proactive
operations culture that is focused on the rider experience, second only to safety?
When I was a kid, RTD was the country's number 1 transit agency. RTD used to do this, and must again.
You must not fail. We can already see outside forces mustering. It began with riders, it expanded to include
the state legislature, and now the regulators are coming.

If you do not change the culture, then they will come in and change it for you. This cannot wait. This will not
go away. This is a crisis that must be addressed decisively. Thank you. That concludes my remarks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. I'll also note, for the sake of the record, that Director
Ruscha has joined us in person and was online in transit here. Our next speaker present is Natalie Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: (LOUDLY) Good evening. (QUIETER) I'll back off on that. Good evening, RTD Board
of Directors. How nice to be back in the room.
I am here to speak tonight regarding the TABOR ballot issue, which is a tax increase. And I did try to speak
during the committee meeting, but unfortunately, due to some issues on my end, I was unable to do that,
so I hope you got my written communication regarding the matter.
This ballot issue is a tax increase, OK? If you want to say that-- cry, cry, cry-- we need to de-TABOR so we
are not affected by the revenue impact, then it must mean there's some dollars associated with it, right?
Well, those dollars associated with it, the ones-- that TABOR refunds that the Regional Transportation
District would be keeping from taxpayers, that's their refund, rebate that the district will be keeping.
And it means that at the end of the year, the net rate somebody paid to the Regional Transportation District
is higher than it would be if this measure was not passed. That is a tax increase. The language does not
comply with that. No.
Instead, RTD used consultant-- taxpayer money to pay a consultant to craft a language and to manipulate
it and massage it so that it will fly by voters and try to say it's not a tax increase, but it is a tax increase. And
so far for the chart that's not-- I don't think it's included in this packet, but was in earlier ones-- RTD has
kept $650, $675 million maybe from taxpayers over the last-- since 2007 through 2019. What is that number
now?
So it is a tax increase. Why doesn't the language read it? Because go back to the minutes where consultant
Lori Weigle was consulting the Board on what the polling results showed. What is the best language to lay
out to the voters to schmooze them and smooth it past? It's a tax increase.
And what's very concerning is not only are we talking about sales tax, really. But as following the Board of
Directors, the transportation bills that have gone through, and the fact that right now on a property tax bill
there is already a line item for Regional Transportation District, I have great fears that RTD will go forward
with a property tax issue in the future, but we will have given up all TABOR rights to it here in this election
in 2024, and the voters won't even know what they gave up.
There's no sunset in this measure. TABOR actually does say it's a four-year limit, so the public gets to
review it, but RTD doesn't want to include that.
Here's what I really feel will be the end of this story. Polis will come back, and he's going to make this an
appointed Board. Those are my comments. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. At this time, there's no further individuals that are signed
up on the public comment sign-up sheet. But before moving to online, I'll call and see if there are any
speakers present who had desired to speak, but did not sign up.
OK. Seeing none, we will move to our virtual attendees. I'll ask Mr. Jack Kroll, our Executive Manager of
the Board Office, are there any hands raised online?

JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Davidson. At this time we have several, the first of which is Sheri Tuffield.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful. Sheri, you are now recognized for three minutes.
SHERI TUFFIELD: Hello? Can you hear me?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can.
SHERI TUFFIELD: OK, hi. My name is Sheri Tuffield, and my comments are in reference also to the
discussion that you're going to have later tonight about your ballot initiative for the fall election.
I live in RTD District G in unincorporated Arapahoe County. I knocked on a lot of doors during the recent
Proposition HH campaign, and you should be aware that the electorate in Colorado is pretty informed, in
particular about TABOR and how it has helped safeguard their pocketbooks against government overreach
into their pocketbooks.
They were in particular not very happy with how the government was less than honest with them when it
came to how that ballot initiative was worded. They do prefer when the government tells it to them straight
and then makes its case.
So my advice would be to let voters know why you want to not begin returning their TABOR money to them
as you initially promised. And tell them why, instead of deceptively finding other ways to word your ballot
initiative. I think your chances would be better both in the short term and for RTD's long-term credibility.
Thank you for your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Mr Kroll, can you please call on our next remote speaker?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Davidson. Next, we have Paolo Solorzano.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Paolo, you are now recognized for three minutes.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Hi, this is Paolo Solorzano with the RTD Riders Alliance. Thanks. Yeah. Yeah. It
has been a very bad-- yeah, it's been a very difficult last couple of weeks.
But today, I just want to make sure, you know, on behalf of the RTD Riders Alliance that, yeah, we make
sure that with the ongoing cancelations and delays and into the ongoing future, especially at the level that
they are right now, that we make sure that people are not being cited or ticketed, especially people who
happen to purchase a three-hour pass. You know, not a full-day pass or something like that. I'm especially
thinking about people who are essential workers and the unhoused popula-- you know, people who are
unhoused and struggling to make appointments and, you know, to their resources.
So hopefully RTD police, security, and I guess maybe, even if it's possible, bus operators, make sure that
they have the ability to check in and confirm a cancelation or possible multiple consecutive cancelations or
no-shows. I mean, it could really result in an altercation that should never have happened.
And perhaps if RTD is able to confirm that sort of stuff, which would be a first step. But perhaps offering a
free day pass to people who are experiencing homelessness, you know? RTD is at the center of all this
still. We can't forget just how much this is affecting people that are exiting the criminal justice system, those
on probation, parole, those looking to access mental health or substance abuse resources, and those that
are themselves trying to rebuild after a rough stretch of time.

Hopefully, RTD can be really apathetic to that and put in the-- put in the work and start talking to people
like that that are the silent sufferers. Yeah. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. Mr. Kroll, could you please recognize the next
remote speaker?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Davidson. Next, we have Cory Gaines, who is dialing in from the phone number
303-217-6782.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Cory, you are now recognized for three minutes.
CORY GAINES: Hello. [CLEARS THROAT] Excuse me. Hello. Thank you. My name is Cory Gaines. I'm
calling in about your debrucing, de-TABORing measure. I want to echo the comments that others have
made before me, because mine will be substantively the same.
My wallet doesn't care what words you put to things. My wallet notices that I have less money in it now as
compared to before. And I won't repeat everything everyone else has said. I would echo what they say
about the wording of your ballot measure.
And I just would like to leave you with one last thing as a reminder. Remember that every dollar you have- because we all know that RTD cannot sustain itself with revenues from riders. Almost every dollar you
have is a dollar that has come from someone else. It's a dollar that you've taken away from a family, and
it's a dollar that they could have put towards something else. If you take our money-- we don't really have
much of a choice in that-- the least you could do is be honest in what you're intending to do. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Mr. Kroll, can you please call on our next remote
speaker?
JACK KROLL: Yes, next we have Nate Trela.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Nate, you are now recognized for three minutes.
NATE TRELA: Thank you. This is Nate Trela in Englewood. I am a Board Member of the Blind Parents
Division of the National Federation of Blind of Colorado. And once again, wanted to touch on the Accesson-Demand program and the importance of providing the capability to make multiple stop trips in the
program.
As our organization has said before, we have a policy to oppose anything that is a reduction in service. And
regardless of whether it was provided intentionally, the capability to make multiple stop trips was there in
Access-on-Demand when the program started. And people made decisions about where to live, where to
work around the capability. And from the anecdotes we've looked at, it doesn't appear that the program
financially has done anything but increase costs for RTD and for the consumers using the program.
I know questions of equity around providing the capability had been raised, and it's hard to see how it's
anything but a matter of equity to support the idea of giving people the capability to make seamless trips,
to run simple errands like picking up groceries at the store that are ready to go or drop a kid at school on
the way to work.
I think a better transparency is going to be important as we move forward on addressing this. My
understanding from looking at the Board packets is that the peer review of the paratransit services has

been completed. I'm hoping there will be some kind of public availability of that report soon or some kind of
public presentation or discussion of it.
When we began raising the issue about the prohibition on multiple-stop trips a few months ago, RTD quickly
responded by setting up a website where there would be information posted about the peer review, about
potential changes to Access-on-Demand or any paratransit services. But beyond that initial post saying
that, nothing has been posted to the site.
I do also believe the-- the only dedicated Board item discussion prior to this meeting that I am aware of,
unless I missed it, was a discussion about the average fare for these multiple-stop trips versus single-stop
trips. And that data paints an incomplete picture of what the total cost has been to users. So I am still looking
forward to the Board hopefully receiving information from the staff about the real cost of-- or the changes
in costs since the program has explicitly banned the multiple-stop trips.
I also would think the Board needs to address a matter I raised at the last meeting about staff referring
service dog users to take-- telling them they should be taking Uber Pet instead of UberX, which essentially
is a guide dog tax, an increased cost that in turn allows and accommodates really people violating federal
law and violating their contracts with the rideshare programs by denying service to service dog users.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Nate, I apologize for the interruption. That is three minutes. If you could briefly wrap up,
please.
NATE TRELA: Sure. Sure. Just want to say that I do appreciate that the Board is looking at allocating more
funds today. Hopefully, that will advance. And I do believe that the TABOR ballot language that is coming
up is actually crucial to maintaining the level of service throughout RTD's offerings, including making it
possible to provide more than a skeleton level of paratransit service. So I do appreciate that RTD has taken
those steps.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. Mr. Kroll, if you could please call on our next
remote attendee, please.
JACK KROLL: Yes, Adam Estroff.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Adam, you are now recognized for three minutes.
ADAM ESTROFF: Hello, RTD Board. Thank you so much for having me. I wanted to talk about the
experience on the E Line. I'm a lifelong transit rider. My favorite personal fact is I've ridden the-- you know,
when it was the B Line and the FF1, enough miles to circumnavigate the world at least once.
Having RTD has enabled me and my family to have one car instead of two, which saves us a lot of money.
And you know, access to the E Line was really important to me. It was the way I got to work.
I was OK when the coping panels needed to be redone. I was able to get a co-working space. But now as
the delays have continued to drag on into multiple years, they're combined with the slow zones, they're
combined with trains not necessarily reliably showing up due to operator shortages, the line has become
unusable.
Employees at my office, they've stopped taking the EcoPass because you can't get to work with it anymore,
and I'm worried that my company's going to cut the benefit. So I would just really, again, ask you to come
up with an alternative so that that corridor is usable for transit while these repairs are going on.

I know it should be fixed by September, but I'm not really very confident with that. So I just wanted to
express my frustration. But thank you so much for all of your work.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. Mr. Kroll, our next speaker, please.
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, there are currently no further speakers in the queue.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. And thank you to everybody for sharing your comments with
us this evening, as always. And for the sake of the record, I'd like to now ask Mr. Jack Kroll, Executive
Manager of the Board Office, to read in any of the emailed comments that were received for today's meeting.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. You all received five email comments, three of those comments
from Joe Meyer, Adam Estroff, and GDT related to the Southeast Light Rail Corridor maintenance issues.
And then GDT also wrote in, in addition to Cynthia Hutchinson and Diane Pero. regarding the TABOR issue,
GDT in support and the previous two individuals opposed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr Kroll, for reading those into the record. With no other
participants in the queue at this time, we will close the public participation period. There are no external
entities reports this evening, so we will move next to our committee reports. Committee Chair Tisdale is
excused for the evening, and therefore will not be providing the Audit Committee report. I'm sorry, Dishell.
[LAUGHTER]
Thank you. My apologies, Director Tisdale. Director Dishell is excused for the evening. The Audit
Committee has not met since our last Board meeting. The next Audit Committee is scheduled for 10:00 AM
on Thursday, July 11, 2024. Again, apologies, Chair Tisdale of the Finance and Planning Committee. I was
jumping a little bit ahead in my mind, going past Audit Committee, the Finance and Planning Committee
report. Chair Tisdale, do you have anything you would like to report?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. The minutes of the June 11 meeting, of the Finance
and Planning Committee are found at pages 17 through 19 of the packet. The highlight of that meeting was
the TABOR in Central Park discussion and the recommended actions, which will be before us tonight. There
was also a discussion of items as reflected in our committee work plan, and we appreciate the opportunity
to follow up on all of those.
And I'm also pleased to say that our General Manager CEO has undertaken to be a participant in our
planning meetings for our Finance and Planning Committee meetings going forward to ensure that she's
always engaged with us on what we're presenting to the committee. That's all that I have, Mr. Chair. Thank
you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. Much appreciated. Next is our Operations, Safety,
and Security Committee report. Committee Chair Whitmore, do you have anything you would like to report
this evening?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The committee met on June 12. The minutes are on
packet pages 19 through 22. We had unanimous consent result and two items on tonight's agenda,
including the Group 33 fixed route service contract and the Access-on-Demand matter.

We also had a comprehensive report from Chief Fitzgerald with our police department on an update on the
fine things that that department is doing and the added duties of many new officers added to our ranks.
And we had a good exchange of ideas and information during that presentation.
And then we wrapped up with a very comprehensive presentation proposal of Vision Zero program
presented eloquently by Directors Ruscha and Harwick, and appreciated their time and effort in that.
Certainly for the Board and staff's future consideration, which we will be tackling in the next couple of
months. And that's all that I have for tonight's recap.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Whitmore. Next is our Performance Committee
report. Committee Chair Catlin, is there anything you would like to share and report this evening?
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure. And forgive the backdrop here. The Performance Committee met on June 10 and
recommended for the full Board's consideration the updated Agency Performance Scorecard, which you'll
see tonight. It was unanimously approved to be forwarded, but it was suggested in the Executive Committee
that it be pulled from the consent agenda and considered-- to be considered by the full Board. The
committee remains focused on establishing clear and measurable goals and KPIs for the agency.
Our next committee meeting will be next Monday, July 1 at 8:30 AM where staff will present the key
takeaways from this year's employee survey, and I'm really looking forward to that. And that's kind of our
first effort into a deep dive.
There will be a second Performance Committee meeting scheduled in July, at which the committee will
commence its work with an outside firm to develop a 360 assessment tool for the GM CEO position. By
early July, the Board Office anticipates firms to be selected to both assist the Board in developing the
assessment tool, as well as to conduct a total compensation analysis for the GM CEO position.
Please let me know or Vice Chair Guissinger know if you have any questions or concerns and if you need
anything else. And with that, Mr. Chair, I am afraid I'm going to have to put myself on mute and may not be
able to participate in some of the actions as I have some medical teams outside my office, waiting to get in.
So I apologize. I will listen, but may not be able to participate. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First, Vice Chair Catlin, thank you very much for joining us. Thank you for your dedication
to the agency for joining us this evening and for providing the committee report. At this time, we will move
to the approval of our Board meeting minutes and committee reports. The Board and committee minutes
were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from Directors for the minutes to be approved
this evening?
SPEAKER: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Just for OS squared, I wanted to see if we could add in our Vision Zero presentation into
it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That was done in other matters. Is that correct and not noted in the-- can you clarify a
little bit further?
JACK KROLL: So I would say that it's in the minutes. Are you specifically asking for something other than-

IAN HARWICK: The presentation.
JACK KROLL: --the presentation? I mean, to be fair, we have not specifically included any materials like
that in the minutes. But if it's amenable to the Board, we would be happy to.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm not opposed. Any opposed to including the presentation?
JACK KROLL: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General counsel? Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I think in the past, sometimes we have included additional memos that
folks had in front of them when making decisions, so I appreciate my colleagues for allowing us to include
that presentation for the packet.
To that end, we also did have a memo regarding the Group 33 contract. And I believe I mentioned this
during the meeting, but I was wondering, if that is not in the transcript, could we include that in the transcript
that moving forward, when we do get memos on pending Board actions, if we could include them in the
minutes as well because that would be part of a Board report, just for transparency to the public so they
understand what we saw.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I see, Mr. Kroll, you have your hand raised.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, I just want to draw some clarification and distinction here. We do produce two items
related to every Board meeting and committee meeting. We produce the minutes and we produce the
transcript.
The transcript is traditionally the place where we append certain presentations and memos that are provided
to the Board or public comments such as what you all received earlier. It is substantively different to include
those presentations in the minutes. Again, it can be done, but I want to make sure that there's distinction
and awareness around where we're placing these items.
So I believe Director Harwick and Director Ruscha are asking these to be included in the minutes, which is
totally fine. But I just want to make sure that you all are aware that we do include these items in the transcript
as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So to make sure I understand, Director Harwick, your request is to include the
presentation in the minutes. Director Ruscha, you're referring to the transcript or the minutes?
JOYANN RUSCHA: The minutes, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Are there any opposed to including them? I'm not. Mr. Kroll, I'll work with you after the
fact. With those adjustments being made, unless there is objection to considering the adjusted minutes all
at the same time, may I please have a motion to approve the minutes for the following meetings?
May 29, 2024, special Board meeting. May 29, 2024 Board meeting. June 4, 2024 study session. June 10,
2024 Performance Committee. June 11, 2024, Finance and Planning Committee. June 12, 2024 Operations
and Safety and Security Committee. June 20, 2024 Executive Committee.
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, so moved.

ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Tisdale is the move in and Ruscha as the second. Is there any further discussion
on the matter? Are there any no votes? Seeing none, we have 14 yes and one absent. I will call on Second
Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. Excuse me. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm sorry to do this a little bit late, and I can
do it later if that's better. But it looks like maybe a letter that came to the Board did not go to the Board
Office. Was that from Danny Katz? Have you seen that? Yeah.
It's signed by 18 organizations. The title is, Please Vote Yes to Refer a Measure to Exempt RTD from any
Future TABOR Cap. I may discuss it more during the TABOR cap, but this certainly needs to go into the
record. And I'll be sure and get it to you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. We'll make sure that makes it into the record,
and thank you for noting that for the sake of the record. At this time, with the minutes approved, we will now
move on to the Chair's report, followed by the General Manager's report.
I'd like to use my time this evening not so much to report on the activities of the Chair this past month, but
to directly address the Southeast Light Rail Corridor speed restrictions. I have had the opportunity to engage
directly with our General Manager and CEO Johnson throughout the past two weeks as this has been going
on, and I thank her for her continual engagement at all hours and times as we work through the process.
I'd like to thank our staff, as supported by our General Manager and CEO, for working to pull together the
special Board meeting that we had yesterday on this matter. And I encourage all members of the public
who are interested to please do review that meeting and the contents of the presentation and meeting that
occurred yesterday regarding the situation.
But most importantly, I do want to address the community, our customers, the riders of RTD. I, as Chair of
the RTD Board, am sorry for the delays and disruptions that we are all experiencing across the system.
Most importantly, I thank you all for sticking with us, for your resilience, and for riding your transit system,
RTD, throughout this process.
I'd like to note a couple of things that we discussed yesterday. RTD has adopted higher standards for
preventative maintenance. Safety is absolutely paramount to this agency, to this Board, to this leadership
team, and across all of our team at RTD.
The results are growing pains. As we increase our standards for preventative maintenance, we are getting
more proactive and less reactive. The result is that we do find things, and that those problems come to light
earlier. And now that we have increased standards, we of course are seeing more things.
RTD is committed to continually prioritizing the safety of all of our lines. I want to be very clear that as per
our presentation yesterday and as has been communicated numerous times, the lines are safe to operate.
However, we want to ensure that they remain safe, and we want to be very proactive about that. We could
have aligned our communication and our approach to this in a more proactive and less reactive manner as
well. That is something that we acknowledge.
And what I'd like to state is that RTD is going through a period where our system is starting to age. We are
starting to see what happens after a system gets to this point. It is incumbent upon us at RTD to not just do
good, but to be great.

And part of being great is not just to address the problems, but to learn from those problems, to create new
standards of-- new standard operating procedures that we can follow. That includes not just our
maintenance schedules, but that also includes our communication as well.
I'd like to thank our team on the communications side of the agency for rapidly moving to deliver high levels
of transparency in terms of not only what we are doing and what our schedules are and wind speed
restrictions are being released, but also including communications that are going between the agency and
its regulatory bodies, as well as things that we are receiving as the Board, making public for those of us-for those that ride RTD.
So with that being said, again, I'd most of all like to thank everybody for their patience. I think that RTD staff
is showing tremendous resilience and patience throughout this process. I recognize that everybody,
including those who are working on the lines every evening, are having to go the extra mile and do a lot of
extra work that hadn't been anticipated.
I also recognize that we've asked for increased communications and increased meetings for those that
report directly into this Board. And again, thank them for the patience and the execution of what I believe
was a successful and helpful meeting yesterday.
But again, most of all, I would like to thank the customers of RTD for being resilient, for using your voice,
and again, most of all, for using your transit system, RTD. So with that being said, I thank you all very much
for allowing me to share those sentiments with you. At this time, I will now hand the floor over to our General
Manager and CEO for her monthly report. General Manager CEO Johnson, the floor is yours.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Good evening to all. And I appreciate the
acknowledgment and what you just stated, recognizing that this has been a time unlike any other at RTD,
recognizing the age of the system. So thank you for the support of staff and thank you for acknowledging
the difficulties in which our customers have endured.
As I generally do, I am going to share a few highlights and activities and strategic endeavors which I have
engaged in since this body last convened at its regularly scheduled meeting on March 29. I will also be
presenting an update on activities related to Phase 1 of the near-term Downtown Rail Reconstruction
Project. The report and activities I will be talking about are all centered around our strategic priorities, as
well as the 2023-2024 strategic initiatives of Back to Basics, People Power, and welcoming transit
environment.
Related to community value, from Friday, May 31 through Monday, June 3, I traveled to Cleveland, Ohio to
participate in activities related to the American Public Transportation Association. This was done in
conjunction with the Annual Rail Conference. The Rail Conference is intended for individuals from all rail
modes, urban commuter rail, high speed, as well as inner city.
And it's a technical conference. It's featured sessions on technology, operations, and maintenance, and
safety, security, and more. Over the conference weekend, I attended the APTA Board Meeting and
committee meetings, of which I am a member, such as the Legislative Steering Committee and the
Commuter Rail CEO Committee, of which I served as the Vice Chair.
On Thursday, June 6, I along with Director Tisdale and Chief Communications and Engagements Officer
Stuart Summers attended Denver South bi-monthly partnership meeting. These bi-monthly meetings bring
together anywhere from 75 to 150 stakeholders from throughout the South I-25 Southeast Rail Line

Corridor, including local elected officials and business leaders and key jurisdictional and organizational staff
members to seek networking opportunities, as well as information. I was one of two featured speakers and
had the opportunity to share information regarding RTD's transit network with a focus on the Southeast
Corridor.
Most recently from June 12 through June 20, I, along with numerous transit agency CEOs nationwide,
federal officials, including the Acting Administrator Veronica Vanterpool, as well as our Regional
Administrator from District 8-- or Region 8, I should say, and representatives from the American Public
Transportation Association participated in an executive study mission hosted by APTA and the Federal
Transit Administration.
We were able to travel to Paris and London to engage with leaders from RATP, the transportation operator
for Paris, and the surrounding region, as well as transport for London, the local government body
responsible for most of the transport network in London. Both entities are considered some of the world's
best public transportation agencies.
They provide complex and well-integrated public transportation networks with a high standard of service
delivery. Participants gain insights into the capital planning and operations of the urban and regional rail
and bus networks, as well as traveling the high-speed rail network that connects the two cities. A mix of
strategic and operational topics were discussed with relevance to North America, considering the impacts
that we have here relative to service delivery.
Adapting to new mobility trends post-pandemic, it's important to note that transport for London, which is
regarded as the largest transit operator within the country, basically is seeing the same thing that we have
seen, whereby individuals aren't utilizing the system due to hybrid work, and more specifically see increased
ridership on Saturdays. But the high peak days tend to be Wednesdays and Thursdays with some elements
of Tuesday as well. And the same thing was noted in Paris.
And so I share that because I think it's critically important, as we often look through a siloed glass, thinking
that we're the only ones. But as we all know, the pandemic was global. And recognizing, as we talk about
resurgence of ridership and things of the like, we know that at least 15% of ridership of what we once knew
about four years ago probably will not return just because we have adapted to a new way of doing business,
i.e. with the virtual participants we have here this evening.
But more specifically as well, we talked about safety and security and climate resilience improvements,
recognizing that transport for London has been victim of terrorist attacks dating back to the 1800s. And
those elements are critically important and have the opportunity to bring forward specific questions that are
reflective of our system here.
Also, talking about transitioning to zero emissions, having some of the same issues that we see in America,
but on a smaller scale, recognizing the difference in governance structures and how business is done. Land
use, transit, and housing was critically important in leveraging technological innovations and enhancing the
customer experience.
And then it was mentioned tonight in public comment, organizational culture. It's something that transit
agencies are enduring everywhere. And so I just wanted to give those highlights because I think it's very
germane to what we're doing.

And then on Friday, June 21, I met with the Deputy Mayor of the city of Khmelnytskyi, which is in Western
Ukraine. He reached out, and I was able to make that connection and spent some time with him on Friday
morning, as they are interested in garnering an understanding of RTD's transit service delivery.
And it was quite important, as we've been going through what we would qualify a difficult time here when
you're talking about buses being left on the side of the road because they don't have electricity because
they're in the midst of a war. It puts things in perspective and what really matters. And I think that we've
done a yeoman's job in making lives better through connections when we can step back and look at the
adverse impacts on different parts of the globe.
So as it relates to community value and customer excellence and employee ownership, on a lighter note,
as we talk about getting back to basics, just recently we had an exit conference with the Federal Transit
Administration, and I'll give some context to that. FTA utilizes training and reviews as a management tool
for examining recipient performance and adherence to current FTA requirements and policies.
RTD's most recent triennial review prior to this year was completed in 2021. It was delayed due to the
pandemic, and it was in the early days of my tenure with the agency. Training reviews were mandated by
Congress in 1982, and the whole purpose of the review is to assess how recipients of urbanized area
formula program funds meet statutory and administrative requirements.
The review currently examines up to 23 separate operational areas. In addition to helping evaluate
recipients, the review gives FTA an opportunity to provide technical assistance on FTA requirements and
aids FTA in reporting to the transportation secretary, Congress, and other oversight agencies, and the
transit community as it relates to the urbanized area formula program.
So to reiterate what I had noted last night during RTD's Special Board Meeting, I am pleased to report that
an exit conference held yesterday, Monday, June 24, FTA officials, RTD staff, and members of the thirdparty consultancy selected by FTDA to lead the effort to review RTD met to discuss the agency's stellar
results from this year's appraisal. I will provide more information, but it's quite notable as I engage in a
myriad of different arenas at a national level.
One thing we do know for certain, oftentimes with recipients, one of the most highly reviewed areas is
contract and procurement. This agency did not have one deficiency as related to our procurement practices.
We did not have deficiency as related to our Transit Asset Management plan, nor did we have any
deficiency as it relates to our Public Transportation Agency Safety plan.
I felt compelled to say that as it relates to information that's been circulating relative to what it is and what
this agency is not doing. And I take great pride in leading this organization because I know the individuals
that comprise this work very hard. And recognizing your opening comments as it relates to forfeiting the
opportunity to report out and acknowledging what we are up against, it's critically important to say that this
is where we are, and we have to lean in together and support one another as we look to maintain and
sustain this transit network for years to come.
So more information once we get the final report, which is generally sent to the Board Chair. So I just
wanted to take the opportunity, since that was top of mind, to share.
Related to employee ownership over the past two weekends, RTD has been a participant in two large-scale
parades, including both the Juneteenth Parade in the historic Five Points neighborhood on Saturday, June
15. And then just this weekend, the Pride Parade held along Colfax Avenue on Sunday, June 23.

I extend my thanks and appreciation to all those employees who volunteered their personal time, to Board
members who were out there. I saw some people out there dancing. I'll keep their names quiet, but had a
good time. And it was a good time by all, and that just shows how critical we are to the community and how
we are interwoven.
And so now I will share a brief presentation as relates to the near-term Rail Reconstruction Project. And so
just really quickly, I'll talk about outreach and engagement and project status.
And so commending our Communications team, staff has continued to visit businesses and residences
near the impacted intersections. What's so great about this is leveraging the relationships we do have with
the Downtown Denver Partnership, as well as with Denver's Department of Transportation and
Infrastructure.
As we all know, the 16th Street mall has been under construction. And so what we've done is partner with
this association and this city department to leverage contact lists and things of the like and approach it from
a partnership vantage point. We're able to get specific information about the businesses, the contacts in
particular, and then able to engage with the appropriate business leaders. Say it's at a hotel or a restaurant.
So we know who the contact is, and they can in turn disseminate information and minimize the impact for
individuals that are patronizing their businesses or their establishments.
And project team members have been sending regular emails to downtown businesses. And as I iterated,
this is all tied into leveraging the partnerships in reference to local governmental entities and associations.
Next up, as we talk about our own earned and paid media, our website has regularly been updated as it
relates to detour maps. We have made great progress as we go forward, and it's imperative that there is a
portal whereby people can seek out information.
I'm not going to read everything on the slide in the interest of moving forward, but news releases, and we
have a paid media campaign, which is critically important as the work progresses, so people have an
understanding. Especially as we talk about the other elements as it relates to our overall service delivery
and what we're faced with now, we want to ensure that we're keeping all interested stakeholders up to
speed on what's happening.
So really quickly, with the project status as an update as of today-- I think this may have been lost on some
people because there's been a laser-like focus on our preventative maintenance and mitigation efforts. But
work on the Broadway/Welton/19th Street intersection was completed on Monday, June 17.
I'd like to commend our capital program staff, as well as our consultants and our partners at the city and
county of Denver. We had factored in 20 days into the schedule. We were able to complete that six days
ahead of schedule. Broadway reopened on Tuesday, June 18.
Remaining work at the intersection is anticipated to be completed on Sunday, June 30. And I emphasize
it's anticipated because we never know what could happen. A thunderstorm could happen and lightning
could strike. However, we are making great progress. And then crews will move forward to 15th and
California and then to-- 15th and California and Stout in July.
Moving forward, here's a quick little timeline of where we are. We commenced Broadway and Welton. We
completed closure of the intersection in 14 days. As I just stated, June 18, we basically opened up that
intersection to the public. We anticipate Broadway and Welton to be completed.

And then as we move forward, one thing that's critically important is we made a commitment as we work
with the city and county of Denver is that we will not be impacting any of the intersections, especially along
Broadway during the course of the Independence Day holiday and celebrations that are happening. And so
I will continue to provide updates as I made that commitment, and just want to stress that the dates are
subject to change.
One thing's for certain. As we go forward, we are working with the city and county as we have final plans.
There's no date specific to July through September because our construction plans are with the city and
county, and we are awaiting the final sign-off as it relates to the permitting. So with that, that completes my
report, and thank you for your attention and the opportunity to speak.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, General Manager and CEO Johnson for your report, and also for
the update on the Downtown Light Rail Reconstruction Project. I appreciate the continued commitment to
not only the efforts there in completing that, but the updates to the Board. Thank you. I'll take any brief
questions for the General Manager and CEO at this time. I see Director Ruscha has her hand raised.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Thank you so much for your presentation and also having a PowerPoint
to guide us along for a lot of complex stuff going on.
So I have-- we've talked about the Welton blank out signs, and I know that that's not Welton and Broadway,
but I was wondering, if you don't mind, if you have any updates on when those will be installed. And I think
that's a 10-block stretch between 20th and 30th.
And that project has been delayed for a while. And so if that is a project that we are going to incorporate
into the next phase, into the Welton Corridor phase, if that's something that you know if you could just share
with us, or if that will be done separately as we'd originally intended a couple of years ago.
And I know-- and I apologize if that was out of left field. If we can follow up, that's OK. But it's something
that I know you and I have talked about, and I was wondering if you could give us an update.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may? Yes. Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. We have talked
about that, and I know that's in progress. I would like to double back because I don't want to put forward
information without confirming with staff where we are in the process. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, ma'am.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Not seeing further hands raised. Again, thank you, General Manager and
CEO, for the report. We'll move on to the unanimous consent portion of our agenda.
There are three items on the unanimous consent agenda. Those are the Central Park Station development
negotiation, the Group 32 Fixed Route Service contract, and the Access-on-Demand additional funding. If
anyone has a change to, discussion on, or questions about these items, please feel free to advise the Chair
at this time. And I would, of course, be happy to pull it from the unanimous consent agenda for consideration
under recommended action. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'd like to request that we pull Items A and B off of unanimous
consent.

ERIK DAVIDSON: And that is the Central Park Station development renegotiation and the Group 32-- I'm
sorry, Group 33 Fixed Route Service contract.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. We'll pull those off. Seeing no further hands raised, may I have a motion to approve
the consent agenda, which currently includes Item C, the Access-on-Demand additional funding?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, so moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Rosenthal as the move and Tisdale as the second. Are there any no votes?
Seeing none, we will have 14 yes votes with one absent.
This time, we will now move on to our recommended action portion of the agenda. We'll go ahead and take
these in order of those that we just pulled off.
So we will start with Item A. This is the Central Park Station Development Negotiation. This is for the Board
of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to negotiate and execute an
Exclusive Negotiation Agreement or ENA with Ulysses Development Group for the future lease and
development of the real property located at 3801 North Ulster street, Denver, Colorado.
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, so moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We have Tisdale and Buzek. All right. Questions on the matter. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and I'll be brief here. So this has come up in previous meetings.
And when I reviewed the transcript, I was-- I wasn't entirely clear if we will be using our authority under new
statute to potentially negotiate the lease price below market value.
I'm not saying we're locked in to that, but I think the first time we talked about this as a discussion item in
OSS, it was kind of implied that we couldn't do that midstream. And then in our last meeting, it was
suggested that was a possibility. So I just wanted to get clarification before we move forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. When this issue came up, Director Ruscha, previously,
Chessy Brady, our Manager as it relates to TOD, stated that basically what we're going to do is assess
what is most practical and then apprise the Board going forward, recognizing when we embarked on this
that legislation had not been effectuated. And so recognizing that we need to do our due diligence, we will
in turn come back to the Board and apprise you all accordingly as it relates to what the path forward will be.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. If I may, just quickly. Thank you so much, GM CEO Johnson. I have
stated before on the record and I just wanted to say it again how important it is for us to ensure that public
property is for the public good. And I'm really excited about the potential of this project.

And it leads me to my second question, which we've discussed before, but not in depth. Our current TOD
policy encourages up to 35%-- or 35% of our units or partner units to be affordable. And it sounds like this
project is going to go way beyond, possibly even 100% affordable. So I think that's very-- I think it's
commendable for everyone working on this and for the agency to be taking this on. I'm really excited. And
for those of you who don't know, that's my district.
What I would like to do and just state on the record again, because it would not be appropriate to try to
change our TOD policy on the fly or even as this was moving through, how important it is that those units
are truly affordable. And often-- and I think in the past here. But often when we'd say affordable, we will say
80% AMI, 60% AMI, and that is not affordable.
And so I just, again-- you know, it's not prescriptive. I'm not offering any amendment. I think some of my
colleagues would fall out of their Chairs if I tried.
But I just want to say on the record-- and I trust you, Ms. Johnson, that we do everything we can to ensure
that these units truly are affordable and that, you know, to me, and I think to many policymakers who work
in this space means anywhere from 30% AMI to 80% AMI. And so where we can be a partner, I think that
is a net benefit for everybody, including my community. So I just wanted to say that on the record.
In addition to affordable, accessible. So if HUD dollars are involved, there is a minimum percentage of units
that have to be accessible. That minimum percentage nowhere meets the need for affordable or accessible
housing for people with disabilities, and so that would be another area where I would just encourage the
agency to do everything we can with the tools that we have to go above and beyond for this community
benefit.
I'm a yes today. I just wanted to make sure I had some clarification where we were on potential negotiations.
And I also trust the agency will kind of apprise us of major updates when they come. I probably won't-many of us might not be here [LAUGHS] when this comes for a final vote. We're looking at 18 months plus.
But again, I really appreciate this, and I appreciate your work and your leadership. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. General Manager, there was a comment you want to make.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: I appreciate the comments, Director Ruscha, but let me be clear. I may be leading
the agency, but I would like to acknowledge Chessy Brady's efforts. And so I know she's sitting out in the
gallery. So thank you, Ms. Brady.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Seeing no other hands, I will call for the vote. Are there any no
votes? Seeing none, that will pass with 14 yes votes and one absent. Next, we have Item b, which is the
Group 33 Fixed Route Service Contract. This is for the Board of Directors to authorize, the General Manager
and CEO or her designee, to enter into a contract with Transdev Services Incorporated for the provision of
fixed route services as described herein.
This contract is for three years with two one-year options for a total of five years at a total not to exceed
cost of $186,603,968. Additionally, RTD will reimburse the contractor's direct fuel costs in an amount
estimated to be $16,101,761. Over five years, the total five-year not-to-exceed cost for services and fuel is
$202,705,729. Do I have a motion?
BOB BROOM: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.

ERIK DAVIDSON: I had Broom is the movant and I heard Bouquet as the second. Questions and discussion
on the matter? Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So first, I do want to thank staff for offering a memo, providing additional
information to follow-up questions I had on this contract. I cannot recall if that was shared with-- if that was
shared Board-wide or just independently.
But one of the things that I didn't ask or ask clearly for, and I hope we could just quickly address this today,
is the service hours. So if we were purchasing something else, I might call it price per unit, but I don't know
how else to phrase it here. Perhaps our GM CEO or Mr. Worthen can tell me the right phrasing. But what
I'm trying to assess here relative to cost is if we are getting more or less the same in terms of service hours.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, I will ask Mr Worthen, who serves as our ADM of Bus Operations, to
address this inquiry. While I have an understanding, I don't want to misspeak because he's been working
on it with his team.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Worthen, thank you for joining us. Please go ahead.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I understand the question you're trying to understand from
an hourly rate basis. Is this comparable to what we're paying for other contracts? Is that correct?
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. Thank you, and I should have been more clear. Actually, just in change from the
contract that preceded this is what I'm asking. And I don't know if it is an hourly basis or however we would
measure that. And I do apologize for not asking-- or for not emailing prior to the meeting. It's something I
kind of thought of when I was poring over the packet before I walked in.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. I appreciate the question. Thank you, Chair Davidson. The current contract
five-year cost, the cost per revenue hour is $99.85. The proposed contract year for the first year, the
revenue cost is $119.84.
I will say that this is very comparable to the existing contracts that we have. Commerce city, the hourly rate
is $119.04. And our Denver Group 31, which is in its fourth year, is $112.33. So based upon the prevailing
conditions, the contract hourly wage-- hourly rates is comparable to our other contracted services.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And thank you, Mr. Worthen. So I will be a yes tonight. I think this might
be the first type of contract like this that I'm a yes, and that is in part because we were able to have some
dialogue and I was able to get more information that I needed. And I do understand that costs are going to
rise over time. That is expected.
So in the future when I inquire, I will just be more specific because I was also wondering what the cost
increase is, because while we can see the raw dollar or the dollar amount of the potential contract, we don't

necessarily know if the service hours are the same. Like, does that make sense? If we're buying the same
amount of service.
But that being said, I appreciate the memo and the dialogue during OSS and you addressing this topic
tonight. So I'm a yes. And again, I appreciate it. And if we could just continue those kinds of conversations
between-- you know, before major service delivery contract votes, I personally would appreciate it, but I
think it helps all of us. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: This is similar to my question the other day about Access-on-Demand. Do we have a point
where, if we're paying $120 for a service hour, at what point-- do we know when it's just more cost-effective
for us to run the service ourselves?
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. Thank you for the question, Director Harwick. Every time we do a contract,
we do an internal cost estimate for the services. So we will actually look at what it would take for us to
operate those services fully burdened, including all the operating and capital costs associated with it. That
becomes our baseline for whether or not a contract is viable or not.
Those cost estimates change based upon market conditions, CBAs, and things like that. But each time we
do a contract award, we do an internal cost estimate itself.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: I'm just curious if at any point we've decided it actually was in our best benefit to bring that
service back inside.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, General Manager CEO Johnson, please.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, and I appreciate the question, Director Harwick. I think, if
anything, we need to take a robust and a holistic look at what it is we're actually seeking to do.
In some instances, as we go forward and we're looking at our facility fleet transition plan, recognizing that
there's a myriad of different elements that come into play. This is the opportunity in which we have, once
we have some baseline data, to discern what the path forward could be, recognizing we don't know those
facilities. So I wanted just to put a finer point on that because that came up during the course of the study
session, so thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you for letting me have another bite at the apple. Don't want to belabor this, but
this is also something that came up early this year and last year, and we talked about putting this on our
work plan. And I think it dropped off our work plan.
So we don't have to make a date certain right now, but is this something-- is this a discussion that we can
have as a follow-up to the previous study session where we can look at this more in depth and then the

Board can have a better understanding of everything that we are assessing moving forward? And perhaps
at some future date, staff could give us kind of a report with a breakdown.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager, please go ahead.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So if I'm clear, Director Ruscha, you're talking about directly operating services. Am
I correct?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, as it relates to rubber tire.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Rubber tire. I would say I'm amenable to doing that as we go forward and we have
some understanding of what it is that we're talking about. And that gets back to the response that I just
provided to Director Harwick. Right now, we would be having a conversation without any finite information
to help guide the discussion because as we stand right now, we don't have the facilities, and this is a
process that would take some time.
And I would just like to share, as I just talked about, the study mission of which I was a part of, this is
something that's happening in Paris right now. When they were looking-- I'm sorry, I meant to say London
as they're looking to bring some services internal to the organization.
And so it's really an in-depth process as you move forward. So I think we have to be well informed. But yes,
that doesn't mean that we can't, but I'm just trying to manage expectations. We can have discussions. And
then there's other pieces of that, recognizing we'd have to change state statute and things along those
lines, so thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Further?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you so much for that insight and feedback. Just thinking back to how we present
contract requests to the Board on service delivery, particularly with an existing vendor or a contract that is
longstanding, and just recognizing that we are in the position we're in now in part because the legislature
used to mandate this. I'm-DOUG TISDALE: Call for the orders of the day, Mr. Chairman.
BOARD MEMBER: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Any opposed calling the orders of the day? Are you calling the question?
DOUG TISDALE: No, Mr Chair. I'm just calling for the orders of the day. The discussion's out of order. We
have a recommended action before us, and we're talking about further approaches toward how we might
contract in the future. We have a recommended action. Can we vote on that, please?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha, can you just briefly wrap up your comments here? The comment I
would make is that I think that given that we have the work plans that you alluded to, that this can be a
retreat topic to add to a future position to discuss policy position. Do you have any further comments on the
recommended action at hand?

JOYANN RUSCHA: Sure. I will just be more direct. Previously, we were given a very comprehensive
breakdown of what it would cost to run these services internally versus externally. And I would just be more
direct and request that moving forward we go back to that so we can save time in meetings and I'll have a
comprehensive understanding.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. I will call for the vote on this recommended action. Are there any
no votes on Item B? Seeing none, that will be 14 yes, one absent.
We will now move to our next recommended action. This is Item D. This is the Agency Performance
Scorecard recommended revisions. This is for the Board to adopt revisions to the 2021 to 2026 Strategic
Plan Agency Performance Scorecard. Do we have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, so moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Tisdale is the movant, Bouquet is the second. Is there discussion on this? Second Vice
Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I will be a yes vote on this, although I am most anxious, as
I've expressed in the Performance Committee, to see the KPIs. I think this is helpful information, but it's still
softer. And the KPIs, I think, are the data that we need to see.
In saying that, I want to say that the performance dashboard has been published. Some people may not
know that. And staff and Ms. Johnson have asked for feedback from the Board and others to go to the
website, check out the performance dashboard, and indicate where-- you know, areas where they would
like different information, what things they like, what things they think could enhance it. I think you can look
at other agencies and see other examples of things they do.
I believe the-- so I would encourage people to go do it. I haven't had a chance myself. I did start, but I
haven't been able to get my feedback back. I believe the KPIs are coming to the Performance Committee
in September. I still think that's a critical piece of our way of evaluating the agency, so I look forward to that.
Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Second Vice Chair. Any further comments? Questions? All right. Seeing
none, I will call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action? Director Ruscha. And-- I'm sorry, I may
not have noted. First Vice Chair Catlin, I just was looking at the screen here. Did you have a question, or
was that a no vote?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I raised my hand prior to you saying that. I just wanted to let you know that I have
rejoined the meeting since some of the medical stuff is over. So I just wanted to let you know. And I will be
a yes vote. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. So again, I'll just check. Are there any no votes? We have Director
Ruscha. All right. With Director Ruscha as one no, we have 13 yes and one absent.
The second-- the next action item is Item E, the taxpayer's bill of rights ballot initiative, or TABOR. This is
for the Board of Directors to adopt the attached resolution series of 2024, submitting a ballot question to
the eligible electors of RTD at an election to be held on November 5, 2024, without imposing any new tax
or increasing any tax rate, authorizing RTD to continue to collect, retain, and spend all revenues it receives

from whatever sources without regard to the limitations set forth in the taxpayer's bill of rights, or TABOR.
Do we have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, so moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Guissinger as the movant and Tisdale as the second. Is there discussion or
questions on this item? Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I wanted-- I mentioned the letter earlier that's entitled Please
Vote Yes to Refer a Measure to Exempt RTD From Any Future TABOR Cap. It is sent to us by Danny Katz,
the Executive Director of CoPIRG. It is signed-- it is urging the Board, we urge you to act now to ensure
that RTD retains 100% of the tax revenue collected within the district to avoid disruptions to transit riders
and to secure the district's financial sustainability. Reading just a portion of the letter.
I'm briefly going to, because I think it's important, of how many of these 18 groups. Denver Streets
Partnership, CoPIRG, the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition, Pedestrian Dignity, National Organizations
for Youth Safety, the West Corridor Transportation Management Association, Greater Denver Transit, our
friends that are here tonight.
The Southwest Energy Efficiency Project, Energy Outreach Colorado, the Metro Mayors Caucus on behalf
of 38 metro mayor members. The Strong Denver, the AARP Colorado, the Denver Bike Mayor, Denver
Bicycle Lobby, and Greater Denver Transit, YIMBY Denver, the Sierra Club, Women from the Mountain,
Servicios de la Raza, and Green Latinos have signed that letter urging us to move forward.
And just briefly-- I know we've discussed this and it's been here-- but TABOR envisions a process that
allows the voters to exempt a given government from the TABOR cap. And many governments, many
governments in Colorado have done it, even though the state has not. Local governments, school boards,
others.
We will just be following that process that is prescribed in TABOR to ask the voters for their permission.
The taxpayers exempted RTD in 1999 from the TABOR cap until certain bonds were repaid, which will
happen in November 2024. It is totally appropriate now to ask the voters to reinstate that exemption.
We conducted polling in May through Lori Weigle's organization, and 68% of the respondents said that they
would support the ballot issue, which is essentially the same language as in our recommended action
tonight. So I will be a yes, and I hope everyone else will be as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Second Vice Chair. And First Vice Chair Catlin, since I missed your hand
before. My apologies on that. I see your hand is raised. First Vice Chair Catlin, please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I'm a little bit torn on this. I am in favor of TABOR for the most part. That being
said, I do not believe that this increases the rate at which RTD collects taxes, and that's in part due to the
previous exemption in 1999. So the voters will not endure any additional hardship, in my opinion.
That being said, the original vote was to exempt RTD from TABOR in order to help pay off the bonds that
were issued for the T-REX project. So I think some of the concerns that I've heard addressed about it be
slightly misleading, I take to heart because now we're really using it not for that specific purpose, but for the
general benefit of the agency and trying to keep operations intact, so I really appreciate that.

On the other hand, you know, it's clear that we need the revenue. But my main reason for supporting this,
although I am, as I said, torn, is that I believe it's up to the vote of the people. And if the vote of the people
believe that it's in RTD's best interest to retain these TABOR surpluses, then I am for it because I do believe
that the voters should decide. So thank you very much for stating my piece.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair. Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sorry. A little distracted.
[LAUGHTER]

Sorry. So I guess my-- I guess my question would be, so at the end of packet page 80 and the top of packet
page 81, the language that we're looking at exactly, is that the language that's going to be proposed to the
voters? Ms. Snyder, correct? OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, that's correct.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, perfect. And then basically, we're making a vote today to endorse-- to endorse
this ballot measure as a Board of Directors. There wouldn't be any chance that the language would change
after said endorsement, correct? Or anyone can take that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Counsel, do you want to clarify?
MELANIE SNYDER: Oh, thank you. I just-- could you just restate your question? Are you asking if it would
change after the Board approves it tonight?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
MELANIE SNYDER: No, it wouldn't change. There is a provision in the resolution that does talk-- that does
say it substantially in this format. So I note that Director Guissinger had found a stray comma in that first
bullet point on page-- packet page 81, so we'll remove that stray comma. But otherwise, it'll be in the same
form that you see it here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, perfect. So in regards to the bullet point, the first bullet point that's presented, it
said, "Providing transfer--" excuse me. Let me read prior. "Originally approved by the voters in 1999 be
continued to permit RTD to retain revenue necessary to provide vital RTD services, including, but not limited
to, providing transportation choices to local residents by maintaining--" an emphasis on the word-- "and
growing current levels of bus and rail services."
I guess the question would be is if that bullet point is going to be included, the big thing is the idea of
"growing current levels of bus and rail services." How are we going to be making that commitment to our
constituency if this is successful as a ballot measure?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer. I'd like to just call on General Manager and CEO Johnson for any
clarification on that. But we are pursuing the result of our most recent comprehensive operational analysis
that we had branded the System Optimization Plan, or SOP.

We have not reached the levels of service that were as a part of that comprehensive operational analysis.
So I believe the ballot language is currently encompassing the current service levels as well as the trajectory
that we are on. General Manager CEO Johnson, is there any clarification you'd want to add further?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, thank you for the opportunity. I think that is on par with what we were
foreseeing, recognizing using a comprehensive operational analysis to guide the service delivery. And so
during the course of this time, there could be a subsequent COA as well. But yes, Mr. Chair, you answered
the question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Mr. Chair. I'm in support of this measure as well. I don't agree that it's a tax
increase. And some people talked about the language as being deceptive and not knowing where the
money's going to go, but I don't know how you can be more clear on how we're going to use the funds if
this measure succeeds. So I think the language is very good.
I've seen TABOR resolutions in the past that just say, just let us debruce with no discussion about what the
funds would then be used for. But I think we go out of our way to provide that information.
I also want to thank the 18 members who addressed that letter in support. And because they're here, Mr.
Bamber, Mr. Flattum, Ms. Welch, Greater Denver Transit, thanks so much. And also, there's more than 18
because as you can see, Heidi Williams, Executive Director of Metro Mayors, representing 38 Denver metro
mayors are in support of this as well. Thanks. That's all I have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek. Agreed. Nice to have the clarifying language of the intent in
here. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I wonder if we could have staff explain what the ratchet effect is and why
this secures that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm happy to take an initial stab at that. And then if our Chief Financial Officer, Doug
MacLeod, would like to fill any gaps, he's more than welcome to. The ratchet effect really has to do, as it's
called, when facing a-- especially when facing a downturn.
Basically, the TABOR cap is a function of the revenues that were collected in a given year, and then added
on top of that, CPIU or Consumer Price Index for all urbanized areas. Basically inflation and a local growth
factor.
In this case-- in our case, that's set based on the delta of property values, which are properties that are
added within the district versus those that are eliminated. Most notably, destroyed properties.
Essentially, if we are in a year when we're collecting at a lower amount, that therefore lowers the cap
because we're starting from that revenue collection point. So once you get a downturn-- even if you were
to recover extremely fast, if sales and use tax, for example, were to bounce back substantially the following
year.
So let's say we had a several percent dip, and then it came right back the year after that, well, our ability to
recover, so to speak, does not match the market recovery rate. It is fixed to the revenues we collected in

the lowest revenue year. Then add-- you're adding inflation and you're adding that growth factor, which
really, that growth factor isn't tied to sales and use tax at all, which is 70% to 75% of our revenues on that
midterm basis.
So it not only results in a refund on a downturn year, but it also results in basically-- you stay at that refunded
level. That's really the ratchet effect. I'm going to ask, before turning back to you, Director Broom, to see
any clarifying points, if, Chief Financial Officer Doug MacLeod-- and thank you for joining us-- would like to
fill in any additional information.
DOUG MACLEOD: No. Thank you, Mr. Chair. You said it better than I could have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Well, I'm just going to say that that's the reason I'm going to be voting in favor of this because
it's awfully hard to explain to the average person how this works. And so worrying about those early
statements on the ballot question pales in comparison the ratchet effect can have, because there's a good
possibility we may have a major recession in the near future.
And if revenues went down 20% and then only recovered 5%, it might take us five years to get back to
where we were. And the only way you balance the budget then is to cut service. And then people will ask,
well, why are you cutting service? You've got the money. No, we have to refund the money. It's just-- the
whole thing is ridiculous. It needs to be repealed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom, for the comments. Yes. And thank you for highlighting that.
Actually, if you were to run-- it's an interesting analysis to do.
If you take given years in our past and apply-- say that this year we were not exempt and this year it kind
of changed the years at which the exemption would happen, you can actually see that impact quite
profoundly because the year that you may not have refunded, if the year prior you actually do an adjustment
and say, well, that would have been a year we were subject to TABOR, it can have an impact then for
multiple years afterwards, just as you're characterizing, which really just becomes a risk exposure over
time.
And the taxpayers are already paying less during that recession. That's why we've collected less. But then
we're not recovering at the rate that the taxpaying public is. So thank you for highlighting that. Appreciate
it. Mr. MacLeod, thank you for joining us. Next hand raised I see is Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I want to thank Director Guissinger, Vice Chair Guissinger for bringing
that letter up for several reasons, and I think it's important to note. We have a lot of people of diversity that
are speaking right now, people that rely on the system, people that depend on this system to get to work.
The Women on the Mountain represent the Indigenous women. The Green Latinos represent the Latino,
Latinx, Chicano, and the Indigenous community. And Servicios de la Raza also represents the Latino
community, but also work with a very specific group of people in our community to help them reintegrate
back into society after drug abuse and addiction, receiving services to help them reintegrate back into work.
And so I am listening to my community, and I will be a yes on this when we call of the question. But I want
to say that out loud, and I want to point that out because that was a long list of names from different and
disparate parts of our community. But we're speaking and I am speaking on behalf of the people of color
as a member of this Board, because they have said that.

And this is not easy, to go to the taxpayers and say, we would like to retain your money to use it for services.
But we are Americans, and guess how we pay for public services? By the collection of taxes. Private entities
do not pay for this service.
And I would rather run the service knowing that our community has our back and are willing to pay for the
services to complete and work on and improve our systems. And that's why we have an elected Board,
because the public pays the taxes to have the service. That's why we all sit in this room.
So it would be faulty and negligent of us not to go to the taxpayers and ask them if they are willing to
continue paying taxes for this service. Not to parse too many words or get too involved in any kind of
comments, I do want to suggest that the reason that this elected Board exists is because the state does
not pay for this service. And I think that is a really healthy reminder to everybody that we serve. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I just have a quick neutral legal question for counsel, if permissible.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So I understand that-- so there's a deadline for us to file this. And if you could just
briefly explain, is this-- does this go before the Title Board or another entity to approve the language, or is
it presumed to be legal unless otherwise challenged via petition, and then that would be litigated in court?
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Director Ruscha, for the question. No, this will not go to the Title Board.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. All right. Seeing no further discussion on this, I'd like to thank everybody.
And in particular, I mentioned this at committee, I believe, but Second Vice Chair Guissinger, thank you for
all of your work on this effort in understanding it and motivating a lot of action that started while you were
Chair and has continued into this year. So thank you very much for that.
Thank you to staff for helping to work to really understand the situation and work through what is a
surprisingly complex calculation when it comes to looking at TABOR caps on sales and use tax that are a
product of inflation and changes in property value. So thank you to everybody involved for all the research
on this and all the thoughtfulness.
I'll now go ahead and call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action? Seeing none, that will pass
with 14 yes votes, and we have one absent. Thank you very much.
I know we're getting to the point where it'll be helpful to have a break, although let me just, I think, push on
here. We do have an executive session. Let's just go next to our Report of Director Activities, which will be
followed by other matters, and then we will be voting on an executive session. So at this time, are there
any Directors who would like to report on their activities for this past month? Secretary Guzman, please go
ahead.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am three sessions through six sessions with the LITLA
sessions that I'm working on, Latinos In Transit Leadership Academy, this last month. I just want to tip my
hat as a nod to what was said earlier about our triennial exit.

We received our federal-level training from Joe Jarrin, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Finance and
Budget from the US Department of Transportation, and went on a rabbit hole down budgeting, planning,
finance, audit, oversight, federal allocations, and formula grants authorized and regulated under 49 USC
5337, otherwise known as 5337 grants, which are really important to RTD right now-- it's about 24% of our
total budget-- and all that it takes to make that happen.
So to my beloved staff that does all of the procurement, all of the grant writing, and especially the followup, which is the key component where a lot of agencies we were told and taught make mistakes, we're not
doing that. And I am really grateful to you for all of that.
I also want to give a special thank you to Pat Garcia, RTD Graphic Designer for the beautiful Pride Bus tshirts that allowed us to have an inaugural entrance into the 50th anniversary of pride celebration this year
in Denver, Colorado. And I am absolutely in love with that bus. The moment I saw the design, I started
crying.
Especially if anybody remembers last June, I left a very defeated Director and community member. But this
year, I was proud, as I always am, to walk next to our RTD buses with our Directors, with our staff in full
color and in full display, right down Colfax, with a special bus driven by our very own Austin Ward, one of
our operators, and many other members of our staff. But Pat, you did a great job on that design, and I love,
love, love it. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As some of you may recall, General Manager CEO
Johnson and I serve on the Board of the American Public Transportation Foundation, which is the
philanthropic educational support arm of the American Public Transportation Association. And I chair the
Marketing and Communications Committee on APTF. And just to give you a heads up that we are going to
work hard to help get the story out about what the American Public Transportation Foundation does and
how it supports students to get involved in transit, because they are our future.
And then also to thank the Directors who are coming to the Transit Board Members, Transit Board
Administrators seminar in San Jose in about three weeks. And we're looking forward to having a good
crowd there and having everybody profit from that experience. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I also-- I attended the APTA Rail Conference. It was a wonderful
experience. It's a technical conference, so I might have been the only Board or current Board member that
was in attendance. It was very large. I might have missed someone.
But I just wanted to note that a lot of staff from our peer agency said how surprised but pleased they were
to see a Board at a conference like that, particularly in the breakout sessions about safety, new technology,
TAMP, PTASP, et cetera, pending FTA rules. And so I just wanted to encourage my fellow Board members
to-- if you haven't attended a more, quote, "technical" conference with APTA, get on board. It was really
great. It was really one of the best experiences I've had as a Board member, so I just wanted to share that
back.
Additionally, also, I volunteered. APTA also has an Accessibility Committee, and they were pretty wonderful
in providing accommodations when they could. And I saw an opportunity to give back, and so I will be

joining that effort in hopes to make our APTA conferences even more accessible and welcoming to all who
wish to attend.
Additionally, I attended several community meetings-- I won't list them all-- talking about Vision Zero and
efforts with fellow Directors and community members, as well as-- to the best of my ability. And I appreciate
dialogue from staff to give me more information talking about our upcoming potential service changes.
And so again, if other Directors are doing the same in their communities, I would encourage them to reach
out to the Board Office who can talk with service planning if you have specific questions. I was able to get
some answered before an R&O meeting, and I got a lot of really positive feedback from members, from
community members that we were able to give that level of detail for transit, which is very important to their
lives and that they depend on. So thank you very much, and thank you, staff, for your support.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Not seeing other hands raised. Thank you, everybody, for
your reports. We'll move into other matters. Are there other matters to discuss? Second Vice Chair
Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: As I do every year, I like to remind our transit fans, tomorrow is Bike to Work Day.
Director Harwick will be at the Civic Center at 5:30 AM for breakfast.
IAN HARWICK: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: We have breakfast stations all over. If you get a chance late tonight or early tomorrow,
go online and register with DRCOG because that's how they keep track and measure success.
I also was just reminded that Boulder Chamber and Boulder Transportation Connections also came out
urging us yesterday to endorse the-- or to refer the ballot measure in TABOR to the ballot. So we did that.
Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. Any further other matters? Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I wonder if we could have a brief explanation of the smoking wires on our
overhead catenary system. There was an article in the paper today.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager and CEO Johnson, is there-- oh, and I see-DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. Mr. Jensen will speak to that as it relates to the causal
factors.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for joining us, AGM Jensen. The floor is yours.
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening. I'm Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. What happened was it was a
lightning arrester that essentially was doing its job, became disconnected, started a spark. So we shut
power down and repaired it.
BOB BROOM: So this happens occasionally?
DAVE JENSEN: It happens very occasionally, or actually very rarely.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Jensen, for joining us. Thank you, Director Broom. Any other matters?
All right. Seeing none, thank you very much, everybody. We'll now move to our Executive Session portion.
In a moment, the Board will meet in Executive Session to receive legal advice on compliance with
Colorado's Fair Campaign Practices Act. I would like to append the motion to move into Executive Session
to state that the Board meeting will be deemed adjourned after it adjourns into Executive Session.
For public transparency, this means that once the Board moves into Executive Session, the main meeting
will be adjourned. I'll now entertain a motion to move into Executive-- June, thank you. [LAUGHS] I will now
entertain a motion to move into the Executive Session to discuss the following. Pursuant to Section 24-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[BANGING GAVEL]
ERIK DAVIDSON: If I could have some quiet, please. I will now entertain a motion to move into Executive
Session to discuss the following. Pursuant to Section 24-6-402(4)(b) CRS to receive legal advice on
compliance with Colorado's Fair Campaign Practices Act and the Federal Hatch Act in advance of the 2024
election.
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear Buzek and Tisdale. Any opposed? All right.
SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair. Catlin? Are you opposed?
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize-- No. I apologize, but I don't see a link to go into Executive Session. Or are
we staying in this room?
ERIK DAVIDSON: We'll have the Board Office reach out, First Vice Chair Caitlin, in just a moment. We're
going to take a break. Again, I'll just ask, are there any opposed? Seeing none, we will move into Executive
Session.
We're going to take a break here. We will reconvene in 15 minutes, so we'll reconvene at 8-- I'm sorry, 7:56,
we will start the Executive Session. And if the Board Office could please reach out to First Vice Chair Catlin,
we'll get you squared away. Thank you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

