Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, September 12, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 8:05 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Absent

Arrived

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

7:51 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Absent
Absent

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:51 PM
7:51 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:51 PM

Ken Mihalik

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:51 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Committee Chair
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present
Present

7:51 PM
7:59 PM
8:04 PM
7:51 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Present

7:51 PM
7:51 PM

Directors Anderson, Archuleta, Deadwyler, and Folska were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Ivonne Aranda, Rolf Asphaug, Mike Barnes,
Martha Bembry, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan, Jessie Carter, Susan
Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Chuck Culig, Nate Currey, Joey Davidson,
Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Terry Emmons, Ron Enserro, Eric
Farrington, Brett Feddersen, David Genova, Bob Grado, Dawn Greco,
Svetlana Grechka, Kim Heldman, Ali Imansepahi, Jeff Kay, Mitch
Kuharski, Russ Larson, Samantha Loucks, Doug MacLeod, Brian
Matthews, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Mike Meader, Michael
Millage, Allen Miller, Tai-Shrae Parish, Walter Pierce, Scott Reed,
Jenifer Ross-Amato, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, Lindsey Smith,
Kevin Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Jeri Torsak,
Tanzania Trout, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Doug Brockwell, William Gross, Tom Peterson, Dave Sachs, R. Paul
Williamson, Gary Van Dorn, 9News

B. Recommended Actions

• Budget Transfer for Router Upgrades
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
approve a budget transfer from the Garage Concentrator Upgrade capital
project and the Information Technology, Data Processing Services expense
budget to the Network Equipment and Switches Upgrade project to fund the
replacement of the network equipment needed on the rail lines. The targeted
rail lines include the Southwest, Southeast and Central Platte Valley rail lines.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the September 26,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance & Administration, stated that staff is
asking the Board to combine three different funding pieces
together for a larger project.
Director Solano asked what the Garage Concentrator project
was for.

Ms. McKillop explained that, when buses enter RTD’s garages,
they can now communicate and download or upload
information for staff to use. She noted that the concentrators
were upgraded in-house instead of using a contractor which
resulted in additional savings.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Lorraine Anderson, Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler,
Claudia Folska

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• ITS Work Order Contract
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to award a contract to Apex Design, PC
(Apex) for an Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Work Order Contract
(Contract Number 17DH010) for an amount not to exceed $10,000,000
over 5 years. Work is administered on an as-needed, work order basis.
Funding for these Work Orders will be included in the budgets of the projects
on which the work is performed.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the September 26,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Ms. McKillop commented that this action item is for a work
order contract which will be administered on an as-needed,
work order basis. She added that the preferred vendor based
on the project criteria and designs was Apex Design, PC.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Lorraine Anderson, Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler,
Claudia Folska

ABSENT:

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Approval of Contract Extension for Special Event Ticket Sellers
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to exercise the final option year and increase the
contract amount by $172,000.00 to extend the RTD contract with Central
Parking System, Inc. to provide ticket selling services for special event fares
through April 15, 2019.
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the September 26,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Ms. McKillop commented that RTD currently has a contract
with Central Parking for large events and this is extension
would be the last year of the contract. She noted that with
the extension, the end of the contract would be pushed out to
April 15, 2019. She added that if it was deemed that RTD
still needed parking ticket sellers at the end of the contract, a
new Request for Proposal (RFP) would be issued.
Director Francone noted that the contract amount increased
almost $30,000 from 2016 and asked what constituted the
increase.
Ms. McKillop explained that most likely Central Parking would
not bill up the full amount as they only billed based on ticket
sales and other factors, but $172,000 was the remaining
amount left on the contract.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Lorraine Anderson, Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler,
Claudia Folska

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• 2018 Budget Update
Ms. McKillop said that in the consideration of time, staff would discuss a
few things in the budget that were slightly different than the Strategic

Budget Plan (SBP). She added that staff will review the revenue from sales
and use taxes, but will assume that there will not be any revenue from retail
marijuana for 2018 at this time. She further added that this time of year is
usually when staff tends to lock in fuel rates, but with the hurricanes in
Florida and Texas, they are going to wait until production in those areas pick
up again. She noted that staff had been reviewing the budget from an
administrative stand point and they want to better tie in the various budgets
that drive RTD’s service and core mission allocations.
Director Tisdale commented that the draft budget should be included on
RTD’s website for better transparency.
Ms. McKillop explained that typically staff does not post the draft budget
until it is approved, however, they can work with marketing to
accommodate the request.
Director Francone asked if the union negotiations would be reflected in 2017
or 2018’s budget.
General Manager Genova stated that staff has already begun to estimate
accommodations that will go into effect in 2018.
Committee Chair Menten said that the proposed R Line changes are
substantial, and asked what the savings would amount to.
Ms. McKillop remarked that the savings would equal $3.6 million, but that
figure was not reflected in the Annual Program Evaluation (APE) or Strategic
Budget Plan (SBP) last month. She also added that it is not yet reflected in
the 2018 budget at this time because the service change still has to go
through the public process and the proposed cuts might change.

• Quarterly Performance Report
Ms. McKillop explained that staff will have a brief overview and noted that
the document was included in the packet.
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis,
commented that the Board Report was self-explanatory. She commented
that on-time performance improved in the second quarter over the first, and
the average cycle time in response to customer complaints was slightly
higher due to a staffing vacancy. She noted that operating revenue is up on
a year to date basis, but RTD is still not meeting the goal. She added that
bus operator vacancies are up and are higher than they were in the first
quarter.
Committee Chair Menten asked that the Board receive a report that breaks
down ridership by line.

Ms. McKillop stated that, in the Monthly Financial Status Report, the lines
were at one time listed individually, but as more FasTracks lines opened up
they were merged. She noted that staff can look into providing an additional
document that would breakdown the ridership of each line.
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer and Assistant General Manager
of Bus Operations, explained that one of the major challenges this year has
been the allocation of revenue. He added that for 2017 staff will not be
able to provide subsidy by route, but staff can provide cost by route. He
noted that this year, as staff overcomes financial challenges, ridership will
only be broken down as cost per route and cost per rider, which will be
presented in October.
Committee Chair Menten said that she did not like that response at all.
Ms. McKillop remarked that the issue is making sure that the information
staff would be providing on a route level is reliable and correct. She stated
that at this time, staff does not feel comfortable releasing that information
due to accuracy concerns.
Committee Chair Menten asked if ridership could be broken down by class of
service.
Ms. McKillop remarked that she would review the information to see how far
down the ridership could be broken down.

• July 2017 Monthly Financial Status Report
Ms. McKillop explained that the good news is that sales and use tax figures
were higher than what staff had originally estimated. She noted that the
variance is $11.1 million over budget which will provide some cushion in the
next few months. She said that ridership is still slightly down, but fare
revenue is up over the revised amended budget estimates.
Director Broom asked if the RTD marijuana tax revenue is being collected
and not dispersed, or if the state is charging less in taxes.
Ms. McKillop stated that the state eliminated the 2.9% tax rate and
substituted a higher tax.
Director Broom inquired if the state is keeping the 2.9% for itself instead of
the special districts.
Ms. McKillop said that the state replaced the 10% tax with a 15% tax, but
the way that the bill was written omitted the special districts from collecting
any revenue from marijuana sales.

Director Broom asked if RTD could recoup in January the sales tax it had
lost retroactively.
Ms. McKillop explained that taxes could not be collected retroactively, but
they could be collected from January on, once the funding is restored.
Committee Chair Menten commented that she heard SB 267 was going back
to the legislature in a special session. She asked if staff had heard anything
about that.
Ms. McKillop said that staff had not heard any updates as to SB 267’s
status.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone reminded the Board that the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee would be meeting on Thursday, September
21st to review the core task goals.
Director Tisdale informed the Board that he would be sending them an email and
they should be on the lookout for it in the upcoming days.
Mr. Abel noted that the RTD Bus Roadeo would take place on Saturday, September
16th at District Shops. He stated that the event would begin at 7:00 a.m. and
would be finished by 2:00 p.m. He also added that the RTD Employee Awards
would be held on Thursday, September 14th at Tivoli beginning at 9:00 a.m.

E. Next Meeting Date - October 17, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 8:38 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

