Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
October 29, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Anthony B. Carter – Bus Operator – 20 years
Robert Cowan – Bus Operator – 15 years
James H. Martinez – Project Technician – 28 Years
Paul Smith – Electro Mechanic – 33 years
Brian D. Wadding – Bus Operator – 26 years
Special Recognition – Bus Roadeo
RTD Fixed-Route Operator Winners
1st Place – John Deschner
2nd Place – Dan French
3rd Place – John Johnson
RTD Fixed-Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Platte: Charlie Chavez, Jon Paul Mitchell, Ernesto Perez
Private Contractor Fixed-Route Operator Winners
1st Place – Abniger “AB” Ek-Chan – First Transit Denver
2nd Place – Jose Ek-Chan – First Transit Denver
3rd Place – Paul Zadra – First Transit Denver

Private Contractor Fixed-Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place - First Transit Commerce City: Mike Sacchetta, Dencho Parapunov, Norm Witt
Paratransit Operator Winners
1st Place – Miguel Robles – MV Transportation
2nd Place – Rick Isbell – Via Mobility
3rd Place – Ernesto Montano – MV Transportation
RTD Service and Cleaning Winners
1st Place – Platte: Robert Duran
Special Recognition – Light Rail Rodeo
Light Rail Operator Winners
1st Place – Bryan Coy
2nd Place – Aaron Boettcher
3rd Place – Robert Dennis
Light Rail Maintenance Winners
1st Place – Randall Lovegrove
2nd Place – George Sweeney
3rd Place – Todd Woodward
Special Recognition – Snow Plow Roadeo
Single-axle Snow-plow Truck Winners
1st Place – Guy Pierce and Randy Wagner
2nd Place – Chip Seedroff and Mark Weifenbach
3rd Place – Reed Sorenson and David Waite
Tandem-axle Snow-plow Truck Winners
1st Place – John Prather and David Johnson
2nd Place – Bob Alford and Leo Dowd
3rd Place – Alex Martinez and Daniel Guerrero
Special Acknowledgement
Gary Van Dorn – National Federation of the Blind, Colorado Chapter

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede/Director Deadwyler
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Free Rides for Members of the Military

It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free rides on
RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be extended from the
presently approved date of December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014. Utilization has
been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal impact on RTD.
B.

Approval of Contactless Card Contract for SmartCard

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to execute a
contract with Giesecke & Devrient to provide contactless smart cards (Contract
13DH023). This award is for a three-year contract followed by two one-year options.
The award amount is not-to-exceed two million dollars ($2,000,000.00).
C.

2014 Salaried Benefit Plans

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the 2014 Plan Year Salaried Insured Benefits Budget and authorize the
CEO/General Manager to enter into an agreement with the Insurance Carriers.

XII.

Recommended Actions
D.
North Metro Rail Line Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County
of Denver
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation
District. The agreement includes specific terms defining CCD’s local agency contribution,
coordination, and the rights and responsibilities of each party associated with construction
of the North Metro Rail Line within the City’s boundaries.
E.
16th Street Mall Reconstruction Project Funding Intergovernmental Agreement with
the City and County of Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to execute an Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional
Transportation District. The purpose of the IGA is to set forth the rights, duties and
obligations of CCD and RTD to mutually fund a portion of the project costs to design and
reconstruct up to 3.5 blocks of the 16th Street Mall (Blocks 1, 2, 12 and 13) within the
CCD Right of Way. This IGA commits both RTD and CCD to provide matching local funds
necessary to receive FTA Grant Funding. Funding for this project is included in the 2013
Amended Budget
F.

Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors accepts the modifications to the 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement.
G.
Certification of the 2014 Contribution for the RTD Salaried Employees' Retirement
Plans
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to RTD’s Salaried Employees’ Defined
Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a specified monthly benefit at
retirement, at the actuarial recommended amount of $3.1 million. It is also recommended
that the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to the Salaried Employees’
Defined Contribution Plan Trust (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified amount to
the plan for each year of employment, at a rate of 9% of each participant’s eligible
compensation.
H.

January 2014 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 2014 Service Change package as revised and summarized
in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of approximately $635,500
and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract

amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.

XIII.

Old Business

XIV. New Business
XV.

Executive Session

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

