Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
October 29, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Anthony B. Carter – Bus Operator – 20 years
Robert Cowan – Bus Operator – 15 years
James H. Martinez – Project Technician – 28 Years
Paul Smith – Electro Mechanic – 33 years
Brian D. Wadding – Bus Operator – 26 years
Special Recognition – Bus Roadeo
RTD Fixed-Route Operator Winners
1st Place – John Deschner
2nd Place – Dan French
3rd Place – John Johnson
RTD Fixed-Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Platte: Charlie Chavez, Jon Paul Mitchell, Ernesto Perez
Private Contractor Fixed-Route Operator Winners
1st Place – Abniger “AB” Ek-Chan – First Transit Denver
2nd Place – Jose Ek-Chan – First Transit Denver
3rd Place – Paul Zadra – First Transit Denver

Private Contractor Fixed-Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place - First Transit Commerce City: Mike Sacchetta, Dencho Parapunov, Norm Witt
Paratransit Operator Winners
1st Place – Miguel Robles – MV Transportation
2nd Place – Rick Isbell – Via Mobility
3rd Place – Ernesto Montano – MV Transportation
RTD Service and Cleaning Winners
1st Place – Platte: Robert Duran
Special Recognition – Light Rail Rodeo
Light Rail Operator Winners
1st Place – Bryan Coy
2nd Place – Aaron Boettcher
3rd Place – Robert Dennis
Light Rail Maintenance Winners
1st Place – Randall Lovegrove
2nd Place – George Sweeney
3rd Place – Todd Woodward
Special Recognition – Snow Plow Roadeo
Single-axle Snow-plow Truck Winners
1st Place – Guy Pierce and Randy Wagner
2nd Place – Chip Seedroff and Mark Weifenbach
3rd Place – Reed Sorenson and David Waite
Tandem-axle Snow-plow Truck Winners
1st Place – John Prather and David Johnson
2nd Place – Bob Alford and Leo Dowd
3rd Place – Alex Martinez and Daniel Guerrero
Special Acknowledgement
Gary Van Dorn – National Federation of the Blind, Colorado Chapter

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede/Director Deadwyler
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Free Rides for Members of the Military

It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free rides on
RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be extended from the
presently approved date of December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014. Utilization has
been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal impact on RTD.
B.

Approval of Contactless Card Contract for SmartCard

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to execute a
contract with Giesecke & Devrient to provide contactless smart cards (Contract
13DH023). This award is for a three-year contract followed by two one-year options.
The award amount is not-to-exceed two million dollars ($2,000,000.00).
C.

2014 Salaried Benefit Plans

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the 2014 Plan Year Salaried Insured Benefits Budget and authorize the
CEO/General Manager to enter into an agreement with the Insurance Carriers.

XII.

Recommended Actions
D.
North Metro Rail Line Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County
of Denver
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation
District. The agreement includes specific terms defining CCD’s local agency contribution,
coordination, and the rights and responsibilities of each party associated with construction
of the North Metro Rail Line within the City’s boundaries.
E.
16th Street Mall Reconstruction Project Funding Intergovernmental Agreement with
the City and County of Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to execute an Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional
Transportation District. The purpose of the IGA is to set forth the rights, duties and
obligations of CCD and RTD to mutually fund a portion of the project costs to design and
reconstruct up to 3.5 blocks of the 16th Street Mall (Blocks 1, 2, 12 and 13) within the
CCD Right of Way. This IGA commits both RTD and CCD to provide matching local funds
necessary to receive FTA Grant Funding. Funding for this project is included in the 2013
Amended Budget
F.

Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors accepts the modifications to the 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement.
G.
Certification of the 2014 Contribution for the RTD Salaried Employees' Retirement
Plans
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to RTD’s Salaried Employees’ Defined
Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a specified monthly benefit at
retirement, at the actuarial recommended amount of $3.1 million. It is also recommended
that the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to the Salaried Employees’
Defined Contribution Plan Trust (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified amount to
the plan for each year of employment, at a rate of 9% of each participant’s eligible
compensation.
H.

January 2014 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 2014 Service Change package as revised and summarized
in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of approximately $635,500
and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract

amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.

XIII.

Old Business

XIV. New Business
XV.

Executive Session

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

4.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date:

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Director

GM

Date:

November 19, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 29, 2013

Subject:

Special Acknowledgement from National
Federation of the Blind, Colorado Chapter

ATTACHMENTS:


Resolution 2013-01 RTD Automated Stop Announcements

(DOC)

Prepared by:
Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

4.A.a

2233 W. Shepperd Avenue Littleton, CO 80120
Phone 303-778-1130 Fax 303-778-1598
slabarre@nfbco.org
www.nfbco.org

Resolution 2013-01
Regarding the Implementation of the
Regional Transportation Districts Work and
Implementation of the Automated Stop
Announcement System
WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation District (RTD) initiated Automated
Stop Announcements (ASA) on all its local, limited and regional routes
within the past month and a half, which will make traveling on all routes
within the 2,400 square miles of RTD easier for all blind and low vision
Coloradans and visitors to Colorado; and
WHEREAS, conventions of the NFBCO passed Resolutions 2005-04 and
2006-05 to encourage Colorado Transit Companies to announce transit
stops and install ASA: Now, therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, by the National Federation of the Blind of Colorado in
Convention assembled this twentieth day of October, 2013, in the city of
Colorado Springs, Colorado, that the NFBCO applauds RTD for working
partnership with us and working diligently throughout the implementation of
ASA; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the NFBCO extends a special thank you to
Eric Farrington and his staff at RTD for their professionalism and
willingness to work with the NFBCO to implement all our suggestions for
ASA, up to and including, the voice used for ASA, the cadence and volume
of the voice, and the nuances of how the announcements are pronounced;
and

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Resolution 2013-01 RTD Automated Stop Announcements (1777 : Special Acknowledgement from NFBCO)

Scott C. LaBarre, President

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the NFBCO encourages RTD to continue
reaching out to the NFBCO on other projects and elements of
transportation such as, paratransit, Transit Oriented Development (TOD),
budget, route development, Light Rail, Commuter Rail, accessibility on all
RTDs services, Smart Card implementation, and other future developments
which make RTD a world-class multi modal transit agency; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the NFBCO encourages other transit
agencies throughout Colorado, and the Nation, to work with the NFBCO
and RTD on the implementation of ASA on its buses as soon as possible to
allow blind and low vision riders to more effectively use its systems.

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Resolution 2013-01 RTD Automated Stop Announcements (1777 : Special Acknowledgement from NFBCO)

4.A.a

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

6.A

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 24, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

STUDY SESSION
September 24, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Bruce Daly
Director, District N

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
5:27 PM
5:05 PM
5:32 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:26 PM
4:30 PM
5:42 PM
5:18 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present
Present
Absent

5:30 PM
5:39 PM
5:41 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

4:56 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:21 PM
5:26 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:20 PM

Staff Present:

Lacy Bell, Susan Cohen, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova,
Mike Gil, Joni Goheen, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas,
Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Adrian Mabry, Tara
Miller, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Steve Reilly, Jannette Scarpino, Lisa
Trujillo, Phil Washington, Kate Wilson

Packet Pg. 9

6.A

Others Present:

CU Leeds Forecast (Howerter/CU)
Terry Howerter greeted the Board and introduced the Leeds School of Business CU team:
Brian Lewandowski, Miles Light, and Richard Wobbekind who joined the meeting to
present an update on their Economic Forecast for RTD. It was noted that Robert McNown
wasn’t able to be present for the meeting, but is very much involved with the project and
worked on the presentation as well. The Leeds presentation is available in the September
24, 2013 Study Session Agenda Packet.
Key presentation points included:
 The Leeds team followed the same organizational structure as used in their prior
forecasts.
 Denver is recovering well from the latest recession, with employment figures sitting
about 2% above the standard. Denver is recovering faster than the State, and the
State is recovering faster than the nation.
 There is significant uncertainty in the current market, such as the current government
debt ceiling, the European recession, the middle-east crisis, etc.
 The Leeds team compares their forecasts to other forecasts, such as the Colorado
Legislative Council and the Colorado State Office of Planning and Budgeting.
 The Leeds team does not add additional factors; they do not adjust the numbers
because they do not want to change the output and feel it is inappropriate to alter the
numbers.
Director Lubow inquired if factors such as climate change , or related disasters like
drought and flooding, are taken into consideration in the Forecast.
Brian Lewandowski advised that the team is always monitoring leading indicators in the
model and reviewing historical data, going back 20, 30 and 40 years. Past data and
current trends are included in the Forecast. The team does a series of sensitivity studies
using different analytics; however, the forecasters cannot account for every scenario.
Director Lubow wondered if this particular forecast model had been used in 2006, would it
have forecasted the subprime bubble.
Richard Wobbekind responded that the short answer is no. Mr. Wobbekind explained that
there is an auto-correct piece of the forecast that incorporates change quickly and
provides feedback more rapidly than other models but it is very difficult to call an

Packet Pg. 10

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 24, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

II.

Mac Callison, Bianca de Jager, Doug Gragg, Jay Kenney, Brian
Lewandowski, Miles Light, Susan Monard, Todd Parker, Danny Sells,
Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Rich Wobbekind

6.A

economic turn. Terry Howerter stated that back in 2009 RTD instituted a policy to set
aside a savings goal of $90 million to prepare for any possible future economic downturn.

Brian Lewandowski confirmed that the team did include the House Bill data and referenced
page 16 of the presentation. He said that while it wasn’t included in the models, RTD
staff provided their estimates. There is a column of data showing projected RTD revenues
from the model and another column that shows the increases with HB 13-1272 added.
Director Walker commented that he found the forecasting fascinating and he wondered if
the team has compared our data to similar transportation entities in similar demographics.
Brian Lewandowski answered that they have not but that it would be a good idea to do
so. Mr. Lewandowski pointed out that Colorado is out-performing the nation in a number
of economic metrics.
Director Sisk questioned if the team going forward could forecast the impact of
government spending, such as in the case of FasTracks, on the economy. Director Sisk
asked if there are any statistics that would auger what has happened with FasTracks and
how those related projects have impacted our economy.
Mr. Lewandowski advised that when sequestration impacts the economy, the team is
concerned. There is an uncertainty factor; however, the team has not looked at the
specific economic impact referenced by Director Sisk. Mr. Lewandowski anticipates the
team will be performing additional studies due to the recent floods. Such studies might
give the team an indication of how much government spending would be happening in
terms of allocation of funds being spent on repair and rebuild jobs.
Director Lassiter inquired if the teams’ forecast model covers the loss of sales, such as
internet sales.
Mr. Lewandowski shared that the team is looking at actual RTD and state projections, and
that the internet sales data is included in the forecast to some extent.
Director Bagley stated that he has been on the RTD Board for 5 years and he feels strongly
that the whole idea of independent analysis, outside of RTD, is imperative.

Packet Pg. 11

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 24, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska thanked the team for their efforts and made note that she finds the RTDLeeds School of Business partnership extremely valuable. Dr. Folska commented that she
finds demographics fascinating. She inquired if the Leeds team uses the agency
policylink.org and offered that they are a valuable organization. Director Folska also
wanted to know if HB 13-1272 was included in the forecasting.

6.A

Director Bagley also made note that Black Swan events are all but impossible to account
for. He believes it would be foolish to try to incorporate anything in the budget that is at a
national level.

III.

IMG Update (Scott Reed/Tony McCaulay)
Scott Reed greeted the Board and referred the members to a Board approved RFP that RTD
sent out August 2012 for the purposes of creating a partnership with a company known
for its expertise in creating corporate sponsorship programs. IMG was the successful
bidder of the RFP and comes to RTD with significant history, experience and success in
corporate sponsorship programs, both nationally and internationally. A video about IMG
was shown.
Mr. Reed explained that IMG is present this evening to provide an update with a power
point presentation on developing and implementing a three-phase corporate sponsorship
program. Mr. Reed introduced the IMG team: Bianca de Jager – Senior Account Manager,
Todd Parker - Vice President with IMG Consulting, and Jay Kenney - Senior Vice President
and the Managing Director for special projects at IMG. The IMG presentation is available
for review in the September 24, 2013 Study Session Agenda Packet.
After review of the IMG presentation, Scott Reed reported that staff will now work to
bring forth various packages for the Board to review and approve to move forward with a
viable corporate sponsorship program that is the best fit for RTD.
General Manager Washington interjected that this presentation culminated from strategic
goals that were established going back a couple of years ago and moved forward in
accordance with Board approval. General Manager Washington stated that he sees the
implementation of a corporation sponsorship program as an opportunity to increase RTD
sales revenue and simultaneously add additional services within the RTD Denver metro
districts.
Chair Anderson thanked the IMG team and asked the Board members for comments or
questions, reminding everyone that there are still two important items on the agenda.
Director James commented that he is very excited about the possibility of the creation and
implementation of a corporate sponsorship program, and that he perceives this program as
a great opportunity. Director James wondered which assets were valued, how they were

Packet Pg. 12

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 24, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Anderson commented that she was initially skeptical of the Leeds forecasting,
having come from a municipality that was accustomed to using doomsday forecasts.
Chair Anderson thanked the team and appreciates their candor in their forecasting.

6.A

Ms. de Jager advised that the project was divided into three main phases. Phase one is
where IMG has identified all RTD assets and defined the sponsorship packages, valued the
assets and also priced the packages. During phase two IMG defined the communication
plan in order to launch the plan into the market; they also defined the solicitation process
and are in the process of defining the sponsorship guidelines. IMG has not worked
through phase three yet. Phase three will be where IMG actually launches the program into
the market, working to find partners for all RTD assets.
Todd Parker expounded on the different phases and felt that in theory, corporate
sponsorship should increase ridership, based on recent experience coming from two
different transit authorities IMG are working with currently. Those transit systems are
very old and falling apart, needing significant repair and upgrades. In those transit areas, a
portion of sponsorship money will be used to remodel and improve their stations as
opposed to putting those funds into a general fund to offset debt.
That scenario doesn’t exist here because the RTD system is in pretty good shape.
However, having additional amenities, better facilities, and increased security should, in
theory, increase ridership.
Bianca de Jager explained that as part of the sponsorship package, the sponsor will have
the opportunity to host events at the stations which will also increase ridership.
Director James also wondered about branding and sponsorship of corridors where RTD has
multiple lines. He asked if this has ever been done.
Jay Kenney shared that the Chicago CTA approach was to issue an RFP for a small
percentage of their assets which was11 stations of the 144 in their system; however, the
RFP was written to indicate that they would consider responses that included other
assets. He noted that what was learned from that was half of the bids that came back
were for line sponsorship, something CTA and IMG hadn’t contemplated or anticipated.
For many reasons, the line sponsorship has an equal if not greater sponsorship value to an
individual station. In terms of seeing any company opt for multiple lines that is something
that IMG has not seen as pricing would likely prohibit multiple line sponsorship.
Director Folska told Scott Reed and the IMG team that she really supports the corporate
sponsorship concept and feels strongly that this is the direction that RTD need to be

Packet Pg. 13

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 24, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

valued, and what percentage of RTD assets would staff look to seek sponsorship. He
asked if it was felt that ridership would expand as a result of instituting a corporate
sponsorship program.

6.A

Director Folska wondered about Sports Authority and other known historical locations
such as Union Station, and how naming rights have worked in the past or how they would
work in the future for these types of well-known locations. Director Folska questioned if a
moving advertisement was more valuable than stationary advertisement. She assumed a
greater value would be seen with moving advertising like RTD light rail lines. Also,
Director Folska inquired if Communications and the IMG team have thought out how RTD
can protect its assets from undesirable sponsorship and naming rights.
Bianca de Jager explained that while a stadium might not move there is a huge amount of
exposure do to the media component so the value would be much higher than a light rail
line.
Scott Reed replied that staff would look diligently at each potential sponsorship package
before ever bringing it to the Board for consideration and that he is very sensitive to
undesirable sponsorship. Mr. Reed noted that there would be scenarios of sponsorship
that RTD would simply not consider. Staff would defer to Marla Lien regarding any
possible liabilities.
Director Folska inquired how IMG are paid for their work on these types of projects.
Todd Parker responded that IMG are paid on commission only in the range of 12 - 15% of
revenues.
Director Lasater voiced concern over naming rights of well-known venues, as in the case
of Sports Authority Field at Mile High or Sports Authority Field at Parker. He noted
concern for consumer related frustrations and hoped that any corporate sponsorship
program would take these types of concerns into serious consideration before
implementation of any such program.
Jay Kenney informed the Board that IMG establishes quantitative and qualitative filters
that potential sponsors have to go through before they are ever recommended to RTD.
This data is filtered before IMG ever makes recommendation of an appropriate fit for RTD.
IMG currently use a 55/44 split model; with quantitative valued at 55% and qualitative
valued at 45%. IMG follows standard advertising guidelines and consider all possible
liabilities. Mr. Kenney noted that there is always a way for IMG to decline a sponsorship
that would not be an appropriate fit for RTD.
Mr. Kenney further explained that the naming rights culture is always subject or vulnerable
to mergers and acquisitions. In terms of renaming a given location, the name will always

Packet Pg. 14

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 24, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

moving toward implementing. Director Folska requested an electronic copy of the IMG
presentation.

6.A

include the location. Mr. Kenney stated for example, Union Station will always be Union
Station. It might become AT&T Union Station or Coca Cola Union Station, but that the
location name would remain intact.

Director Daly shared that RTD will appreciate the income from this initiative and that staff
must bear in mind to never change the geographic location of a station. Director Daly also
noted a concern for our ridership potentially feeling forced to listen to overhead
advertisements; he didn’t feel this would be appreciated by our ridership.
Director Lubow shared that Sports Authority will pay $150 Million over the next 25 years
to have their name on the Stadium. She noted a concern of people having difficulties
remembering things if they are constantly experiencing changing names.
Director Lubow noted that she has philosophical issues with public property being named
with corporate sponsorship. She wondered if the Board will have some ability to dictate
input in terms of how a name sounds, for example Union Station sponsored by AT&T
versus AT&T Union Station. Director Lubow would like the public aspect of the name to
remain first because the public paid for the asset.
Scott Reed noted that corporate sponsorship will be presented to the Board in different
packages and the value of a sponsorship will have to be given individual consideration.
Director Lubow asked if the Board could set a policy regarding corporate naming rights, so
that the sponsorship name wouldn’t be listed first. Director Lubow commented that she
also doesn’t want to present a feeling to the public that might seem like the corporate
entity owns the asset because they don’t own the asset.
General Manager Washington stated that there will be much more discussion on this
matter. There is much to take into consideration. General Manager Washington advised
that while RTD wants to protect our assets, we do not want to devalue an asset by
limiting naming rights sponsorship.
Chair Anderson reminded all parties that this meeting is a preliminary meeting and that no
decisions or actions will be taken during this meeting.
Director Solano noted a 2007 rule passed by the legislature that mandates that 50% of
RTD is public and 50% is private. He expressed concern that we are losing that. He does

Packet Pg. 15

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 24, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Kenney observed that historically, primary assets will warrant a 5-year minimum
sponsorship term while lesser assets would more likely be at a 3-year sponsorship
commitment.

6.A

not want a Waste Management Commerce City Line. He believes we should stay RTD and
keep the private sector out. Marla Lien explained that the stature relates to operation of
fixed route service and does not apply to advertising.

Director Menten echoed Director Lubow’s concerns about corporate sponsorship naming
rights and public property. Director Menten feels strongly that discussion on this matter
should occur now, as opposed to when the contract work has been completed. Director
Menten voiced concern over prior instances when unease was being voiced on a matter;
the voiced unease was met with comments such as “we’ve already done all this work so
we have to move forward.”
Director Menten asked for clarification of the term compensation in-kind.
Todd Parker shared that compensation in-kind refers to, for example, an item that might
equal a sponsorship amount, such as specific goods and services to RTD. One example
would be construction goods. Value-in-kind can be a common component of naming
rights.
Director Sisk shared that he also had mixed feelings about a corporate sponsorship
program in terms of changing names. He agreed that economics are important but that
we will want to be careful moving forward.
Jay Kenney commented that there has to be a comfort level for this type of program to
work. IMG is going to recommend seeing sponsorship for 10% of RTD assets. There is a
way to seek this type of sponsorship without turning the consumer base off. IMG has
completed extensive market research to test out consumer comfort level.
Director Sisk reiterated that he felt there was still a great deal of work to do prior to
moving forward. Director Sisk asserted that while all everyone wants to see a gain in
revenue, staff also needs to ensure that RTD has all the pertinent information needed to
have a full understanding of public assets and naming rights.
Chair Anderson also noted that she has real concern over naming rights of public property
and that when the Board meets again on this topic, staff will need to address all
associated discomfort.

Packet Pg. 16

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 24, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Hoy questioned the difference between naming rights and advertising. He
wondered if RTD was substituting one type of revenue for another. Scott Reed stated
that it would depend on what the sponsor was interested in. He said that if we were to
remove advertisements from our vehicles that lost revenue would need to be recouped in
the sponsorship package.

6.A

Director Deadwyler indicated she too has angst over the matter, especially in terms of
partnering with any type of undesirable business, and that she would not support doing
business with companies that don’t have a good reputation with our public, such as WalMart.

Director Deadwyler commented that she did not wish to see RTD in a scenario where its
services might be boycotted.
Ms. Lien reiterated that the Board will participate in the sponsorship selection process and
has ultimate approval or rejection. If the Board doesn’t want to pursue a specific
sponsorship, RTD will not pursue that partnership.
Director Walker noted that our country has a history of combining public and private
assets so he doesn’t have any big concerns. He wonders if some assets more valuable
when identified by region/location.
Scott Reed indicated that these types of considerations are part of the whole package.
For instance, considering the16th Street Mall, there is a lot of current interest for
advertising in this area where there is a lot of traffic. Naming rights for this area will
create more revenue than for a small bus line.
Director Menten noted that she would have preferred to get all the related presentation
materials prior to the meeting. Director Menten also questioned when the Board took the
action to vote on IMG as the successful bidder for the August 2012 RFP.
General Manager Washington suggested that the next step for the corporate sponsorship
project would be to provide the Board a copy of the original report that was previously
approved.
Lacy Bell stated that she had been talking with the City and County of Denver. She
reminded the Board that they had approved a few things earlier in the year, one of those
things being free 18th/19th Circulator service. Ms. Bell advised that they have come up
with a name and brand for this project, calling it the Free Metro Ride.
Steve Reilly, marketing manager with the Communications Department stated that he had
been working with Lacy’s group. Mr. Reilly stated that they looked at the mall ride in very
specific geographic locations. They decided to use the “metro” term in the name because

Packet Pg. 17

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 24, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

General Counsel Marla Lien explained that the business model being discussed was really
more like a partnership as opposed to standard advertising. RTD would be afforded far
more discretion over matters, including who RTD would partner with.

6.A

it is very contemporary, providing RTD with flexibility should staff choose to run a service
throughout town. The theme is very progressive with two vibrant colors, mustard and
teal, painting the tops of the buses and leaving the bottoms of the buses with an
unpainted metal base. The Free Metro Ride buses where designed to look drastically
different so they would be easily identifiable.

Director Lubow commented that the team had done good work and had come up with an
attractive design.

IV.

Youth Art Pilot Program (Folska/Reilly)
Director Folska shared that she had been thinking about a youth art competition for some
time now. She was interested in a program that would encourage and educate our
communities about all the different aspects of RTD. Director Folska advised that the pilot
program would kick off in the middle schools of Aurora and Cherry Creek school districts,
noting that the best way to eat an elephant is bite by bite. Director Folska shared that
since RTD is limited on funding sources, she has agreed to seek additional outside funding.
Mr. Reilly reiterated that the student art competition is really a way to engage and educate
our communities and to influence ridership within our communities. The pilot program will
involve some 19 thousand students. The theme is based on “I HEART MY RTD” and to
show that RTD is a viable transportation mode that can fit into every lifestyle. The goal is
to kick the program off in the January/February timeframe, wrapping it up late in February
or early March. Mr. Reilly commented that the love theme works with Valentine’s Day,
has a lot of strength, should be fun, and that there will be significant RTD participation.
Mr. Reilly noted that each school will select their finalists’ and those individuals with the
winning pieces of art would be sent forward to RTD. RTD would have a committee and
would make available open voting online in a way that voting could not be stacked.
Mr. Reilly stated that the winner’s design would be wrapped on a bus for a specified time
period, such as 6 months. This program would create a great deal of public relations and
media coverage putting RTD in a positive light with the potential for the community to get
behind the program.
Director Folska noted that the team did a great job.
Director Deadwyler shared that she really likes this art competition; she feels it is very
sophisticated and will provide an exciting opportunity for community outreach.

Packet Pg. 18

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 24, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Kate Wilson added that these colors circumvent from traditional RTD bus themes because
staff wants the Free Metro Ride buses to stand out from other RTD vehicles.

6.A

Director Folska thanked Director Deadwyler and commented that the program was a team
effort. She added that she was certain the program would be a success because the
marketing team is so passionate about their work.

Director Lubow noted that she “hearts” the program; it is very clever and heartwarming,
and she predicts it will bring in new ridership and goodwill in the community.
Director Walker added that he liked the idea and shared that in his past experience in jobs
and projects that involved community input, you could see self-respect rise within that
community.
Director Menten noted that she hoped costs for this program would not come out of RTD
funds.
Chair Anderson commented that she believed external funding was being sought.
Mr. Reilly confirmed that staff is soliciting external sponsors with the hopes that the
program grows in the future such that sponsorship would grow to be community wide.
Chair Anderson agreed this art competition would be a very fun program.
Director Deadwyler commented that she believes when RTD initiates a project RTD should
be a contributor.

V.

2014 Budget (Scarpino)
Terry Howerter addressed the Board and introduced Jannette Scarpino to present the
Budget update which is available in the September 24, 2013 Study Session Agenda
Packet.
Ms. Scarpino provided a brief overview of the process, assumptions and key elements.
Ms. Scarpino stated that the Board still has the opportunity to provide input to the budget,
and she explained that the requested budget is a draft only; it is subject to changes and
revisions.
Ms. Scarpino advised that the operating budget has come in below the initial projections.
FasTracks constructions and operations numbers are pretty solid. The Capital budget is
preliminary. Ms. Scarpino shared that the summaries found on page 3 show all operating

Packet Pg. 19

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 24, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Solano also agreed the program was a great idea and that communications should
be prepared in both English and Spanish. Director Folska appreciated that feedback.

6.A

and non-operating revenue as well as summaries of all operating expenses, debt service,
and capital expenditures. Staff are projecting fare revenue increased $5.6 million due to
the goal of increasing ridership by 2.8%, plus a full year of the West Line in operation.

Ms. Scarpino advised that on October 15, staff will present a budget update to the
Financial Administration and Audit committee. On November 19, staff will present a
recommended budget to the Financial Administration and Audit committee, and hope to
present the final budget for adoption by the Board on November 16, 2013.
Ms. Scarpino reminded everyone that this was a brief overview and that she was available
to meet individually with anyone who had any questions on the 2014 requested budget.
Director Bagley made note that we’d been in the meeting over 3 hours and that we had
probably just now gotten to the important aspect of the meeting. Director Bagley
indicated that it would be prudent for Board members to spend time with Ms. Scarpino
individually prior to October 15th.
Director Walker echoed Director Bagley’s comments, but did wonder if we had or
expected to have any impact from the flooding around the District.
General Manager Washington reported that staff is still assessing but haven’t seen much
impact currently. As previously indicated, there was some heavy flooding in Boulder, but
staff has seen no catastrophic failures, no walls came down. General Manager
Washington stated that if staff does find something that is substantial, we will coordinate
with the federal government for reimbursements.
Chair Anderson noted that there were no other speakers. Chair commented that she
appreciates all the work being performed on the budget. Chair did question the current
diesel prices.
General Manager Washington indicated that at this time, staff is seeing the float price.
Staff continues to monitor the futures market to see if or when RTD should do a price
lock.
Chair Anderson encouraged members of the Board to make an appointment with Ms.
Scarpino to review any issues regarding the 2014 requested budget so that everyone is
prepared to move forward on budget approval in November.

Packet Pg. 20

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 24, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

RTD does not have a lock on diesel at this time and so we do not have budget certainty
regarding fuel costs.

6.A

Other Matters
General Manager Washington commented that he sent the Board an email last night on
North Metro. RTD received 4 proposals from Herzog (Bechtel, Herzog, JV and AECOM),
GMMH (Graham, Balfour, Beatty and Hamon), NMTS (Kiewit, Stacy and Witbeck, JV) and
URS. Staff is in the midst of very technical and complex solicitation and evaluation. Staff
plans to come to the Board October 8 to walk through the evaluation criteria and the
evaluation components. On November 5, staff will come back to the Board with their
recommendation on this solicitation. On November 14 there will be a special FasTracks
Monitoring Committee Meeting with public comment. At that time staff will be asking the
Board to move the action to the Board meeting scheduled for November 26 for final Board
action. General Manager Washington noted that this was a very aggressive schedule for a
very complex solicitation and evaluation. Staff will want to keep moving forward because
RTD wants to announce the award decision so we can break ground early January.

VII.

Adjourn
Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 8:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 21

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 24, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

VI.

6.B

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, October 8, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:28 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Absent

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:10 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Chair

Present
Present

5:09 PM
5:25 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Vice Chair

Present
Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:29 PM
5:20 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:26 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:09 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:12 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:19 PM

Packet Pg. 22

6.B

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:22 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Roy Asphaug, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Jeff
Cluphf, Susan Cohen, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Lee Cryer, Kevin Diviness,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Kenn Hardin, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Doug MacLeod, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn,
Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Jim Starling, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand,
Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Brenda Tierney, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa
Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Brian Welch, Phil Washington

Other Present:

Greg Amparano, Dana Chaves, Trevor Clifford, ZJ Czupor, Jane
Donovan, Joni Goheen, Doug Gragg, Watkins Fulk-Gray, Stan Gronek,
David Lewis, Jim Martinez, Johanna Medina, Susan Monard, Daniel
Navarro, Mike Okinsky, Maxine Pryor, Liz Rao , Mei-Ling Rodriguez,
Darron Rolle, Roger Sherman, Larry Silva, Marta Sipeki, Joe Triplett,
Gary Van Dorn

B. Citizens Advisory Committee
David Lewis, Co-chair of the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee, shared that
they had their quarterly meeting on September 16th, 2013. He thanked Committee
Chair Hoy for attending; also in attendance were Mayor Downing and Council
Member Wieneke. David Lewis noted that there was not a lot of public turnout but
believes this is attributed to the positive momentum we have from the Northwest
Area Mobility Study and North Metro Request for Proposal.
David Lewis shared that the next CAC Work Session is October 16th, 2013. He
said that they will be getting a comprehensive update from program staff.
Additionally, the final CAC Quarterly Meeting will be held on December 11th, 2013
at the Stapleton Foundation which is a change in the originally scheduled location.
Director Tobiassen thanked the CAC members for their help in the public outreach
on the I-225 corridor. He said that several CAC members have been doing
presentations to various civic groups and participating in the monthly updates.
Director Tobiassen appreciates all their hard work. David Lewis noted that they will
be discussing outreach efforts as their upcoming meetings as they are finding that
going out in small groups may be a more effective way to do outreach.
Director Lasater asked how many seats are available to new participants as part of
the upcoming application and selection process. Roger Sherman stated that there
are five members whose terms expire at the end of the year. Two are first term
members who have indicated they want to be considered for reappointment so
there will be three vacancies.
Director Lubow reminded everyone that several Board members had asked if the
CAC would explore the concept of having more socioeconomic diversity because it
is heavily professional. She feels that while the CAC members do have excellent

Packet Pg. 23

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

6.B

qualifications and experience, the Committee needs to more accurately reflect our
riders as a whole. Roger Sherman explained that there has been a call for
applications that are due at the end of this month; the Nominating Committee will
then review all applications. Roger Sherman said that he will meet with the
Nominating Committee prior to review of the applications because there are several
things that he has taken note of that the Board wanted considered.
Director Rivera-Malpiede suggested that if Director Lubow knows someone who
would be interested in making the commitment to the CAC she should encourage
them to apply. She shared that she will be asking people from her District to apply
as well.

Director Menten noted that we have citizen input into FasTracks through the CAC
but she wonders how we receive citizen input on the bus side. She also asked how
we will gather citizen input now that we are looking at restructuring our fare. Scott
Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, shared that RTD has a
Customer Panel that meets quarterly and is more focused on the bus side. He said
that we get their input on fares, routes, marketing, etc. General Manager
Washington explained that we have just begun the process of putting together an
internal Fare Task Force but have not yet begun the review of our fare. He stated
that there will be public comment opportunities as part of the process. General
Manager Washington also reminded the Board that as part of every service change
we have Public Hearings where staff hears not just about the routes that will be
changing but also about other bus suggestions.

C. Recommended Actions

• North Metro Rail Line Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and
County of Denver
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of
Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation District. The agreement
includes specific terms defining CCD’s local agency contribution,
coordination, and the rights and responsibilities of each party associated
with construction of the North Metro Rail Line within the City’s boundaries.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion
to move this item to the full Board at the
October 29, 2013 Board meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs,
explained that an important part of the North Metro line goes
through the City and County of Denver (CCD) from Denver
Union Station (DUS) to just north of the Stock Show Station.

Packet Pg. 24

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Hoy thanked David Lewis and Roger Sherman for their report.

6.B

Jane Donovan stated that the majority of the IGA documents
are how RTD is going to coordinate with CCD. She said this is
almost three years of successful negotiations with the City
and staff is very happy with the outcome. Jane Donovan
noted that CCD will take this to their Board next month for
approval.
Director Lubow asked for clarification of some of the bullet
points listed on Packet Page 5 of the October 8, 2013
FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet. She wanted
clarification on the following:



The parties agree to a process for determining and funding
improvements related to project construction.
RTD to provide funding toward future improvements on
Brighton Boulevard as RTD’s contribution to this work.

Jane Donovan stated that the first bullet point indicates that if
there are any items identified that Denver would like to see
put in place that they have funding for, RTD has agreed to do
that. The second bullet point relates to RTD providing funding
to install curb and gutter along Brighton Boulevard; this cost
will be determined by the developer and split 50/50 between
RTD and CCD. She noted it is very common when there is
development adjacent to city streets for the developer to
assist with improvements.
Director Sisk asked for the formula used for the overmatch
and how it is determined. He wondered if there was a
numerical value for the overmatch that could be provided to
the Board. Jane Donovan stated that she does not have the
exact numbers but even just looking at the West corridor, CCD
provided quite a bit above what was required. She noted that
in reference to the land we will be getting from the City, there
will be no money changing hands except for a small amount
for park land. Rick Clarke explained that CCD has
overmatched on three quarters; they have overmatched to an
Packet Pg. 25

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

He stated that this is the fourth IGA that has been executed
with CCD as part of FasTracks; we have also done one for the
West, East and Gold lines. Rick Clarke noted that we have
used many of the sections from those IGAs that worked well.
He said this will be the first IGA of several for the North Metro
corridor; staff expects to come back next month for the
remaining IGAs with the other jurisdictions.

6.B

Director Menten commented that the RTD Board was being
asked to approve this but the City and County of Denver
would not approve the IGA until next month. She expressed
concern that with contracts we get these add-ins but can then
go months or years before it is even fulfilled. Director Menten
also expressed concern that later on an entity could demand
more money or claim that something was not fulfilled. Rick
Clarke explained that this agreement is a binding agreement
that we can use to make sure CCD fulfills their obligation
which is primarily to provide RTD the public Right-of-Way. He
stated that we have never known CCD not to fulfill their
obligations/agreements; however, if they do not, RTD has a
binding legal document that says they have to.
Director Menten noted that she has discussed some IGAs with
Terry Howerter, Assistant General Manager of Finance &
Administration, in which we are not quite clear on
compensation that we are owed. She expressed concern that
this could end up being the case with this IGA. General
Manager Washington said that we have many partners around
the District that we do Intergovernmental Agreements with.
He stated that there have been clarifications within IGAs in the
past but those have always been worked out. General
Manager explained that the City and County of Denver
approving this through their Board was really just a timing
issue. He reiterated that we have had a good experience with
our IGAs and feel comfortable about this IGA with CCD.
Committee Chair Hoy stated that it is a very key and pivotal
item to get all of the IGAs sorted out with each jurisdiction
before beginning construction because of the issues that could
arise that have not been discussed; this provides a mechanism
to have all those issues sorted out before we lay track. Rick
Clarke agreed that this IGA provides RTD with a lot of
protection. General Manager Washington explained that this is
also part of RTD’s lessons learned. In the past we would give
notice to proceed and not have the IGAs signed with the city
or local jurisdictions; then we would have issues after
construction began.
Director Menten stated that in looking at recent history she is
still concerned about IGAs. She explained that there is still
Packet Pg. 26

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

amount that would cover this overmatch but they are still
providing their Right-of-Way at no cost to RTD.

6.B

Director Deadwyler expressed concern that RTD continues to
take the lead with the votes. She feels that RTD has to vote
early so that the City can get the vote on their end. Director
Deadwyler stated that she would like to see a time where the
City would vote first rather than using the RTD Board as a
way to influence others who do not agree. She asked if
CCD’s contribution of $5 million, or 22%, is a maximum
contribution amount. Director Deadwyler also asked what the
contribution would pay for. She is worried that if anything
came up, CCD would not have to make any additional
contribution. Jane Donovan stated that was the maximum
they would be contributing to the North Metro Rail Project;
however, there are additional things CCD would like to see get
done but that will need to be funded by CCD. Jane Donovan
said that Denver is different than some of our other
jurisdictions because they are overmatched. She said that
because of this we will not see any further contribution. She
explained that the IGA agrees to things like the properties CCD
with give use, aerial easements, etc.
Director Walker wonders if in the IGAs either party ever
requires a letter of credit from the other party. Marla Lien,
General Counsel, said that generally the IGAs that we have
done with local governments recognize that all local
governments in Colorado either have to appropriate present
funds or have funds available subject to appropriation. She
explained that we have to work with all of the entities in our
District so we have to develop a history of trust; RTD has to
exchange property, have plans reviewed, get permits, etc. on
a constant basis. She stated that RTD does trust those
entities to fulfill their obligations.
Director Lasater shared with the other Board members that
traditionally RTD is viewed by the municipalities as the
applicant. Each municipality requires the applicant to have
their ducks in a row before the council will vote on an item.
Packet Pg. 27

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Accounts Receivable (AR) that RTD is owed from IGAs.
Director Menten wants to make sure that in three or four years
RTD does not have a dispute with CCD. Terry Howerter
explained that when RTD has an IGA we will bill that entity
and have those bills in our AR; once we bill the entity there
can be additional negotiations and we will come to a final
settlement with the entity. He noted that has happened on
some of the P3 IGAs as well as a few in Lakewood.

6.B

He explained that this is why the Board has to take the lead
because RTD is viewed as the applicant.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 2]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Jeff Walker, Director, District D
AYES: Anderson, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley

D. Updates

• North Metro Competitive Procurement Update
Jim Starling, Project Manager, reviewed a Power Point presentation with the
Board that is available in the October 8, 2013 FasTracks Monitoring
Committee Agenda Packet. General Manager Washington reiterated to the
Board that there will be a Special FasTracks meeting on November 14, 2013
that will include a public comment period.
Director Folska thanked Jim Starling for his presentation. She wondered
how the scoring of the proposals would work. She asked if the Evaluation
Committee would be selecting someone in the 90th percentile or just the best
score. Jim Starling explained that the Evaluation Committee will make the
best choice based on all the input they receive from the teams. It will not
strictly be getting a certain number but the best value for RTD. He stated
that the proposers have to meet certain minimum requirements to make sure
they are responsive so all proposals would go through that check first. Rick
Clarke noted that the teams strive to get consensus in their group before
submitting their evaluations to the Evaluation Committee. Marla Lien stated
that any RFP issued by RTD contains a proviso that RTD can chose to reject
all bids.
Committee Chair Hoy believes the scores are so that the Evaluation
Committee can know which one is best, which one is worst, and where the
others fall in between.
Director Daly asked how many trips per week the freight service will be
using the shared track. He also wondered if RTD would operate and
maintain the service or if it would be contracted out. Jim Starling explained
that there is one customer that is served on the line. The current agreement
is that the freight service cannot interfere with RTD operations so their

Packet Pg. 28

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

6.B

service would be at night. Rick Clarke stated that we would most likely
contract out operations as it is commuter rail service.

General Manager Washington reminded the Board that there is an Executive
Session scheduled for November 5, 2013 and requested that any questions
other than general questions be asked then.
Director Deadwyler requested that the Board members be able to review the
score sheets once they are complete. General Manager Washington said
that staff will have a breakdown of all the scores by team in a table
approach for the November 5, 2013 meeting.
Director Sisk requested that staff have a detailed background of the four
proposing entities and their subgroups available for the November 5, 2013
meeting. General Manager Washington stated that staff would put that
together.

• US 36 Bus Rapid Transit Update
Nadine Lee, Project Manager, reviewed a Power Point presentation with the
Board that is available in the October 8, 2013 FasTracks Monitoring
Committee Agenda Packet.
General Manager Washington highlighted the RTD contribution of $120
million for Phase I (Federal to 88th). He reminded the Board that RTD was
able to make this contribution from the Eagle project where we came in
below budget.
Director Lubow thanked Nadine Lee for all her hard work. She wonders if
the term Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) applies only to the non-stop buses because
the all-stop buses go in the general purpose lanes. Nadine Lee stated that
BRT applies to both services since both services will benefit from the
changes RTD is making. The all-stop buses may use the managed lanes for
a portion of the route but RTD is also doing a lot of things within the
corridor to make this a true BRT.

Packet Pg. 29

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lubow wonders if the evaluation teams will give more points to a
proposal that says they can get to the end of line quickly with low cost
versus a proposal that says they cannot. Jim Starling explained that all
proposals are required to have a cost for Phase II. The Financial Evaluation
Committee will rank the proposals based on the cost and schedule. Terry
Howerter explained that there is a calculation that compares the proposal
cost to the internal cost estimates that determines how many points a
proposal receives.

6.B

Director Sisk thanked the entire team for what they have done with the BRT.
He feels the working relationships that have been forged are really amazing.
Director Sisk did express concern about the completion date as he thought it
would be done at the end of 2015. He also encouraged his fellow Board
members to look at the Bus-on-Shoulder videos. General Manager
Washington explained that the construction would be complete in 2015 but
there is testing that needs to be done before opening.
Director Folska commented that when she has taken the BX up to Boulder it
is moving very fast. She expressed concerns over the 35 mph speed limit
and asked how long it would take the BRT to get from Denver Union Station
to Table Mesa. Director Folska also asked if the BRT was being considered
for naming rights. Nadine Lee stated that the managed lane will have a
speed limit of 55 to 65 mph; it is only the Bus-on-Shoulder buses that will
have to maintain the 35 mph speed limit. She said that travel time is
predicted to be about 30 minutes. General Manager Washington stated that
the BRT is in the inventory of assets to be considered for naming rights.
Committee Chair Hoy noted that the present time to go from Market Street
Station to the Boulder Transit Center is 43 minutes.

E. Other Matters


Director James shared that he and Director Walker had received an email from
Councilman Nevitt asking about naming rights for a person as opposed to
corporate entities. He wondered if there was anything in RTD’s policy that
addresses the topic. Scott Reed stated that RTD typically does not name
anything after an individual; however, we have done several commemorations
at specific stations. He noted that the goal of the naming rights is to generate
revenue. He said that if we began naming something after an individual versus
the location it will be a big change in the process we have used thus far.



Director Menten asked for further information on an email that was sent from
the Jewish Community Relations Council of Colorado (JCRC). Marla Lien
explained that the JCRC is requesting that RTD not run an advertisement that is
sponsored by a non-profit organization that talks about the peace process in the
Middle East and the Palestinians. She stated that based on RTD’s advertising
policy of having limited public forum for advertising space we have taken a
number of ads that are political that some groups find offensive. Marla Lien
explained once RTD has designated a space as a limited public forum, unless
Packet Pg. 30

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Solano asked for further details on the HOV 3+ agreement with
Plenary Roads Denver. Nadine Lee stated that Plenary Roads Denver is the
concessionaire who has been selected by CDOT for the Public-Private
Partnership to construct Phase II. They will also be operating and
maintaining the managed lanes for a 50 year time period.

6.B



General Manager Washington stated that staff wants to take the opportunity to
address an issue that has come before the Board, Rocky Mountain
Reinforcement. He said that as the Board may remember from previous
discussions, RTD’s Civil Rights Department is responsible for labor compliance
and Davis-Bacon wage requirements. The Labor Compliance Officers routinely
conduct weekly project site visits to interview and observe workers in the field.
General Manager Washington noted that to date RTD has done about 2,500
work force interviews on FasTracks projects. He explained that all contractors
are required to submit certified payroll reports that get compared to the worker
interviews; when issues are found, the labor compliance officer notifies the
prime contractor in writing of the restitution amount and they have 30 days to
make sure the issue is resolved.
General Manager Washington stated that as part of the compliance monitoring,
RTD found that RMR was classifying workers that were performing iron work as
laborers in September of 2012 on the Eagle P3 project. RMR was given notice
and directed to pay restitution, which they did in October but they did not
adjust the workers’ wages. He said that in November of 2012 the Department
of Labor (DOL) began an independent investigation and concluded that RMR
workers were misclassified and required RMR to pay restitution and reclassify
the workers. RMR did pay restitution and adjust the workers wage rates. To
date there have been no other misclassifications or restitution payments on the
Eagle P3 project. General Manager Washington said that RTD received a letter
from the DOL that confirms that RMR needed to reclassify the workers and pay
restitution, which RMR has done; DOL has closed its file on the matter since all
issues were corrected.
General Manager Washington said that on the Denver Union Station (DUS)
project, RTD requested RMR reclassify all its workers for restitution to be paid.
To date there have been no other misclassifications or restitution payments on
the DUS project.
Rick Clarke reiterated that as the Board heard from the General Manager, RTD
requires in all of our contracts that workers be paid a fair Davis-Bacon wage.
He explained that on a major construction contract there are thousands of
pieces of work that need to be done so it is easy for misclassification to

Packet Pg. 31

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

the ad is clearly obscene or defamatory we do make space available without
making content or viewpoint decisions. Scott Reed said that the Board will
receive a copy of the response to the JCRC. He stated that 10 light rail and 10
bus ads were purchased. Scott Reed explained that the group’s goal is to
generate some level of publicity; when other transit agencies have tried to
prohibit the ads they have ended up in court which generates much more
publicity for the organization than just running the ads.

6.B

happen. He stated that he can give many examples of this happening on other
projects.

Rick Clarke stated that the Board has also heard discussions about unsafe work
practices or sites. He said that he really struggles with that because RTD puts a
lot of our people in the field; the contractors have empowered RTD to stop work
if we see an unsafe practice. He stated that our team has not observed those
conditions on our projects.
Rick Clarke introduced Darron Rolle from Kiewit, Greg Amparano from DTP, and
Jim Martinez from RMR.
Darron Rolle reiterated Kiewit’s commitment to safety. He stated that the
company views the slogan ‘No One Get Hurt’ as literal. Darron Rolle said that it
is not okay for anyone to come to their job site and get hurt. Darron Rolle
explained that they have asked RMR to believe the same things as Kiewit with
regards to safety. He stated that Jim Martinez and his team agree. RMR
continues to plan safety into their operations. Darron Rolle shared that RMR
has sent more than 100 of their employees to Kiewit’s Project Orientations. He
said that RMR has experienced one recordable issue in more than fifty thousand
man hours of work, one first aid case, and one loss time accident. Darron Rolle
stated that they began working with RMR in 2009; any issues that they have
had with respect to safety, compliance, schedule, etc. have all been answered
by RMR. He said that any time there was an issue Jim Martinez has jumped in
to get it resolved.
Darron Rolle stated that further illustration of RMR’s commitment to safety is
their participation in Kiewit’s Speak Up Listen Up program. This program
empowers the workers to talk to other workers if at any time they see a safety
issue. He shared that they also participate in the Play of the Day program
where every morning there is a 6:30 a.m. meeting to talk about what actions
need to be done that day and how they can be done safely. Darron Rolle
informed the Board that RMR has won a Safety Crew of the Month award on
the DUS project.
Darron Rolle stated that Kiewit looks forward to partnering with RMR in the
future and values their working relationship Jim Martinez and his team.
Greg Amparano stated that safety is the most important focus of any project.
DTP sets very high safety standards; their total recordable incident rate goal is
Packet Pg. 32

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Rick Clarke said that the issue with RMR has to do with workers carrying the
rebar. In the contractors mind that did not take any additional skill so they were
classified as laborers. Rick Clarke stated that he would have a problem with
excluding or removing a contractor because they made a judgment call.

6.B










Daily safety test planning by crew; every crew has a team book that sets
out any hazard in the morning before they begin work
Management in Action where he and his senior staff do safety tours every
week
Weekly joint safety audits with RTD
Monthly All Hands meetings where everyone on the project meets to discuss
safety
Employee recognition program to encourage safety reporting and near miss
reporting
Incentive plan with safety target thresholds
High Five Hand Safety Awareness program to address a recent trend of hand
injury incidences
DTP safety training program

Greg Amparano reiterated that DTP takes safety and compliance seriously.
Jim Martinez stated that it is a privilege to work with RTD, Kiewit and DTP in
helping to build the infrastructure of the metropolitan area. He said the number
one commodity is their labor doing ties and rebar for large construction jobs. He
explained that rebar work is the type of work where people need to be cautious.
Jim Martinez shared that RMR gives their employees needed training and works
with contractors to make sure they are complaint with their safety
requirements. He noted that RMR had close to 150 people out in the field tying
rebar. Jim Martinez recognized that they did make a few mistakes but they also
corrected them right away.
Committee Chair Hoy expressed that this shows that RMR and Jim Martinez do
have concern and dedication to their employees.
Director Folska thanked General Manager Washington and Rick Clarke for all the
time they are willing to spend to review this issue with the board. She feels
this is an issue that could go on forever and really does not have an end in
sight. She noted that the individuals who are coming to the Board are
requesting a policy as to how we work with our contractors. Director Folska
recommended that RTD makes a clear policy that supports our contractors and
subcontractors. She expressed her hope that this is not a personal vendetta
that these individuals are wasting the Board’s time with.

Packet Pg. 33

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

.4 per two hundred thousand work hours. He said that their rate is 1.2;
however, while they have not met their aggressive target, compared to the
industry norm of 3.2 they are doing very well. Greg Amparano said that RMR
has had just one recordable incident in over sixty-three hours on the project.
Greg Amparano said that to ensure safety DTP conducts the following:

6.B

Director Lubow extended her gratitude and appreciation for everyone coming to
speak with the Board. She noted that this has been a long standing problem.
Director Lubow asked if anyone has talked to the individuals making the
allegations. Jim Martinez stated that on December 4, 2012 he met with the
national organizers for the people who are making the allegations. He said if
they could convince him that their organization could do a better job
representing his employees then RMR would consider joining them. Jim
Martinez stated that he still has not received one email or letter from them.
Jim Martinez shared that he has people following him around town with signs
accusing him of abusing his employees; as Chair of the Urban Renewal
Authority he had people come and sit in the front row with shirts saying that he
has abused his employees. He believes this is a campaign to try to force RMR
to do something that is not in their business model. He has asked his
employees if they would like to join an organization and they do not. Jim
Martinez explained that most of RMR’s employees are legal Mexican
immigrants; most take their check to a check cashing company which takes a
cut, they send money through Western Union which takes a cut, and they do
not want to pay any more. He reiterated that RMR has signs at every jobs site
informing them of their right to join the organization but they do not want to
join.
Director Deadwyler thanked everyone for coming. She stated that she knows
DTP is big on safety. She asked if RMR is a union organization as the
gentlemen that come to the meetings are claiming to be on strike. Jim Martinez
stated that RMR is not a union organization. He said that he does not
understand how you can be on strike when someone is not an employee of
RMR and RMR is not a union shop. He also said that at the time they were
hired they were not union employees. Director Deadwyler commented that it
appears these gentlemen are trying to turn RMR into a union shop.
Chair Anderson thanked everyone for their time. She stated that she has been
on the worksites and seen the safety precautions. Chair Anderson recognizes
Packet Pg. 34

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Malpiede extended her appreciation to Darron Rolle, Greg Amparano
and Jim Martinez for taking time to meet with the Board. She asked if Louis
Apolinar, Ricky Martinez and Jose Dominguez are employees of RMR. She also
asked if RMR has water available on-site for their employees. Jim Martinez
stated that those individuals are not current RMR employees. He stated that
the allegations that he would not have water available to his employees are
ludicrous. Jim Martinez shared that he worked for Mayor Webb for 12 years
first as the Director of Workforce Housing and eventually as the Director of
Economic Development; he was also an 11 year member of the Denver Urban
Renewal Authority. He said that he has always worked to represent the
underprivileged and underserved.

6.B

how tough the contractors are on safety. She thanks them for enforcing their
high safety standards with their subcontractors. Chair Anderson commended
staff for all they do in delivering projects safely.

Director Solano commented that normally in a union shop an employee goes
through an apprenticeship before becoming a journeyman. He asked how RMR
determines if someone is a journeyman. He also wonders how it could be
missed at the beginning that someone was a journeyman but was classified as a
laborer. Jim Martinez explained that RMR has two supervisors that have been
in the business for about 20 years. They go through an interview and testing
process with all employees to determine their qualification level. He stated that
the period of misclassification happened when RMR had 150 people working on
various job sites. He said that RMR hired some people who said they were not
qualified as journeyman; however, RMR made a policy that everyone that comes
on the job would be paid as a journeyman until they are classified appropriately.
Jim Martinez stated that everyone on the job site now are journeymen.
Committee Chair Hoy thanked Jim Martinez, Darron Rolle and Greg Amparano
for their time. He stated that this has been a long process and it is nice to see
everyone’s involvement. He believes it is very helpful for the Board to hear
from them.
Jim Martinez apologized to the Board for having to go through this. He shared
that he has been going through this since September 4, 2012. Jim Martinez
had to turn down another term on the Denver Urban Renewal Authority because
other members were getting harassed. He stated that he has been standing up
for the underserved and underprivileged his whole life.

F. Next Meeting Date - November 5, 2013
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 7:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 35

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Daly stated that he agrees with Director Deadwyler that this is an
organizing effort. He said that if the employees do not want to organize there is
not much that can be done.

6.C

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, October 8, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 7:44 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
7:44 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Absent

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

7:44 PM
7:37 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:44 PM
7:42 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Chair
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

7:41 PM
7:43 PM
7:44 PM

Natalie Menten

Vice Chair

Present

7:44 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

7:37 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:43 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:43 PM

Packet Pg. 36

6.C

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:44 PM
7:41 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Roy Asphaug, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Jeff
Cluphf, Susan Cohen, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Lee Cryer, Kevin Diviness,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Kenn Hardin, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Doug MacLeod, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn,
Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Jim Starling, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand,
Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Brenda Tierney, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa
Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Brian Welch, Phil Washington

Other Present:

Greg Amparano, Dana Chaves, Trevor Clifford, ZJ Czupor, Jane
Donovan, Joni Goheen, Doug Gragg, Watkins Fulk-Gray, Stan Gronek,
David Lewis, Jim Martinez, Johanna Medina, Susan Monard, Daniel
Navarro, Mike Okinsky, Maxine Pryor, Liz Rao , Mei-Ling Rodriguez,
Darron Rolle, Roger Sherman, Larry Silva, Marta Sipeki, Joe Triplett,
Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• 16th Street Mall Reconstruction Project Funding Intergovernmental
Agreement with the City and County of Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to
execute an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and
County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation District. The
purpose of the IGA is to set forth the rights, duties and obligations of
CCD and RTD to mutually fund a portion of the project costs to design
and reconstruct up to 3.5 blocks of the 16 th Street Mall (Blocks 1, 2, 12
and 13) within the CCD Right of Way. This IGA commits both RTD and
CCD to provide matching local funds necessary to receive FTA Grant
Funding. Funding for this project is included in the 2013 Amended Budget
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the October
29th, 2013 Board Meeting.
Director Rivera Malpiede seconded the
Motion.

Discussion:

Committee Chair James asked Rick Clarke to introduce those
parties that would speak about the requested
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA). Rick Clarke introduced
Henry Stopplecamp - Chief Engineer, and Jeff Cluphf -

Packet Pg. 37

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

6.C

Henry Stopplecamp stated that RTD is looking for
approximately $660 thousand dollars to make improvements
to the 16th Street Mall.
Staff is recommending
improvements/reconstruction on three and one half blocks
(blocks 1, 2, 12 and 13). RTD has received a federal grant
to apply toward this project. RTD will come up with $660
thousand and the City and County of Denver will come up
with two-thirds of the, $1.2 million dollars, of the required
local match. This IGA is to cover costs associated with
rehabbing existing granite pavers, reducing overall mall
maintenance costs. Currently, RTD spends approximately
$1 million annually for maintenance of the 16 th Street mall.
This IGA effort should result in our annual maintenance
reducing drastically over the next few years.
Director Folska stated she does not fully understand what all
goes into the maintenance process for the 16h Street Mall;
however, she noted concern over what appears to be
missing curbs or corners. Director Folska would appreciate
having a conversation about the corners that have gone
missing as they seem to have been removed.
Mr. Stopplecamp asked Director Folska if she was referring to
the ADA curb cuts. Director Folska responded that there are
no curb cuts because there are no corners. She stated that
one has no sense of an edge, thereby there is no sidewalk,
creating more of a shared street and an urbanism kind of idea.
Director Folska and Mr. Stopplecamp will meet offline to
continue this conversation.
Director Daly inquired about the Bulb-outs, noting that the
Metro Circulator has the Bulb-outs on 18th and 19th. He
wondered how that would work on the 16th Street Mall. Henry
Stopplecamp explained that Bulb-outs for the circulator are a
totally different concept, though they have the same name.
The Bulb-outs for the circulator create an island about 60’ long
and 12’ wide; the bus would just pull up to the Bulb-outs
instead of pulling into parking lanes. For the Bulb-outs on the
sidewalk, if you look at Larimer, it has a sidewalk that
stretches out into the street. Director Folska stated that this
is what she was talking about with the missing curbs. Mr.

Packet Pg. 38

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Construction Manager, to review the requested action for the
16th Street Mall IGA.

6.C

Stopplecamp shared that the Bulb-outs are a City and County
of Denver project.
Director Daly inquired if these Bulb-outs would be done on
each block in the future.

Director Tobiassen questioned if there was a maintenance
portion of the IGA after the reconstruction was complete. Mr.
Stopplecamp advised that there will be a 2nd IGA coming later
in the year covering mall maintenance; RTD will continue
providing mall maintenance into the near future as there is a
cost savings associated to proper maintenance.
Rick Clarke commented that staff is targeting the December
FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting to bring the
additional maintenance IGA to the Board.
Director Rivera-Malpiede had a question regarding the 5th
noted maintenance item for wet/dry utility upgrade, noting
how slippery the pavement can be and wondered if staff is
looking to do something about the slippery pavers.
Mr. Stopplecamp replied that staff is reviewing the
slipperiness; There is a sample block between Court and
Tremont that uses a slightly different method of surface
treatment. Mr. Stopplecamp stated that staff is looking at a
few different things to address slipperiness. Director RiveraMalpiede commented that whatever compound was currently
used as a De-Icer seems to actually worsen the slipperiness.
Mr. Stopplecamp again stated there were no guarantees on
the type of De-Icer used; that is a City and County of Denver
responsibility. Mr. Stopplecamp explained that the wet/dry
utility upgrades are not for the surface; they are for the
utilities that are going to the tree grates and subsurface.
Committee Chair James noted that the pilot program RTD
currently has in play is nearing completion. He wonders if
staff has any lessons learned as to what methodology is best
for renovating the pavers. Mr. Stopplecamp introduced Jeff
Cluphf to address the paver renovation.

Packet Pg. 39

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Stopplecamp responded that this matter was being
reviewed; there are no guarantees on this particular proposed
maintenance as it is outside the original scope.

Mr. Cluphf greeted the Board and reported that staff learned a
lot of information from the pilot program. He reported that
staff just started a new 3-year maintenance program and has
incorporated some of the things learned from the pilot
program. An actual report will be generated in November with
more insight, but staff did try different methods that were
fairly expensive in an attempt to stabilize the pavers so that
they’d be less prone to moving around and requiring
maintenance. Staff did learn that the least expensive methods
tried worked as well as the most expensive methods. Mr.
Cluphf stated that based on this knowledge, staff has
incorporated the least expensive into RTD’s new maintenance
plan.
Director Folska wondered if concrete would be cheaper and
more durable than granite. Mr. Stopplecamp confirmed that
concrete is cheaper than granite. Mr. Cluphf informed the
Board that staff is dealing with the preservation of a historical
site and that RTD is obligated to maintain the site accordingly.
Committee Chair James added that there is a 16th Street Plan
Steering Committee which he represents and is one of the cochairs. That committee spent several years planning and
readying for the mall renovation. One of its extensive
processes was a large amount of stakeholder input into the
question of should the granite pavers be retained at
considerably more expense, or should they be replaced with
something like asphalt or concrete. The choice of granite was
made almost unanimously by the stakeholders.
Director Menten commented that stakeholders would be all the
taxpayers. Director Menten further stated that she has
significant concern on the matter because there will be a lot of
associated maintenance costs required. She questioned the
involvement of the Downtown Denver Partnership Business
Improvement District (DDP/BID) because she felt they do not
contribute anything to the project.
Mr. Stopplecamp reported that the DDP/BID is not part of the
IGA; they were part of the grant application. The City and
County of Denver took over their responsibility and is funding
DDP/BID’s part of the local match. Maintenance is done by
the bid for snow removal under contract by the City and
County of Denver.

Packet Pg. 40

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.C

6.C

Rick Clarke stated that when RTD went into this IGA, staff
understood that there were three parties involved. Staff feels
that it is fair for RTD to pay a third of the costs, and that is
what staff is recommending through the IGA.

Director Daly reminded the Board and staff that granite can
indeed be very slick for the buses on the mall; concrete would
provide much better traction, although it would not be of any
historic value. Director Daly shared that he previously worked
with Mr. Cluphf, and also Mr. Cluphf’s father.
Director Folska wanted to add on to Director Menten’s
comments regarding paying a third of the 16th Street Mall
improvements She noted that RTD pays 100% of the cost to
operate the shuttle service.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 3]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• NAMS Update
Bill Van Meter invited Chris Quinn, Project Manager, to provide a brief
PowerPoint presentation. Mr. Van Meter noted that the presentation being
made had some additional information compared to the presentation
contained that that which was previously submitted in the board packet,
which lacked some key numbers and information.
Chris Quinn greeted the Board and recapped that RTD selected a consultant
in April 2013 to perform the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) , and
that the study is governed by RTD policy and technical committees which
consist of the elected officials and staff members of local jurisdictions in the
northwest area. Mr. Quinn walked through the presentation highlighting

Packet Pg. 41

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Menten inquired to confirm that RTD has no IGAs
with the Downtown Denver Partnership. Mr. Stopplecamp
stated that was correct.

6.C

General Manager Washington informed the Board that he and Chair
Anderson briefed the Transportation Legislation Review Committee (TLRC)
earlier today at the Capital; one of the things they talked about was the
NAM Study. He noted that right now there is no action for the Board to
take at this time. The data will be analyzed and we will listen to the
stakeholders. The Study will not be complete until January or early
February. The stakeholders will need to reach consensus at the end of the
Study. General Manager Washington stressed that no recommendations are
being put forth at this time. RTD is not pitting rail again BRT. Staff is just
conveying and presenting another deliverable from the Study for
consideration.
Director Daly noted that on the map in the presentation there was a purple
section called chambering. He was curious what that meant.
Mr. Quinn responded that in order to segment the corridor, we have to make
accommodations for the freight rail to essentially park while the passenger
operations were executed. For example, if a passenger train was heading
south, the passenger train would have priority over a freight train; any
freight train on the track would be held-over until the passenger train
passed. For the chambering track, RTD needs approximately 10,000+ feet
to be able to store the freight train.
Director Lubow thanked Mr. Quinn for his presentation and shared that she
heard him provide the same presentation at 7:30 a.m. She noted that he
was presenting again at 8:30 p.m. so she thanked him for his hard work.
Director Lubow inquired about the data reflected on the slide for extending
the North Metro corridor to Longmont. She noted that it stated that with
CDOT’s right-of-way it would cost somewhere around $100 million to build
just the I-225 segment. She wondered if this cost had been included within
the total cost.
Mr. Quinn advised that this cost was included in the total cost; Staff broke
the cost out only for some possible cost sharing opportunities with CDOT,
should CDOT pursue their plans as well to serve the North Front Range area.
Director Lubow commented that transport time would be 71 minutes from
Longmont to Denver but it could go down to 61 minutes if a couple of the
optional stations are not built. She wanted to know where those optional
stations were located.

Packet Pg. 42

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

current NAMS' outcomes of the five key tasks, along with various options
and possible recommendations for each key task. Mr. Quinn opened the
floor to questions.

6.C

Director Lubow questioned which of those four stations would not be
pursued. Mr. Quinn advised that the decision had not been made. Director
Lubow inquired if two stations where taken out of the mix, would a rider
save 10 minutes from their ride. Mr. Quinn responded that the four stations
combined could add about 10 minutes of time, so 5 minutes of time could
potentially be saved by removing two of the optional four proposed stations.
Director Lubow stated that she knew that Burlington Northern was not
willing to present new information to RTD so the cost estimates were based
on information provided a few years ago and then Mr. Quinn extrapolated
from the previously submitted numbers. Director Lubow asked Mr. Quinn if
he could explain how he extrapolated from those prior numbers.
Mr. Quinn replied that when RTD received the BNSF cost estimate a couple
of years ago, it was a lump sum number; it did not include a breakdown of
what the actual capital costs would be to have passenger rail running in the
corridor, nor did it break out the actual costs for just occupying the corridor.
Based on cost estimates that had been previously provided to RTD on both
the number of trains and also backing into what the capital cost estimates
might be, staff came up with a rough idea of what they thought the
occupancy charge would be for the corridor.
Mr. Van Meter added that the specific process used was vetted by an expert
rail panel that was convened by the consultant team.
Director Lubow wondered if it would be correct to say that the segmenting
costs now being estimated would add up to the full costs that BNSF
previously provided. Mr. Quinn advised that it would actually cost more
now due to the cost of the chambering tracks.
Director Menten commented that she had heard during the presentation that
the state legislature would have to approve RTD doing an annexation.
Director Menten asked if that information was correct. She wonders if RTD
is different than a city.
Marla Lien advised that RTD is very different than a city. Staff doesn’t
really know how a shared line with CDOT would work. RTD has an
annexation statute where areas can vote themselves into the District or they
Packet Pg. 43

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Quinn informed the Board that the optional stations included the Twin
Peaks Mall Station in Longmont, a station in east Boulder that would be
located at approximately 63rd and Arapahoe, a station at 116th avenue in
Broomfield, and then a station in Westminster at 88th Avenue, in the vicinity
of the now defunct Westminster Mall.

6.C

can petition into the District. If there were some sort of joint operation with
CDOT, the legislature in its discretion may make allowances for an IGA.
Who is in the district and gets service from RTD means a lot of different
things: bus service, taxation, ownership of assets, etc. If the legislature
chose to roll RTD into a project with CDOT, there would be a lot more
options.

Mr. Quinn answered that the problems with the initial ridership numbers was
related to the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) land use
population and employment data sets. Some of the jurisdictions felt that
their anticipated growth was not being reflected in the DRCOG numbers.
We asked them to go back and figure out how to project the growth that
was to be expected. Staff then vetted the projections with DRCOG. They
are comfortable with the methodology but are not comfortable using
different data sets other than their own official data sets.
Director Walker wondered if there was any indication of overall transit
ridership once the rail is introduced. He wonders what happens with bus
ridership numbers when rail is introduced.
Mr. Quinn shared that when staff modeled the overall corridor with just the
Northwest rail staff found a net gain of 700 riders in that region.
Director Sisk noted that he wanted to be clear with the Board regarding the
importance of the NAMS continuing. He believes our staff and consultants
are doing a great job. He reiterated that it is important that RTD continues
working through the process. Director Sisk shared that the money spent on
NAMS is really validated and gives the Board and staff a chance to better
understand what really needs to occur, and in what manner, in the
Northwest area.
Director Hoy shared that he had read a study that indicated about half the
Longmont residents work in Longmont, a quarter of the residents work in
the Boulder area, and the remaining quarter work in Denver. Director Hoy
noted that Bruce Abel’s group is able to show that people move from point
A to point B, showing what Mr. Abel refers to as a traffic pattern of people
movement. Director Hoy wondered if the 50% Longmont, 25% Boulder,
25% Denver numbers are considered in terms of people movement. He
commented that it seems like an alignment through Boulder would cover the
Longmont – Boulder – Denver travel pattern whereas, an alignment which

Packet Pg. 44

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Walker noted that some of the jurisdictions had problems with the
initial ridership numbers. He wondered if we knew what had been pointed
out as errors.

6.C

would extend through the North Metro area would skip Boulder. He
wondered if people movement is considered as part of the study.

Director Walker inquired as to whether or not there were any big surprises or
changes in the data from the original plan. Mr. Quinn shared that he knew
there was some significant changes in the assumptions over the last ten
years, but did not have the data readily available.

D. Other Matters
General Manager Washington stated that the Board has probably seen the video of
the beating that occurred at 30th and Downing. He advised the Board that staff is
working with Denver police on the matter. General Manager Washington reported
that RTD has cameras at all of its light rail stations; the video being showed on the
news is actually RTD’s video which was turned over to Denver Police. Staff will
continue working with the Denver Police on this investigation.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 5, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 8:34 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 45

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 8, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Quinn shared that in previous analysis performed during the Northwest
Environmental Evaluation, the model showed that the passengers getting on
in Longmont were not necessarily going to Denver, but were also going to
Boulder and some of the employment centers along US 36. Staff hasn’t
performed any current analysis to know if that data is still true, but he
expects that the travel patterns have not changed.

6.D

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit
Tuesday, October 15, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:28 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

4:54 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Remote

5:31 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:08 PM
5:26 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Vice Chair
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:30 PM
5:23 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:30 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:10 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:24 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:32 PM

Packet Pg. 46

6.D

Director, District F
Chair

Present
Present

5:15 PM
5:20 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Martha Bembry, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Susan
Cohen, Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Heather Ellerbrock, Eric
Farrington, David Genova, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey,
Terry Howerter, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Judy
McMurphy, Don Merritt, Alice Osner, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff,
Scott Reed, Susan Sandoval, Jannette Scarpino, Cal Shankster,
Cherie Sprague, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Judy Vialpando, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Dawn Bembry, Dylan Grabonski, Doug Gragg, Stan Gronek, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Bob Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• Approval of Contactless Card Contract for SmartCard
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to execute a contract with Giesecke & Devrient to
provide contactless smart cards (Contract 13DH023). This award is for a
three-year contract followed by two one-year options. The award amount is
not-to-exceed two million dollars ($2,000,000.00).
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the October
29th, 2013 Board Meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter, Assistant General Manager of Finance and
Administration, explained that this is a request to purchase the
SmartCard media to be used in RTD’s various fare programs
over the next five years.
Sue Sandoval, Accounting Manager, stated that this is a major
part of the SmartCard program. The cards are currently being
utilized for the EcoPasses and CollegePasses as part of Phase
I. In Phase II it will be expanded to include all media. She
said that an RFP was issued on July 15th, 2013. Sue
Sandoval explained that Giesecke & Devrient was selected out
of five firms that submitted proposals. Giesecke & Devrient’s
proposal demonstrated a strong and experienced team in the
transportation industry. She noted they also had high

Packet Pg. 47

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

6.D

recommendations from the Massachusetts Bay Transportation
Authority. She informed the Board that the average cost per
card would be $1.05 and have a useful life of 5 years.

Director Solano wondered if you had to touch the card to
anything to get it to register a trip. Terry Howerter stated that
these will be like the current Eco and CollegePasses that you
tap on the validators. General Manager Washington stated
that you do not need to touch the cards to the validators, just
get them in close proximity.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• 2014 Salaried Benefit Plans
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the 2014 Plan Year Salaried Insured Benefits
Budget and authorize the CEO/General Manager to enter into an agreement
with the Insurance Carriers.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion
to move this item to the full Board at the
October 29th, 2013 Board Meeting.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Cherie Sprague, Human Resource Manager, explained that
annually staff brings the proposal for the benefit plan to the
Board for approval. She stated that staff’s goal are to 1)
achieve the 2014 budget, 2) continued focus on containing
cost, 3) maintain market competitiveness and emphasis on
improving health and wellness consumerism, and 4) insure
compliance with PPACA – Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act.

Packet Pg. 48

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Hoy asked for clarification if this was just for the card
itself or if it included any processing. Terry Howerter
explained that it was just for the plastic card and storage that
is inside the card; RTD staff does all the processing.

Cherie Sprague shared that RTD offers two health insurance
vendors. With Cigna there are two plans offered: PPO
(Preferred Provider Organization) and HDHP (High Deductible
Health Plan). These are self-funded plans with a $150
thousand individual stop-loss limit. She noted that the
administrative cost will increase by 0.1% in 2014 for these
plans and there are approximately 460 employees enrolled.
Cherie Sprague shared that the other provider is Kaiser. With
Kaiser there are three plans offered: HMO (Health Maintenance
Organization), DHMO (HMO Plan with deductibles), and HDHP
(High Deductible Health Plan). She explained that these are
fully insured plans that have approximately 200 employees
enrolled. She noted there is a proposed 3.5% blended
increase in 2014.
Cherie Sprague stated that dental insurance will be through
Delta Dental. This is a self-funded plan with a projected 5%
increase in expected claims exposure. She did point out that
there is an increase of 12.5% for the life insurance rates while
the rates for Short Term Disability, Long Term Disability,
Accidental Death and Dismemberment, and Voluntary
Insurance products have no increase in premium rates. She
shared that vision insurance will remain through Anthem Blue
Cross – Blue Shield and there will be no increase as the rate is
guaranteed until 2015.
Cherie Sprague explained that the total projection is a 2.9%
increase overall in benefit costs over 2013. She
Director Solano wondered if the rates increase would be paid
for by the employee or RTD. Cherie Sprague stated that
because RTD has had 5 years of salary freezes the
recommendation of staff is to continue to hold cost sharing at
the current level. There will be no increase to the employees
and RTD will pick up the difference.
Director Sisk congratulated staff for the minimal cost increase.
He asked what RTD does when an employee has benefits
through a spouse. Director Sisk also asked what each
employee receives in life insurance and if this will go out to a
competitive bid as it was the largest increase. Cherie Sprague
explained that RTD has an opt-out provision for those
employees who are able to provide proof of other insurance;
they are then eligible to receive a $150 per month stipend.
She stated that life insurance is fully provided by RTD and pay
Packet Pg. 49

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.D

6.D

Director Menten asked how the new healthcare legislation was
affecting RTD. She wondered if as a government entity we
were exempt from some of the new regulations. Cherie
Sprague stated that RTD is not exempt from the Affordable
are Act. She shared that staff has been proactive in ensuring
RTD is fully compliant; all our plans meet the minimum
standards for funding as well as benefit provisions of the act.
Cherie Sprague explained that RTD already offers benefits to
our part-time workers so we also meet the requirements for
part-time workers as part of the Act.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Vice Chair
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors accepts the modifications to the 2014 Fiscal
Policy Statement.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the October
29th, 2013 Board Meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter noted that there was a red-lined copy of the
Fiscal Policy in the October 15th, 2013 Operations and
Customer Service Committee Packet.
Director Menten wondered when the Board began including
the annual review of fare increases. She believed this had
been put in place several years ago. Director Menten
expressed concern in the amount of time it would take for the
Board to conduct an annual review of fare. Terry Howerter

Packet Pg. 50

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

1.5 times the employee’s annual salary. She said that RTD did
do a Request for Proposal (RFP) this year and found that
retaining our insurance through Lincoln National made the
most sense from a cost perspective.

6.D

Director Solano wondered why the statement regarding
expenditures for Denver Unions Station (DUS) was removed
from the fund balance policies section. Marla Lien, General
Counsel, stated that after RTD acquired DUS, we entered into
an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with CDOT, DRCOG,
and the City and County of Denver. RTD was paying all the
operating costs but other entities wanted us to be accountable
for the revenue and know that it was dedicated to the
redevelopment of DUS. She explained that DUS is fully
funded so the statement is moot.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED.

• Certification of the 2014 Contribution for the RTD Salaried Employees'
Retirement Plans
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to RTD’s Salaried
Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a
specified monthly benefit at retirement, at the actuarial recommended
amount of $3.1 million. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of
Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to the Salaried Employees’ Defined
Contribution Plan Trust (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified
amount to the plan for each year of employment, at a rate of 9% of each
participant’s eligible compensation.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the October 29th
Board Meeting.

Packet Pg. 51

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

stated that in 2008-2009 there was a period of time where in
order to balance the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) there were
two years in a row when the Board had to increase fares. He
explained that the goal was to clarify that staff would plan
fare adjustments every 3 years but the Board has the option to
consider potential fare adjustments every year. Terry
Howerter said that the fare review has always been in the
Fiscal Policy and happens as part of the SBP process.

6.D

Discussion:

Terry Howerter stated that the Defined Benefit Pension Trust
(DB Plan) was closed in 2007; new employees now go into
the Defined Contribution Plan Trust (DC Plan). He explained
that in 2013 the Board set the contribution for the DB Plan at
a fixed annual amount of $3.1 million as recommended by the
actuaries. That contribution should fund the plan through the
exit of the last employee in the plan. He noted that staff was
requesting the same contribution for 2014. Terry Howerter
said that the DC Plan contribution rate has been set at 9%
since it first began; it was equal to the DB Plan contribution at
that time. He stated that the recommendation is 9% for the
DC Plan for 2014.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• 2014 Budget Update
Jannette Scarpino, Budget and Financial Analysis Manager, reviewed a
Power Point presentation with the Board that is available in the October 15th,
2013 Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda packet.
Director Folska wondered if when finished FasTracks projects begin
operations, like the West Line, they are included in Base operations going
forward. Jannette Scarpino stated that staff reports on the West Line
operations separately; it is budgeted for separately, costs are allocated
separately, etc. She explained that the budget includes the Base System,
FasTracks Construction and FasTracks Operations.
Director Tobiassen asked for a breakdown of the $11 million budget for
Denver Union Station Operations. He also noticed a cap of 400K and
wondered why this was removed. Jannette Scarpino stated that she would
provide the breakdown. Terry Howerter explained that the $11 million
budget was from the sale of Lot A; the proceeds were used to fund DUS
along with $1 million from Base sales tax. He said that there is $10 million
anticipated form the sale of Lot B in 2014.

Packet Pg. 52

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

6.D

Director Sisk said that he too spent time with Jannette Scarpino and it was
very helpful. He noted that he looks forward to seeing a list of projects that
are carried forward when it is available. Director Sisk expressed concern
that we are budgeting for projects and then not getting them finished. He
commended staff for the rainy day fund. Jannette Scarpino stated that a list
of projects would be presented to the Board when staff brought the budget
for approval in November.
Director Hoy stated that he does not believe the sales tax forecast accounts
for the potential to work with the State of Colorado on sales tax audits. He
wondered if it did include the new goods RTD can now tax. Janette
Scarpino stated that Director Hoy was correct. It did not include the audits
but did take into account the sales tax parity.
Director Folska commented that she agrees with Director Bagley. The
budget is very complicated and a huge piece of information to review and
understand. She noted that MBAs and business degrees really do not teach
finance. She thanked Jannette Scarpino for her time meeting with her.
Director Folska stated that many of our projects happen in spurts and fits
because of how the Federal Government gives RTD funding. She believes
that is what makes it very difficult to understand the budget. Jannette
Scarpino stated that is correct; that is why staff delays capital carry forward
to the end of the year because they want to be as accurate as possible.
Director Bagley asked if the full amount of a project is put into the budget
when it is started. Jannette Scarpino stated that the full amount for that
year is included in the budget, not the entire cost of the project. Terry
Howerter highlighted that staff makes sure we have the funds available
before they ever ask the Board to contract for something. He stated that
staff does not want to begin a project they cannot completed.
General Manager Washington stated that the strategic objectives that the
Board and staff agreed on at the retreat in March drive the 2014 budget;
those strategic goals are reflective of the 2014 budget going forward.
Packet Pg. 53

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Bagley shared with the Board that he had a 45 minute tutorial with
Jannette Scarpino. He thought it was very helpful for him to understand the
budget more thoroughly. He suggested that every member of the Board
take Jannette Scarpino up on her offer to meet. Director Bagley feels that it
is very helpful from the perspective of terminology. He noted that most of
the Board members, including himself, do not have degrees in finance. He
stated that the Board members are stewards of RTD’s assets so the budget
is one of the most critical items the Board approves. Director Bagley
thanked Jannette Scarpino for her time.

6.D

General Manager Washington pointed out that in 2009 there was a 10%
drop in sales tax. He noted that this is what lead to RTD not being able to
get as much done on FasTracks as was first projected. General Manager
Washington stated that even though we have had some good figures since
that time it is very difficult to recoup that kind of a loss.

Terry Howerter noted that everything on the dashboard is green. Year-todate ridership is up 1.0%, fare revenue is up 4.9% and Sales and Use Tax is
up 3.8%. He explained that the fare revenue increase is still being attributed
to the change in media for the federal agencies that moved out of the
EcoPass program to the FlexPass. He said that the primary drivers to Sales
and Use Tax are new car sales, car parts and repair, full service restaurants
and electronic sales. Terry Howerter stated that bus service was down
445K, West Line ridership is at 1.412 million, and other light rail ridership is
down 442K.
Terry Howerter commented that when you look at the actual Sales and Use
Tax for August it shows an increase over the prior year of $2.268 million or
5.9%. He pointed out that staff tries to take the actuals and tie them into
the CU-Leeds forecast. Terry Howerter explained that in order to meet the
Leeds forecast of 5.8% year-to-date RTD has to have pretty good months of
about 9.5% increases over 2012. He stated that he is cautiously optimistic
but he hopes to see the revenues come in at those levels.
General Manager Washington stated that cautious optimism is the theme of
RTD. He said that staff is studying what impacts will come out of the flood
as well. General Manager Washington noted that there will be a lot of
purchasing of materials to rebuild so staff is monitoring that to see the
impact it has on the Sales Tax revenue.
Director Folska asked where the 1% increase in riders was coming from.
She wondered if this was riders moving from but to light rail or actual new
riders. Terry Howerter stated that it is new ridership. He said that while
bus and light rail outside of the West line are down, overall the West line is
up so there is a growth factor.

D. Other Matters
Chair Anderson shared that she attended the US 36 Uptown Avenue Ribbon
Cutting Ceremony. Director Lubow gave remarks on behalf of RTD and Directors
Sisk and Lasater were in attendance. She stated that this bridge has taken over 20
years to get done so she was very excited. Chair Anderson said that she also
attended the East Corridor Open House along with Director Walker and former

Packet Pg. 54

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• August 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report

6.D

Director McMullen. She stated that this was really a fun event with over 400
people attending.

Committee Chair Walker commented that the East Corridor Open House was a
fantastic event. He said the residents were very engaged and asked great, well
thought-out questions. He hopes to see a lot more of these types of events.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 19, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 6:39 p.m. to the Operations and
Customer Service Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 55

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Bagley noted that he called-in to the October 8th, 2013 FasTracks
Monitoring and Planning and Development Committee meetings. He shared that he
thought the system worked very well. Director Bagley also reminded the Board
that the 3rd quarter General Manager survey was sent to them on October 14th,
2013. He said that the survey will be open until October 28th, 2013. Director
Bagley expects that all members of the Board respond and complete the survey.
The General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee will
review the results in November.

6.E

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, October 15, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 6:45 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
6:45 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:45 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Remote

6:45 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:42 PM
6:45 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:42 PM
6:44 PM
6:45 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:45 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

6:45 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:44 PM

Paul Solano

Vice Chair

Present

6:46 PM

Packet Pg. 56

6.E

Committee Chair
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:42 PM
6:42 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Martha Bembry, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Susan
Cohen, Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Heather Ellerbrock, Eric
Farrington, David Genova, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey,
Terry Howerter, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Judy
McMurphy, Don Merritt, Alice Osner, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff,
Scott Reed, Susan Sandoval, Jannette Scarpino, Cal Shankster,
Cherie Sprague, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Judy Vialpando, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Dawn Bembry, Dylan Grabonski, Doug Gragg, Stan Gronek, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Bob Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• January 2014 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the January 2014 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost
increase of approximately $635,500 and, further, to authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for
private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 29th, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel commented that staff took a series of
recommended service changes out to public comment, as we
always do during the service change process. Staff continues
to conduct analysis and use the public comment process to
seek input and to get their perspective of the recommended
changes. As a result of that process, Mr. Abel stated that he
came back tonight with a recommended set of changes that
resulted from staff’s continued analysis, as well as
modifications and or additions that resulted from the public
input process.
Mr. Abel reminded the Board, as discussed last month, that
staff has begun a new process and has included a read-ahead
in the Board packet. Next May, bus operations will be moving

Packet Pg. 57

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

6.E

Mr. Abel stated that staff will begin seeking public comment
on the DUS changes starting as early as November but they
still have a fair amount of work to do. It may seem like a
small project because all we’re going to do is move our
operation from Market to DUS, but there are a significant
number of activities that need to occur for that transition to
take place. Many of these activities take place within the
service planning arena where a number of our routes and
schedules need to be adapted to the change in facility.
Mr. Abel stated that Jessie Carter would talk about the
changes that have taken place since the initial
recommendations. He noted that copies of two different
letters were distributed to the Board that relate to the 29th and
Welton Street Station and the recommendation for a
permanent closure of that station. These letters are also
available in the October 15th, 2013 Operations and Customer
Service Committee Agenda Packet. This station was closed
on a temporary basis to assess the impacts of on-time
performance of the temporary closure of that station. As
Jessie will point out, the final recommendation is to move
forward with the permanent closure of the 29th and Welton
Station.
Mr. Abel stated that the distributed letters represent
institutional stakeholders in the area that staff wanted to share
with the Board. One letter is recognition of the improvements
in our on-time performance, which is what staff was seeking,
with a comment regarding their hope that RTD will not allow
the station to fall into disrepair. In the second letter, the
stakeholders acknowledge the improvements in on-time
performance; however, they take a slightly different
perspective and say that the improvements are not enough.
Jessie Carter greeted the Board and noted that he represents
the service development department. He stated that the
January 2014 service change proposal represents about a
$635,000 dollar service increase. The recommended changes
are primarily aimed at improving the quality of our service,
addressing overloads, on-time performance, etc. Staff also has

Packet Pg. 58

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

to the new Denver Union Station (DUS) bus concourse. Mr.
Abel stated that staff likes to look ahead, not just at the
current set of changes.

6.E

Mr. Carter shared that staff held 8 public hearings. Several
Board members attended hearings, as well as a number of
staff, plus 76 public participants. Staff received really good
input and because of that, they made several changes to the
proposal that was brought forth in September. Those
recommended changes include an additional trip on Route 86
to address on-time performance and overloads and cancelling
the proposal to move the 6:10 p.m. trip. Staff is also adding
trips on the 120X and making some running time adjustments
to Route 225.
Also, as part of the public hearing process and further
analysis, the Route 410 proposal was altered so that there will
be additional trips , but service will not be curtailed between
the Pinery and Parker Park-n-Ride. With Route P, staff is
proposing to add an additional trip on to it at around 3:15 p.m.
Also added to the list was additional service to the Longmont
call-n-ride, which is probably the largest service addition, at a
cost of about $55,000 thousand per year annualized.
Mr. Carter mentioned that he wanted to comment on the
letters that Mr. Abel previously mentioned.
He noted the letter RTD received from the Five Points Business
Administration actually characterized their disapproval of the
proposal to close 29th and Welton. The reasons that they
cited mainly centered on the impacts or perceived impacts to
property owners in the area; the letter doesn’t speak about the
customers but instead on the perceived impacts to property
values and the amount of foot traffic in the area. He stated
that the letter RTD received from Curtis Park Neighbors, which
is a neighborhood association that actually has some folks
who use the service on a regular basis, recognized the fact
that service had improved in terms of on-time performance
and reliability, but they are looking for continued efforts
toward making improvements even better in the future and
this is something staff agrees with as well. However, Curtis
Park Neighbors also noted the recent occurrence of violence at
30th and Downing and tied that to options that may be
available for the 29th avenue station, which is something that
is difficult to address from a staff perspective.

Packet Pg. 59

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

several service decreases, the largest of which is the
permanent closure of 29th & Welton Station.

6.E

Director Deadwyler shared that she is very disturbed at what
has gone on at the 30th and Downing station. She stated that
the business community is really concerned about the closing,
especially with the recent violence. Director Deadwyler
mentioned that she has asked Jessie Carter to organize
another meeting. She noted that there is some confusion in
terms of mixed messages regarding the 29th Street station.
Some members of the business community are stating that
there is a possibility the station would re-open; others want
everything out if RTD is going to close the station after the
studies have concluded. Director Deadwyler wants RTD to go
down and talk with the business community to ensure
everyone is on the same page.
Director Deadwyler advised that she received another letter
today that was opened as a General Manager Request so it
could be responded to formally. She continued that the two
letters presented earlier are not the only letters that are out
there that are opposing RTD’s closing of the 29th & Downing
station.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked General Manager
Washington if there would be any comment on the security
matters later in the meeting. General Manager Washington
confirmed that there would be an update.
Bruce Abel wanted to add to Director Deadwyler’s comments
related to the infrastructure; in the Board report, staff did
indicate the physical infrastructure would not be removed at
this time but this does not mean a potential reopening of the
station. It is based on a request made by the people involved
in the Central Corridor/Welton Streetcar study; there may be
some other use for this infrastructure, pending the outcome of
the study. Therefore a request was made of RTD to keep the
infrastructure in place, rather than take it out to find that in a
year, the result of the study indicate that infrastructure is
needed.
Director Deadwyler thanked Mr. Abel for his presentation. She
stated that this is why she thinks that it is really important to
sit down and have more conversation with the business
community as they are very concerned about commuters
riding through that area. They are trying to attract tourism
Packet Pg. 60

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Abel opened the conversation for questions.

6.E

Mr. Abel noted that staff agrees that a) there needs to be
additional conversations with the business community
members so they better understand the intentions regarding
the station and b) staff also understands the need to maintain
the facility during the closure.
Jessie Carter reiterated that he will be scheduling a meeting
with the Five Points Business district as mentioned previously.
Director Lasater noted that in staff’s original proposal, they
talked about a reduction of service on the 410 route, but the
domino effect is something that he guessed staff discovered
as part of the public hearing process. While the 410 riders
themselves may not be the numbers staff wants to see, the
number of access-a-Ride riders was a real eye opener. It’s
amazing how many people in this area are highly dependent on
access-a-Ride to get into Parker for physical therapy, doctor’s
appointments, etc. He stated that a reduction of the service
would have caused huge issues.
Director Lasater shared that he was glad staff listened to the
riders. There was a meeting in Parker and there was a lot of
concern expressed about how to get home from the campuses
during mid-day. The kids were kind of stranded; they couldn’t
get home because it was commuter hours only. With the
increase of day time hours, it has helped to alleviate some of
these issues. Director Lasater wanted to encourage our PI
department to work with the town of Parker to alert every one
of the increased service in January.
Director Lasater commented that regarding the added P line
service first thing in the afternoon, while everyone thinks that
added service is fantastic, there is huge concern about getting
to Civic Center by 3:15 pm. Director Lasater noted that he’s
had people say that traditionally, they are getting to Civic
Center about 3:20 or 3:25 p.m. He wondered if the trip time
could be moved 5 – 10 minutes to allow that extra time.
Packet Pg. 61

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

down there and they really thought the 29th station would be
valuable to them. In terms of leaving the infrastructure, they
want it cleaned and maintained; the station has to be taken
care of so that it does not fall into a state of disrepair.
Director Deadwyler stated that the business community have
also communicated that they do not want the station empty
for years.

6.E

Jessie Carter stated that as far as the 3:15 p.m. time is
concerned, this bus will actually make the first trip out of Civic
Center and then go back and make a last trip coming out of
Civic Center around 6:00 p.m. With the amount of time that is
necessary to make that full round trip, staff thinks it best to
leave the current trip time at 3:15 p.m. to allow for reliable
service. He said that if staff finds that the schedule can be
adjusted they will consider it at that time.
Director Menten commented that she spoke with Robert
Ryerson and he mentioned that staff was working on Route
21. She noted that in the Board packet it states an additional
cost of $25,900. Director Menten shared that she thought
there was an anticipated savings associated with the rerouting
planned for Route 21, so she wondered if it was correct to say
that we have a little savings on the Green Mountain run but
additional costs because of the trip that staff has added into
the schedule.
Jessie Carter noted that in actuality, when staff further
analyzed Route 21, it was determined that there was no
savings with the rerouting; additional costs are due to the
additional trip.
Director Menten inquired if the additional costs were because
of Green Mountain schedule change.
Jessie Carted advised that initially, the route had a negative
number. There is no negative number now; it’s a zero.
Director Daly commented that the Board had recently changed
its policy about the process for service changes; this was the
first time having staff go to the public for feedback on route
changes before having Board approval. He wondered if staff
felt like this change was working.
Jessie Carter felt that from a process standpoint, as far as
getting information out to the public, the change was a huge

Packet Pg. 62

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Potentially, this may just be related to people getting into a
new habit; however, Director Lasater asked that staff please
keep this in mind and monitor the route to see if there are
people sitting there at 3:20 p.m. that just missed the ride now
will have to sit around for 25 minutes waiting for the next bus.

6.E

Director Lubow shared that she wanted to thank the staff for
recommending adding a Longmont call-n-Ride vehicle to handle
the overflow in that area. She felt staff should be commended
because they have been having ad-hoc informal meetings in
Longmont regarding this issue for some time. A number of
staff including Jeff Becker and Brian Matthews have been kind
enough to take part in these meetings which have been very
fruitful and frank, addressing the drop in ridership that
happened in Longmont about 10 years ago that has never
been corrected. Director Lubow noted that one of the current
suggestions came out of one of those meetings, and that staff
are being very positive and proactive. Director Lubow further
stated that when this route change request passes, if it
passes, staff should coordinate having a lot of PR around the
change because this is a very positive outcome in an area
where we have had a lot of public dissatisfaction over the
constant cutting of service. Director Lubow intends to work in
conjunction with staff to stir up some PR.
Director Hoy questioned if staff increased a 120X trip in to
town back in August. Jessie Carter confirmed that an
additional 120X trip was added back in August.
Director Hoy assumed that now we had to balance that out
with a return trip.
Jessie Carter confirmed this was the case. He stated that
when you look at the 120X route, you are looking at one of
our best express routes. It carries quite a few boardings and
when you look at going into fall, you get more and more
students riding and people jostling around their trips. One of
the things staff will have to be careful with in May is looking
at both the 120X and 122X in concert because when we
move to DUS that may have subsequent impact on both of
these routes.
Director Hoy wanted to make a comment on a couple of
routes. He has been talking with staff and learned that it
turns out if you check the 120 schedule and compare it to the
120X schedule, the 120 departs Wagon Road either 0, 1, 2, 3
or 4 minutes before the 120X shows up. Director Hoy voiced
his long running concern about low ridership on the 120 route.
Packet Pg. 63

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

improvement. He thanked all the Directors for voting to
support the new service change process.

6.E

He wondered if Route 120 was delayed just a few minutes, if
that might help increase ridership.

Director Bagley stated that his comments relate to 29th Street
station. It was his understanding that there is a cascade
effect through all the light rail trains that go along Welton.
That impact is from the 4 car trains and also maybe because
of signal progression downtown. He noted that at the end of
the line is it makes the trains run late 3-4 minutes sometimes.
He asked Jessie Carter to confirm this is correct.
Jessie Carter reported that this was part of the issue, but that
the biggest part of the issue is that it is a single track corridor.
Two trains can’t occupy the same space in opposite directions
at the same time. There is a limitation to the level of
frequency that can be provided on that single track section.
Staff has been warring with this issue since 1994, trying to
determine where the sweet spot is in terms of understanding
how much service RTD can put in the corridor. The only way
to improve on-time performance and reliability is by reducing
the amount of time that the trains spend in the single track
section.
Mr. Carter shared that when staff first looked at on-time
performance, we were stopping 34% of the time at Park
Avenue. After staff made that one change, the number then
reduced down to 17%. Staff believes that can be improved
on that even further by working with the City of Denver to
improve a new system that they put in place for us, which is a
signal system that has an RFID type tag. We are asking the
City of Denver signal group to look at that and improve the
reliability.
Mr. Carter noted that Director Bagley is correct. A delay of 34 minutes has an impact throughout the system; however,
there isn’t any part of light rail where if something runs late it
doesn’t have a downstream effect. What staff usually
expects to see and wants for our light rail is to see routes
performing at 91% or greater with on time performance.
When you have a corridor that is performing below 60
percent, staff has to do something in order to provide a better
service to that community.
Packet Pg. 64

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Jessie Carter acknowledged Director Hoy’s comments on the
120/120X route suggestions.

6.E

Chair Anderson stated that she felt her comments might be
too late to impact January 2014 service changes, but she
hoped staff got her email regarding the 52 route and the large
complex on Carr Street that’s located just a few blocks down.
Chair Anderson noted that she wanted to leave the issue in
staff’s hands and hope they can come up with a good solution
down the road.
Bruce Abel advised Chair Anderson that staff would not be
able to incorporate changes on the 52 route into the January
service changes but confirmed staff did receive Chair
Anderson’s email and will review her suggestion as part of the
May changes.
Director Sisk noted that everyone is well aware of the
situation in Lyons and that any schedule changes for that area
would be meaningless right now. Director Sisk shared that
staff did a great job of getting Nederland up and running, but
that Lyons is a different story. Director Sisk wondered how
we address the transit needs right now for the people in
Lyons.
Bruce Abel responded that as previously discussed with the
Board, as a result of the flooding, staff did work with
Nederland to provide service through the back door. RTD was
able to get that service up about a week after the flood. Staff
worked with the Colorado Highway Patrol (CHP) for a limited
time; there was a partial opening of Highway 119 between
Boulder and Nederland. There is full service in Nederland now
that Highway 119 has reopened. Staff is in constant contact
with the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) and
CHP as it relates to the City of Lyons. The last update staff
received is that there is still a considerable amount of work
that remains to be done. There is an expectation of
somewhere between November 1 and November 9 where it is
believed we can resume some service to Lyons; if CDOT and

Packet Pg. 65

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Bruce Abel wanted to further reinforce Jessie Carter’s
comments regarding service having cascading impacts. Not
only is the performance in the Welton Corridor improving, but
our system is so tied together that when we improve service
on the Welton Corridor, we are improving service throughout
the system.

6.E

CHP are able to move up their timeline, we can then move up
our current timeline.

General Manager Washington noted that staff will speak
directly with Lyons, just like they did with the Nederland
Mayor; however, there are still a number of things that need
to be coordinated with CDOT and CHP and these efforts will
be done simultaneously
Director Menten wanted to point out something that needed to
be corrected for the record. Under attachment B, page 1, the
Civic Center public hearing held on the 19th was held at 12:00
p.m., not 6:00 p.m.
Chair Anderson commented that she wanted to thank Bruce
Abel for working with Jefferson County commissioners on
getting van pooling for the Coal Creek Canyon area. She
asked for an update on the status.
Bruce Abel noted that the contact has been made and
conversations have begun but there was no update since last
Friday.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

Packet Pg. 66

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Sisk noted that he really appreciated staff’s reaction
to getting Nederland service back in place. Director Sisk knew
that Bruce Abel took a personal interest in the situation. With
that being said, Director Sisk shared that he would really like
staff to not use CDOT or CHP to talk with Lyons; he
encouraged that staff should talk directly with Lyons and find
out how we can help them. Being proactive for Lyons is an
opportunity for RTD to do the right thing.

6.E

• Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that
free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military
should be extended from the presently approved date of December 31, 2013
to December 31, 2014. Utilization has been minimal to date and this
extension will have minimal impact on RTD.
Director Sisk made the motion to move this item
to the full Board at the October 29th, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Lubow Seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Scott Reed explained that since 2006, the Board of Directors
have extended a provision of service to the active members of
the military that are in uniform or can present a valid military
ID allowing them to ride any RTD service free of charge. Staff
is recommending extending this service through 2014 with no
changes. Director Walker noted that a while back he had a
question from a gentleman who inquired about free fares for
retired military personnel. Director Walker wondered if that is
being considered now and if it was to be a part of the policy
the Board is voting on tonight.
Scott Reed replied that the free ride passes are a benefit for
active military personnel only.
General Manager Washington stated that RTD has thought
about providing this service to the retired military personnel.
However, with the numbers of retirees in the metro region, it
would make this action cost prohibitive because the numbers
are so great. General Manager Washington further
commented that the active duty provision that staff have in
place now is consistent throughout the transit community in
providing the active duty with the free rides.
Committee Chair Tobiassen commented that he works out at
Buckley Air Force base and he often hears feedback from the
active military, particularly the National Guard. The free ride
pass is a great benefit in their lives which they really
appreciate. Committee Chair Tobiassen expects that we will
hear from some of the active duty members at a future Board
meeting.

Packet Pg. 67

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Motion:

6.E

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 0]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Judy Lubow, Director, District I
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
AWAY:
Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates
(CAD/AVL) Project Status Update
Bruce Abel commented that he anticipated that this will be the last update
on the CAD/AVL project because it is now up and running. He introduced
Eric Farrington, Program Manager, to review the update.
Eric Farrington greeted the Board and reiterated what Bruce Abel stated;
staff is wrapping things up for the major activities. There are still a lot of
small activities and some fine tuning to do, but in terms of macro events,
staff is pretty much done. Staff has put in a state of the art, reliable and
sustainable system. The system includes the following: (a) a public safety
voice radio system that we are sharing with other agencies throughout the
metro area, (b) a data radio system that is separate that provides
redundancy and reliability, (c) a foundation for future real time passenger
information, and (d) automatic stop announcements. Eric Farrington stated
that RTD met our FCC mandates for the new system so staff is in pretty
good shape on this.
Director Hoy shared that he likes the automatic stop announcements; he
noticed them right away. He wondered if drivers might be able to adjust the
volume of the announcements because it sometimes gets noisy on the
buses. Director Hoy also noted that the announcements currently seem
louder than when they were originally implemented. Mr. Farrington replied
that staff is still working on the fine tuning of the entire fleet.
Director Menten wondered what type of complaints staff has had from
neighbors or residents regarding the outside bus stop announcements. Mr.
Farrington responded that there have been some complaints about external
announcements; staff is pushing out a change that should go into effect this
coming Saturday that has the nighttime announcements’ volume two levels
lower than the daytime announcements’ volume. There is automatic control
for when an announcement is being made in a noisy area that the
announcement will go up relative to the external noise. This should reduce

Packet Pg. 68

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location

6.E

Director Walker shared that he rides the 0 just about every day and there are
three different types of pavement on that route: asphalt, concrete and BAD.
Sometimes the pavement can impact the announcement. Director Walker
has spoken with a few of the drivers and they’ve had mixed reactions from
the passengers about the interruption of quiet time, loudness, etc. Some of
the drivers have shut the announcements off and just use their microphones.
Director Walker noted that the announcement volume seems to be a big
enough problem on some of the routes that switching off the
announcements may be warranted. Mr. Abel responded that Alice Osner is
attending to this issue.
Director Daly inquired if the drivers activate the announcements or if they
come on automatically. Bruce Abel replied that the announcements are
automatic, and drivers are not supposed to interfere with the
announcements. Director Daly wondered if the announcements could be
turned off if there is no one boarding. Bruce Abel stated that there are
internal and external announcements. The external announcement only goes
off if the door is opened. If there is no one to board, the driver would not
open the door, so the external announcement would not occur.
General Manager Washington shared that when a driver signs in, during his
first time pulling out of the garage, he interacts with the system by signing
on, which kicks off the automatic announcement for that route. There is a
degree of driver interaction with the announcement system which occurs
when they sign on in the garage and are pulling out.
Mr. Farrington stated that each bus contains all the announcements of all
the routes. When a driver signs on, this action indicates which
announcements are appropriate for that particular bus route.
Committee Chair Tobiassen commented that he has heard from his friends in
the disabled community and these announcements are something they have
been pushing for a very long time. The feedback he has received has been
very positive.

• Smart Card Project Status Update
Bruce Abel introduced Judy McMurphy, Program Manager. Ms. McMurphy
informed the Board that she had some quick updates on the Smart Card
program. Staff is starting a series of testing. She reported that the first
round of testing is related to the retail point of sale (RPOS) systems which
first will be installed in RTD’s retail outlets. As staff develops our retail

Packet Pg. 69

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

the complaints, but as previously noted, staff is still fine tuning the system
throughout.

agreements with retailers such as Kings Soopers and Safeway, these same
devices will be deployed in those areas as well. Testing is scheduled to take
place on November 5th. Ms. McMurphy noted that staff had also talked
briefly about the bus stanchions being defective with the Board. The
stanchions sit inside the bus and hold the bus validators in place. The Board
Report that was submitted stated that 72% of the stanchion repairs have
been completed; however, as of this afternoon we are now at 97%
complete. Ms. McMurphy reported that the stanchions have passed a
quality test by our Treasury Department to make sure that the installations
are not going to break again. Staff has redirected some of the training for
our hand-held smart media readers that our fare inspectors use on the light
rail. Beginning next week, RTD is offering 5 classes to the street supervisors
to show them how to use the devices as well. Approximately 36 staff will
be trained, and this training will take place at District Shops. She noted that
some arrangements to include after-hours classes have been made.
Judy McMurphy noted that regarding fare inspections taking place, staff is
tracking metrics on a weekly basis. Staff sees on average a 10 percent
increase week over week in the number of inspections that are taking place
on light rail. These inspections are providing staff with a wealth of
information showing what our riders are doing. These metrics show areas
where we might be able to provide some additional communication on the
actual process of tapping when boarding the light rail. Staff is also tracking
the actual number of units that our fare inspectors are using on our trains.
We average 25-26 individual units where those inspectors are out inspecting
those cards to ensure that people who have the privilege to ride are the ones
that are on the trains.
Judy McMurphy noted that the web portal is currently used by our ride
sponsors and our businesses for EcoPasses and many of our colleges for the
CollegePasses. The requirements for those are in the hands of RTD’s
subject matter experts awaiting their approval. Once the requirements are
approved, staff will submit them to RTD’s vendors which will enable staff to
move those improvements forward.
Director Hoy had a question about college passes and maybe about Metro.
He noted we had some challenges with their passes at one point and
wondered if the problem resolved.
Judy McMurphy responded that staff continues to work on that particular
issue. She explained that RTD is deploying a different solution to the way
that the colleges are adding a new contract period on to the cards. Staff is
deploying that solution on 15,000 cards that are eligible to receive the
recharge. With the new process that will be tested over approximately the

Packet Pg. 70

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.E

6.E

next 3-4 days, we’re going to be able to probably see an increase with
speed in which those cards are getting their recharge.

Director Hoy shared an experience he had on the Rail where a college
student’s card would not work. The driver’s response to the failed card
was, “if it doesn’t work, you don’t get on” so the alleged student paid and
got on. Director Hoy asked if staff should expect there may be times when
a college student has a card that is supposed to be valid and yet will not
work. Judy McMurphy stated yes; there would be some times when that
would occur. However, with the checks and balances staff have in place
that they are monitoring, this should eliminate the problem. Staff
remediates that issue with training that is provided to the fare inspectors as
well. So, if they look at a card that is hot listed or a student has another
student’s card, the inspectors are able to identify who those individuals are
and can confiscate those cards.
Director Deadwyler commented that regarding the light rail platform
validators, it was her understanding that staff ordered additional validators
and were installing them this summer. She wonders if this has been
corrected.
Judy McMurphy confirmed that this work has not been completed but it is
underway.

• ADA Concerns Update
Bruce Abel informed the Board that a copy of the ADA update is included in
their Board packet. He commented that there have been previous
discussions with the Board regarding some of the challenges staff
experience relative to conflicts occurring over use of the priority seating
areas on our buses. Mr. Abel introduced Alice Osner - General
Superintendent of Transportation, Carolyn Conover - Senior Manager of
Contracted Services, and Don Merritt – Manager of RTD Bus Operator
Training to review the program and some of the steps that staff is taking to
address issues.
Alice Osner stated that staff began working on various items in August of
this year. This includes clarification of the priority seating area, with
communications placed in prominent areas so there would be no ambiguity.
Staff also sent out memos to all operators so that they know what to do

Packet Pg. 71

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

From an EcoPass standpoint, staff is taking what has been learned through
recharging our CollegePass cards and have created a different approach in
order to ensure that we don’t run into the same challenges that we did with
the college cards.

6.E

Staff also did an ADA refresher training program that is outlined in the
Drivers Operator Guide in the Board packet. Staff has completed training
837 people with144 people remaining to be trained.
Carolyn Conover reported that the private contractors received the same
training during their safety meetings last month so everyone at the
contractor facilities has also gone through the training.
Alice Osner shared that marketing staff created pocket cards for the
operators. This was part of the Share the Ride program where staff asked
the operators to hand these pocket brochures out to passengers with
suitcases, strollers, or other large items when they board the bus so that the
passengers will know that they may need to take whatever large items they
have, such as strollers or suitcases, and to move from the ADA area, if
needed.
Ms. Osner shared that staff also put these communications on the operator
bulletin board, which is an internal communication system with all drivers
including contractors, and in staff’s Instructor’s Newsletter, a joint project
with contracted service. The instructors meet weekly to review various
items of concerns, with ADA being one of the big ones.
Ms. Osner stated that staff implemented our Share the Ride campaign
approximately 2 years ago with our Denver Regional Mobility and Access
Council (DRMAC) transit accessibility task force. The group included RTD
employees as well as members from organizations that represent people
with disabilities including Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition (CCDC),
Colorado Center for the Blind, city governments and other organizations that
represent people for vocational opportunities. The idea is to get all people
on the bus to work together to share the ride. The Share the Ride Message
is contained on the interior of the buses. Staff will be doing additional
outreach with single moms asking for their assistance on this matter Staff is
working on implementing a tracking system to monitor complaints on these
Packet Pg. 72

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

when a person with a mobility device needs to board the bus and there are
other people in that area that may not move. Staff also put out
transportation bulletins and various service memos addressing how to deal
with the ADA issues as well as service animals and passenger aides, Staff
also installed a new button on the CAD/AVL radio system that is called the
ADA Pass Up button. This puts the call to Dispatch in a higher priority so if
the driver has a person in a mobility device that is unable to board, the driver
presses that button so that the call comes in at higher level of priority to
Dispatch. The button connects with the dispatchers and there is a program
to have the video pulled immediately so that it can be reviewed for training
disciplinary purposes.

6.E

Bruce Abel reported that RTD’s policy is that as per the ADA, we have an
area in the front of the bus with the fold up seats and the tie downs
designated as a priority seating area for people with disabilities. The
conflicts that he was referring to somehow took on the moniker of the
stroller policy, when in reality what staff are talking about is an increasing
number of conflicts between individuals with disabilities seeking access in
the areas that had been set aside for them and is being used by folks with
strollers and other large items who sought out that area because it can
accommodate those with large items. RTD policy is that this area is
designated for people with disabilities; others can use this area, but those
parties must be ready to move when disabled people need the area. The
conflicts that staff continues to run into is when there are folks who choose
not to move or when there are inconsistencies in the application of the
policy. These issues spurred the implementation of our renewed effort for
the priority seating area. Training is given to operators for communicating
with individuals, allowing people to use the area when vacant, but that they
must vacate when the area is needed for persons with disabilities.
General Manager Washington reminded the Board of a lawsuit regarding
ADA complaints. General Manager Washington further shared that there are
a number of our friends in the community who have been aware of RTD’s
efforts taking various ADA compliance actions; therefore, he was a little
surprised to hear about the lawsuit considering many of our ADA
stakeholders are engaged in the actions Mr. Abel just spoke about.
Marla Lien advised the Board that RTD had received a 70-page complaint
and has close to 4 weeks to respond. The complaint was filed by the
Colorado Cross Disability Coalition (CCDC); it names 3 individuals that
suffered, and they are claiming discrimination under existing policies. CCDC
alleges that it is aware of the enhanced efforts that RTD has made starting
last summer. The complaint is on behalf of persons that were either denied
boarding or had to wait for several trips to pass by before they were able to
board. The complaint seeks attorney fees and injunctive relief. The
complaint says that the policy is not adequate to protect the rights of
persons with mobility devices to have access to the system. Ms. Lien
reiterated that RTD has not yet filed an answer to the complaint.

Director Lubow commented that she was trying to get a handle on what
the concerns or complaints are about. She wondered if it was that
people in wheelchairs have to wait for service.

Packet Pg. 73

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

issues; the Telephone Information Center (TIC) has implemented a new
complaint code for priority seating area complaints so staff can see more of
the complaints from the community to better address their concerns.

Marla Lien indicated that the complaint is that the designated ADA area
is full; that people with large objects such as strollers and or shopping
carts are using the area, leaving no space for the disabled people;
disabled people can’t get into the designated area. Some of the people
say that drivers don’t ask people to move, some of them say that the
driver asks people to move but nothing happens, or that the driver won’t
open the lift and raise them. One does allege that the lift was opened for
them but they were suspended in the air for a while because people
wouldn’t move, but finally did move. The complaint alleges that action
didn’t occur soon enough. Otherwise, drivers have said at some stops
that they can’t pick the disabled parties up because the bus is full.
Director Lubow wondered how RTD’s policy of improvement will address
these allegations.
Marla Lien responded that the policy might address the issues to the
extent that better driver training or outreach may help with these issues,
but the complaint is stating that the current policies are not strong
enough.
Director Lubow noted the driver is supposed to ask people to move and
she inquired if the complaint alleges that our drivers are not asking
people to move.
General Manager Washington commented that the driver cannot
physically kick someone out of the area; staff can’t force people to
move.
General Manager Washington informed the Board that staff continuously
studies other agencies and looks to see how we can strengthen our
policy. A more stringent policy can come with its own issues as well.
Staff can come up against some serious driver/passenger disputes, where
there are all out fights. General Manager Washington noted that staff
will come back to the Board with how they respond to this complaint.
Director Lubow noted that the process seems very difficult.
Director Deadwyler wondered how many of our buses have an actual
belly that opens up where you can store large packages and strollers.
Bruce Abel replied that those are available on the inter-city coaches, but
in terms of urban transit vehicles, manufactures are making low floor
Packet Pg. 74

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.E

6.E

buses which actually encourage folks to board buses with additional
luggage, strollers, etc., because it is so much easier to board than it used
to be in the days of a lift.
General Manager Washington commented that in the 40 footers, where
most of these issues occur, we do not have racks or storage underneath.

Director Deadwyler wondered if the automated messages discussed
earlier include instruction on the use of the ADA areas, or if passengers
have large items, do RTD’s overhead announcements give these
passengers alternatives on where they can store their items.
Bruce Abel responded that this is really the focus and the purpose of the
training that has been implemented. The goal of the training is for drivers
to be able to communicate to people that if they have a stroller they will
need to be prepared to fold it up. Additionally, if you have large items
and are seated in the ADA area, be prepared to move upon request.
Director Folska noted that staff is doing an outstanding job, and that she
is personally very disappointed that RTD is faced with a lawsuit. Director
Folska appreciates the frustration that staff is facing with the lawsuit.
She has worked with many of the staff on these projects, and she knows
that staff has worked diligently and in good faith to find reasonable
solutions for all the parties involved.
Alice Osner shared that drivers report that for the most part they get
cooperation from other customers. If the driver asks customers to move
and if they don’t move, the driver then informs the passenger of RTD’s
policies. She reiterated that the majority of people cooperate to
accommodate passengers with mobility devices.
General Manager Washington noted that he doubted any likelihood on
this lawsuit encouraging legislature to add clarity to the ADA laws.
Marla Lien noted that the State has no jurisdiction on the matter; this
lawsuit is a federal issue.

Packet Pg. 75

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Marla Lien commented that the policies that have been raised do not
have a complete prohibition on strollers; the prohibitions are on large
objects over a specific size.

6.E

Committee Chair Tobiassen noted that this is not just a bus problem,
though primarily a bus problem. Staff has these same struggles on light
rail.

General Manager Washington shared that he asked Dave Genova and John
Tarbert to come up and talk about how staff addresses various incidents and
criminal activity around the District. He referred the Board to an email he sent
over the weekend in response to a question regarding an incident that occurred
at 30th & Downing. General Manager Washington stated that as per his email,
RTD has 7000 cameras located around the system. Part of what staff is doing
is educating the public about these cameras. Often times RTD is stuck between
the confidentiality of a police investigation and the need to tell our patrons and
our Board as well. That’s kind of where staff was with the 30th and Downing
incident. Mr. Genova and Mr. Tarbert will review the protocols and how they
are implemented.
Dave Genova greeted the Board and was joined by John Tarbert, RTD’s Transit
Police Chief. Mr. Genova noted that all RTD rail platforms have video
surveillance and all RTD rail platforms have emergency telephones that connect
into our 24-hour security command center. The technicians that work in our
command center receive the same training as 911 operators. Our technicians
are very qualified at not only the things they are monitoring but also in working
with other law enforcement agencies. Within the command center there is
direct communications, both radio and telephone, with all local law enforcement
agencies. Staff in the command center also answers our 24-hour transit watch
hotline, where patrons can call, text or email with any questions or concerns
they may have. Our patrons are quite engaged; last month staff received over
200 calls. Most of those calls are people calling in asking security to check
specific things out. Staff is working on doing some additional updates to the
transit watch materials to make them even more visible so that patrons are
aware of the program.
Mr. Genova wanted to address some concerns about station lighting. Staff
recently replaced almost every light pole and fixture along the Welton alignment
and at the 30th and Downing Street station. The poles had to be replaced due
to disrepair from corrosion at the base; at this time the fixtures were also
replaced. Staff has been working on the lighting, and has asked the facilities
team to raise the wattage. However, this also has to be balanced out within
the community, because we may have someone living across the street from
the station saying the lights are too bright.

Packet Pg. 76

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

D. Other Matters

Mr. Genova commented on the specific incident at 30th and Downing, stating
that staff believes the individuals knew each other, including the victim. He
also talked about notifications. Mr. Genova reported that RTD does have a
Command Center that does have a policy regarding notification of incidents.
This particular incident didn’t get media attention at the time of the event; had
it received media attention right away, the Board would have been notified
through the Communications Department. Regarding staff’s coordination with
local law enforcement agencies, when a criminal incident does occur, the local
law enforcement agency is the authority that has the jurisdiction. They lead the
investigation and staff cooperates with them to the fullest extent. He said that
RTD follows the law enforcement agency’s lead in the kinds of the information
that is made public. Mr. Genova noted that when a law enforcement agency is
going to go public, they are usually very good about giving RTD a heads up so
this information can be communicated to the General Manager and the Board. In
the case of the 30th and Downing incident, RTD was not given that heads up.
Dave Genova asked John Tarbert to address the timeline of the incident and
how RTD and Denver Police responded.
Mr. Tarbert reported that Denver 911 Communications called RTD’s Command
Center at 9:19 p.m. and said that they were looking for a group of suspicious
males in the area of 27th and Welton. The Command Center immediately
looked at the cameras for that location and found no one on that platform. 26
seconds later at 30th and Downing Street, suspicious males where seen.
Denver Police arrived on seen 50 seconds after the incident was reported to
RTD. The assault had already occurred. Denver Police made an arrest that night
on the spot. Since then there have been 3 more arrests made with possibly 2
more arrests pending. The victim was taken to the hospital and released within
30 minutes, with no serious injury reported. The Denver Police got the video
from RTD’s Command Center at 10:37 p.m. and it was turned over to their
evidence crew.
Director Deadwyler wanted to commend Dave and John for all their great work
with the security cameras and lighting; however, she was distressed to learn
that Chief White took 3 weeks to inform the public about the incident. Director
Deadwyler stated that this delay of information regarding the incident is
distressing to her constituents and other colleagues around the City. They are
asking her why communication took so long. Feedback from others is that RTD
should have some responsibility in communicating to and notifying the public.
RTD records indicate that we have 3000 people boarding at this location each
day. She has a big concern when our riders do not know to be more vigilant,
especially when there are still people at large. RTD should have some
responsibility to the public. For RTD not to say a word or anything, we look like

Packet Pg. 77

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.E

6.E

we lack responsibility and that we don’t care about the constituents in this
area. Even Police Chief White admitted he waited too long. She believes we
need to be able to communicate to people when they have a need to be extra
careful.

Director Deadwyler commented that she felt now is a good opportunity to do
something like that, or a safety program, or even just post things around the
stations with information about what people should and shouldn’t do. Director
Deadwyler commented that last year, or the year before, people voted to have
extra police officers and additional security around the system. She noted that
there never seem to be any of those additional officers or security at the right
place at the right time. Director Deadwyler understands that it would be
impossible to be everywhere because there are not enough resources.
However, when we have incidents in specific areas, we need to beef up
security in those areas.
Director Folska noted that where there are broken window neighborhoods,
places where things are left un-kept, it often attracts violence and destruction
of property. Director Folska shared that some areas haven’t been maintained;
things are broken and have not been painted. She knows staff fixed the clock
tower recently at Arapaho Station. Nine Mile hasn’t been properly maintained
and she gets complaints about that all the time.
John Tarbert stated that he checked with the crime analyst for the past 28
days; within a three block area of the 30th and Downing platform, simple
assaults have gone down 25% even before the incident occurred. Extra patrols
are occurring in in the area 24/7.
Director Deadwyler commented that this was the information she had been
asking about, if staff is beefing up security. Anyone can go driving in that area
on any given day and will see a crowd of men just hanging out watching and
looking. This community didn’t know that security was beefed up. RTD has
got to let people know something regardless of what Denver Police
communicates.
Director Lubow agreed with Director Deadwyler. If police took 3 weeks before
going public that does seem to be a problem. She understands Denver Police
took the lead, and that RTD cannot compromise an ongoing investigation, but it

Packet Pg. 78

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Dave Genova stated that staff will work with our agency partners to the best of
our ability on that but he thinks the biggest impacts we can have is through our
Transit Watch Program Staff will continue to work at making the Transit Watch
Program even more visible.

6.E

seems like there would be something staff could work out so that they can
communicate something in a timely manner to the public when they need to be
more vigilant.

Director Deadwyler asked if General Manager Washington or the staff could
continue to provide updates on the security matters and notification policies.
General Manager Washington confirmed that they would do so.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 19, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 8:31 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 79

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 15, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Washington noted that as he had stated in his email to the
Board last weekend, staff are torn between confidentiality and getting out
information to the public. Staff has talked to Chief White’s office, and he is
reviewing protocol regarding who releases what information along with when
and how that information is released. As staff moves through these protocols,
they have to take these incidents one case at a time and work with the
authorities.

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

6.F

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
October 17, 2013 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Anderson called the Executive Committee to order at 12:00 p.m.

II.

Committee Members Present:

Chair Anderson, 1st Vice-Chair Bagley, 2nd Vice-Chair
Hoy, Secretary Daly and Treasurer Walker.

Staff Present:

General Manager Washington, Barbara McManus,
Assistant General Manager Genova

October Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Anderson presented the October agenda and asked if there were any changes or
updates. General Manager Washington indicated that all action items had gone through
committee. Additionally the committee discussed the recognition of the bus and light rail
roadeo winners at the October 29 Board meeting.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
October Board Agenda.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

Discussion:
It was determined that Bruce Daly would assist Chair
Anderson in the presenting of the Bus Roadeo certificates. Director Hoy
noted that Past Chair Kemp would be attending the meeting as well.
Director Bagley mentioned that they only have 4 responders to the GM
Survey to date and asked if any of the executive committee were
outstanding and if so please take the time to go through the survey.
Director Bagley asked Phil to review the upcoming meeting dates.

Packet Pg. 80

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2013 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

6.F

There will be a placeholder on each of the following meeting agendas for
Executive Session should one be needed.
Chair Anderson mentioned she was studying the P3 process and was
reviewing the lessons learned from other lines and suggested sharing this
information with the other directors.
GM Washington said all of the projects were different and this might
confuse the matter.
Director Hoy asked for clarification regarding a Board Meeting on November
12th.
GM Washington confirmed no meeting would be held on November 12th.
This would give the board members the additional time to understand and be
prepared for the November 14th meeting.
Director Hoy asked GM Washington if staff could keep agenda items to a
minimum to help in the timing of the meetings and avoid getting off track.
GM Washington said other than contract renewals and housekeeping items
staff would try to keep the agenda’s to a minimum.

Vote on Motion:
The motion passed five in favor and zero against to
move the October board agenda to the October 29th meeting.
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

Packet Pg. 81

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2013 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

GM Washington stated the following schedule.
 November 5th scheduled FasTracks Meeting. Staff will bring its
recommendation to the board. The discussion will include the RFP
Criteria, reason for their selection and would include an overview of the
impact to the entire FasTracks project.
 November 14th will be a Special FasTracks Meeting to include Public
Comment. This session will provide a recap of all the answered
questions from November 5th. Staff will ask the board for approval.

6.F



Unanimous Consent
A. Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free rides
on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be extended from
the presently approved date of December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014. Utilization
has been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal impact on RTD.

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorizes the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
execute a contract with Giesecke & Devrient to provide contactless smart cards
(Contract 13DH023). This award is for a three-year contract followed by two one-year
options. The award amount is not-to-exceed two million dollars ($2,000,000.00).
C. 2014 Salaried Benefit Plans
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the 2014 Plan Year Salaried Insured Benefits Budget and authorize
the CEO/General Manager to enter into an agreement with the Insurance Carriers.



Recommended Action
Chair Anderson mentioned she had called and spoken to the Directors with “No” Votes
to gain an understanding of their position. She is hopeful she was able to clear up any
confusion regarding the action items.
Director Bagley said he had dialed in on the call but did not expect to speak or vote
and wanted to hear the questions and understand some of the issues and questions
from other directors.
D. North Metro Rail Line Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County
of Denver
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation
District.
The agreement includes specific terms defining CCD’s local agency
contribution, coordination, and the rights and responsibilities of each party associated
with construction of the North Metro Rail Line within the City’s boundaries.

Packet Pg. 82

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2013 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

B. Approval of Contactless Card Contract for SmartCard

6.F

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to execute an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD) and
the Regional Transportation District. The purpose of the IGA is to set forth the rights,
duties and obligations of CCD and RTD to mutually fund a portion of the project costs
to design and reconstruct up to 3.5 blocks of the 16th Street Mall (Blocks 1, 2, 12 and
13) within the CCD Right of Way. This IGA commits both RTD and CCD to provide
matching local funds necessary to receive FTA Grant Funding. Funding for this project
is included in the 2013 Amended Budget
F. Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors accepts the modifications to the 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement.
G. Certification of the 2014 Contribution for the RTD Salaried Employees' Retirement
Plans
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to RTD’s Salaried Employees’ Defined
Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a specified monthly benefit at
retirement, at the actuarial recommended amount of $3.1 million. It is also
recommended that the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to the
Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan Trust (the “DC Plan”), which contributes
a specified amount to the plan for each year of employment, at a rate of 9% of each
participant’s eligible compensation.
H. January 2014 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 2014 Service Change package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of approximately
$635,500 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.

III.

Other Matters
Director Daly commented on the closing of the 16th Street Mall to accommodate the
Zombie Parade.

Packet Pg. 83

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2013 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

E. 16th Street Mall Reconstruction Project Funding Intergovernmental Agreement with
the City and County of Denver

6.F

Chair Anderson announced that she would not be able to attend the Transit Alliance Event
honoring RTD and Kent Bagley as 1st Vice Chair would attend in her place. Chair
Anderson requested that Director Bagley include Directors Deadwyler and Tobiassen on
the stage as well.

Director Bagley voiced his concerns regarding the lack of consistency from meeting to
meeting. He cited an instance where some Chairs read the Board Action and some do not
as well as the protocol with Director speaking multiple times. He might want to state a
motion to the Executive Committee to set up some standard so consistency is the same
across all meetings. He proposed a list of standards for all Director who Chair or Co-Chair
a committee.
Chair Anderson mentioned she was working on putting together a Brown Bag forum to
increase the efficiency of our meetings. She also said following set standards would also
give Director Folska the cues needed so she can effectively participate in the meetings.
Director Hoy said once the standards are set we should have a bulleted list for all of the
Chairs to follow. He also mentioned that the e-Boardroom system allows you to move any
director who has already spoken to the end of the list and he plans to use this tool in the
future.
Director Daly mentioned the timing of the meetings has to stop and implementing
standards should help.
Chair Anderson mentioned she has sent an e-mail in the past outlining the protocol that
she would like used and perhaps she should resend from the Executive Committee. Chair
Anderson complemented Director Walker on how he conducted his meeting on Tuesday
evening and his ability to keep the meeting on track.
Director Bagley said we have a renowned reputation and a great “Brand”. It is our
responsibility to keep it clean. He mentioned that many agencies have only received one
FFGA and that we have received multiples and will probably have another opportunity
open to us and we cannot have Board Members tarnishing our name because of their
behavior. He indicated at this time he will not ask for a motion regarding meeting
standards. He said he would wait to see the outcome of the Chair’s efforts in putting
together a Brown Bag learning session.

Packet Pg. 84

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2013 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Bagley requested the board office reach out to Directors Deadwyler and Tobiassen
with the detail of the Transit Alliance Event and work with Scott Reed’s team for talking
points should they be needed.

6.F

Chair Anderson said she would try to have the facilitator address all the concerns and
present effective strategies on meeting standards.

AGM Genova reminded Director Hoy that we have FasTracks Fact Sheets that may help
get the correct information out to his stakeholders. He would have them updated and get
them to Brenda Tierney.
Chair Anderson thanked Dave Genova for his presentation on Security.
Director Walker mentioned all constituents should be aware of safety practices and that
his stop at Broadway and Evans has the potential for hazard as well as many other
stations. Director Walker mentioned he would be going on a local private tour in Seattle
and he would report on it at the next meeting.
IV.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 1:10 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 85

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2013 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Hoy said he was working with Brenda Tierney on a plan of attack for those who
are opposed to the North Metro. He gave the committee a heads up that we may hear
some negatives at the November 14th FasTracks meeting.

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

8.1

Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
September 17, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 5:34 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Anderson asked everyone to stand for the pledge of allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District L
Director, District H
Director, District N
Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:32 PM
5:32 PM
5:24 PM
5:31 PM
5:30 PM
5:27 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Absent
Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:37 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk

Director, District C
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:29 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:31 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:37 PM
5:24 PM

There were thirteen (13) Board members present at roll call. Director Menten arrived late
and Director Lasater was absent.

Packet Pg. 86

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 17, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013)

Board of Directors

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel, Jesse Carter, Rick Clarke, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, John Elias, David Genova,
Cory Granrud, Mike Gil, Rene Hagan, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Erin
Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Bobbie McGinnis, Doug MacLeod, Anthony Menendez,
Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Cherie Sprague, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand,
Walt Stringer, Stan Szabelak, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Phil Washington
OTHERS PRESENT
Louis Apolinar, Harold Christiansen, Mike Cerbo, Audrey DeBarros, Doug Gragg, Stan
Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Joe Juarez, Rita Kahn, Matt McAuliffe, Sheila Lieder, Robert
McGoey, Richard Martinez, Susan Monard, Ngitia Nguyen, Francisco Nuinez, Martin
Ramirez, Marta Sipeki, Stu Steffens, Chris Taylor, Joe Thomas, Jim Toweill, Joe Triplett,
Gary Van Dorn

IV.

Retiree Awards
There were two retirees in September. General Manager Washington and Brian Iacono
introduced Glenda Rene Hagan who has been a purchasing agent for 28 years. Brian
stated there is no real way to introduce someone who has been dependable, faithful and
loyal for over 28 years. Rene started in procurement when RTD was at Alameda and later
moved to the District Shops. She has spent the last 15 years at the Blake Street office
where she has purchased everything from diesel fuel to professional services. She worked
on the grand opening, purchased material for the bus roadeo for 25 years, and has even
volunteered to face paint at the bus roadeo. Rene was extremely loyal to RTD and
operated with fairness and what was in the best interest of RTD.
Rene stated that she loves RTD and RTD will always be a part of her family. She started
she ended the job loving what she did. She will miss everyone and wishes RTD the best.
General Manager Washington introduced Rene’s husband, Ronnie, who was in the
audience.
The Board gave Rene Hagan a standing ovation for 28 years of dedicated service.
Chair Anderson also acknowledged Ron Salisbury, materials handler & purchasing manager,
with over 35 years of experience at RTD.

V.

Public Participation


Gary Van Dorn, Board member of the National Federation of the Blind of Colorado,
thanked RTD for the automated stop announcements. He especially thanked Eric
Farrington for listening to this need and getting it implemented. He also thanked
Chair Anderson and Directors Bagley and Solano for attending their 25-year

Packet Pg. 87

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 17, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013)

8.1

















anniversary. Chair Anderson thanked the Center for the Blind for the invitation and
expressed this was a wonderful and inspiring event.
Audrey DeBarros, Executive Director for 36 Commuting Solutions, indicated they
are in support of item C, approval of final scope elements for US 36 Bus Rapid
Transit. She spoke about a study that 36 Solutions had conducted related to the
last mile in which concerns over appropriate bike shelters was an issue. She stated
there are various bike shelters around Boulder and they would be pursuing funding
for these shelters. They appreciate the support RTD has given to this issue and the
intent to cooperate with US 36 Solutions on the pursuit of funding.
Richard Martinez indicated that he is on strike with RMR. He stated the workers
have been treated with injustice. He spoke of various issues with RMR involving
safety, workers not being treated with respect and not being paid proper wages.
Ngitia Nguyen noted that the RMR restitution has been investigated by the
Department of Labor twice and that there is still an ongoing issue with DUS. They
wish RTD had investigated RMR’s history more thoroughly where they would
discover that there have been employment violations stemming from 2010 until
current. He understands RTD’s focus to get on with the transit business; however,
they would hope RTD shows leadership and join with other transit properties who
have implemented pre-qualification benefits.
Martin Ramirez indicated he was a former RMR worker and speaking in support of
workers of RMR. He stated that RMR has some of the bigger contracts and it is
not fair to give money to a company with so many labor disputes. He thinks RTD
should think twice before dealing with this type of company.
Harold Christianson, Denver Mailers Union, stated that he is a bus rider and has
always supported RTD; however, he is thinking twice about this when RTD is doing
business with a company like RMR that has many wage and safety violations. As a
taxpayer, he does not approve. He really hates the labor violations and hopes RTD
will look into these issues.
Jim Toweill stated he was present to support the RMR workers. He has been here
before numerous times and is becoming frustrated regarding these ongoing RMR
labor disputes. He commented that in July, the DOL opened another investigation.
Yet, RMR continues to work on Eagle P3 and the North Metro Line. RMR is
noncompliant and continues to break the law. RTD should consider instituting prequalification standards similar to other areas such as LA Metro.
Stu Steffens, Aurora, expressed frustration that RMR has incurred violations in
2010, 2011, 2012 and now 2013 but continues to get work in this area. He is
disappointed that public officials like the RTD Board have not taken action on these
matters.
Francisco Nuinez, operating with an interpreter, spoke that he has worked many
years in the ironworker’s trade. This is hard work. He is here to support the RMR
workers. He is disgusted that the workers are being treated unfairly. Workers

Packet Pg. 88

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 17, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013)

8.1









VI.

should be treated with dignity and respect. They should be paid the wages they
are supposed to be paid and they should be paid on time. RTD should step in and
do what is right. He does not want his tax dollars supporting contractors who
break the law.
Doug Gragg commented that several months ago he had inquired about the railroad
station picture gallery and has not received any feedback. He also inquired about
what has happened to the Railroad Club. Recently he has been trying to help a
person who is homeless and has a bike. He has been having problems using our
service and he wonders if bike transport is becoming an issue for RTD and what our
plans were for transporting bikes. He stated that after hearing these RMR workers,
he thinks there is a moral issue that needs to be addressed.
Joe Thomas, who lives in District B works for Colorado Jobs for Justice, did an
analogy of not investing in a contractor who had delivered faulty parts so why work
with a contractor who is not living up to the contract for fair treatment of the
workers. RTD should support workers who are not being paid the wages that are a
legal requirement. He looks forward to resolution on the RMR labor dispute
matters.
Robert McGoey, Denver, stated that public transportation and his bicycle are his
main forms of transportation. He expressed concerns that RTD would do business
with a company like RMR. The wage issues are unacceptable. The average loss
per worker is currently about $700. He stated none of the Board members would
take this figure lightly. As the end user of service of RMR, RTD has a responsibility
to ensure workers are treated fairly and safely. He wants RTD to implement
standards to insure workers are treated fairly and paid appropriately.
Louis Apolinar stated that he was a RMR worker out on strike. He worked on the
DUS site where he witnessed a number of abuses. Workers started earning
prevailing wages but without notice, wages were cut down to $15 per hour which
is far below prevailing wages. Many injuries go unreported on the job site. The
employees are provided no water or breaks. RMR is working on the I-225 and
Eagle P3 and may try to work on the North Metro. He is here because the issue
continues to go on unresolved. His stories are not isolated incidents and he is
frustrated that RTD has not taken steps to make sure these issues/violations do not
occur again.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler/Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker

Packet Pg. 89

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 17, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013)

8.1

GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
General Manager Oversight & Performance Management Committee Chair Kent Bagley
provided the following report:
 This committee is responsible for semi-annual survey and the annual evaluation of
the General Manager. The committee consists of himself, Director Rivera-Malpiede
as vice-chair, and Directors Daly, Lasater, Solano and Tobiassen. The next online
survey will be sent out in mid-October. Board members will have two weeks to
respond and he hopes that all Board members will do so.
 The process for the General Manager’s annual evaluation will begin around
November 8 when the General Manager submits his self-assessment to the
Committee. The GM will meet with the committee on November 19 for a
discussion of his accomplishments. The full Board is invited to attend the meeting
of November 26 where they will be discussing their assessment. The full Board will
vote on the annual evaluation at the December 17 Board meeting.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the Board
minutes from August 20, 2013.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 12 in favor and 2 abstentions (Sisk,
Bagley) due to the fact both were out of town when
this meeting occurred. Director Lasater was absent.

Packet Pg. 90

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 17, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013)

8.1

RESULT:
PASSED [12 TO 0 WITH 2 ABSENTIONS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSTAIN:
Kent Bagley, Chuck Sisk
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

Chair's Report














Chair Anderson provided an update on the Gold line tours. The first tour hosted by
Kevin Flynn occurred on September 6 and included Directors Deadwyler, RiveraMalpiede and Lasater. The second tour, which was scheduled for September 12,
was rained out.
Several Board members attended the RTD Bus and Paratransit Roadeo on Saturday,
September 14. Board members in attendance were Chair Anderson, Directors Daly,
Hoy, Tobiassen and Walker. She continues to marvel at the dedication of the
employees and how much pride they take in their work.
Chair Anderson, Director Bagley and Director Solano attended the Colorado Center
for the Blind 25-year celebration. Afterwards, Director Bagley escorted her
throughout his district and showed her the extensions. She saw the new
apartments that were purchased by the Center for the Blind and they are
conveniently located for public transportation. She was also impressed with the
tactile picture they showed that included stone, sky, mountains and other images.
She appreciates the good work that the Colorado Center for the Blind does not only
for Colorado but for students who come from across the country.
The Board members and the CDOT Commissioners will have a dinner meeting
tomorrow night. We try to have at least one annual meeting a year and we rotate
the hosting of these events.
Several Board members will be attending the APTA Annual event in Chicago.
General Manager Washington will receive the 2013 Outstanding GM of the year
award.
Several Board members will also attend the RailVolution Conference in Seattle.
This is a very educational event where Board members can learn more about the
different types of rail technology going into this District. Chair Anderson reminded
Board members attending both event to prepare a “trip Tic” on these conferences.
Chair Anderson shared that she has been participating in an interview with Channel
8 which is looking at the Gold Line in Arvada. This will be part of the series on
RTD and transportation.

Packet Pg. 91

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 17, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013)

8.1



X.

Chair Anderson reminded the Board members that if they have an item on the
unanimous consent that they wanted to discuss or was concerned about, please
ask to have that item moved to recommended action for further discussion. She
also asked the Board members who vote no or abstain on an item, to please share
their reason with the Board. This is helpful for the Board members to hear.

General Manager's Report








General Manager Washington provided a status update on the storm and flood
impacts on RTD operations and Capital Program. Staff has been sending out
regular daily updates to the Board. In general, we have maintained service
throughout this situation. The exceptions include routes N, Y, and YL due to
impassable roads. We have had minor detours. RTD is working with the Office of
Emergency Management in helping to transport families that have been displaced.
Our LRT has run on schedule throughout this process. FasTracks construction
appears to be minimally impacted but they are still in the process of assessing the
situation. RTD has been asked to consider looking at an alternate route N for
Nederlands. They are evaluating this request but clearly there are safety concerns
around things like road switchbacks, etc. that could affect drivers and passengers.
They will continue to process this request but our first priority is safety. Our
facilities appear to be in pretty good condition but we are doing a full assessment.
The employees did a tremendous job during the flooding. In spite of the heavy
rains, the rail crew did necessary repair work on the tracks in downtown Denver.
Comments from Board members:
o Chair Anderson explained concerns from the Board regarding the flooding
situation and its impact on the Colorado community. It may take a long time
to rebuild some of the critical infrastructures that get people in and out of
the communities. She also shared that the Board had been contacted by
American Red Cross and gave all of our free ride coupons to them (about
1200).
o Director Sisk expressed appreciation to staff for looking for options to
service Nederlands. These people are heavily dependent on mass
transportation and Eco Pass. He hears that route 119 can be closed up to
30 days or more. Cities like Nederland and Lyons are cutoff from the road
and need our support and assistance.
o Director Bagley echoed this sentiment and stated we have communities in
crisis. RTD has responded well thus far and we will continue to do what we
can safely do. He thanked Scott Reed (Public information) for the updates.
General Manager Washington commented on the tremendous effort that went into
the preparation and the actual bus roadeo event. In addition to RTD participation,
the privates and the statewide transit agencies were represented with CASTA.
Other Matters:

Packet Pg. 92

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 17, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013)

8.1

8.1

XI.

Two transit agencies from Boston (MBTA) and Broward County (FLA) will be
coming to discuss best practices from Eagle P3 and the WIN program.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Anderson asked for a motion to approve the unanimous consent agenda, item A,
Authorization of RTD Investment Policy.

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
authorization of the RTD Investment Policy.

Director Folska seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen
and Walker). There was 1 no vote as Director
Menten had left the meeting. Director Lasater
was absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [13 TO 0]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
AWAY:
Natalie Menten
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.
A.

Authorization of RTD Investment Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), attached.

Packet Pg. 93

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 17, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013)

o

8.1

Recommended Action
B.
Park Creek Metro District & Forest City Stapleton, Inc. Inter-governmental
Agreement Amendment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute a third amendment of an existing
Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) with Park Creek Metro District & Forest City
Stapleton, Inc. for participating in the funding for the design, construction, and
management of the infrastructure that will support the Central Park PnR along the East Rail
Line. It is also recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager,
or designee, to execute the necessary documents to convey a certain amount of RTD
property for dedication as City and County of Denver ROW. The cost maximum for RTD’s
share of the infrastructure improvements has been determined to be $5,564,325. Funding
for this IGA is included in the 2013 Amended Capital Programs and the FasTracks Eagle
project budgets.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to approve
the Park Creek Metro District & Forest City
Stapleton, Inc Inter-governmental Agreement
Amendment.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede indicated she will
abstain since she works for a TMA which gets
some of its funding through the Park Creek
District.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed with 12 Board members in
favor (Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler,
Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 1 abstain (RiveraMalpiede) and 1 no-vote (Menten) who had left
the meeting. Director Lasater was absent.

Packet Pg. 94

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 17, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013)

XII.

RESULT:
PASSED [12 TO 0]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
ABSTAIN:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
AWAY:
Natalie Menten
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.
C.

Approval of Final Scope Elements for US 36 Bus Rapid Transit

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve the final scope elements (as illustrated in the table below) to establish
BRT in the US 36 Corridor, as it is RTD Staff’s desire and intent to implement a “World
Class” Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in the US 36 Corridor. RTD Staff believe that the
implementation of these final scope elements will effectively complete a model BRT in the
US 36 Corridor. Approval of this action will allow RTD to commit to the completion of the
US 36 BRT project through implementation of defined scope items, as RTD does on every
other project in the FasTracks program.
Remaining Project Scope Items
Completion
Item

Description

Opening
Day

Upgraded and standardized furniture,
including benches, trash receptacles,
bike racks/lockers, etc.

X

Station Security
Upgrades

Security devices such as cameras,
emergency telephones and conduit
at each BRT station.

X

Transit Signal
Priority (TSP)

Implementation of TSP at key US 36
interchanges as documented in
RTD’s Transit Signal Priority study
which will provide a potential travel
time savings of over two minutes.
Improve data accessibility for
passengers on US 36 (WiFi,
predictive arrival time information,
etc.)

Station Amenities

Passenger
Communications
improvements

Post Opening
Day

X

X

Packet Pg. 95

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 17, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013)

8.1

8.1

Church Ranch
Platforms
Westminster
Pedestrian Bridge
Broomfield parkn-Ride

Procure fleet sufficient to meet 2016
opening day service plan.
Relocation of the Church Ranch
Station boarding platforms closer to
RTD-designated parking.
Improvements for vertical circulation
(additional stairs and elevators) on
each side of the bridge.
Construct a park-n-Ride with
structured parking on the north side
of US 36 at the Broomfield Station
for better access to the station for
residents north and east of US 36 in
Broomfield.

X*
X

X

X

*Note: RTD’s ability to provide the full fleet required for opening day service will
be dependent on the cost of the vehicle that can best satisfy the corridor’s service
requirements.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to approve the
final scope elements for US 36 Bus Rapid
Transit.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Folska indicated she would be voting for
this motion but we are operating a multi-modal
system which does include bicycles. She
encouraged staff and US 36 to pursue funding
for the bike shelters.
Director Sisk referenced the letter that the Board
members had received from the US 36
Commuting Solutions. He thanked the RTD staff
for the progress and cooperation. He stated that
Audrey DeBarros and US 36 would be looking
for a funding source for the bike shelters. He
thanked the RTD Board for their support.
Director Menten stated that she would be a no
vote on this issue. This item included passenger
communications improvements which right now

Packet Pg. 96

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 17, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013)

BRT Vehicle Fleet

no one can provide a cost on what that is. She
needs more solid information and she will vote
no unless someone moves to pull this specific
item from the list.
Vote on Motion:

The motion passed with 13 Board members in
favor (Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler,
Folska, Hoy, James. Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen and Walker) and 1 no
(Director Menten). Director Lasater was absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

Executive Session
There was no executive session.

XIV. Old Business









Director Solano expressed that RTD needs to consider the RMR issues. Labor is the
backbone of this country.
Director James wanted to welcome the Board members to his part of the hood for
their dinner meeting with CDOT.
Director James stated that he had attended the Matt Cohen fundraiser with the
Realtor community. Matt shared a few comments that were uplifting and inspiring.
Director Menten asked for a status on her questions related to the unsolicited
proposal for motorcycles to use our parking space. General Manager Washington
indicated they are looking at this whole piece and will have a response in about a
week.
Director Folska expressed that this whole RMR issue is concerning. She asked if
any of the speakers are actually RMR workers on strike. She thinks this merits a
further look.
Director Lubow also expressed concern about the RMR issue. There should be
some standard that we uphold on fairness, whether we deal with who works for us
directly or indirectly. This issue has not reached completion and the Board

Packet Pg. 97

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 17, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013)

8.1

8.1

XV.

New Business






Director Bagley stated that he attended the State of Downtown Denver along with
Director James. This was very informative. Bill Mosher had presented on the
status of the DUS project. Walter Isenberg had provided an update on the hotel.
RTD infrastructure and the work we are doing are getting lots of focus from this
group.
Director Bagley reported that the Colorado Center for the Blind is in his District. He
was happy to escort Chair Anderson about town looking at the extensions. He also
thanked Director Solano for attending. He shared they spent some time with the
Mayor of Littleton and Brent Batron with the Center for the Blind. The new
apartments are wonderful and the bus service is great. He is happy to provide a
tour of this area to look at the importance of the Southwest/Southeast extensions.
Director Hoy reminded the Board of the next CAC meeting.

XVI. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:55 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 98

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 17, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013)

members need more information. Perhaps staff needs to talk to RMR and do a
more thorough analysis to determine what we can do.

11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 10, 2013

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 8, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 29, 2013

Subject:

Free Rides for Members of the Military

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free rides on RTD for active duty
members of the United States Military should be extended from the presently approved date of December
31, 2013 to December 31, 2014. Utilization has been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal
impact on RTD.
BACKGROUND
At the October 30, 2006 Special Board Meeting, the RTD Board of Directors approved a resolution allowing
active duty U.S. Military personnel to ride free on all RTD services through the end of 2006. This offer has
been extended annually by the Board since that time and is now valid through December 31, 2013. As a
result of these actions, all active duty members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard,
National Guard, and Reserves are entitled to ride free on any RTD service including special services such as
SkyRide and BroncosRide. To be eligible to ride for free, active duty military personnel must either be in
uniform or present an active duty military ID card.
DISCUSSION
Staff recommends that the RTD Board of Directors extend this offer beyond the current expiration date of
December 31, 2013 and that the expiration date be extended by one year at this time and revisited again
next year.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The exact financial impact of this action is not known, but is expected to be minimal.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Extend free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should from the
presently approved date of December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014. This is the staff
recommendation.
2. Do not extend RTD’s program offering free rides for active duty members of the United States
Military.

Packet Pg. 99

11.A

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker

Prepared by:
Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 100

11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 10, 2013

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

October 10, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 29, 2013

Subject:

Approval of Contactless Card Contract for
SmartCard

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorizes the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to execute a contract with Giesecke
& Devrient to provide contactless smart cards (Contract 13DH023). This award is for a three-year
contract followed by two one-year options. The award amount is not-to-exceed two million dollars
($2,000,000.00).
BACKGROUND
When RTD selected the SmartCard program vendor, ACS/Xerox, it was determined that some system
and program components should be acquired through a separate competitive procurement process. The
contactless SmartCards (SmartCard media) are a major element of the SmartCard program and are
available in the open market to purchase for distribution from RTD to SmartCard users.
DISCUSSION
On July 15, 2013, RTD issued a request for proposal to acquire contactless SmartCards to provide the
card inventory to maintain the existing EcoPass and CollegePass programs and in preparation for 2014’s
MyRide fare program. The selected vendor is to provide the cards configured to work with the Xerox
system and address the necessary security provisions. On August 15th, five proposals were received:
ABnote, ASK-Int-TAG, EDM, Giesecke & Devrient and Multicard. Giesecke & Devrient was selected out
of five firms in this open-competition. Giesecke & Devrient’s proposal demonstrated a strong and
experienced team in the transportation industry and Xerox will be required to certify that the cards work
on RTD’s system. Their proposal demonstrated a low cost and a thorough understanding of the card
requirements along with comprehensive security procedures. The selection criteria for this requisition
were: Cost 60%, Experience with Transit Smart Media Production and Compliance with Specifications
25%, Strength of Security Procedures 10% and Previous Experience with Xerox / ACS 5%. Giesecke &
Devrient also had high recommendations from the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA).
Based on RTD’s estimated card usage, RTD anticipates the average cost per card to be $1.05. Cards
will be used over a five year period.
This contract provides the necessary card inventory to maintain the normal operations of the EcoPass
and CollegePass programs and preparation for next year’s MyRide implementation.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Cost to RTD for the contract period, is set at two million dollars ($2,000,000.00). Individual orders will
be placed to provide necessary card inventory as needed by RTD on a just-in-time basis. Sufficient
funding has been included in the 2014 expense budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the three year contract (Contract 13DH023) with two one-year options with Giesecke &
Devrient with a not-to-exceed value of two million dollars ($2,000,000). This action provides card
inventory to maintain and expand the RTD SmartCard initiative.

Packet Pg. 101

11.B

2. Do not approve the contract. This is not the recommended action because the functioning of the
SmartCard system requires the availability of adequate contactless card stock for customers.
3. Require staff to issue a new RFP.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker

Prepared by:
Sue Sandoval, Manager, Accounting
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 102

11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 10, 2013

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

October 10, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 29, 2013

Subject:

2014 Salaried Benefit Plans

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the 2014 Plan Year Salaried Insured Benefits Budget and authorize the CEO/General Manager to
enter into an agreement with the Insurance Carriers.
BACKGROUND
Annually the staff brings the proposed Salaried Employee Insured Benefits program for approval to the
Board of Directors. Approval of the program by the Board establishes the rates for Open Enrollment and
provides costs for the 2014 Budget. The Open Enrollment period for salaried staff begins October 20,
2013, and closes November 2, 2013.
DISCUSSION
The goals for the 2014 plan year are: 1) Achieve the 2014 Budget, 2) Continued focus on containing
cost and emphasis on improving health and wellness consumerism, 3) Maintain market competitiveness,
and 4) Insure compliance with PPACA – Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Health Care Reform
provisions as applicable to RTD).
Following is a summary of the modest changes for the 2014 plan year.
Medical
-

-

Cigna administers two self-funded plans on behalf of RTD. Both the PPO (Preferred Provider
Organization) Plan and the HDHP (High Deductible Health Plan) Plan have a specific individual
$150,000 stop-loss ceiling in 2014. The administrative cost will increase by 0.1% in 2014. The
Cigna Plans are expected to have approximately 460 employees enrolled. 2013 claims are running
14.3% below expected claims YTD, and 2014 claims are not projected to be higher than 2013
levels.
Kaiser provides 3 Plan Options: a fully insured HMO (Health Maintenance Organization); a DHMO
(HMO Plan with deductibles), and an HDHP. The Kaiser plans are expected to have approximately
200 employees enrolled. This plan has proposed a 3.5% blended increase over 2013.

Dental
-

No carrier/plan changes and no fixed cost increase. Delta is a self-funded plan, and has projected a
5% increase in expected claims exposure. Administrative fees are in a rate guarantee period until
2015 renewal.

Life & Disability
-

The rate guarantee with Lincoln National expired. Our renewal resulted in a 12.5% increase on our

Packet Pg. 103

11.C

life insurance rates. Rates for Short Term Disability, Long Term Disability, Accidental Death &
Dismemberment, and Voluntary Insurance products had no increase in premium rates.

Vision/Business Travel Accident
-

Vision Plan is currently a fully insured plan with Anthem Blue Cross – Blue Shield, and is in rate
guarantee until the 2015 Plan renewal. There are no carrier/plan changes and no costs increase
with the Business Travel Accident Plan.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The 2014 planned Salaried Employee Insured Benefit budget is projected to be a 2.9% increase over
2013 projected benefit costs. The success in cost containment is largely due to the 2010
implementation of the Cigna self-funded options and implementation of the HDHP (High Deductible
Health Plan) options in both Cigna and Kaiser. Although medical trend increases for employer-sponsored
group plans for 2014 are projected to be 10%, RTD has effectively managed to keep the salaried benefit
plan increases lower.
The major cost impacts in 2014 are due to Kaiser Premium increases of 3.5%. The net additional benefit
costs anticipated in 2013 are essentially flat. This is the fourth year we have achieved strong cost
containment as a result of our shift in carriers, plan offerings, plan design and funding models.
The 2013 estimate of the Salaried Employee Insured Benefits is $9,360,797. The projected increase of
2.9% results in an increase of $271,463 or a total projected cost of $9,632,260 in 2014. The increase
meets the projected costs in the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). RTD’s benefit costs are below the average
for Metro area companies, which are experiencing 6-15% cost increases according to the Denver
Chamber of Commerce.
ALTERNATIVES
1.

2.

3.

It is recommended that the Financial Administration and Audit Committee recommend to the full
RTD Board of Directors that the 2014 Salaried Employee Insured Benefit Plan recommendations
be approved.
Further modify the salaried employee benefit plans to be offered in 2014. This is not
recommended since it would require significant additional negotiations with benefit providers and
delay the employee enrollment period.
Do not approve the recommended salaried employee benefit plan. This is not recommended, as
this will result in the Agency being unable to provide competitive and cost effective benefit plans
to the salaried employees.

Packet Pg. 104

11.C

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker

Prepared by:
Cherie Sprague, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 105

12.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 2, 2013

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 2, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 29, 2013

Subject:

North Metro Rail Line Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of
Denver

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and
County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation District. The agreement includes specific
terms defining CCD’s local agency contribution, coordination, and the rights and responsibilities of each
party associated with construction of the North Metro Rail Line within the City’s boundaries.
BACKGROUND
This IGA, like RTD’s previous commuter rail IGAs with CCD, sets forth CCD’s local match obligations
and establishes specific design and construction requirements within the City’s boundaries. This IGA
also incorporates provisions in RTD’s existing CCD/RTD Light Rail Master Agreement dated March
25, 1993 where appropriate for commuter rail.
DISCUSSION
This IGA between CCD and RTD establish the local agency contribution amount for CCD and how that
local agency contribution will be met. The IGA sets forth the commitments from RTD and CCD regarding
financial obligations, responsibilities, coordination, and cooperation between both agencies with respect
to the North Metro Rail Line.
Local Agency Contribution
The IGA stipulates that CCD’s local agency contribution will be $5M or 22% of the total local
agency contribution amount of $22.725M (2.5% of the total project cost of $909M as defined by
the 2010 Annual Program Evaluation).
The Parties acknowledge that credits held by Denver for its local agency contributions to other
FasTracks corridor projects covered by previous intergovernmental agreements between RTD and Denver
exceed the cumulative Denver share of the Local Agency Contribution for all FasTracks corridors,
resulting in an “Overmatch” which exceeds Denver’s Contribution under this Agreement. The Parties
agree that an amount of Denver’s Overmatch from other FasTracks corridors shall be applied in an
amount equal to Denver’s Contribution for the North Metro Project in full satisfaction of Denver’s
obligation to make a Local Agency Contribution for the North Metro Rail Line. If the reconciliation of
other FasTracks corridors should definitely show that this Overmatch does not exist or is insufficient to
cover Denver’s Contribution for the Project, then the Parties will take such action as necessary to amend
this Agreement or enter another IGA to assure that Denver’s Local Agency Contribution is satisfied.
The following items are also included in this IGA:


Certain terms of the CCD-RTD Light Rail Master Agreement are incorporated with no changes,
while other terms are amended as appropriate for commuter rail and this project.

Packet Pg. 106

12.D










Denver will be afforded opportunities to comment on any supplemental environmental studies
completed for the North Metro Rail Line within Denver’s boundaries.
Right-of-way processes are identified and clarified, including survey and monumentation and
approval of changes to final right-of-way plans.
National Western Stock Show (NWSS) station design, parking and timing are describ ed.
Land transactions required for project construction, including purchases, no-cost transfers,
exchanges and easements between CCD and RTD, are identified.
RTD cooperates with construction of fiber optic to support regional emergency
communications, providing easements and labor while CCD and others pay for materials.
RTD agrees to pay $6/sf for purchase and $2.50/sf for easements of park property, and to
fund traffic and planning studies near the NWSS station.
The parties agree to a process for determining and funding improvements related to project
construction.
RTD to provide funding toward future improvements on Brighton Boulevard as RTD’s
contribution to this work.

Summary
IGAs are required with CCD, as with other jurisdictions along the North Metro corridor, in order to define
the respective rights and responsibilities of each party, and to define the local agency share credit. The
recommendation is to authorize the General Manager to sign this agreement defining those rights and
responsibilities of RTD and CCD with respect to the North Metro Rail Line project. The signed IGA
defines coordination between RTD and CCD for the North Metro project and demonstrates that right-ofway and other coordination responsibilities have been defined.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial elements of the IGA are funded in the project budget for the North Metro Rail Line
project.
ALTERNATIVES
1.
Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation
District. The agreement includes specific terms defining CCD’s local agency contribution, coordination,
and the rights and responsibilities of each party associated with construction of the North Metro Rail
Line within the City’s boundaries.
2.
Do not accept the recommendation of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee. This would cause
the North Metro Rail Line project to delay or stop due to lack of right-of-way, and may increase costs
due to schedule delay. In addition an IGA is required to provide for FasTracks-required local match
determination, property acquisitions from CCD needed for the project, and responsibilities and
coordination. This action is not recommended.

Packet Pg. 107

12.D

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

PASSED [14 TO 1]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Natalie Menten

Prepared by:
Jim Starling, Project Manager, Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 108

12.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 2, 2013

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 2, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 29, 2013

Subject:

16th Street Mall Reconstruction Project
Funding Intergovernmental Agreement with the
City and County of Denver

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to execute an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA)
between the City and County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation District. The
purpose of the IGA is to set forth the rights, duties and obligations of CCD and RTD to mutually fund
a portion of the project costs to design and reconstruct up to 3.5 blocks of the 16 th Street Mall
(Blocks 1, 2, 12 and 13) within the CCD Right of Way. This IGA commits both RTD and CCD to
provide matching local funds necessary to receive FTA Grant Funding. Funding for this project is
included in the 2013 Amended Budget
BACKGROUND
This IGA formalizes a local matching fund cost sharing requirement needed to secure an FTA “Bus &
Bus Facilities Livability Grant” that will be used to reconstruct a portion of the Mall. The Mall
reconstruction is needed because the current granite pavers and infrastructure have been used since its
October 1982 opening. RTD began maintaining the transit lane portion of the Mall within a few years of
its opening. Maintenance costs have steadily risen from under $100,000 per year to a current value of
approximately $1Million per year. Recent repair trends indicate that this value will increase if
reconstruction does not occur. The granite, other than its friction and color loss, generally is still sturdy
and durable. The paver setting bed and grout need continuous maintenance and repairs.
DISCUSSION
A recent pilot paver reconstruction program had tested alternative grouts and setting bed
applications. Lessons learned from that program have been applied to ongoing maintenance
activities and will be considered for the upcoming reconstruction project referenced herein. The three
and 1/2 block reconstruction project grant request was estimated at $16M. It included granite
transit paver reconstruction, walkway refurbishment and urban design upgrades, as itemized from
the grant application and shown below.
1. Transitway Paver Removal, Rehabilitation and Replacement.
2. Sub-Base Reconstruction for Transit Way Only.
3. Pedestrian Walk Way In-Situ Paver Resurfacing.
4. Intersection Bulb-outs for Pedestrian Safety. (Traffic signalization, camera’s, etc. not
Included)
5. Wet and Dry Utility Upgrade.
6. Urban Design, Trees, Water Features and Irrigation Improvements
7. Mall Livability Furnishing Element Upgrades.

Packet Pg. 109

12.E

The FTA grant plus local match was approved for approximately 2/3 of the requested value. The
final project scope and limits will be refined during the current design process. The required local
match is 20%. The approved FTA value is $7,978,998.00 and the local match is $1,994,749.50.
The total grant and local match are $9,973,747.50.
The local match was to be shared by three parties: RTD, CCD and the DDP/BID with an equal cost
sharing of $664,915.50 per party. The City and County of Denver has agreed to provide DDP/BID’s
1/3 part plus their 1/3 share for a total obligation to CCD of $1,329,831.00. RTD’s sh are is the
remaining 1/3 - $664,915.50, which brings the collective agencies’ contributions to $1,994,749.50.
The IGA also addresses the design and construction management for the project and identifies RTD
as the managing entity. RTD will lead the design and construction management of this project with
support from stakeholder agencies. All agency direct costs with the exception of management time
will be reimbursable.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for the total project, RTD’s local match of $664,915.50 and the CCD contribution of
$1,329,831 toward the local match, is included in the 2013 Amended Budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to
execute an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD)
and the Regional Transportation District. The purpose of the IGA is to set forth the rights, duties
and obligations of CCD and RTD to mutually fund a portion of the project costs to design and
reconstruct up to 3.5 blocks of the 16 th Street Mall (Blocks 1, 2, 12 and 13) within the CCD
Right of Way. This IGA commits both RTD and CCD to provide matching local funds necessary to
receive FTA Grant Funding. Funding for this project is included in the 2013 Amended Budget.
2. Delay implementing the Recommended Action. This is not recommended because delaying the
implementation of the IGA has serious impact to the schedule and budget and ability t o utilize
approved grant funds that would cause an extended delay or possible cancellation of the project.
3. Do not accept the Recommended Action. This is not recommended because this would cause
major delays in project implementation and budget impacts resulting from the loss of
$7,978,998.00 in grant funding plus local stakeholder shares. The result would be escalating
maintenance costs for the proposed blocks.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

PASSED [13 TO 2]
Bill James, Director, District A
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
Natalie Menten, Paul Solano

Prepared by:
Stan Szabelak, Manager, Civil Engineering

Packet Pg. 110

12.E

Jeff Cluphf, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 111

12.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 9, 2013

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

October 9, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 29, 2013

Subject:

Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
accepts the modifications to the 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement.
BACKGROUND
Proposed modifications to the Fiscal Policy Statement (the “Policy”) are brought to the Board of
Directors for approval during the year, as necessary. In addition, each year staff presents the
proposed Policy for the upcoming fiscal year for approval to the Board of Directors as an initial step
in development of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and Recommended Budget.
The most recent modification to the Policy was approved by the Board of Directors in February 2013
for the 2013 fiscal year. Those changes primarily related to the establishment of the FasTracks
Internal Savings Account (FISA) fund and to update the Policy with the most recent rating agency
credit ratings.
DISCUSSION
The current Policy includes the phrase “The Board of Directors will review potential fare increases
annually at the time of the development of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)”. In order to update the
Policy with the current practice of including fare increases in the SBP every three years to account
for inflation, this phrase has been modified as shown in the attached 2014 Proposed Fiscal Policy
Statement.
In addition, the Fund Balance Policy #6 referencing a fund to capture excess Denver Union Station
(DUS) revenue to be used for future DUS development has been removed from the Policy since the
funding for its development has been identified and development is scheduled to be completed in
2014.
All other proposed Policy policies changes are primarily wording clarification and are reflected in the
attachment.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Changing the policy as requested will not have a financial impact on the 2014 Recommended
Budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the recommended changes to RTD’s 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement. Staff supports
this alternative because the changes document the policies to be adhered to in 2014 and
provide clarification of certain phrases.
2. Board further modifies the recommended changes. Staff reviewed the fiscal policies and
welcomes any suggestions for modifications requested by the Board of Directors.
3. Do not adopt the recommended changes to RTD’s 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement. This is not
recommended because RTD’s Fiscal Policy Statement would not contain all current language
and would not best facilitate the needs of RTD’s financial operations.

Packet Pg. 112

12.F

ATTACHMENTS:


2014 Fiscal Policy Statement Final

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

(DOCX)

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
Gary Lasater, Director, District G
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker

Prepared by:
Jannette Scarpino, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 113

12.F.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 22, 2014

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

REVENUE POLICIES
1. Staff will plan fare adjustments every 3 years in the mid and long-term budgets to
adjust for inflation. The Board of Directors may consider potential fare adjustments
annually at the time of the development of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). As
part of this process, staff will review potential fare increases to establish a fare
structure with due consideration for:
 consistency and equity throughout RTD;
 ease of use and simplicity;
 maintaining or increasing ridership and fare revenues;
 acceptability and marketability of fare structure to customers and the general
public; and
 verification and enforceability of fare payment compliance.
2. Fare policies will take into account the special needs of transit dependent, elderly,
youth, student, handicapped, and commuter patrons.
3. RTD will avoid dependence on temporary revenues to fund ongoing services. Onetime revenues will be used for one-time expenditures.
4. RTD will continuously explore additional sources of revenue to help balance the
budget.
5. When appropriate the Board will actively pursue legislation that would help ensure
the continued accomplishment of RTD’s goals and mission statement. The Board
will support efforts to ensure that legislative intent is realized in allocation of state
financial resources to public transit. The Board will actively oppose legislation that
would limit or diminish revenue.

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement Final (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

2014 FISCAL POLICY STATEMENT

6. Staff will identify on an annual basis excess property and equipment, and will
make an ongoing attempt to sell such excess property and equipment to enhance
cash flow.

1
Packet Pg. 114

12.F.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 22, 2014

1. RTD will review its investment policy annually with the Board to ensure
consistency with the following objectives (in order of priority):
 safety of invested funds;
 maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet cash flow needs; and
 attainment of the maximum yield possible consistent with the first two
objectives
2. RTD will review its investment performance on a quarterly basis with the Board.

EXPENDITURE POLICIES
1. RTD will endeavor to achieve service levels that will make the transit system easier
to use, improve travel times, and be more effective.
2. RTD will continue to look for and implement the most cost-effective and reliable
methods of delivering transportation services.
3. RTD will maintain all assets at a level that protects capital investment and
minimizes future maintenance and replacement costs.
4. RTD maintains a risk management program which will provide protection against
loss and mitigate exposure to liability.
5. A safety program will be maintained to minimize RTD's exposure to liability and
thereby reduce the number of claims against RTD.
6. RTD will develop service changes that are needed to respond to budget shortfalls
using the system-wide and route-specific productivity measures that have been
approved by the Board.

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement Final (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

INVESTMENT POLICIES

2
Packet Pg. 115

12.F.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 22, 2014

1. RTD will prepare and update annually a six-year Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
including projected capital construction and improvements, service levels and
operating costs, and revenues to fund the capital and operating programs. Capital
projects to be included in the SBP will be evaluated using the following criteria:
 total project cost (design and construction) and schedule for completion;
 source of funding;
 operating and maintenance costs for the remainder of the SBP period;
 benefits and contributions to RTD and the community, including but not limited
to the effect on future operating and maintenance costs, economy, service, and
ridership;
 consideration of alternatives (joint development, etc.); consequences of not
funding; and
RTD mission statement elements.
2. Priority will be given to replacement of existing assets before consideration of new
assets except as allowed for in the FasTracks financial plan (see 7.).
3. RTD will use the first year capital program from the adopted SBP as the basis for
the capital program to be included in the annual budget.
4. After completion of design of a capital project, cost estimates will be revised. If
the cost estimates exceed Delegation of Authority limits, the project will be
brought to the Board for reconsideration.
5. Facilities will be designed using current technology and allow for future
technological changes in order to be efficient and cost-effective and to protect the
public welfare.
6. RTD shall allow for multi-year capital projects to be carried forward in accordance
with the carry-forward resolution adopted by the Board.
7. RTD will prepare an annual update of the FasTracks financial plan incorporating the
actual costs incurred and the most recent available projections of capital
improvement costs, service levels, and operating costs and revenues to fund the
FasTracks capital and operating programs.

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement Final (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT POLICIES

FUND BALANCE POLICIES
3
Packet Pg. 116

12.F.a

1. RTD will strive to maintain a fund balance in the Base System and in the FasTracks
operating budget, to provide for unanticipated expenditures of a nonrecurring
nature or to meet unexpected increases in costs. This unrestricted fund balance
will be comprised of a Board appropriated fund, a capital replacement fund and an
undesignated working capital fund as described below. For the Base System, the
total of these three funds should be maintained at an amount approximately equal
to three months of Base System operating expenses excluding depreciation. For
FasTracks, the total of these three funds should be maintained at an amount
approximately equal to two months of FasTracks operating expenses excluding
depreciation. RTD will consider and pursue resources that will be directed to fund
balance replenishment. For example, RTD may define the revenue sources that
would typically be looked to for replenishment of fund balance to include nonrecurring revenues and budget surpluses. Year-end surpluses are an especially
appropriate source for replenishing fund balance.
RTD will replenish fund balances as soon as economic conditions allow.
2. In accordance with the adopted budget, RTD will designate a Board appropriated
fund balance on an annual basis. Use of the fund balance will be minimized and
occur only in specific circumstances such as severe economic downturns. With
Board approval, these funds may be used to avoid cash flow interruptions, reduce
the need for short-term borrowing, and assist in maintaining an investment-grade
bond rating. The source of replenishment of this fund will be identified and will
take place in a prompt manner.
3. In accordance with the adopted budget, RTD will designate a capital replacement fund
on an annual basis. With Board approval, these funds will be used for scheduled major
vehicle replacements and other capital purchases. The source of replenishment of this
fund will be identified and will take place in a prompt manner.
4. RTD will designate excess and undesignated working capital that may accrue at
each year-end to be placed in an unrestricted fund to be used to respond to
unanticipated events.
5. RTD will maintain an emergency (TABOR) reserve equal to three percent of nonFederal revenues, as specified by Article X, Section 20 of the Colorado
Constitution.

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement Final (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 22, 2014

6. The Board shall establish three reserves for future construction under the
FasTracks plan:

4
Packet Pg. 117

12.F.a







The FasTracks Contingency Reserve will be appropriated at a level of $30
million each year. These funds will be available to fund adjustments to the
FasTracks construction schedule, relating to logistics or cost savings
opportunities that might arise after the annual budget is adopted, and will not
be used to fund the (non-FasTracks) Base System capital or operating activity.
The FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) will be used to provide funding for
future FasTracks projects that are currently unfunded. Expenditures from the FISA
will be subject to Board approval with the staff recommended project goals identified
in the Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM). Funding of the FISA will be provided from the
sources identified in the Board approved RAM and other sources approved by the
Board.
All other FasTracks funds which have not been appropriated, or otherwise
designated as reserved, in the current budget year will be maintained in a
reserve for future FasTracks capital and operating expenditures and will not be
used to fund the (non-FasTracks) Base System expenditures.

DEBT POLICIES
1. Capital projects funded through the issuance of bonds, Certificates of Participation
(COPs) or other financial obligations shall be financed for a period not to exceed
the expected useful life of the asset.
2. Effective communication with credit rating agencies will be maintained, and a
policy of full disclosure on every financial report and official statement will be
followed.
3. Before long-term debt is issued, the impact of debt service on total annual
expenditures will be analyzed.
4. Debt financing will not be issued to support current operating expenditures.
It is the intent of RTD to maintain a high quality investment-grade credit rating. The
benefit of maintaining RTD's credit ratings at the highest reasonably attainable
level in light of current economic conditions and availability of capital funding is to
receive lower interest rates and lower debt insurance premiums than would be
possible with lower credit ratings. RTD’s current ratings are listed below:
Classification

Senior
Bonds

FasTracks
Bonds

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement Final (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 22, 2014

Certificates
of

5
Packet Pg. 118

12.F.a

Standard
and Poor’s
Moody’s
Investors
Service
Fitch Ratings

(0.6%)

(0.4%)

Participation

AAA

AA+

A-

Aa3

Aa2

Aa3

AA

AA

A+

5. RTD will maintain a minimum gross sales tax revenue bond coverage ratio for the
Base System (annual non-FasTracks sales and use tax revenue to annual sales and
use tax debt service for senior non-FasTracks debt) of four times for debt backed
by the 0.6% sales and use tax. RTD will maintain a minimum gross sales tax
revenue bond coverage ratio for FasTracks (annual FasTracks sales and use tax
revenue to annual FasTracks sales and use tax debt service) of two times for debt
backed by the 0.4% FasTracks sales and use tax.
6. RTD will maintain a minimum net revenue coverage ratio (all annual revenues
remaining after operating and maintenance expenses, net of passthrough grants, to
annual debt service requirements net of excess appropriations required for variable
rate debt) of 1.2 times total debt.

BUDGET POLICIES
1. RTD shall comply with all requirements of the Colorado Local Government Budget
Law.
2. The budget will be prepared on a program/project basis.
3. As part of the budget development process, the Board will review the current
goals, objectives, and performance indicators for use in preparing the budget for
the following year. The Board will adopt the final performance indicators before
the adoption of the annual budget.

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement Final (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 22, 2014

4. The Board will review the adopted fiscal policies annually and consider any
changes that may be necessary.
5. There shall be a budgetary monitoring system that charges expenditures against
approved budget appropriations.
6
Packet Pg. 119

12.F.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 22, 2014

The actual level of

7. The budget shall be prepared using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles with
the following exceptions:
 inclusion of capital outlays and debt principal payments as expenditures;
 inclusion of asset sale proceeds and debt issuance proceeds
 exclusion of gains and losses on disposition of property and equipment

8. The budget document shall be submitted to the Government Finance Officers
Association annually for consideration for the Distinguished Budget Presentation
Award, which evaluates the document as a communications device, financial plan,
operations guide, and policy document.
9. Quarterly performance reports will be presented to the Board of Directors to assess
RTD's performance on the adopted performance indicators.
10. A balanced budget in which beginning reserves plus total anticipated revenues is
greater than or equal to expenditures will be prepared.
11. Budgetary procedures that fund current expenditures at the expense of future
needs, such as postponing preventive maintenance expenditures or replacement of
equipment, will be avoided.
12. RTD will provide conservative revenue estimates that take into consideration
recent experience and reflect reasonable future growth.
13. RTD will monitor revenue sources regularly and amend the budget, as necessary,
to reflect the most current information available. RTD will also change the level of
expenditures, as needed, to maintain a balanced budget.
14. RTD will project revenues for at least six years and will update the projections
annually as part of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). Each existing and potential
revenue source will be reexamined annually.
15. As part of the SBP, RTD also will prepare a six-year operating expenditure plan
that includes projections of annual service growth plus allowances for operating
costs of new capital assets.

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement Final (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

6. The budget shall be summarized for adoption purposes.
adoption shall be determined by the Board.

16. A budget will be prepared that contains essential programs and projects needed
to support the goals and objectives of RTD, responds to citizen demand, and
reflects administrative evaluation of current needs.
7
Packet Pg. 120

12.F.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 22, 2014

1. The accounting system will maintain records on a basis consistent with Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles for local governments.
2. The accounts of RTD will be reported using the accrual basis of accounting.
Revenues will be recognized when earned and expenses will be recognized when
incurred.
3. RTD will establish and maintain a high standard of accounting practices to conform
with uniform financial reporting in Colorado.
4. An independent firm of certified public accountants will perform an annual financial
and grant compliance audit and will issue an opinion that will be incorporated into
the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
5. RTD will submit the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report to the Government
Finance Officers Association for consideration for the Certificate of Excellence in
Financial Reporting.
6. The accounting system will record investment activity.
7. Internal control policies will be developed and maintained to include procedures
that separate control of assets from accounting for those assets.
8. RTD will identify and account for all revenues, expenditures, assets and liabilities
related to the FasTracks capital and operating program separately from the Base
System operations.
9. A monthly financial status report shall be submitted to the Board.

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement Final (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING POLICIES

GRANT POLICIES
1. All potential grants shall be carefully examined for matching requirements (both
dollar and level-of-effort matches).

8
Packet Pg. 121

12.F.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 22, 2014

3. RTD will program its federal grant funds to minimize the time between
appropriation and drawdown of federal funds.
4. RTD will use all eligible Section 5307 formula federal grant funds for capital
maintenance projects to minimize the time between appropriation and drawdown
of federal funds.

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement Final (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

2. Intergovernmental assistance shall be used to finance only those capital
improvements that are consistent with the capital improvement plan and RTD
priorities and in which operating and maintenance costs have been included in
operating budget forecasts.

9
Packet Pg. 122

12.G

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 9, 2013

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

October 9, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 29, 2013

Subject:

Certification of the 2014 Contribution for the
RTD Salaried Employees' Retirement Plans

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
certifies a 2014 contribution to RTD’s Salaried Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB
Plan”), which pays a specified monthly benefit at retirement, at the actuarial recommended amount of
$3.1 million. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to
the Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan Trust (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified
amount to the plan for each year of employment, at a rate of 9% of each participant’s eligible
compensation.
BACKGROUND
In December, 2007, the RTD Board of Directors closed the DB Plan to new employees with new
employees hired on January 1, 2008 and later participating in the DC Plan. In 2013, the Board amended
the contribution to the DB Plan to a fixed annual amount of $3.1 million based on actuarial
recommendations. Previously, the DB Plan had been funded on a percentage of salaries basis. In
addition, the Board approved a contribution rate of 9% of salaries for participants in the DC Plan in
2013.
DISCUSSION
The recommended fixed annual contribution of $3.1 million to the DB Plan was determined by the plan’s
actuaries to be the annual contribution necessary to maintain a “fully funded” status for the plan. The
Board of Directors agreed that beginning in 2013, annual contributions to the DB Plan would be made at
fixed annual amounts of $3.1 million rather than as a percentage of salaries as a result of the Actuary’s
recommendations.
Section 4.1 of the RTD Salaried Employees’ DC Plan adopted by the RTD Board provides that the
Employer may, at its sole discretion, set a contribution rate between 7-9% per year for participants. The
contribution rate has been 9% each year to the DC Plan from 2008 through 2013.
FINANCIAL IMPACT

Packet Pg. 123

12.G

Below is a summary of the current and recommended DB and DC Plan funding scenarios:

% of
Salaries
N/A

$

% of
Salaries
9%

Salaried DB Plan
2014
2013
Projected
Projected

1

8%
7%

3,100,000

$

3,100,000

Salaried DC Plan
2014
2013
Projected
Projected
$ 1,940,758
$ 1,884,231
1,725,118
1,509,478

1,674,872
1,465,513

Change
$

-

Change
$
56,527

Recommended

50,246
43,965

1

The assumed contributions indicate the different amounts that would be required to fund the plan at
9%, 8% and 7% of eligible salaries in 2014.

ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended that the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to RTD’s Salaried
Employees’ Pension Trust at the actuarial recommended amount of $3.1 million and Salaried
Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan Trust rate at 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation.
2. Certify an amount to be contributed to the RTD Salaried Employees’ Pension Trust and the RTD
Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan Trust at amounts other than $3.1 million and 9%
respectively.
3. Do not authorize a contribution to the RTD Salaried Employees’ Pensions. This is not
recommended because the DB Plan’s funding status would deteriorate and the liability would
increase.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 124

12.H

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 10, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 8, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 29, 2013

Subject:

January 2014 Service Changes

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors approve
the January 2014 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an
annualized cost increase of approximately $635,500 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or
his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole while also
continuing to review the impacts of the implementation of the West Corridor Light Rail Service and the
associated bus service changes. Routine service changes not associated with or included in the West
Corridor Service Plan are necessary to maintain system on-time performance and provide the appropriate
level of service according to customer demand while we will also need to monitor customer response to
the implementation of West Corridor bus and rail service and propose adjustments as appropriate.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
 Response to changes in the communities where services are provided
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
Eight public hearings were held between September 18 and September 26, 2013 in Boulder, Denver and
Lakewood. Comments from these meetings and the service change website are summarized in
Attachment B of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATIONS
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following represent substantive changes proposed to
the service changes initially communicated to the Board of Directors for implementation as part of the
January 2014 service change. Also included in these changes are items changed by amendment of the
initial proposal, through the actions of the Board of Directors: :

Packet Pg. 125

12.H

Route 86X – Westminster Center Express
An additional morning trip is proposed to address passenger overloads issues.
Route 100X – South Kipling Express
Cancel the proposal to move the 6:10pm departure from Civic Center to 5:40pm.
Route 120X – Thornton Wagon Road Express
An additional trip has been proposed to address overloads experienced during the evening peak period.
Route 225 – Boulder/Lafayette/Broomfield
Running tome adjustments resulting in the need for additional resources are now proposed to allow
better connection to the Route 76 and overall on-time performance.
Route 410 – Lincoln Avenue/Parker
The proposal to curtail service between the Pinery and Parker park-n-Ride has been deleted from the
proposal.
Route P – Parker/Denver
The trip arriving Parker park-n-Ride at 4:11pm is proposed to be extended to the Pinery park-n-Ride.
Longmont Call-n-Ride
An additional vehicle is proposed to be added for the Longmont Call-n-Ride to address shortfalls in trip
availability during peak periods.
D-Line:
The proposal to permanently close the 29th&Welton Station has been eliminated.
The following are to be added to the list of routes with Routine Service Adjustments:
Route AA – Wagon Road/DIA
Route AB – Boulder/DIA
Route B – Boulder/Denver
Route DASH – Boulder/Laffayette via Louisville
Route DD – Boulder/Colorado Boulevard
Route T – Boulder/DTC
Route Y – Lyons/Boulder
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES
Service Reductions
Route 54 – Montbello Industrial Park: discontinue 9:05am and 2:05pm trips
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus: reduce frequency and operate with small vehicle
Route YL – Lyons/Longmont: discontinue service due to low ridership
D-Line: propose to permanently close the 29th&Welton Station (leaving the station infrastructure intact
until the completion of the Central Corridor/Welton Streetcar study)
Mixed Service Reductions/Service Increases

Packet Pg. 126

12.H

Route 10 – East 12th Avenue: weekday schedule adjustments in the Central Platte Valley
Route 52 – West 52nd Avenue: relocate via Zuni St./W. 46th Ave. (see map)
Route 205 – 28th St/Gunbarrel/ Heatherwood: Rename and reroute service. (see map)
Route 225 – Boulder/ Broomfield via Baseline/US 287: extend weekday service span
Route 323 – Skyline Crosstown: reroute westbound via Hover/Bent/Dry Creek and Nelson. (see map)
Route 410 – Lincoln Ave/Parker: additional trips.
Route AB – Boulder/DIA: Shift the last westbound, weekday trip.
Route BOUND – 30th Street: Interline with pull-in trips from other local routes
Route JUMP – Boulder/ Lafayette via Arapahoe: Extend long-JUMP trips to serve Arapahoe/63rd
Ranches package: shift first am trip later by 5 minutes
 Route 77 - Ken Caryl Avenue: would have minor schedule adjustments.
 Route 401 – Ranches Crosstown: would have minor schedule adjustments.
 Route 402Ltd – Highlands Ranch Parkway Limited: would have minor schedule adjustments
 Route 403 - Lucent Boulevard: is proposed to remove the Dutch Creek deviation. (see map)
Belleview Call-n-Ride: convert the flex route to demand only service
South Simms – Alameda Parkway package: 21, 116L, and 116X
 Route 21 – Iliff/Evans Crosstown: minor schedule adjustments (see map)
 Route 100X – South Kipling Express: move pm trip time in conjunction with other changes
 Route 116Ltd – Ken Caryl Limited: is proposed to be rescheduled to increase its span of service
 Route 116X – Ken Caryl Express: is proposed to have an additional trip added in each direction
Thornton/Northglenn Call-n-Ride: consolidate the North and South Thornton call-n-Ride areas
Routine Service Adjustments
Route 0 - South Broadway: weekday schedule adjustments
Route 6 – East 6th Ave/North Pecos: extend 8:30am westbound trip
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue: schedule adjustments
Route 16 – West Colfax: minor schedule adjustments. (see map)
Route 16Ltd – West Colfax: minor schedule adjustments. (see map)
Route 21 – Evans Avenue: add 7:51am westbound. (see map)
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue /City Park: schedule adjustments
Route 35 – Hampden Avenue: schedule adjustments
Route 40 – Colorado Blvd: schedule adjustments
Route 133 – Hampden/Tower: schedule adjustments
Route 135 – Smoky Hill Road: schedule adjustments
Route 139 – Quincy Avenue: schedule adjustments
Route AA – Wagon Road/DIA: shift first AM trip 5 minutes earlier
Route AB – Boulder/DIA: minor schedule adjustments
Route AF – Downtown/DIA: schedule adjustments
Route B – Boulder/Denver: schedule adjustments
Route DASH – Boulder/Laffayette via Louisville: schedule adjustments
Route DD – Boulder/Colorado Boulevard: schedule adjustments
Routes ES and EV: schedule adjustments
Route T – Boulder/DTC: schedule adjustments
Route Y – Lyons/Boulder: schedule adjustments
W-Line: minor schedule adjustments
Service Improvements

Packet Pg. 127

12.H

Route 20 – 20th Avenue: relocate the terminal loop at West 17th Avenue/Federal Blvd. (see map)
Route 66 – Arapahoe Road: add Sunday/holiday service east of Arapahoe Station
Route 105 – Havana Street: improve weekday midday frequency to 15 minute frequency
Route 86X – Westminster Center Express: add a southbound am peak trip
Route 120X – Thornton Wagon Road Express: add a southbound am peak trip
Route AT – Arapahoe County/DIA: extend 3:42am northbound trip from Nine Mile Station
Routes CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver: minor schedule adjustment
Route HX – 28th Street/ Civic Center: Add AM peak and PM peak trip
Route P – Parker/Denver: add southbound trip from Civic Center Station, extend trip to the Pinery pnR
Golden Call-n-Ride: add additional vehicle to weekday service
Longmont Call-n-Ride: add vehicle during peak periods
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact contained in this proposal is estimated at an annualized $635,500. Funding for
these changes is included in the 2014 budget request.
ATTACHMENTS:


Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A



Board Report January 2014 - Attachment B summary



A Look Ahead - Attachment C



CPN RTD Feeback on 29-Welton Station Closure 20131008 - Attachment D



Closing RTD station at 29th and Welton - Attachment E

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

(DOCX)
(DOCX)

(DOCX)
(PDF)

(DOCX)

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Bruce Daly, Director, District N
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 128

12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2013

Route 6 – East 6th Ave/North Pecos
Extend 8:30am westbound trip from 8th/Colorado to instead originate at Centrepoint &
Sable Transfer Center at 7:51am. Relieves overloads on the following trip at 8:06am from
Centrepoint & Sable. Annualized costs are estimated to be $10,300
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue
Changes are proposed for weekdays in the Central Platte Valley segment of the route. The 4:50
a.m. trip from 9th/Clermont would be extended to the Rockmont Loop, improving connections to
Union Station via the Millennium Bridge. The 5:39 a.m. trip from Elitch’s would instead start
from the Rockmont Loop at 5:36 a.m. The 5:51 a.m. trip from Rockmont would instead start
from Elitch’s at 5:54 a.m. In the evening, the trip from the Aquarium at 6:34 p.m. would no
longer stop at Elitch’s, as alternate trips are now available. Cost estimated to be $3,500
annualized.
Route 16 – West Colfax
Proposed for minor schedule adjustments and a change to the Downtown turnaround,
which will be rerouted to facilitate use of articulated buses: eastbound from Colfax via
Grant Street, 13th Avenue, Bannock Street, West 11th Avenue to terminal. No change in
westbound route. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 16Ltd - West Colfax
Proposed minor schedule adjustments involving the Downtown turnaround rerouted to
facilitate use of city transit buses: eastbound from Colfax via Court Place, Broadway, and
16th Avenue into Civic Center Station. No change in westbound route. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 20 – 20th Avenue
This proposal is for minor schedule adjustments related to relocating the terminal loop at
West 17th Avenue/Federal Boulevard to match alignment of through trips from NREL. No
cost impacts anticipated.
Route 21 – Evans Avenue (see also South Simms Package)
Add 7:51am westbound trip from Centrepoint & Sable to Evans Station is proposed to
relieve overloads on both the 7:36am and 8:06am westbound trips. Cost estimated to be
$25,900 annualized.
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue/City Park
Schedule adjustments are proposed due to congestion on West 32nd Avenue. No cost impacts are
anticipated.

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Route 0 - Broadway
Weekday running time adjustments; annualized cost increase is estimated to be $62,000.

Route 35 – Hampden Avenue
Minor schedule adjustments and route change at Hampden- Acoma Street. No cost impact
anticipated.

Packet Pg. 129

12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2013

Route 52 – West 52nd Avenue
Realign from current route at West 50th Avenue and Zuni Street via Zuni Street, West 46th
Avenue on to current route at West 46th Avenue and Pecos Street. New alignment brings
service directly to a recently enlarged senior housing development and reduces duplication
with Route 6. Current alignment serves stops for 93 weekday boardings, 60 Saturday
boardings, and 30 Sunday & holiday boardings, of which approximately one-third are
transfers with Route 6, which instead would be available at the intersection of West 46th
Avenue and Pecos Street. All of the affected passengers would remain within walking
distance of Local Routes 6, 44 or 52. No cost impact anticipated.
Route 54 – Montbello Industrial Park
Discontinue 9:05am trip (0 passengers) and 2:05pm trip (1 passenger).
Annualized cost savings are estimated to be $10,000.
Route 66 – Arapahoe Road
Add Sunday/holiday service east of Arapahoe Station to Arapahoe Crossing Shopping
Center. Sunday service hours to match Saturday service on this segment 7:00am to
9:00pm. Cost estimated to be $35,300 annualized.
Route 86X – Westminster Center Express
An additional morning trip is proposed to address passenger overloads issues.
Cost estimated to be an annualized $9,500.
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus
Reduce frequency from every 30 to every 60 minutes, and operate with small cut-a-way
style vehicle. Service frequency matches overall demand, will reduce neighborhood
impacts in Stapleton. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 100X – South Wadsworth Express (see also South Simms Package)
Minor adjustments in morning departure times are expected.
Route 105 – Havana Street
Improve weekday midday frequency to a consistent 15 minute frequency. Current
frequency is 15/15/30, leading to overcrowding and schedule adherence problems on trips
following the 30 minute gap. Cost estimated at $62,000 annualized.
Route 120X – Thornton Wagon Road Express
An additional trip has been proposed to address overloads experienced during the evening
peak period. Cost estimated to be $12,800 annualized.

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Route 40 – Colorado Blvd
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed. No cost impact anticipated.

Route 133 – Hampden/Tower
Schedule adjustments, no cost impacts anticipated.

Packet Pg. 130

12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2013
Route 135 – Smoky Hill Road
Schedule adjustments, no cost impacts anticipated.

Route 205 – 28th St/Gunbarrel/ Heatherwood
Rename route to better reflect area served: 28th St/Jay Rd/Heatherwood
Adjust trip patterns, bi-directionally to reduce confusion of current routing (eastbound
backtracks on westbound and vice versa); change start/end of route to Pearl/3rd vs.
14/Walnut; running time adjustments on Sat/Sun, no cost impact anticipated
Route 225 – Boulder/ Broomfield via Baseline/US 287
In combination with interline to Route BOUND, extend weekday service span to match
Saturday; add one northbound trip between US 36 & Broomfield PnR and Lafayette PnR,
with a leave time of 10:05pm from US 36 & Broomfield PnR, to provide late night
connection from Route 76, due to a customer request. Add an additional vehicle due to
address on-time performance issue and to improve connection to Route 76. Cost
estimated to be $56,850 annualized.
Route 323 – Skyline Crosstown
Reroute westbound via Hover/Bent/Dry Creek and Nelson) to avoid rail-road crossing and
possible trip delays (agreed upon with City of Longmont in meetings held for Apr 13
service changes) No additional cost anticipated.
Route 410 – Lincoln Ave/Parker
- Add new afternoon trips at 2:24pm and 3:24pm eastbound from Lincoln Station,
and at 2:58pm and 3:58pm from Parker Park-n-Ride. Expands service to midafternoon school ridership peaks, provides earlier service for early departures from
downtown Denver and elsewhere connecting via LRT at Lincoln Station, including
relieving overloads on first southbound Route P trip. Cost = 2.0 hours.
- Add new morning trips at 7:51am eastbound from Lincoln Station, and 8:19am
westbound from Parker Park-n-Ride. Provides improved late peak service for Parker
residents. Cost = 1.0 hour. Cost estimated to be $31,500 annualized.
Route AA – Wagon Road/DIA:
It is proposed to shift the 1st east-bound AM trip back by 5 minutes to allow for an earlier
arrival at DIA to better serve DIA employees shift start time at 4:00am and other minor
schedule adjustments. No cost impacts anticipated.

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Route 139 – Quincy Avenue
Schedule adjustments, no cost impacts anticipated.

Route AB – Boulder/DIA
Shift the last westbound, weekday trip to a leave time of 12:13x versus the current
11:41pm to allow for better connections from late night flights into DIA. Minor schedule
adjustments. Cost estimated to be $5,800 annualized.

Packet Pg. 131

12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2013
Route AF – Downtown/DIA
Running time adjustments, no cost impact anticipated

Route B – Boulder/Denver
It is proposed to adjust AM peak trip times to better balance passenger loads, no cost
impacts anticipated.
Route BOUND – 30th Street
Improve operational reliability by improving recovery after 7pm on weekdays.
Cost estimated to be $52,700 hours/weekday
Routes CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver
It is expected that the new Pine Junction Park-n-Ride will be opened during this fall. Minor
schedule adjustments will be made for this change. In addition, the first eastbound Route CS trip
is proposed to operate five minutes earlier than at present. Cost estimated to be $8,200
annualized.
Route DASH – Boulder/Laffayette via Louisville
It is proposed to adjust running times in the AM peak westbound and PM peak eastbound.
Route DD – Boulder/Colorado Boulevard
It is proposed to adjust the AM trip times to better balance trip levels along US 36 and to
avoid bunching of 3 or more buses at various PnR’s along the US 36 corridor. No cost
impacts are anticipated.
Routes ES and EV – Evergreen/Denver
It is proposed to set the departure time of Routes ES and EV seven to eight minutes earlier on the
first three trips from Evergreen Park-n-Ride to Civic Center Station. No cost impact anticipated.
Route HX – 28th Street/ Civic Center
Add one AM peak trip and one PM peak trip to alleviate overloads; adjust running times
between 19th St/Wynkoop and Civic Center Station in both directions Cost estimated to
be $31,700 annualized.

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Route AT – Arapahoe County/DIA
Extend 3:42am northbound trip from Nine Mile Station to instead originate at Arapahoe
Station at 3:28am. Provides important employee start time service for Arapahoe
customers. Cost estimated to be $4,600 annualized.

Route JUMP – Boulder/ Lafayette via Arapahoe
Due to completion of the Arapahoe Road construction, Long-JUMP trips will now serve the
new on-street stops at Boulder Technical Education Center (Arapahoe/63rd) instead of
accessing the stop inside the Boulder Valley School District property. Route patterns and
related trip times will be adjusted to reflect this change. No cost impact is anticipated.

Packet Pg. 132

12.H.a

Route P – Parker/Denver
Add southbound trip from Civic Center Station at 3:15pm, relieving overloads on the
current first afternoon trip at 3:45pm. Also, move 4:20pm southbound trip to 4:30pm, for
improved load distribution with 4:45pm trip. Extend the 4:11pm trip leaving Civic Center
Station to the Pinery park-n-Ride from its current terminal at Parker park-n-Ride. Cost
estimated to be $27,000 annualized.
Route T – Boulder/DTC
Minor AM trip time and running time adjustments to allow for better connections at
Arapahoe Station are proposed. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route Y – Lyons/Boulder
It is proposed to shift the first south-bound trip 6min earlier, to allow for better regional
connections at Boulder Transit Center. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route YL – Lyons/Longmont:
The Route YL is a Boulder County sponsored CMAQ grant funded service that was
implemented in January 2012. Ridership on this service has leveled off at
10 boardings
per day, which is far below the RTD Service Standard for its service type. It is proposed to
discontinue this service. No cost savings would be realized by the RTD, due to the grant
funding of this service.
W-Line Light Rail
Schedule for weekdays and weekends will have slight adjustments, based on operating
experience. No cost impact anticipated.
Ranches package
Route 77 would have minor schedule adjustments.
Route 401 would have minor schedule adjustments. The 8:18 p.m. westbound and 8:42 p.m.
eastbound trips are proposed to be discontinued, due to low ridership [4 passengers total] (-1
weekday hour).
Route 402Ltd would have minor schedule adjustments. (+2.5 weekday hours if no saved bus in
Route 403)
Route 403 is proposed to be removed from the Dutch Creek deviation. It would continue to
serve Highland Heritage Regional Park from University/Lincoln. It is proposed to discontinue trips
from Littleton/Mineral Station at 8:44 a.m. and from Lincoln Station at 8:52 a.m. due to low
ridership [11 passengers total] (-1.5 weekday hours for trips cut, additional savings from
removing deviation). No cost impact anticipated.

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Attachment A
August 8, 2013

South Simms – Alameda Parkway package
Route 21 is proposed to be returned to its former alignment from West Jewell Ave. via West Yale
Ave., Bear Creek Blvd., and Alameda Parkway and return. Service levels will remain unchanged.
Route 100X would have minor schedule adjustments.

Packet Pg. 133

12.H.a

Route 116Ltd is proposed to be rescheduled to increase its span of service, covering times not
covered by Route 116X, as well as retaining the most utilized trips in both morning and afternoon
peaks. Proposed arrivals at Federal Center Station are at 5:48, 7:18 and 8:48 a.m. Proposed
departures from Federal Center Station are at 2:55, 4:25, 5:45 and 7:10 p.m.
Route 116X is proposed to have an additional trip added in each direction, with some trips
rescheduled. Arrivals at Civic Center Station would be at 6:34, 7:14, 7:44 and 8:23 a.m.
Departures – subject to adjustments for gate availability – would be at 3:35 p.m., 4:40 p.m.,
5:25 p.m., and 6:10 p.m. No cost impact anticipated.
Call-n-Ride
Belleview Call-n-Ride began operating in January 2012 under a Congestion Mitigation Air
Quality Improvement Grant (CMAQ) sponsored by the Denver South Transportation
Management Association. The Call-n-Ride serves the Denver Technological Center out of
the Belleview Station. In the pm period the Call-n-Ride has been operating a flex route
south of Belleview Ave. Because of the low ridership of the flex route, it is recommended
to discontinue the flex route and have the Call-n-Ride serve our customers by demand
only. No cost impacts are anticipated with this proposal.
Golden Call-n-Ride began operation in April 2013 with the opening of the West Line Light
Rail under a Congestion Mitigation Air Quality Improvement Grant (CMAQ) sponsored by
the City of Golden, the Colorado School of Mines and the RTD. The Call-n-Ride operates
one vehicle as a Flex Route and one vehicle as a non-flex route Call-n-Ride. Ridership has
been rising since opening to over 9 boardings per hour. This proposal calls for an
additional 12 hours of Call-n-Ride service be added to the service. Cost impacts are
estimated to be $150,009 (including fuel) annualized.

Longmont Call-n-Ride began operating in February 2001. The Call-n-Ride currently
operates three vehicles during peak periods in the Longmont community. During the
school year, the Call-n-Rides are booked with student related trips. This proposal is to add
an additional vehicle during the school year to be used specifically for students thereby
allowing the regular Call-n-Ride to be used for non-student trips. Annual Cost impacts are
anticipated to be $55,000.
Thornton/Northglenn Call-n-Ride began operating in December 2003 and the South
Thornton/Northglenn Call-n-Ride began operating in August 2007. These Call-n-Rides are
divided by 112th Avenue. Customers routinely transfer between the two Call-n-Rides at
112th Avenue. This proposal calls for a change that will allow customers to book a trip in
either service area without a transfer. Customers will call the Call-n-Ride that their trip
begins in and will be able to travel to the other Call-n-Ride area without a transfer. No cost
impacts are anticipated with this proposal.

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Attachment A
August 8, 2013

Packet Pg. 134

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2013

Packet Pg. 135

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2-13

Packet Pg. 136

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2-13

Packet Pg. 137

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2-13

Packet Pg. 138

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2-13

Packet Pg. 139

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2-13

Packet Pg. 140

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2-13

Packet Pg. 141

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2-13

Packet Pg. 142

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.a

Packet Pg. 143

Public Hearing
18 September 2013
RTD Rooms T & D
12:00pm
This meeting was attended by three members of the public, 12 RTD employees, and two
RTD board members. Comments were received in support of additional trips on Route
116X. Comments were also received against making any changes to Route 100X. A
passenger also spoke in favor of improving connections between Light Rail lines at Auraria
West Station at off-peak hours. The meeting was concluded at 12:17.
Public Hearing
18 September 2013
RTD Rooms T & D
6:00pm
This meeting began at 6:30pm and was attended by one public participant, one RTD staff
member and RTD board member Director Natalie Menten. Comments were received in
support of additional trips on Route 116X. The meeting ended at 6:45pm.
Public Hearing
19 September 2013
Civic Center
Noon
This meeting was attended by 9 members of the public and RTD Board member Natalie
Menten. RTD Staff in attendance included Jeff Dunning, Robert Rynerson, and Chris
Marko. Comments and suggestion were heard regarding Routes: 9, 16L, 32, 116X, EV,
and the W light rail line. Much of the discussion centered on the Route 116X service
change with participants offering suggestions for alternative times.
Public Hearing
19 September 2013
Boulder YMCA 2800 Mapleton Ave,
7:00pm
This meeting was attended by four members of the public, RTD Board member Director
Judy Lubow, Nataly Erving, Nate Diaz and Dave Menter from RTD staff. Requests for
increases in service to the Route 225 and an offer of assistance from the local chapter
National Federation of the Blind were comments heard. The meeting officially closed at
7:48pm.
Public Hearing
19 September 2013
Central Park Recreation Center
7:00 pm
There were six member of the public attending along with Directors Malpiede and Menten
and Service Planning & Scheduling staff Jeff Dunning, Chris Marko, and Cesar
Ochoa. The meeting ran from 7:07 – 8:45 p.m. The six attendees spoke exclusively of
RTD’s maintaining the Route 89 on 29th Ave. Negative comments regarding home values,
public safety, and an ‘Out-of-date’ green book, or master plan of the community, were
repeated. There were questions about a larger, non-RTD sponsored, April meeting

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment B summary (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.b

Packet Pg. 144

12.H.b

Public Hearing
21 September, 2013
Green Mountain Recreation Center
1:00 pm
This meeting was attended by 12 members from the public and two RTD Board Members;
Director Bruce Daly and Director Natalie Menten. Staff in attendance included Robert
Rynerson, Doug Monroe, and Diane Marquiss from Service Development and, Joy Volz
from Access-a-Ride. Much of the discussion centered on the proposal for Route 21 and WLine light rail operations/connections.
Public Hearing
21 September 2013
Chaffee Park Senior Residences
9:00am
This meeting was attended by 32 members of the public, three RTD employees, and two
RTD board members. Support was expressed for the proposed change to Route 52 that
would travel immediately adjacent to the senior residences. Current bus service is difficult
to access from this facility and many residents are dependent on RTD service. It was also
requested that RTD make their bus schedules more accessible by producing them in large
print.
Public Hearing
26 September 2013
Glenarm Recreation Center
6:00pm
This hearing was attended by eight members of the public, three RTD employees, and one
RTD board member. Support was given for the permanent closure of the 29th & Welton
Station to help on-time performance on the D Line. It was also asked that RTD not just
abandon and neglect the station after closure, but to do something useful with the site.
Constituents also spoke on the proposed Central Corridor where support was given for
continuing as light rail to 38th & Blake Station. It was also suggested that there be more
warnings for pedestrians at Switch 21 when delayed trains are able to continue.

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment B summary (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

regarding the same subject. There were also questions about why the bus stops were
placed in different locations relative to the transit street improvements.

Packet Pg. 145

12.H.b

Additional Comments from Service Change Email, Petitions, and TIC
Support

BX

1

26

Opposed

ES
89

1
1
1
1
1

BN
116X
100X

1
1
1

10

1

401

1

205
116X

1
1

116

1

402X

1

100X

1

100X

1

P

Additional Comments
Last Name

Pearen

116X
P

Inquiry/
Complaint

1

116X

1

100X

1

403

1

Parking

1

Changes to accommodate slip
ramp should be made.
Rowland
Bus stop at Wadsworth Station
dangerous
Spruitenburg Suggesting route changes - no
stops in Ken Caryl
Likes earlier bus - Should be at
3:20 or later
Prefers no change to times
LaFarr
Caffrey
in favor of 30 minute headways
Sniff
Proposing earlier leave time for
first trip
Howard
In favor of more trips
Raiser
Opposed to dropping route
Clinton
Standing loads/busses passing
up passengers
Berg
Opposed to cancellation of last
trip
Messenger
Wants specifics on changes
Gill
Supports more time - still wants
a non-stop KC route
Larsens
Opposed to cutbacks in service
Shagena
No sufficient service in area Call n Ride doesn't work at
all/filled up
Brown
Eliminating route would make
trip home impossible.
Janata
Opposed to cut in service - it is
NOT replaced by 116X service.
Maret-Smith Need more service and better
times
Stephens
Changes have added too much
time to daily commute
Hime
Commute now takes adtl 15
minutes
St. Hilaire
Opposed to closing Dutch Creek
Post office stop
Hillen
Lack of parking throughout
system

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment B summary (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Route

Packet Pg. 146

Anschutz

1

116X

1

Highlands
Ranch Calln-Ride

1

Battle
Sweeney

Shagena

Laber
P
P

1
Clark
Jackson

1

120X

1

P

1

McGovern
Burroughs

24

1

P

1

120X

1

HX

1

HX

1

Carter
David
Malloy

P

Fraser
1

Edwards
Jampica

1X

1

10

1

24

1

StocklinSteely
Powers

116X

1

P

1

FLEX

1

Santoro
Houston

Wilson

Request route similar to DM
coming from the South area
Poor leave times/poor
connections
Always FULL - no service
provided unless you're already
in system
Nice to add extra time - but 3:15
too early - 3:25/3:30 would be
much better
Great changes - will help riders
Buses standing loads/passengers
waiting/mess with school
starting up
Need additional service - but
3:15 too early
Bus needs to get to Dry Creek &
University 5 minutes earlier to
service school kids
Need additional service - but
3:15 too early
Need more service after 9:20
AM
No shelters during construction no curb/hard to step up on
buses
Need more buses/dangerous for
passengers to stand on highway
Request to route P to Union
Station
Would like more areas added to
route, i.e. Santa Fe/Valley
Business Center/etc
Great route - too
crowded/standing loads/passing
up passengers
County Line/University pickup
needs to be 5 minutes earlier to
get kids to Arapahoe HS on time.
Happy about adtl times
Need additional service - but
3:15 too early
Work better connections at
Federal Center

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment B summary (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.b

Packet Pg. 147

P

1

20

1

120X

Feldman
CriddellTapanen
Barnes

1

103/101

1

66

1

Maes
Tesar
Vancil

116X
P

1

100X
AB

Clark
Jensen

1
1

Gottlieb

1

89
BX/BMS

1
1

77

1

17

1

401

1

GMCNR

1

105

1

89

Karly
Bailey
Mellentine
Perry
Schaubs
Griffin
Kulik

1
Heit

Total
Route

1001

11
Support

23

Need additional service - but
3:15 too early
Route needs Limited or Express
service - takes way too long
Buses standing loads/passengers
waiting/mess with school
starting up
Connection currently works please don't change it
Proposed changes to Route 66
to better serve area
Good that there's extra service;
but should be between 3:35 and
5:25 - after 6:00 really not
necessary
Very happy with adtl service
Opposed to dropping 6:10 pm
trip
Happy with adjustment to last
trip
Opposed to cutbacks in service
Route change suggestion
Asking for better connection to
Lt Rail
Would like Rt 17 reinstated to
Golden as before
Suggestion for change to
schedule
Suggestion for changes to
service
Please with adtl weekday service
- possibly ending "no shows"
Enjoys and uses service - very
upset to see service cutback already no evening or weekend
service.

24

CSR Complaints Received by TIC by route
Opposed
Inquiry
Summation of typical complaints
1

Schlauder

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment B summary (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.b

Changes won't work 116X
doesn't serve Kipling

Packet Pg. 148

12.H.b

1

Sindy

DASH

1

Davis

Total

0

3

Opposed to cutback in service certain ridership will pick-up
Please don't remove the Table
Mesa @ 39th Stop

0

Petitions
53
Total

63
85
Total Communications

Residents of Chaffee Park Senior Center would
like detour to remain to provide service for
residents/new facility/no sidewalks in area

149

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment B summary (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

89

Packet Pg. 149

12.H.c

With the opening of the Union Station Bus Concourse routes currently serving the Market
Street Station and surrounding area will be redirected to access the new facility. With this
change our customers will be accommodated by the 16th Street Mall Ride and 18th and
19th Street Circulator at Union Station. Services impacted by this change include Routes:
0, 6, 15Ltd, 31X, 40X, 55X, 72X, 80X, 86X, 104X, 120X, BF, BMX, BV, BX, L, LNX,
LSX, LX, S and AF. Additionally, changes are expected on Routes HX and 122X; though
these services terminate at Civic Center Station, expected growth in passenger demand
will require adjustments to the service levels of these routes. Minor schedule adjustments
will be made in nearby Routes: 10*, 28, 32, and 44* (Routes marked with an asterisk
change in January 2014)
Public information and input efforts will begin with meetings held at Blake Street on
November 15 and 20, 2013. The meetings along with direct mail and stakeholder contact
will inform constituents and customers of the upcoming changes and probable impacts.
The public input process would conclude during the normal public hearing process for the
May 2014 Service Change currently slated for February 2014.

Attachment: A Look Ahead - Attachment C (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

A Look Ahead: May 2014 – Union Station Opening

Packet Pg. 150

2705 Stout Street
Denver, CO 80205
October 8, 2013
RTD Service Planning
1600 Blake Street
Denver, Colorado 80202
Curtis Park Neighbors Feedback on Proposal to Permanently Close 29th/Welton Light Rail Station
Curtis Park Neighbors (CPN) appreciates the outreach and careful review that RTD staff has done
regarding the closure of the 29th/Welton light rail stop.
29TH/WELTON CLOSURE IMPROVES OPERATIONS RELIABILITY, BUT STATION CANNOT BE
ALLOWED TO BECOME A BLIGHT, AND SAFETY AT 30TH/DOWNING MUST BE ADDRESSED
The data collected this year agrees with riders’ experience: the set of changes including the closure of the
29th/Welton station, the implementation of north-bound signal-priority at Park Avenue for the light rail
trains, and other schedule adjustments have improved the overall D-line’s on-time performance and have
improved connections at 30th/Downing. In the current circumstances, the closure of the 29th/Welton
station was worthwhile and the station should remain closed.
However, we have two significant concerns that must be addressed in conjunction with the permanent
closure of the 29th/Welton Station:


The 29th/Welton station platform and area must be kept as attractive as possible, with no
unsightly construction fencing, weeds, rusty or broken features, or other signs of deterioration.
Ideally the station vertical elements should be removed to limit the appearance of being an
“abandoned station.” Despite the lack of a stop at this location in the immediate term, the
revitalization of that part of the corridor should not be hindered by signs of blight at the former
station.



RTD must do more to improve safety and a sense of security at the 30th/Downing station,
parking, and transfer area. One of the most frequent concerns we heard when the trial closure of
29th/Welton was proposed and began was from residents, some with children, who had been using
that station because of real and legitimate safety concerns at 30th/Downing.
RTD has a track record of ignoring repeated requests – including requests by CPN delivered at
RTD Board meetings – to address aspects of safety at 30th/Downing, such as long-burned-out
lights. (The lights were not addressed by RTD after years of asking until we engaged the command
staff of the Denver Police Department, who demanded and got RTD Facilities’ attention and
finally had the lighting repaired in May.) Police records and neighborhood experience continue to
show safety issues at 30th/Downing, including a call for assistance by DPD just yesterday in
identifying suspects in a brutal beating and robbery in September. (See attached news stories.)

Attachment: CPN RTD Feeback on 29-Welton Station Closure 20131008 - Attachment D (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.d

(continued)

Curtis Park Neighbors, Inc.
curtis-park-neighbors-board@googlegroups.com

A Denver Registered Neighborhood Organization
www.curtispark.com
Packet Pg. 151

RTD must do more to improve safety at 30th /Downing, particularly recognizing that the
closure of the 29th/Welton station has removed an important way for residents to stay out of a
known troubled area. CPN would like to work with RTD and the Denver Police on a specific
action plan for improving security at 30th/Downing.

EVEN WITH 29TH/WELTON CLOSURE, ON-TIME PERFORMANCE ON NORTH-BOUND RAIL TO
30TH/DOWNING REMAINS POOR. LONG-TERM PLANNING MUST PRIORITIZE LONG-TERM SOLUTIONS.
The review presented by RTD staff at several forums in the past weeks showed that although overall Dline on-time performance is now back above 90%, the north-bound D-line on Welton, mid-day, is only
on-time to 30th/Downing a poor 66% of the time. Although improved from its prior state, as discussed
above, it must be acknowledged that this is still quite bad. Efforts to identify and address the causes of the
on-time performance problems that remain must continue.
Looking at the longer-term, RTD should continue working with the community on developing a
preferred alternative for two-way double-track rail operations on Welton, as envisioned in the
Northeast Downtown Neighborhoods Plan and other plans, and as is being examined in RTD’s Central
Rail Extension Project. The developed alternative must:


Continue high-quality rail service in the Welton/Downing corridor,



Have stops approximately every two blocks, including in the “Arapahoe Square” area,



Be capable of excellent on-time performance,



Provide a one-seat ride from 38th/Blake into downtown with easy transfers to light rail lines,
the free MallRide, the new free MetroRide circulator, and connections to key destinations
downtown, and



Be capable of handling existing and future passenger demand as this corridor becomes more
heavily used by local residents, visitors to the commercial corridor, and passengers connecting
between the East Corridor and downtown. This may require the ability to increase service
frequency as a means of meeting increased ridership over the long-term.

This position was adopted by CPN following presentations by RTD staff and internal discussions, and was
voted on unanimously by the Board of Directors of CPN.
Joel Noble
President, Curtis Park Neighbors
jnoble@frii.net

curtis-park-neighbors-board@googlegroups.com

Attachment: CPN RTD Feeback on 29-Welton Station Closure 20131008 - Attachment D (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.d

www.curtispark.com
Packet Pg. 152

Attachment: CPN RTD Feeback on 29-Welton Station Closure 20131008 - Attachment D (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.d

curtis-park-neighbors-board@googlegroups.com

www.curtispark.com
Packet Pg. 153

Attachment: CPN RTD Feeback on 29-Welton Station Closure 20131008 - Attachment D (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.d

curtis-park-neighbors-board@googlegroups.com

www.curtispark.com
Packet Pg. 154

12.H.e

Director Barbara Deadwyler
Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake St.
Denver, CO 80202
Re: The Closing of the Light Rail Station at 29th and Welton St.
Dear Board of Directors:
The Five Points Business District represents property owners, business owners, and
community stakeholders in the heart of Historic Five Points. As you know, the above
referenced station is located on the main street of our culturally historic Welton Street
Corridor.
We felt it was important to announce this proposed closing to our mailing list of over 800
community stakeholders and on our Face Book page. We included this subject matter on the
agenda of our monthly community meeting held Saturday, October 6, where Mr. Jesse Carter
from RTD spoke about the benefits of closing this station. While we did not receive a multitude
of complaints, I am concerned that the protests will not really take place until the station is
actually closed in January, one of the coldest months of the year.
We recognize that the proposed closing may significantly increase the on-time performance
and service reliability of this train. However, our property owners who are re -developing their
sites to enhance the commercial prosperity of this area are not inclined to agree that
increasing the on-time performance rate will outweigh the benefits of spurring development
activities on this corridor.
Case in point: The Five Points community is included in RTD”s TOD Pilot Program to study the
possibilities of developing land that RTD owns to revitalize our neighborhood. The RTD/TOD
Pilot Program case study is on the parcel of land that is directly across the street from the 29th
and Welton St. station.

Attachment: Closing RTD station at 29th and Welton - Attachment E (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

October 22, 2012

Packet Pg. 155

Will this closure affect developers from investing in RTD/TOD’s project if RTD should decide to
pursue development? Will closing the station deter other property owners from investing in
the neighborhood?
These questions are difficult to answer right now but should be asked and answered prior to
making the decision to permanently close this station. We hope that the RTD Board evaluates
not only the on-time performance and reliability issue but also the effect this closure has had
on the commuters, the residents, and the property owners that are being encouraged to
redevelop our historic district.
Sincerely,

Tracy J. Winchester
Executive Director

Attachment: Closing RTD station at 29th and Welton - Attachment E (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

12.H.e

Packet Pg. 156

