2024-11-11
Performance Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: Whoops. Restart. The Monday, November 11 Performance Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 8:32 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this morning. Please note that Committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. During today's meeting, We are also providing Communication
Access Real Time translation, also known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should
send an email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via
RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to call the roll for the Committee members. Director Buzek?
VANCE BUZEK: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I do not see Director Tisdale. And then I am Chair Peggy Catlin, and I am present.
So for the record, we have six Directors, and we have Director Marjorie Sloan also present.
I'd like to open the comment period to anyone who would like to address the Committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish
to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press Star 9 on your
phone.
During this time, the Committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted directly regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised for public comments?

JACK KROLL: Hi, Committee Chair Catlin. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At
this juncture, I see no one present who has raised their hand in desire of providing public comment. And
further to that effect, there were no written comments received in advance of this meeting as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: All right then. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public comment
period at this time. Are there any other matters to discuss prior to entertaining a motion to move into
executive session?
Seeing none, I would like to note that at this time, the next Performance Committee is scheduled for
January 25. However, it is very likely that the Committee will need to meet again before the end of the
year. So for members of the public, I would recommend paying attention to our two-week calendar and
meeting schedule at rtd.iqm2.com.
In a moment, the Committee will meet in executive session to receive legal advice and to discuss
personnel matters regarding the GM CEO's 2025 performance goals. I would like to append the motion to
move into executive session to state that the Performance Committee will be deemed adjourned after it
adjourns into the executive session.
For public transparency, this means that once the Committee moves into executive session, the main
meeting will be adjourned. I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the
following.
Pursuant to 24-6-402 (4) (F) (1), Colorado Revised Statute for consideration of personnel matters
regarding the General Manager and CEO's performance goals and input from the Board of Directors in
the same. Is there a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
JAIME LEWIS: Second. Lewis.
PEGGY CATLIN: I have Director Guissinger as the movant and Director Lewis as the second. Are there
any no votes? Seeing none-- sorry, I'm writing this down-- the main meeting is adjourned into executive
session at 8:37 AM. And we will take a few moments to exit this meeting and rejoin the other meeting.
Thank you.

