2022-10-11
Finance and Planning Committee (1)
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, good evening, everybody. Welcome to the Finance and Planning Committee
meeting. We will now come to order and are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain time. I would respectfully
ask everybody attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. And thank
you for joining us.
As has been the case, and we will continue to do our official meetings of the RTD Board are being held
remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. For the immediate future, we will continue to
hold our meetings via Zoom, and they will be audio and video recorded. You can visit RTD-Denver.com to
access all meeting recordings as well as our unofficial meeting minutes.
Directors and member of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask that you please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you
before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can raise their virtual hands to
indicate they would like to speak by pressing star 9. You can toggle your mute settings on the phone
using star 6.
I'll go ahead and call the roll of our committee members now starting with Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Committee vice-chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Board first vice chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, and Board treasurer Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Present, and I am present. That is seven directors present, zero absent. For the sake
of the record, I also see Directors Sloan and Williams here.

We're now going to move into our public comment section. This is including our-- we received some
feedback regarding the paid family medical leave insurance program, or FAMILY comments. So
specifically, I will open up the floor for any comments anyone attending to weigh in on this matter.
This will be to address the committee regarding any topics on this agenda as well as specifically
comments about the paid family medical leave insurance or FAMILY consideration for which we have
received some feedback.
If you would wish to speak and have not already done so, please, either raise your virtual hand or press
star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. Again, if you are using a phone,
you can toggle your mute settings with star 6. And as always, please, do bear in mind that, if you
participate in this process this evening, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, you
can submit your comments in writing.
If any speaker has any documentation to share that is pertinent to your comments this evening or
reference materials, please, submit those to the Board Office at RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com.
During this comment period, the committee will not offer any comments or responses. Directors or staff
may contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up.
Speakers should please begin the remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will limit their
speech to at least-- I'm sorry, to at most three minutes. Thank you. So with that, I will turn to Miss
McManus. Do you see anybody in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no hands raised and 10 attendees.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, well, seeing no hands raised, we won't be receiving public comments. However,
we did receive three email comments this evening regarding the FAMILY program. Those were received
from Sandy Granger, Christopher Harman, and Rachel Nelson. We thank you for submitting your
comments. We will not be reading those comments this evening, but they will be included with the official
record of this meeting.
Seeing no other attendees in the queue or speakers, we will close out the public comment period. There
are no information from external entities this evening, so we're going to move right into recommended
actions. Let's get to it. We've got another busy, busy night here.
So we've got six recommended actions. We'll go to our first recommended action. This is for the Audit
Committee charter. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the Audit Committee charter. Do I have a
motion, please?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the mover as Director Catlin, the second as Director Whitmore. And with that, I
would like to ask Mr. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, who's been acting as liaison here, to jump in
for the presentation, as well as we are joined by Dave Haronik from Rubin Brown, who I believe will also
be presenting the items. I'll start, Mr. MacLeod, with you. And feel free to hand off to Dave.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and good evening. As the Chair mentioned, we are seeking the
Finance and Planning Committee approval of the audit charter. A lot of work has gone into this. I'd like to
thank Directors Dishell, Catlin, and Davidson for all their work on the ad hoc committee.
We're finally coming to an end here of the start up of the internal audit function. This is just one of those
documents that we need to get in place that really sets the parameters for the function of the Audit
Committee itself.
You may recall that we did bring this item as a discussion item on September 13 to this committee and
also to the full Board on September 28 to gather feedback. We have incorporated that feedback after
discussing with the ad hoc committee members what the implications of that were and in incorporating
those in the charter itself.
We do have two additional modifications, which were not included in this copy, which will show up after
this evening, assuming approval, to move to the full board for consideration. Very minor modifications.
Those were after legal review. There's just two references in there to the Colorado Open Meetings Law.
We will provide that with the updated attachment tomorrow.
This item has no financial impact, and if the charter is approved, we would come back to the full board in
November with the recommendations for the Audit Committee members.
So at this point Dave, could you give a quick summary of the changes that have been incorporated in this
latest version, please?
DAVE HARONIK: Yes, thank you, Doug. I think the first main change was we heard from the feedback
after the last Finance and Administrative Committee meeting that there was interest in having more board
representation. So we've moved to have the board membership changed from two to three members.
We have defined the terms for the members of the board and the external members. We have removed
any references from shareholders to district and stakeholders. And we've added provisions for the
committee member death or resignation to be able to keep the succession all in order.
And then, I guess, we have also added the provision for outlining the activities should be conducted in
accordance with the applicable standards or guidance. And then, primarily, that's with the QAR, the
quality assurance review.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much.
DOUG LACLEOD: Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I think, with that-- yeah, please, go ahead.
DOUG LACLEOD: I apologize. Thank you. Melanie just let me know, and I apologize, there will not be
changes made to the attachment. Those two changes with the Open Meetings Law were included in this
document. My mistake. It was put in at the last minute. So thank you, Melanie.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem. Thank you. All right, with that, I would like to open this for some
discussion and questions from directors. I believe we have some questions and discussion to get through.
I have an idea about how to approach this if we have any further questions.

Just, if I may, before we go into questions, one of the things we're trying to do is get this charter approved
in October or, at the latest, in November so that we are able to form the committee by the end of this
year, given that one of the items proposed in the charter is that committee members will have served on
the board for at least a year.
So in the interest of time, let's see how our discussion goes. If there are any recommended changes to
this, then General Counsel Snyder, I may have some questions just as to how we might be able to
approach this for the board meeting at the end of the month, should there be any amendments that need
to be crafted between now and then.
So with that, I'd like to open the floor for questions and discussions to directors. And thank you to Rubin
Brown for your work on this thus far. And thank you, Mr. MacLeod, for shepherding this process along. So
Directors, please, go ahead. Yes, Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm going to have to switch to a different screen so I can see my highlighted copy.
Thank you all for the work in the update from our prior session. Really appreciated that. And I get and
agree with the need to get this going.
There were a couple of questions I wanted to get with you about. On page one of the Audit Committee
charter, under the purpose section, last statement says, "except as otherwise required by applicable laws
or regulations, all major decisions are considered by the Board of Directors as a whole."
I didn't find, however, where those major decisions are defined, and then combining that with what looks
to be the actual decision authority and approval authority for the Board. It looked like some pretty
significant things fall to the Board and don't, in fact, come to the-- excuse me, fall to the committee and
don't, in fact, come to the Board as a whole. Am I reading that right, wherever it says "it is empowered to."
That means it's the final decision maker. Is that correct? That's my first question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Cook. And Dave, I'm wondering if you might chime in on that. I
have some perspective based on where I think that terminology came from. But if you wouldn't mind
starting us off, please, that would be great.
DAVE HARONIK: Yes, I believe the intent of that was to show that the Board is ultimately having the
authority. Although, the main, I guess, decisions and work will be decided, I guess, at the Audit
Committee meetings. But in order to fulfill the oversight responsibilities of the Board, we wanted to state
that. So maybe the wording maybe could be massaged a little bit. But I'll leave that for discussion.
SHELLEY COOK: Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please.
SHELLEY COOK: So are you saying that where it indicates approval capability by the Audit Committee,
that in fact, those are recommendations to the Board as a whole, in each case or in some cases? Can
you tell me-- get me a better idea about that?
DAVE HARONIK: I can chime in here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Go ahead. Yeah, please.

DAVE HARONIK: Yeah, and maybe it's best to give an example. And I think the first, probably, order of
business would be to approve an audit plan or the first direction, which maybe it's to update the enterprise
risk assessment. But let's say that we move along, we create the audit plan, and it goes to the committee
for approval. This approval would then, I guess, be done at the committee level. However, the Board
would be notified of the actions that had taken place.
SHELLEY COOK: But the Board doesn't approve them is what you're saying in that instance. Correct?
DAVE HARONIK: I would believe that that would be the most efficient way to run run things. If the Audit
Committee wanted to bring a more significant thing to the Board, I would say that would be at the
committee's discretion. And I may be speaking out of turn from what the ad hoc directors had maybe
considered.
But it would be my impression that the Audit Committee, as formed, would have the authority to make
those approvals or make those decisions and approvals. And then, anything significant, like audit reports
and things, would be maybe just provided as attachments or information for the Board at a later date.
SHELLEY COOK: So just for what it's worth to wrap up that topic, I think, remember, everything we've
heard from the APTA peer review committee, the folks who are in the same industry in this field,
considered the best from the State Auditor twice, was that this function of oversight for the internal audit
function in particular is a Board responsibility.
And I'm glad we've gotten three members now, majority of that subcommittee. But I don't think it's in
keeping with that charge if, in fact, the Board does not have decision making ability on at least some of
the major decisions. I would think the hiring, compensation, et cetera. The Chief Audit Executive ought to
come to the Board maybe with a recommendation. This is just me.
The approval of the internal audit plan, maybe this could be at the discretion of the committee members.
But if there is a significant risk that's been raised, we need to address, involves significant monetary
commitments, then the Board ought to be briefed on that in a way that gives them a fuller understanding.
So I'm a little bit-- it would be my preference, one Board member, that, instead of delegating virtually all
approval capability to this committee, that some things come to the Board just in keeping with what we've
been told as guidance for this function. So that was the first thing.
And then I had a second question, if I may, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, please, go ahead, and then we'll return to that first another-- oh, OK, I got-SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, if you'd like to take somebody else, that would be OK too. OK, and I'll try to be
briefer about this. There's a mention where-- I've got to get down to my note here-- where there is-- you
know what? Let me come back to it because I have to find my post-it on the PDF file. So if you wouldn't
mind, but what it has to do with is what information comes to the Board.
And there is a section there where it references the Board, but I thought it would be fairly easily done to
tack on to that that the board members who are not a part of the internal audit, or excuse me, the Audit
Committee, that they would be able to access the packets plus the reports themselves, understanding
that there may be, in some cases, a concern about sensitivity or exposing the agency to risk, that
precautions could be made.

But I think it's really important for the board members themselves to have access to all the information
that's presented to the committee members. Those are my two things. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Cook. And I just would ask, as other Directors do chime in here on
that first topic. Thank you for raising that. I do recognize most of our committees are structured as making
a recommendation that then goes to the full board. And we could do one of two things.
One thing we could do is do a carve out of what some of the, as you started to get into there, Director
Cook, about what some of the substantial decisions are that would go through a recommendation from
committee and then to full board for approval, perhaps for example, hiring decisions, and so forth.
I know that we're trying to get this into the agenda for the board meeting at the end of the month. I do
have some thoughts about maybe how to approach that if we are looking at some changes. But just for
the purposes of moving forward in the discussion, Dave, if you wouldn't mind just making note that we
may need to think a little bit between now and the board meeting about whether we carve out particular
responsibilities or if we just move initially to a full-- as this committee functions, for example-recommendation for then board approval.
We may need to have a discussion between now and the board meeting about how to approach that. And
then to my fellow directors as you chime in, if you do have a perspective on that, please, feel free to
weigh in on that point in case we have some additional work to do. So with that, thank you, Director Cook,
for the comments. And Director Guissinger, please, go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much, and thanks for both of your comments. I agree. I think that
it says major decisions will come to the Board, and then all the decisions are really left to the committee.
And I'm open to hearing if that's the way it needs to be.
Thank you, first of all, for the work you did to listen to us before and make changes in this. I agree with
trying to move this forward in October. I guess I don't feel strongly between the two options that you're
posing there, Chair. But I do feel like the information coming to the Board needs to be with understanding
the need for protection so that, in compliance with the Open Meetings Law, it needs to be fully available.
And some of these decisions-- I think the internal audit plan is a major decision. Some of the hiring,
maybe, I think you mentioned is one of the first things that would happen with updating the risk
assessment. I continue to have concerns about the risk assessment and how it was performed and what
it came up with.
I think I asked last time about discounting the Board's input to 20%, and I think the answer was that's how
it's always done or how you always do it. But I'm not sure if you work with cities where that's done with
city council. I'm not convinced that the things at the very top are the biggest threats to the agency.
So I think that some of those decisions-- like I say, I can be convinced to have all of those things decided
by the committee. But I do think that we need to define what major decisions are and what the Board
weighs in on. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guissinger. I'm going to pause there just for a moment, Dave, to
see if you have any comments on Dr. Guissinger's comments or on Director Cook's point about the
distribution of materials because I do believe, although it may not be explicitly captured here, and this
may be an item we want to touch upon. The intent is to distribute all documentation to Board members.

So anyway, Dave, it's OK if you don't have any further comments. But is there anything you'd like to react
to in the comments thus far?
DAVE HARONIK: Yeah, I would say I would agree with your last statement that it is intended for
everything to go to the Board. It's just we do recognize that your time is valuable, and you may not want a
full audit report to read through. It's customary to provide the executive summaries to the full Board where
the Audit Committee would have the full report to read, and obviously, then to decide what is-- if there's
sensitive information-- to go to the full Board.
But agree that, yes, all information should be coming your way. And I think maybe the right way to go
there is to probably provide like an SOP for the Audit Committee or for the internal audit function to what
is then disseminated and provided to you.
And certain things that can maybe go in advance of a committee meeting or a prior month's committee
meeting to let you know like, yes, we will change the weighting on the risk assessment to maybe it's 33%
for management, senior management and Board, something like that.
And then we could-- I don't know if it's more for informational or if that would go to votes. But I would think
that, from a timing perspective, that a lot of that could be handled at the Audit Committee level.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you for sharing the comments, Dave. And the thing I would just also state
too for everybody to be mindful of is thanks for touching on standard operating procedures. I know one of
the things that we're in the absence of right now is having the Audit Committee in place on its permanent
basis.
So once we establish the Audit Committee, we'll be looking at the risk universe. We'll be looking at the
audit plan. And I think it's great that you touched on standard operating procedures. That's also where I
think the committee can drive into issues about how do we handle sensitive information, which I believe
we may have one or two things to address that we can take at that point, how to distribute materials, as
well as how to weight board versus staff.
I think a lot of that will fall into SOP discussions. So thanks for touching on that, and be a lot of work to do
next year. The formation of the Audit Committee is certainly not a conclusion. It's a beginning. All right,
thank you for allowing me to comment on that. I'm going to go ahead and call on Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I guess I'd be a little uncomfortable saying that everything should be
made immediately available to the general public. I can think that maybe you had an internal control
review done, and there were four or five weaknesses found. And you'd be telling people how to get in and
exploit those weaknesses if you broadcast everything on that.
The other thing is, if there were some comments that were critical of employees, then you're putting the
employee's name in there-- and I don't think that's right-- for all the world to see because they haven't had
a chance to rebut or anything.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you for those comments, Director Broom. I think that is a really important
consideration, and that's along the lines of what I mentioned that I think, when we get to looking at how
the function and the committee operate, we're going to have to do some thinking about even things along
the lines of cybersecurity, for that matter, whether we have sufficient room for executive session, for
example. And I think we're going to have to tackle that. I see that, actually, Miss Johnson has raised her
hand. Oh.

AUDIENCE: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Never mind.
AUDIENCE: He didn't [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem. No problem at all. So yeah, thank you for those comments, Director
Broom. I think that is really important. Dave, is there anything you want to comment along those lines in
terms of standard practice or any thoughts you have at this stage in terms of how to handle that?
DAVE HARONIK: No, I would 100% agree that there would be discretion, and I think that would go in to
the SOPs as to what would be provided or what should be. Obviously, Open Record laws would-- if
someone really wanted to find that information out, they could. But that's why it's customary to provide the
summaries and not get into the details unless it's absolutely needed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. That's a great point. Dr. Broom, did you have any follow up comments on
that?
BOB BROOM: No, I don't. The only other thing is that, when you put together a document that's so
specific and so detailed out, you can set yourself up by somebody else taking a look and saying, well,
where's my report? How did you do on all these 76 items that were in here?
In other words, I'd rather see something be shorter, more generalized, than something that's-- but it's too
late for that. I'm not going to pursue that. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you. Thank you, Director Broom. I appreciate the comments and feedback
on that. I see Director Dishell on the queue next. Please, go ahead, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thanks. Director Davidson said I think one other thing to chew on is think
creatively about how do we balance what goes up to the full board and what doesn't. Is borrowing from
the land use world is a call up [INAUDIBLE] for the Board could be an option, which is to say, if the
committee approves certain things that would typically fall in that-- Director Guissinger [INAUDIBLE] a
major decision, the Board would have the right to call that action up similar to the way city councils call up
planning decisions, not regularly.
But it provides that extra level of if the Board-- which basically limits the scope to A, we're vesting a lot of
trust in the committee. But if there's certain materiality items that can be forwarded, the Board has the
right to call it out for full Board approval after 10 days. The Board has 10 days to say the Audit Committee
met. I disagree. I want to call it out for full Board approval.
Basically, instead of saying it all goes up to the Board giving the Board the option to call them up,
therefore limiting the risk on what could be inadvertently shared, or to Director Broom's point, trying to
keep that tight. So just want to offer that as a possible option [INAUDIBLE] there.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. That's interesting perspective, and I'll comment for a
moment and see if any directors have any response or feedback on that. But that is an interesting point,
and I do think that there's a weakness and a strength here that, as Director Cook here pointing out on this
issue of what is provided to the Board. The charter does not explicitly call that out.

That may be a strength in that we may have a little bit of work to do here on what our standard operating
procedures will be. Director Dishell, you bring up a good point about how to maybe call that up. I guess
maybe I'll just pause to see if there's any discussion on this, but my thought would be to not make any
modifications at this point to the charter regarding the distribution of documentation but that we are,
perhaps, amending the charter once we have some standard operating procedures set and we know the
mechanics of how we go through this.
Perhaps, we could revisit that to codify it into the charter six months into the committee's function. Let me
just pause there and see if either, Dave, from your perspective, or any of my Board colleagues, there's
any feedback on that. Or I should say any disagreement with that.
OK, I've seen some thumbs up, but I see-- yeah, yeah, please go ahead, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think we started out along this path by agreeing that we need to be flexible and nimble
and be able to adjust as we go along. And it seems to me that, if directors are feeling the need for more
information, that we can certainly accommodate those requests.
And I wouldn't be too prescriptive about exactly what-- we can provide some examples of the major
decisions. And you can say examples of these decisions are not limited to this list, but they're just
examples of what we can do.
So I'm fine with including a few of those major decisions in the charter if that gives some comfort to
directors Cook and Guissinger. I'm fine with including some of those, but I don't want it to be too limiting.
That's all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. Thank you. I think that's the point well made and important
for us to be flexible. So I think, if everyone's generally OK with that, Director, I'd like to come back to
Director Cook's first point, which I think is a really good one, that we have this statement on page one
about all major decisions going to the Board as a whole. But we haven't really described those.
So I have a question that I think maybe for General Counsel Snyder, and I would be open to the idea that
we make some small adjustments to this. So looking at Mr. MacLeod and Dave here, we may need to do
a little bit of work together just to make some modifications, perhaps carve out those decisions.
But in order to move this to the agenda at the end of the month, we're going to need to approve, if
everybody's on board with approving this tonight. My question to General Counsel Snyder is can we
approve tonight with the commitment that we'll work on an amendment here for the end of the month, pull
this from unanimous consent, and propose an amendment at the end of the month? So first, General
Counsel Snyder, if you wouldn't mind just chiming in on whether the mechanics of that will suffice. You're
on mute, sorry.
MELANIE SNYDER: Sorry, clicked too quickly. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General
Counsel. That was perfect. That's exactly what I was going to recommend that you remove it from the
consent agenda, both this and likely the internal audit function charter as well with the understanding that
the ad hoc committee members are going to work with Doug MacLeod and myself and with the members
at Rubin Brown and come up with any potential amendments.
And I think, in the interim, if directors have ideas or anything else that they want to consider, send that
through to Board staff so those can get compiled. And then plan to offer a consolidated amendment,
motion to amend at the board meeting.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Perfect. OK, thanks for that Miss Snyder. I think that, if that's the direction we decide to
go tonight, then I would recommend to my colleagues that we move this forward tonight and then work on
the amendment between here and there collecting that feedback, as Miss Snyder suggested there. And
then we can propose an amendment at the board meeting. Dave, I see your hand came up on this, so
thanks for waiting there. Please, go ahead.
DAVE HARONIK: Well, I don't know why I didn't think of this sooner, but I did reference the audit function
charter. And there is a section in there on page two, the Audit Committee approves the internal audit
charter, the risk-based internal audit plan, the internal audit function budget, and so on.
So that is detailed out in that charter. So if the committee was comfortable moving that along, I know you
can't really put the cart before the horse, but in anticipation of reviewing the changes to-- I guess that
charter has already been approved and those are just small changes that are being made to that. But I
thought I would point that out.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for pointing that out. That is a good call out. If I may, for any directors who
would like to chime in on this, and please, feel free to submit comments after the fact and email as you
think about this. The question I have-- and we can talk about this tonight. And again, please, submit
feedback. I believe our next add hoc meeting is next Monday.
The question on my mind is what should be carved out, if anything? So actually, Dave, thanks for pointing
that out. On page two of the internal audit function charter there are several bullets about the committee's
approval of the charter itself, the risk-based plan, the budget, et cetera. So Dr. Cook, I think, if I'm
understanding your concern, and I share it, is that there may be some things, if not everything, that needs
to be carved out for the Board.
So that's the question I would ask my colleagues is what would you like to carve out? We can discuss that
now. You could submit that in writing, and we can collect that feedback. I would just ask that any
feedback that we collect be done by this upcoming Sunday by end of day so that we can be discussing it
at our Monday ad hoc meeting and work quickly over two to three days to form an amendment.
So do any directors have any comments on that? Director Cook, you raised the issue. Is there anything
you'd like to comment on it at this time?
SHELLEY COOK: No, thank you. I think it's a good approach. I appreciate that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great, General Counsel Snyder, please, go ahead.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you. And so just for clarity so that we can respect the Open Meetings Law,
we're asking directors to submit that through the Board Office so that the Board Office can compile that.
We're not going to have emails going around to all the different directors.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for providing that clarity and reminder. Yes, please, submit any comments
you have to the Board Office, and then we can work at committee on Monday at the ad hoc committee to
understand those comments. Thank you very much.
OK, any further questions, any further discussion? All right, I'm going to go ahead and do a roll call vote
on this. To be clear, we are voting to approve the charter and move forward to the end of the month. The
idea is that we will likely-- we'll certainly pull this from consent agenda, a unanimous consent agenda. We

will likely be proposing an amendment at the end of the month. So you can always vote no at that time if
you're not happy with the amendment.
So as the charter is currently written, I'm going to call for the roll vote to approve and move forward. So
going down the list here, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Direct Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Aye.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am also a yes vote. So that is seven yes votes, zero no. That is unanimously
moving forward. Thank you very much. And thank you to everybody here for a discussion and work in the
committee. I appreciate it.
So we are going to go ahead and move to the next recommended action. This is related. It is for approval
of the internal audit function charter. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the amended internal audit
function charter. Do we have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: I'll make the motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I had Guissinger as the mover and Whitmore as the second, again, how the order that
I heard that. So similar, we'll have a discussion here, any questions about this. But first, I'd like to see if
Mr. MacLeod, Dave, if you have any information that you'd like to present about this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. I think just a quick background reminder. So the last time the
internal audit function charter was approved was in July of 2021. We've made a few changes since that
time, got board feedback in this committee feedback in September similar to the Audit Committee charter.

This internal audit function charter really lays out the scope of responsibilities for the internal audit
function, which Rubin Brown will be providing to RTD. Dave, do you have anything that you wanted to
point out, any changes?
DAVE HARONIK: No, I think that's entirely correct. I think really just change it to allow for a service
provider to be that internal audit function.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great, thank you very much. Yeah, we all got a lot more familiar with this one last year,
a couple of changes as we marry these two up. If there are any amendments that impact this charter, we
can also address that at the ad hoc committee and make any adjustments we need by the end of the
month. Any questions or discussion from directors?
All right, well, I'm feeling pretty good about this one given the discussion and what we did in the last one.
So I'll do this one with the any no votes. Are there any no votes on this action? All right, seeing none, we
will approve that unanimously with seven ayes, zero no's. And that will also move forward for the evening.
So thank you very much. Dave, thanks for joining us tonight. Appreciate it. I know we've had you on a lot
of meetings here, and I hope you're not getting sick of us because there's more to come. Thank you for
joining us.
DAVE HARONIK: All right, thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, thanks, everybody. We're going to go ahead and move on to the third action
item of the evening. This is regarding the Family and Medical Leave Insurance, or FAMILY program
participation. This is for the Board of Directors to opt out of the Family and Medical Leave Insurance
Program. I'll first ask, do we have a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved [INAUDIBLE].
ERIK DAVIDSON: A second?
BOB BROOM: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mover, Director Dishell. Second is Director Broom. So I will now ask Miss Leah Riley,
our Chief Administrative Officer, to please present this item.
LEAH RILEY: Great. Thank you, Mr. Chair and members of the committee. I'm Leah Riley, the Chief
Administrative Officer. And this evening I am going to briefly discuss FAMILY, which is an abbreviation for
Family and Medical Insurance, which is a state run program that builds upon the federal Family Medical
Leave Act, otherwise known as FMLA.
In November of 2020, Colorado voters approved proposition 118 paving the way for this new program,
which was designed to ensure all Colorado workers have access to paid leave or to take care of
themselves and their family during life circumstances that require leave from their work.
The program is funded by a 0.9% premium on employee wages that begins in January 2023. FAMILY
provides 12 weeks of paid leave per year, which is similar to FMLA. However, FAMILY goes beyond
FMLA by covering a percentage of employees salary during the leave, extending the definition of a family
member beyond immediate family to grandparents, grandchildren, siblings, and any other individual with
whom the employee has a significant personal bond, providing safeties for the employee if they or a

family member are the victim of domestic violence, stalking, sexual assault or abuse, and providing an
additional four weeks of leave for complications due to pregnancy or childbirth.
Under the new law, any family leave that also qualifies for FMLA has to run concurrently. However,
FAMILY provides income to the employee during the leave, whereas, FMLA does not. Should employee
take family leave for a circumstance that does not qualify for FMLA, the employee is still eligible for up to
12 weeks of FMLA leave subsequently.
And employers are not allowed to require their employees to first use paid time off or sick and vacation
leave to be paid under FAMILY.
Eligibility for families based on earnings. The employee has to have earned at least $2,500 within the
previous four quarters. They have to have been employed by the same employer for 12 months, and they
have to have worked a minimum of 1,250 hours.
The paid benefits under the FAMILY program are determined by the state average weekly wage, or SAW,
plus the employee's wages. An employee is eligible to receive a weekly payment equal to 90% of the
SAW plus 50% of their wages above the SAW. And payments cannot exceed $1,100 weekly.
Again, as I said before, the program is funded by a premium of 0.9% on employee wages. And this is split
between the employer and the employee. And the premium applies to all wages to the Social Security
max, which is currently $147,000 annually.
As I said before, premium collections will begin on January 2023, but employees will become eligible for
paid benefits in January 2024. FAMILY affects local governments, of which RTD falls under the definition,
differently than private businesses. The statute was written to give local governments options to
participate.
Local governments can participate fully, decline full participation, or decline employer participation. And
should a local government choose to opt out, it has to do so before the end of calendar year 2022, and its
governing authority, which is the Board, has to hold the public vote to do so.
A local government that elects to fully participate in FAMILY has to remain in the program and agree to
pay premiums for a minimum of three years. The estimated financial impact to RTD of opting in to
FAMILY is over $2 million annually, but that would be split equally between the agency and its
employees.
As I mentioned previously, the Board has to take a vote and public testimony prior to any FAMILY vote.
And notice of the vote has to be provided to employees and the public. And when the Board takes a vote,
it's not permanent. It has to be reconsidered every eight years. And the Board's vote is all or nothing. The
Board cannot opt in certain groups of RTD employees and opt out others.
RTD currently provides employees access to paid leave to take care of themselves or their family during
life circumstances that pull them away from their jobs. However, in recognizing the leaves under the
FAMILY program build upon these benefits and circumstances, staff recommends the Board vote to opt
out of mandatory participation in FAMILY to enable employees to decide what's best for their own
situation.

By doing so, the Board will excuse compulsory premiums on all employees regardless of their
participation. It is very important to note, no employee will receive a reduction in benefits regardless of
their decision to participate in FAMILY.
On Monday, September 26, 2022, the General Manager and CEO provided a memorandum to all
employees with information regarding the FAMILY programs premiums and benefits. I facilitated a virtual
lunch and learn session for all employees on Wednesday, September 9, 2022 to further educate and
inform employees on the FAMILY program and to provide notification of this recommended action.
In addition, informational posters outlining all benefits available to employees, including those that would
become available from the FAMILY program, have been placed in all break rooms at RTD facilities.
And lastly, on October 6, 2022, Adam Barnett, Manager of Total Rewards [INAUDIBLE] employees
emailed to all RTD employees informing them of this meeting and the upcoming Board vote on October
25, 2022. Adam provided information on how to submit written comments or provide public testimony
during each meeting.
This advance notification has exceeded the FAMILY requirements and it's allowed ample time for
employees to prepare for this meeting and the upcoming meeting on October 25. Thank you, and I'm
prepared to answer any questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you so much, Miss Riley. That is very helpful. I appreciate it, and I would also
just like to thank you as well as Miss Johnson for the communication to employees and making sure the
information is understood and disseminated. And I know that this was-- don't have a lot of time to
understand all of this or work on it, so thank you for all the work that's gone into providing this
recommendation.
So at this time, I'll go ahead and open the floor to directors who may have questions or any comments for
Miss Riley or for anybody. Yes, Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. A lot of work clearly has gone into this. It sounds like the
communication's been really good. I'm just trying to understand. So an employee could still put the
0.45%-- choose to do that. Is that right?
LEAH RILEY: If I may share this?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead. Yes, yeah.
LEAH RILEY: Yes, Director Guissinger, that's absolutely correct. And something that I failed to mention in
my talking points is that what RTD is proposing is to cover the administrative costs of supporting any RTD
employee who wants to participate in the FAMILY program.
So that means that RTD would hire an administrator to take the wage premium out of the employee's
paycheck and also submit to the state the corresponding wage and labor data that's required by the state.
So we'd be supporting any of our employees who wanted to participate.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, good. Thanks, and how does the actual benefit work if they're participating and
we aren't? Is it a smaller total that they can get?

LEAH RILEY: It is not, Director Guissinger. Whether RTD participates or not, any RTD employee that
chooses to participate in the FAMILY program, by choosing to commit to the 0.45% of the wage premium
will receive 100% of the benefits of the FAMILY program.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you to you both for that discussion. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you so much. If I heard you correctly, I think I'm understanding this
correctly. The FAMILY program expanded the definition of who is family. Is that correct? And if so, is
there any plan to include that expanded definition in our current benefits offering?
LEAH RILEY: Director Dishell, there is not an intent to extend the definition of family within the current
benefits that RTD offers. However, I will point out that, under the existing Healthy Family for Workers Act
in the state of Colorado, would provide a lot of the same benefits under the FAMILY program that goes
beyond what FMLA does. And our employees will have access to that program as they always have.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. OK, I am probably-- not probably. I'm going to be a no vote on this one. I've
thought a lot about it, but I think, for me, I get concerned that the argument for saying that we'll let people
decide what's best for themselves is similar argument to why you wouldn't provide a 401(k) or retirement
plan, but let people decide for themselves if they want to invest in their retirement.
But people decide for themselves if they want to invest in a rainy day. I think, for low income folks,
perhaps, the frontline workers supplement your income up to $1,110 a week if you have an emergency
and don't have to use the rest of your sick time and PTO time, which is your, frankly, only other access to
income is-- it's tough for me to say, especially for people who are living paycheck to paycheck or who are
struggling in the immediate. And they say, you know what? I really need that 0.49%.
I think in the aggregate, I just happen to think that giving that to folks are giving then that option to be paid
when they need to take time off is important. And I think, especially as the traditional family expands, it's
really important for folks who are raised by their grandparents or folks who have a broader definition of
family to be able to get compensated time off if there's a serious health condition or significant health
event that occurs.
If I'm misunderstanding, please, feel free to butt in. But as I see it, we're effectively telling folks, we don't
set up an alternative program for folks to still get that extended family definition and still get paid for that
time off, which I think, [INAUDIBLE] in some of the other jurisdictions [INAUDIBLE]. So I appreciate all the
work that's gone into it, but [INAUDIBLE].
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell, for those comments. Was there anything that you were
looking for a reaction for in there from staff?
BOBBY DISHELL: Was there anything I said that was inaccurate?
LEAH RILEY: Director Dishell, I don't believe anything you said was inaccurate, but I would just like to
underscore the fact that any employee at RTD is eligible to submit to this-- to participate in the FAMILY
program and participating with a 0.45% of their wage premium will get 100% of the benefits of families.
So we're not denying any employee any benefits of the FAMILY program at all. They'll have full access to
it.

BOBBY DISHELL: Right, yeah. I hear you, which is-- I still think awesome, by the way. We're not saying
[INAUDIBLE] so I think that's great. So I'm all set.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Thank you to both of you for that comments on that. Dr. Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Just to clarify, there are three options available, participate fully, decline
participation fully, or decline employer participation and provide an alternative.
If you wanted to vote in favor of the second one, decline participation fully, then you vote no on this. Is
that correct?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No, actually, Miss Riley, would you like to clarify that?
LEAH RILEY: So Director Broom, there are three options, as you noted, from the FAMILY program for
local governments. What staff is recommending to the Board to approve is for RTD to opt out of the
FAMILY program from the employee standpoint but to offer its employees an alternative, which, as I
articulated earlier, would be to allow, of course, all employees to participate and for RTD to cover all the
administrative costs for the employee participation of the program.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom, does not answer the question, that a vote-- if we were to vote yes on
this action, we are voting to opt out, however, to offer that we will administratively cover the administrative
costs and assistance for all those employees who would opt in. Does that answer your question, Dr.
Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I think it does. But it just seems like you've got a bicycle with two wheels [AUDIO
OUT]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, Dr. Broom, I think we're losing your audio.
BOB BROOM: I just-- I'm going to vote no on this because I'm not sure that I agree with this. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Being no other-- oh, Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry, just one more quick question make sure I understand. If we were fully in,
then everybody would have to-- we would withdraw the 0.45% whether they wanted us to or not. Is that
right?
LEAH RILEY: That is correct, Director Guissinger. If RTDs board chooses to opt in to the program, RTD
will be compelled to pay 0.09% on all RTD employees to the state for the program whether they choose
to participate or not.
LYNN GUISSINGER: This seems like a reasonable direction to go to give people the choice, and they
can still get the benefits. So I'll be a yes vote.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guissinger. I have just two questions. Perhaps, one is a little
qualitative. But the quantitative question first, which I believe we don't know the answer to yet and I know
is still a work in progress, but Miss Riley, do we yet know the cost of covering the administrative-- of
assisting employees on the administrative side should we decide to opt out? Do we have those
expenses?

LEAH RILEY: Director Davidson, we do not. We've been in constant contact with our insurance broker.
The companies that are going to be offering these services are waiting for final rulemaking from the state
before they can [INAUDIBLE]. They're anticipating those to happen by the end of October, but I don't
believe it's going to be financially burdensome to RTD to cover those administrative costs.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you. And just a quick follow-up question on that same point, if I may. Is it fair
to assume that whatever the cost of administering this would be, would be essentially the same or close-if we were to opt in, the financial impact would be our contribution as stated in the packet plus the
administrative cost. Whereas, an opt out would just be the administrative cost, and that administrative
cost would be the same regardless of the path. Is that correct?
LEAH RILEY: That's correct, Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you very much. Director Catlin, I see your hand up, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Leah, I was just wondering based on your outreach, both you and GM CEO
Johnson's outreach to employees, have you been able to gauge what the level of interest in participating
is from our employees?
LEAH RILEY: Thank you for the question, Director Catlin. I have not received any feedback from the
lunch and learn and don't have any estimate of are employees interested. So I don't. I can't answer that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Catlin, so the input that I did receive thus far, employees just wanted to
know if, in fact, would they still be receiving benefits from RTD, which is yes, they will be. So that's the
level of feedback I've gotten from our labor partners as well as from some employees that reached out to
me directly.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. And thank you, Director Catlin. Does that answer your question,
Dr. Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: It does. I was just thinking if there were only a handful of people who chose to
participate and contribute, would that be worth the administrative cost to the agency if it was just a
handful of people versus maybe 50% of our employees. I just don't know. You get some economies of
scale when you have that larger pool. So that's why I was asking.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. And that actually covers my more qualitative question that I
had, which was what feedback we had received thus far from employees.
So I think this makes sense. Thank you for the work that you put into this. I think it's good that our
employees will have the ability to benefit from this should they choose to opt in individually. I think that I
will be a yes on this. I would just ask-- and I'm sure we will communicate very clearly to our employees,
just as, Director Dishell, you called out, so that people understand what an opt in and an opt out means at
an individual level.
So without seeing no further discussion or questions, I'd like to thank everybody involved. Yes, Director
Whitmore, please.

TROY WHITMORE: I'm sorry. I'm confused on the vote of yes or no. The ask was to opt out, and so a yes
vote is to opt out. Correct.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That's right. A vote yes is a vote to opt out, for RTD to opt out of the participation,
which means that our employees can make the individual decision to opt in or out.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for clarifying, yes. The vote yes to opt out. So thank you for clarifying that.
OK, I'll go ahead, given the discussion, and call for a roll vote at this point in time. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am a yes. So that will be five aye votes, two no votes. The recommended action
will move forward. So thank you very much for the discussion, for the questions. I think some thoughtful
comments there. Miss Riley and Miss Johnson, thank you for the presentation and the remarks.
All right, we're going to go ahead and move to our fourth action. This is the second amendment to the
RTD Salary Defined Contribution Plan. This is for the Board of Directors to approve an amendment to the
Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Retirement Plan to retain $200,000 in annual forfeitures for
administrative expenses. Do I have a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move to approve.
BOBBY DISHELL: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the mover as Director Broom, the second as Director Dishell. Thank you very
much. I will go ahead and please ask Mr. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, to present any pertinent
information to this action.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just to give a little more background on what we're asking for
with this request, the 401(a) plan, also known as a Defined Contribution Plan, is open to nonrepresented
employees that were hired January 1, 2008 and thereafter.
Any of the employees that were hired prior to that point are in the actual Defined Benefit Pension plan. So
for this DC plan, or 401(a) plan, there is a guiding document, a plan document. In that plan document, it
currently calls for withholding of $100,000 annually of any forfeitures.
Those forfeitures occur because there is a five-year vesting schedule for these employees that participate
in this plan. I should mention that the Board had approved a 9% contribution to this plan based on wages
during 2022.
So if I'm an employee, if I don't make it to my five year anniversary, I forfeit any of the contributions that
have been put into that plan by RTD on my behalf. So it's a cliff vesting, 100% at five years, no vesting
prior to that point. Any of those forfeited funds are left within the trust. The trust uses those funds to pay
administrative expenses up to $100,000.
I don't know how long that policy has been in place, that $100,000, but over the years, the costs have
increased with insurance, investment advisors, legal advice, et cetera. It's a relatively low cost, low
Involvement plan because it's really a contributory plan in which the employee directs their investments.
However, the costs have exceeded those forfeitures that are retained in the plan.
Just to give you an idea of scale, currently, there's about $850,000 in forfeitures in that plan, so there's
ample funding to pay the additional costs, which last year, in 2021, exceeded $100,000. They were
$134,000. We expect those costs to continue to rise, not extraordinarily, but there's not enough funding
left in the funds to continue to pay those administrative expenses.
So what this amendment is seeking committee and Board approval for, since the Board has the authority
over those plan documents, is to increase the withholding of those funds, those forfeitures from $100,000
up to $200,000. Of course, the trustees would monitor that. If too much money is left in there, more than
enough money over time is left within that fund, we'd make arrangements to pull that money back to RTD.
And those conclude my comments, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. As always, I appreciate the information. I'll go
ahead and open the floor for discussion and questions starting with Director Whitmore, please.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a quick question for Doug. Is this type of payment of fees
through forfeiture of funds standard operating procedure in other entities or other industries? I assume it
is, but I just wanted to get that on the record.
DOUG MACLEOD: Great question. Yes, thank you for the question. That's true. Forfeitures are used to
pay administrative expenses. In fact, on the DC plan that we are setting up for new employees, new
represented employees, according to the collective bargaining agreement, which is effective January 1,
there are no forfeitures there.
And we do have administrative expenses setting that plan up. So we did provide upfront funding. And so
it's usually the contributing agency that contributes those amounts for which the expenses. RTD's the only
ones that could pay those expenses, so it's just a matter of which bucket of money it comes out of. So
yeah, it's very common.

TROY WHITMORE: OK, thank you. That's all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you for asking the question for the record there, and thank you, Mr.
MacLeod. Other questions or any further discussion on this action. Being none, I will go ahead and call
for the vote. I will do this by asking, are there any no votes? Right, seeing no no votes, we have seven
ayes, zero no's. And the motion passes unanimously. Thank you very much.
We will move to our next fifth action item of the evening. This is with regards to the 2023 fiscal policy. This
is for the Board of Directors to approve the 2023 fiscal policy. Do we have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second? The mover as Director Guissinger, the second as Director Catlin. So now I'll
go ahead and hand it over once again to Mr. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, to present the item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. The fiscal policy sets the guidance for the 2023 fiscal year. The Board last
approved the fiscal policy in October of last year for-- October of 2021 for 2022. We bring this policy to
the committee then the Board for approval since it's a policy in itself. But we usually bring it in the fall time
frame to align with our budgeting and forecasting in the mid-term financial plan because it really sets the
guideposts for how we develop that plan or how we develop the budget for the next year.
We can always adjust it more often if necessary if something were to change, such as when COVID
occurred. We did make some adjustments to the fiscal policy. I would mention that within your package
there's a red-line version and a final version. That red-line version points out what has changed since the
last policy that was approved.
There's really just two changes within this requested policy modification. One is a very minor change to
clarify the name of the investment policy referred to the investment policy statement. We removed the
word statement because it's called the 2023 investment policy.
The other change is also a red-line that's on the final page of the fiscal policy. And what had been put in
the fiscal policy circa early 2020, late 2019, was as COVID was appearing, there was concern about the
economic impacts that would have to RTD. Several measures were taken to reduce costs.
And in response, we wanted to have something as a company within that policy that would address
funding to restore certain items should additional funding occur given the landscape at that point in time
and the forecast for big decrease in sales taxes and other funding.
We believe it's time to remove those policies. We think that we're past some of those challenges. The
funding is in good shape and, as we'll discuss later in our budget discussion, and as we discuss in our
mid-term financial plan, we're in pretty darn good financial shape at this point in time. And those really
don't apply. So those are the main changes that we're requesting from the committee. So those are my
comments, Mr, Chair. I'd be happy to take any questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. Yes, and great to remove those COVID response
policies at the end that were reactionary and crisis mode, and a great job to you and your team for not
being in that crisis situation. So with that, I will open the floor for any discussion or questions from

directors. Right OK, great. Thank you. Yeah, Director Dishell, I thought you might be raising your hand.
Go ahead, sir. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Raise Hand button. Yeah, I'd like to move to amend the proposed policy under
expenditures policies adding a number eight. RTD will consider the social cost of carbon, methane, and
nitrous oxide open threat, which is calculated by the US interagency working group on social cost of
greenhouse gases [INAUDIBLE] calculating the cost effectiveness of expenditures. [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, I have an amendment as stated by Director Dishell. To vote on that, to
discuss that, I need a second. Do I have a second for the amendment? I will go ahead and second the
amendment. Oh, go ahead. Sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I was just going to second it to move the conversation forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, great. Same page. I'd love to discuss this. So we have the mover as Director
Dishell, and the second is Director Guissinger. So I'll open up the floor for discussion on the amendment
from Director Dishell.
So first of all, Director Dishell, thank you for sending out in an email the thoughts on the amendment. And
also, I'd personally like to thank you for raising the issue. I wanted to have some discussion around this. I
think I'm a no vote on the amendment, but I would love to hear and see if our Board, first of all, if the
committee views this as a priority, has some discussion around this, and if this is something that we move
forward as a priority on.
Perhaps, we can partner with staff, Miss Johnson, Mr. MacLeod, to explore ways to address the intent
here.
So anyway, with that, I just wanted to-- thanks for allowing me to inject my comments, but I'm going to go
ahead and open up the floor for any discussion on this amendment. Dr. Dishell, go ahead, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you so much, and thank you to those of you who reached out directly day
to day. I want to provide a framework for the logic behind bringing the amendment that, hopefully,
provides some clarity, I think, on what this is and what it means.
So [INAUDIBLE] generally speaking.
ERIK DAVIDSON: If you wouldn't mind holding one moment, Director. OK, thank you. Yeah, go ahead.
Sorry, we just were having a hard time with audio. Go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: So social cost of carbon is something that's happened both at the state level as well as
at the federal level, which is the idea is that you have public agencies when they're making policy
decisions, when they're making recommendations should include the social cost of carbon, which is a
way of capturing-- to sort of use the economics-- a way of capturing the negative externalities from the
emissions that are generated by a purchase or by a regulatory or policy-making change.
And so the idea by incorporating this into our expenditures is to have RTD think about that. And I emailed the second note about capital improvement, which, frankly, the second sentence was redundant.
The social cost of carbon includes the entire life cycle of the purchase.

But I think, in talking to folks, I think there's a materiality component, right? Should the social cost of
carbon be considered for our procurement of ballpoint pens? Probably not. It's probably not a material
component in which we need an analysis on the social cost of carbon.
But the idea is to say, to align with our sustainability goals, to align that we've stated, both in our
Reimagine RTD, to align with community values we've heard loudly from the state that monitoring
greenhouse gases and reducing greenhouse gases are important. And we see that transportation is one
of those sectors where we can see pretty big improvement.
So incorporating the social cost of carbon is one method when you're making purchasing decisions going
through this. For what it's worth, Colorado PUC requires utility companies to include the social cost of
carbon, or SNC so I don't trip up on my words in the utilities ERP plants, the energy resource plants.
Director Whitmore, making sure you're still here.
So utilities, folks who submit to the PUC, this is a normal part of the process when you're thinking about
planning, making purchases, and purchases that are going to be made. The EPA has put out reports
about this, the FTA Policy 00064 has been evaluating the social cost of carbon.
And so it is a regular part of discussion, and I recognize that if you are not working in the renewables or
electric world, that this might be a relatively new concept. But I think it's one worth discussing, and
especially, think as we align our purchasing choices our spending choices and our budget choices with
our values and our stated values, that we see that alignment top to bottom, including in [INAUDIBLE] this
respect.
So with that, I'm happy to answer questions if folks have them on the amendment. Staff, i f they have
questions as well. I know folks had questions at this time, so I will yield.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Dishell. Yeah, before we can open the floor to get
some input from staff here in a moment, I'll go ahead and call on some directors with hands up here.
Director Broom, I see that your hand is up, please.
BOB BROOM: Just a question. What page are we referring to?
BOBBY DISHELL: The policy itself is on packet page 29. The language of the amendment was
distributed by Miss McManus earlier today, sometime this morning. Or possibly yesterday [INAUDIBLE]
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair, if I might, I can pull that up on the screen with the amended language.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks, Doug. Thanks for offering that. It'd be great. This is the proposed
amendment into the fiscal policy. Thank you for putting that in there and pulling that up. Appreciate that.
Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I actually wanted to ask staff. Director Dishell was kind enough to send through some
links to relevant articles. One of them was Harvard case study where consultants, I think, or academics
had gone through and helped to analyze the purchase of or electrification of a school buses fleet. And
they used the social cost of carbon to do it.
And in calculating that cost, they mentioned several tools that they had access to in order to evaluate
that. Do we have-- I think we talked at the retreat about starting to get arms around the emissions that we

can point to as a result to or reduction of emissions, actually, too that we can point to as a result of our
operations. What do we have in that way in terms of capability, Mr. MacLeod, or otherwise?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr, MacLeod, you're on mute. And also, I do see, Miss Johnson, your hand is raised.
So please, go ahead, if you'd like as well.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Mr. MacLeod, did you want to speak and then I'll
follow up?
DOUG MACLEOD: No, I'm sorry. Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: All right, so thank you very much, Director Cook for your question. So as it relates to
what we're doing overarchingly, EPA does have a calculator that one can utilize and use that to discern
what we're doing from a sustainability vantage point to get an idea of how we're progressing. That's
readily available.
I don't believe that I have used that here at RTD. That's why I wanted to yield before to Mr. MacLeod, but
that is available as we go forward overarchingly. And I'll yield the floor because I have other comments
holistically. And perhaps, I'll say this. I think what would be advantageous for staff, if there's going to be
an environmental sustainability policy-- we have that established.
In totality, so we have an understanding of what we're doing from a financial vantage point, from an
investment vantage point, from an asset management vantage point, from a service delivery vantage
point, I think would be most advantageous for staff as opposed to having them individually because then
we have an understanding that we should be taking this in alignment with our strategic plan recognizing
what our priorities are for community value.
So then we have this clear directive as we go forward that this is more or less the backbone in
relationship to everything we're doing because that's the policy of the Board. So that's what I would offer
up to this discussion.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, that would have been my follow up question. My preference would be to say,
let's move forward in this space. Let's lead, as Director Dishell talked about. But you all would develop the
plan and such. What's your time frame for that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm sorry. I'm working on my laptop in a hotel room too, and this is like-ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, thank you so much. So recognizing we are making strides as we go forward, but
there's a myriad of things that we have to do. And I believe I've shared this with the Board previously as
we determine our path forward relative to our assets and what it is that we need to do collectively to get
us in a place where we could leverage this.
I believe there is a commitment from all of us in relationship to doing this, but I would have to confer to
staff recognizing the prioritization as we look at this holistically.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks so much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you very much for the comments on that. And Director Dishell, please, go
ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, just to say I think, from my vantage point, this issue of climate, carbon and
climate justice, recognizing that, many of the social costs of carbon disproportionally fall on protected
communities.
If we had some clearer line of sight on, hey, we're planning to bring a comprehensive climate policy plan
by Q1, '23, which is going to include all these different components, I think it would provide, certainly me
and maybe others on the Board that comfort of maybe we don't do it piecemeal down this way. I think a
comprehensive plan is what makes the most sense. But I think, in the absence of that line of sight of Q1
2023, Q2 2023, we're going to have this for you all for your consideration.
The climate emergency is here. It's pressing, and it's impacting our communities. And I think we have an
opportunity to lead here. I'm glad when we had one of the biggest electric fleets in the country. And then
that fell off, right? And that's not [INAUDIBLE].
But it's really saying the planet urgency is here, and I think if we can get a clear commitment from staff on,
yep, we're going to bring forward a comprehensive climate related policy that aligns with the strategic
plan, I think that would certainly give me more comfort.
I think it's good for us to continue to have these discussions and have folks think through the ways in
which climate impacts our entire agency. But I think that's part of the reason to bring it forward tonight is
let's move the ball forward, right? If this amendment passes, awesome. If it doesn't pass, also fine.
But I think it's really critical that we keep this top of mind and push this forward and think collaboratively
about what does putting together a climate policy look like because it is, while its operations, those are
capital investments and those are purchase choices. So I think it's just as much finance as it is
[INAUDIBLE].
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. Thank you for adding that. And Miss Johnson, thank you
for your comments. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just to support those comments completely, I'd love to see the agency schedule
and start work on a sustainability climate plan. And I agree. We're in urgent times. I think everybody
knows that. And I think that's the way to approach all of this. So I'd like to see that move forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. Thanks for the comments on everybody.
And if I understand correctly, Miss Johnson, if I might just clarify. Your comments were along the lines of
let us come back with a comprehensive plan and comprehensive approach so that then we can-- all
things, whether it's fiscal policy, procurement practices, et cetera, can feed into that comprehensive plan.
Is that a correct characterization of your comments and ask?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Chair Davidson, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, that is the direction. That's what I was impli-- well, that's what I was stating as
we go forward. And it will give me an opportunity to understand collectively, as we talk with staff, what we
can map out going forward.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you very much. I did want to make a comment on this. Again, Director
Dishell, thank you for raising this. Completely agreed. The climate crisis is upon us, and we all have to
live with it. So I appreciate you raising this and bringing this forward.
I do have some hesitations about going into fiscal policy on this without that comprehensive plan and how
that might interface with procurement, et cetera, and our fiduciary decisions. But I do think we need to
tackle this. So I wanted to clarify that I'll be a no vote on this amendment, but I'm very appreciative of this
coming up.
And the ask that I would have, both to the committee as well as Board at large and our staff, is that we
work together to figure out what that means and how we might-- what policies do need to change,
financial and otherwise to put together a comprehensive plan.
Just given those comments there, Mr. MacLeod, I'm just curious if there's anything you'd want to weigh in
on the implications of the fiscal policy or if there's anything further that you would add beyond what's
already been discussed.
DOUG MACLEOD: I would-- I totally agree. I think it makes a lot of sense to have one policy that one
guiding document that all these policies point to to provide consistency in language, et cetera.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you for the comments. I think, Dr. Cook, Director Dishell, great points
about we need some visibility to where that's happening, when that's happening. And the absence of that,
we could end up with some piecemeal things like this. Seeing no hands up, I'm going to go ahead and call
for the vote on the amendment itself. And then we'll go back to the main motion.
I do have the mover as Director Dishell with the amendment, and the second is Director Guissinger. I'll go
through and do a roll call vote. This is for the amendment for the additional language proposed by
Director Dishell and as sent out by the Board Office earlier today and shown on screen by Mr. MacLeod.
So on the amendment, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?

TROY WHITMORE: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I will be a no vote, so that will be one yes, one aye, six no's. Director Dishell, thank you
very much for bringing this forward. I think that gets some good discussion and some good urgency
around this. Let's make sure-- and I think my ask-- thanks for the leadership on this.
If this goes by too long and we're not feeling the visibility, please, bring that back to committee on other
matters. And let's make sure to address that. So thank you for bringing that forward. The amendment is
not moving forward. We'll go back to the main motion. Is there further discussion, any further questions
regarding the main motion for the approval of the 2023 fiscal policy? Director Dishell, go ahead, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you all. Just to provide clarity, I know I e-mailed out two amendments. I'm
not bringing the second one because it's the same exact thing just for capital improvement policy.
Appreciate CEO Johnson, Mr. MacLeod's and everyone's really commitment here to looking at a
comprehensive plan and bringing that forward and really looking, pushing to lead here and really help
redefine the agency.
And I think, under the new leadership, really push forward [INAUDIBLE] RTD and pushing all of this
forward. So I appreciate the conversation. But for the sake of the record, and open record, I want to go
back and say, why didn't you read the other one? It's clear to me that we have a great collaborative group
who's willing to roll up their sleeves and put in the time to put together in great time. So I will not be
making the second amendment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for those comments, Director Dishell, and thank you. That makes sense.
Very much appreciate the collaborative spirit of the committee here and staff. So thank you to everybody
for the discussion.
All right, so seeing no further discussion, I will go ahead and, once again, call are there any no votes on
this motion? Being none, the motion passes unanimously with seven ayes and zero no's. Once again,
thank you, everybody. Appreciate the collaborative spirit.
All right, we're going to move on to our final recommended action of the evening. This is with regards to
sorry, losing my place here-- to our budget. One moment here, I went through our amendments here. So
oh, I'm sorry. This is why I've lost track of where I am. My apologies.
That concludes our recommended actions. We're going to go into our discussion items. Sorry, everybody.
Thanks for bearing with me.
SHELLEY COOK: Mr. Chair. Quick, have we approved the investment policies? Was there a second-ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, I'm s-- thank you. We have not. We've not. I've got myself all discombobulated
here in the notes and the amendments and tracking this, so thank you very much for helping me keep on
track there. We will move forward to our final recommended action. It turns out I can count.
This will be our 2023 investment policy, and this is for the Board of Directors to approve the 2023
investment policy. Do I have a motion?
SHELLEY COOK: So moved.
BOBBY DISHELL: Second.

ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, I have the mover as Director Cook, the second as Director Dishell. Thanks,
everybody. Appreciate it. So I will open the floor now to our staff. I believe we have Mr. Doug MacLeod,
Chief Financial Officer, as well as Mr. Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments to
present this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Very similar to the fiscal policy, we bring the investment policy
for Board consideration for approval for 2023, the next fiscal year. We bring that forward once a year or
more often if any statutory changes occur or if there's any other recommendations.
So I would point out that our investment policy at RTD is pretty restrictive, sets out many requirements in
statutory language as to what we can and cannot invest taxpayer funds in. Most notably, RTD cannot
invest in equities just due to the volatile and risky nature of those.
So the statutory requirements are really surrounded around very safe type investments. I would say that
RTD's policy goes a step further and is even just a bit more restrictive than that with an eye towards
safety, liquidity, and yield, in those orders, just to ensure that our money is kept safe, or taxpayer money
is well protected.
So with that, our investments are typically invested-- the majority of our investments are in federal
instruments, mainly treasuries and T-bills as well as some federal agency securities, all interest rate
paying investments, fixed income investments. So they're considered risk free, for the most part,
especially the Treasury issuances.
We do have a handful of private company fixed-income investments with private entities, publicly-traded
entities. However, it's a very small portion.
Our investment policy also lays out the percentage of the portfolio that may be invested in each type of
asset class. So it's restrictive in that respect as well.
I'd like to point out that within the Board document, we did point out, within the Board memo, we did point
out that Directors Dishell and Lewis had requested, back in the July time frame, that staff take a look at
possibly incorporating what's referred to as an ESG policy, environmental, social, and governance policy,
somewhat similar to the discussion we just had.
In reviewing that, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments, Brenden Morgan collected 13 local
government agency investment policies for perspective to see if there were other agencies incorporating
such language. We only found two, and the language is very benign, wasn't very specific.
And upon further review of our restrictive investment policies regarding primarily investing in federal
government agency bonds, essentially, those ESG type policies wouldn't necessarily apply because we're
not allowed to invest in, say, a private company that there may be some concerns with, say, an oil
producer or something of that nature. So we don't invest in those types of investments anyway.
So General Manager Johnson did send out a memo to the full Board approximately a month ago
explaining those findings. So I just wanted to point that out that we did look into that potentiality, and
really doesn't apply in RTD's case.
So what I would like to point out, at least in this policy document, there's only a few small changes, and
those really have to do with the reporting requirements. Within the policy, we have very specific,
previously had very specific reporting requirements that probably no longer apply.

And I say that because one of the reporting requirements revolved around the exact-- reporting on an
annual basis, within 120 days, the exact investment makeup. That's not necessarily a problem. We can
still provide that information, but it can change, literally, on a daily basis. So to provide that at one point in
time isn't necessarily instructive. However, we can provide that in any time.
So we removed that language and suggest that we will continue to report our investment makeup as we
do in our annual comprehensive financial report. That is audited by our auditors, and I think it's actually a
better document to review because most of these fixed income investments, particularly bonds, don't
necessarily have a market price. So they go through a very close audit process.
So we would continue to provide that information in the annual comprehensive financial report. As well,
staff also provides a quarterly investment report with the investment makeup as well as the investment
returns. Those are provided to the Board through the Board briefings.
So we are really just attempting in that red-line version to clarify some of that language what our current
practice is and what we've been doing for several years. Brenden, anything to add?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you, Doug. I think you covered it all quite well. I would highlight that I do
believe the policy is a very prudent investment program that this policy lays out. And I think Doug
presented it well.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. That concludes our comments. Be happy to
entertain any questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. I'll go ahead and open up for questions and discussion. Director
Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you. I think there is more discussion. I want to thank Brenden and Doug
MacLeod as well for taking time to meet with Director Lewis and I on ESG, in ESG world.
I know you've mentioned that a lot of those ESG policies likely really wouldn't apply here because we're
not taking equity positions. But we can take a 40% commercial paper position with no more than 3% in
want to call it, if we maxed out 10 to 15 commercial papers. Did you have the same analysis there
because isn't that that effectively-- it's not an equity position, but it's effectively loaning it up and buying, or
buying debt?
DOUG MACLEOD: Brenden, would you care to comment on that, please?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yeah, Doug. Director Dishell, you're absolutely right. So the policy does allow for
up to 40% to be invested in commercial paper, limiting to the diversification requirement of maximum 3%
per issuer. And I guess, if we want to go further, there's also an allowance for corporate bonds of up to I
believe it's 20%, again, with further diversification requirements.
So it's certainly possible that the portfolio could be set up that way. If you were to look at our portfolio
today, just hypothetically, just looking at what it looks like today, if we're looking at our unrestricted funds,
we do have a couple of corporate bonds. They are with BlackRock, who's a financial services firm and
Apple, Apple Computers, the other one. And that's it, and they, combined, make up less than 1% of the
portfolio. But you're absolutely right about the potential.

BOBBY DISHELL: I would say BlackRock is made a lot of headlines for their specific, explicit ESG
investment policy. So not to the extent we're already investing that with them on commercial paper,
maybe looking-- I would ask that you guys maybe consider looking at-- there's a BlackRock type policy for
commercial paper and corporate policy make sense. And what would the trade-offs be?
Doesn't need an answer right now, but I think just some food for thought. As long as we're investing in
commercial paper and corporate bonds, we're investing in companies that are responsible and already
have made those commitments. Does it make sense for us to have those commitments too?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comments, Director Dishell. I appreciate it. Mr. Morgan, any
reactions, any response to any of that?
BRENDEN MORGAN: No, I think it's a fantastic question. I will say that one of the other requirements of
the policy is the credit quality requirement. So with the bonds, needs to be AA or better. So it's a very
limited world of corporate bonds that are still double-AA or better rated that actually have securities
outstanding that fall within our policy guidelines.
So for the most part, it doesn't tend to be a huge issue because there's not a whole lot of bonds that we
can buy or commercial paper that we can buy that fall within the credit requirements. And beyond that,
there's the maturity restrictions, the corporate bonds.
We're not buying very long-term investments, typically, 1 to 3 years, in that range at the most. And we
only buy them when they pay us a significant premium above and beyond what we could earn by buying
US treasuries or agencies, things like that, or even municipal bonds. We do buy tax exempt municipal
bonds from time to time when they have a good spread above treasuries that pay RTD well.
So we don't jump right at them. That's, as you see, we only have a couple in the portfolio right now. And
that is how we tend to operate, but your message is well received.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the follow up comments. I appreciate it. And thank you for the deep dive
on this. Any further questions, discussion? All right, Mr. Morgan, while we have you, I just would like to
thank you for your management of our investments and debt. And we're going to get to see some of the
budget this evening. And no small task with our debt, and things are going quite well right now. So I know
not related to this action, but just while we got you, thank you.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So with no further discussion on the item here, I will go ahead and call for the vote. Are
there any no votes on the motion? Being none, it will pass unanimously with seven ayes, zero no's. Thank
you, Mr. Morgan. Thank you, Mr. MacLeod.
Now, we will move to our discussion items for the evening. We have two discussion items. I think they're
both hot topics for us. So the first is the call for projects in the partnership program update. And at this
time, I'll go ahead and ask Mr. Brian Welch, our Acting Assistant General Manager of Planning, and Mr.
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities to please present this item.
BRIAN WELCH: Good evening.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.

BRIAN WELCH: Good evening. Thank you, Chair and committee members. So I'm going to go ahead and
share my screen because we have a PowerPoint presentation to walk through. I will begin and then turn it
over to Mr. Sirois who will assist me. Is this looking OK to everyone?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Looks great.
BRIAN WELCH: OK, overview of what we'll present tonight. After walking through this, we'll give ample
time for Director questions. We've answered a handful so far that have been shared with you, but please,
feel free. We're excited about presenting this tonight. The structure that we're moving forward with at RTD
started, actually, a long time ago.
Partnerships, while they're very much part of our conversation in the last two or three years, they're not
new. The Board has a policy actually adopted all the way back in 1994. It's an inward-facing policy that
addresses some of the considerations that would be part of a partnership program, but it was not
intended in its form at that time, to be a welcoming, outwardly-focused effort, which is what is the focus of
where we are right now.
This gives you a sense of the context that we're working in, the strategic plan, Reimagine RTD, mobility
choice blueprint, and the Accountability Committee all have brought up this issue. And I know that not a
single Director has not heard about this many multiple times over the last two or three years. So we're
excited to move forward at this time.
We have three things that we're calling a partnership for the purposes of this discussion. And I want to
clarify that a question came up from a couple of directors regarding bus stops. This would not be the
forum by which we would consider requests, for example, for bus stops or any capital investment. Those
require a much different approach than what we envisioned for the partnership program.
We continue, of course, to be interested in those types of opportunities, but this is cost sharing, mobility
pilots, and third party operations.
We've included in the material a succinct summary of partnerships that are currently underway at RTD,
and I won't read all these to you. But as you can see, they date back. There's one that's dated here 1993,
and they run all the way through the most recent ones, which include-- you're all familiar with what we've
been doing very recently and some of our partnership efforts as well.
The current expenditures are approximately $5.2 million per year. What I've shown here, just for
reference purposes, Bill Sirois will talk more about this, but we wanted to give you-- we just in these two
slides referenced subregions.
So this is just a quick reminder to you of what these travel shed subregions are. And as I indicated, Bill
Sirois will give a more detailed description of how we're moving forward and what the linkages between
subregional service councils and the call for projects partnership program.
The cost sharing policy that I referred to earlier has not been substantially changed, really, at all formally
or informally since it was originally adopted by the Board in 1994. If you go back and look at it, it has four
primary features that are articulated. And while some of them are still relevant, in many cases, they do
need to be refreshed and brought up to the context by which we're working right now.

The partnership policy that we're moving forward with, that we wanted to update the Board on this
evening, includes a number of highlights that will be articulated a little bit more. But in essence, what
we're achieving to do and endeavoring to do with our stakeholders is have a front door.
We get these requests fairly consistently throughout the year. I just I wanted to just mention quickly that
Erin Vallejos, who's key to this effort at RTD, she's also present tonight, and Charlie Stanfield, who's been
helping as well. And we may want to call on them too depending upon the nature of the inquiry.
But at any rate, we would like to have a process by which people understand better how do I interact with
RTD? How do I become a partner? What are the rules going to be? How much money do you have? How
would that work? It's this notion of stakeholder clarity.
And as you can imagine, we are predicating these on Board adopted guiding principles from Reimagine
RTD. And very early on when the Board did adopt those, you identified partnerships as a key part. And it
has come up consistently as one of our paths forward to satisfy the needs of a very diverse district.
We often refer to the size of our district being similar to the size of one of the states in the United States.
Well, it's also got an extremely-- in the planning jargon, we call it the transect. So you have everything
from the Denver CBD with skyscrapers going all the way out to Lyons and up to Rocky Mountain National
Park and everything in between. And one size does not fit all. And partnerships are definitely part of our
future.
The goals would be summarized here. You're familiar with these because these have been raised many,
many times by our stakeholders. As you can see, one of the bullets is to prioritize equity populations and
the equity lens that we have employed consistently at RTD.
The framework highlights include a dedicated position partnership lead within contracted services. You
know about our people problems, and taking on additional partnerships and doing it right requires a
robust support. We have heard from our stakeholders that, RTD, hey, we need some technical help.
Can you help us through this? Do you have time to walk us through some of the complicated issues
related to civil rights and Americans with Disabilities Act and Buy America and federal money. And we
certainly do, and we want to have sufficient staff support to make it a program that is robust and reliable.
We also have asked the Board to set aside money, starting next year, that would provide an incremental
amount above the $5.2 million that you currently supply. Now, with that, what I'd like to do is turn it over to
Mr. Sirois, who's going to talk a bit about how the subregional service councils are part and parcel of our
proposed approach. So Bill, I'm going to go to the next slide, and you just tell me how you'd like me to
proceed.
BILL SIROIS: OK, thanks, Brian. And thank you, board members, for listening in here. One of the things
with the service councils talking about allocation, we're looking at this as not a region-wide competition.
What do we mean by that? I think we mean that we don't expect any one of the five service councils to
get the majority of the funds.
I think there has got to be a distribution system in place that allows more even distribution or distribution
by some metric-- and we have some of those listed here-- so that we can make sure that no one gets
over and above the allocation that we think is right.

So one of the ways that we propose to leverage these, one of the things that we've talked about, is to use
this more like what DRCOG does for their Regional Transportation forms they do related to the
transportation improvement program where there would be a conversation or discussion at the
subregional service council level about what projects should be submitted. And then they come to an
agreement on that.
So those are some of the, in terms of the allocation, some of the thoughts that we have. Again, these are
not fully defined at this point, and we'd love to get some feedback from the Board on this. Next slide,
Brian.
And just as a reminder, and Brian highlighted this earlier, this is a map of the subregional service councils
as we have them defined. Just a little bit of an update, we have sent out requests for representatives from
the entities within these different subregions. We have meetings scheduled for the first half of November.
So we're well on our way to starting this process off. Next slide.
And this is a little bit-- I think we've shown this slide before to the Board, or a version of this slide, I think
when we went to the Board in June, relating to who we expect to be in the different service councils. One
of the areas that I think that we haven't defined yet and we do want to get some help from some of the
jurisdictions and the other stakeholders in these service councils is non-governmental agencies and nonprofits that really represent our customer base. So that's something that we're going to be doing at the
first meeting that we have in November.
But this gives you some sense of who's on these, in a little bit of information and metrics about the size of
the service councils and how they relate to transit usage. So with that, I'll turn it back over to Brian. But
like I said, we're kicking off this service council process.
And one of the things that we do plan to do at the first service council is get feedback on this program. So
we will be having that as an agenda item to talk with the service council representatives about this
program before we bring anything back fully baked to the Board. Thank you.
BRIAN WELCH: I have three slides left, and this gives you a sense of the broad picture workflow. Notice
that the SSC, that's the first step that would occur as part of this program. We haven't identified this as
necessarily January 2023, but we view this as a good look at what the program would look like on an
annual basis. So these would flow through similar to other grant type programs.
We won't go into a lot of detail right now, but if you have any questions on this, it's intended to be
something where we would anticipate that the Board would be aware of what's going on on an annual
basis. And then we would have projects that would, say, maybe last 1, 2, 3 years probably. And then you
would roll in new ones over time. But the cycle of the flow would continue on a year-to-year basis.
The performance metrics are something that are under development right now. As you know, the service
standards that were associated prior to the onset of the pandemic 20 run board have been not as useful-let's put it that way-- because of the nature of the changes that have occurred. But we will be working on
performance metrics that would be appropriate for this part of our family of services, which is the
community category.
We recognize that, obviously, aligning with the strategic plan the importance of transit dependent
customers, there also needs to be an art and a science to this. If we strictly held to a numeric, let's say,
boardings per revenue hour or cost per boarding, it might not really reflect the intent and what the Board's

outcomes would be desired for one of these partnerships in the first place. So more to come. That's a
work in progress.
The way we're envisioning this-- and this is how we've approached partnerships over the years-- is that
we understand that some of these particularly innovative partnerships they need time. And you can't pull
the plug on them prematurely. So they would need time to play themselves out.
Any new transit service has to generally be evaluated in years, not in months. Unless it's, say, a
partnership like 61 AV where you're testing a vehicle and doing proof of concept, most of these are going
to require more time than that. And we're going to want to give partners the opportunity to perhaps make
adjustments.
Maybe we'll see that the partnership isn't achieving what we initially thought, but we do want to have the
opportunity to give these a chance to prove themselves and not prematurely end them before they've had
a chance, really, to get their legs.
So that's the end of the presentation that we have. So I will stop my screen share right here. Thank you
very much for the opportunity to present the program to you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Mr. Welch, Mr Sirois, thank you so much for presenting that. It's exciting stuff.
Great to see this coming together. I know something we all hear a lot about. Open up for discussions and
discussion questions starting with Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, does the Boulder Subservice Council have a particularly high equity population
or equity need?
BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois I'll take that. We, in our evaluation and Reimagine, it didn't have one of the
higher ones. I can't remember exactly what it was, but it didn't have one of the higher ones. So yeah, I
don't exactly remember what it was, but I know it wasn't on the higher side.
BOBBY DISHELL: So I say that to-- go ahead, Miss Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Director Dishell. I would say, in order for us to better
answer your question, we can circle back and get that specific information because I want to ensure that
everybody has the same information and we're not conjecturing or speculating about what that is.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, and the reason why I asked is focusing on equity might mean that certain
populations get what they need, meaning they get more than they would otherwise get. So when I look at
equality, I see that 11% of the population or 11% of the numbers that were shown, are receiving over
60% of the partnership funds.
So when you deduct out the district-wide services, the Boulder Subservice Council and the Northwest
area received over 60%. Take out the $280,000, you're still north of 50%.
So unless there's a particularly high equity need in Boulder, which would justify 10% of the population or
11% of the population getting over 60% of the partnership dollars, I'm curious how we're going to rightsize
that and really focus on equity going forward more than just a line on the slide.
BRIAN WELCH: Well, if I may, I can start.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, please, go ahead.
BRIAN WELCH: Thank you, Director Davidson. We believe that, moving forward, what we'd like the
Board to reflect on is two parts that we could emphasize equity. One would be, first of all, when the
subregional service councils make their proposals, that we could-- we've heard this and we're considering
this, how we could mathematically qualitatively, quantitatively assess the equity populations that would be
served and make that part of the decision on how much money would be allocated at the first round.
And then, in addition to that, we've also thought about in the local match percentage, which we're
hovering around, we're thinking it would be similar to DRCOG, which is usually about 20%, that we might
want to scale that, in fact, if it's an equity population that would be served and we would lower the amount
of local match that would be required, and perhaps, finally, give more points if it was appropriate. If and if
there is more demands for the money than money available, to score those higher the extent to which
they serve in equity population.
So we do believe there's a way to introduce an equity lens as we move forward with the new money that
would be available.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Thank you, so just ask a clarifying question. Are all of the current partnerships
locked in guaranteed? Or are we saying, hey, clean slate. There's x million dollars. This is our new
process. Everyone's going to need to apply. Or do we know? If we haven't decided yet, that's totally fine. I
just trying to gauge-ERIK DAVIDSON: Miss Johnson, if you'd like to go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Director Davidson, and thank you very much, Director
Dishell, for the question. Recognizing some of these services that have been in existence, we're going to
be intentional as we go forward because it's our mission to deliver service and make lives better through
connection.
So I don't want to cut off our noses despite our faces when we do this. So we will be having discussions
holistically with the subregional service councils because we want them to be part of this. And as we
make that decision going forward, perhaps, there may be another project that's more beneficial. So I think
it's incumbent upon us not to make a unilateral decision but assess what might be beneficial for the areas
in which we provide services to.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell and Miss Johnson, Mr. Welch. In the interest, just little
privilege here, just because it's related, I guess, along the lines of what Director Dishell is asking about, a
question I have as we evaluate previous partnerships and then partnerships going forward, I see the cost
to RTD. But I'm curious about the contribution from the partner, both current and going forward. Do we
have that data for current partnerships?
BRIAN WELCH: Yes, we do, and we can share that with you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, I appreciate that. And Miss Johnson, as we look at this, as you said, holistically
and recognizing the past and then where we go from here, I think it would be good to start looking at

those as we report the partnerships to the Board. Thank you very much. Director Broom, go ahead,
please.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I had a question. If you're modeling this somewhat after the way DRCOG allocates
funds, do you think you're going to have some attack organization that's going to review all of the
requests and score those requests and then pass that information onto the Board? And then, what's the
criteria for getting points? Is it first and last mile type operations or affordable housing? I don't know
exactly what we're trying to accomplish with this.
BRIAN WELCH: If I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please.
BRIAN WELCH: Thank you. Thank you for the question, Director Broom. What we envisioned is that the
subregional service councils would be very important in identifying together, at their subregion, what they
believe to be the projects that align the best with the guiding principles and the criteria.
We will have a series of questions that will be filled out, for example, when one of them applies. And we
would imagine that they would have worked together prior to proposing their projects to decide upon, for
our region, this is what we propose. And it's our understanding that these are going to meet the criteria by
which RTD has set them up.
I would imagine that, given the need to move this program forward expeditiously, we won't have a
sophisticated calculation methodology or point scoring in the manner in which DRCOG would do it,
Director Broom. But it would be a formal process that would ensure that any proposed project that comes
from a subregional service council would have merit based upon a clearly defined set of criteria.
If we get into a situation where there are more projects requested than we have sufficient funds, we could
go in a number of different directions. One would be in another cycle to request additional funding from
the Board if they all have merit. And that would be your decision, of course.
Or we could scale them and make an attempt to sequence them in a manner. But we're going for an
approach that would be simple and straightforward and understandable to the stakeholder and very
transparent in terms of laying out for them, if you follow these steps and if you can demonstrate that you
have met a certain set of criteria that we have defined for what makes a successful project, you would
have the best opportunity to move forward.
And I think what's different about this approach, perhaps, is that we're looking to the subregional service
councils rather than the district, in this case, to dictate more of what they believe to be meeting their
needs. And we've heard that consistently from our stakeholders, from you directors repeatedly that, let us
have the opportunity to work alongside you to craft different approaches.
And I think we want to have a, perhaps, more flexible approach in this particular program, and frankly, get
more projects through the door and find ways to get more of these up and running rather than ways to
say, no, we want to find more ways to say yes.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Director Whitmore, please.

TROY WHITMORE: Well, I almost interrupted to give an amen to Brian's last statement. I appreciate that
immensely. I always appreciate Bill and Brian's enthusiasm and their innovation. So Director Guissinger, I
hope to prompt a nodding of the head, but this hearkens back to months of work with the Accountability
Committee and the relationship with partnerships.
But I truly appreciate the linkage to the service councils and the ability to look for those grassroots
solutions that we hear about as staff members and certainly as board members. So I'm very pleased to
see this evolving, and I know it's more of an art than a science in many, many ways.
One thing that we do have to always remember as a partnership is just that. It's not just RTD throwing
money at a project. It's relationship building and trust building to procure the local agencies or the local
governments to provide some of the money for these programs.
So that, I think, tends to shape some of the issues of imbalances from time to time that we certainly want
to be wary of. But I really appreciate this being a tremendous step for the future and turning us away from
the old moniker that some of us inherited when we came on board of being the agency of no. Let's find
that yes. So again, thanks, Brian and Bill. That's all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Well said. I appreciate it. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And I agree in terms of wanting to say amen, Brian, when I
hear you say, we want to get to yes. We want to be flexible. Those are critical pieces for me. And I think,
in terms of Director Davidson's question that maybe in this presentation as you move it forward to other
people, there's a lot more to it than just what we are paying. And one piece of that is what's the other
partner paying.
And I think I would love to see us be able to have the flexibility to say, oh, this person, this group is
coming in with a proposal that may not meet every service standard or every whatever. But they're
offering to bring their own provider with their own workforce. It takes a huge load off of us.
Our goal, as you've said, is to expand transit. And so, if we get too down in the weeds of it didn't meet this
requirement or that requirement, I think we start to run into a problem.
Another comment I have is I talked to somebody at the city of Boulder today, and he pointed out that you
all have been working on this gun barrel shuttle, which does serve equity populations. And I know Miss
Johnson came out and checked out what the proposal was.
It's a route that we eliminated, but it still serves a lot of people, a lot of essential workers and others.
There will be other towns and other groups in the district that won't have the capacity to fully plan it, all the
service hours, all the schedule that I think is being done on this kind of project. So it may be that we have
to be open to taking on some more of that. I don't know if that's something you've considered for smaller
places and places that aren't as used to coming in looking for partnerships.
Have we set an amount of money? Have you got a proposal for us on that?
BRIAN WELCH: GMC EO Johnson, did you want to respond to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I wanted to-- thank you very much, Director Davidson and Director Guissinger for the
question. I just wanted to provide some insight as it relates to what it is that we're trying to do collectively
because recognizing that everybody has people power problems. So we have to think about the pool and

the source of resources because they're all coming from the same place, especially in our limited
metropolitan area because there's not a large, I'd say, talent pool and relationship to transportation
service delivery.
So with that as a backdrop, as we go forward-- and I just plum forgot my thought.
[LAUGHTER]
LYNN GUISSINGER: It happens.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, my goodness. Whoa. OK, it'll come back. Can you repeat your question again,
Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I was talking generally, I think maybe you put your hand up when I was talking
about the fact that, can we consider other factors-DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, yes, I know exactly what I was going to say. Thank you. Thank you. So
recognizing the investment we're making here collectively is we truly want to be partners. One aspect of
this program is for us to have dedicated staff to assist with this because what we've been doing here at
the agency is having this cross matrix team working on this, and to be consistent is to have an individual
shepherd this.
And so I think that will be key to the point that you raised, Director Guissinger, about a city may not have
the resources. And they may need to look to us because we have that subject matter expertise as we go
forward. And I see Miss Vallejos has come on screen because she's been shepherding this along with her
other responsibilities. So I just wanted to ensure that everybody had an understanding of what that may
be.
And as we talk about the monies that we're allocating and so forth, to the point that Mr. Welch had
broached, the agency is already paying $5.2 million for the current project that we have. And going
forward, we're looking at the allocation around $2 million. But we want to ensure that it's scalable as we
go full circle in reference to having enough resources to make good on what we're trying to put forward
and then build upon that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Did you say $2 million?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I thought the discussion was around 1% of the budget or something. Have we
decided to bring that down?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. MacLeod, pursuant to our budget discussion, is that correct?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, correct. $2 million is what we have as a placeholder. And certainly, we'll talk
about the budget a little bit. We remain agile to adjust certain numbers to what the Board decides in terms
of needs.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I guess I would make the comment that, if we're making these welcoming and
hoping not to say no and to say yes, that we need to have more money allocated. I would propose that

we look at a bigger number. That doesn't seem like it-- it sounds to me like we're going to be saying no to
a lot of people. So I guess we can raise that when the time is right.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Director Guissinger, recognizing that the elements that we will be
discussing, not everything will be the same. It's contingent upon the area and what people need. So when
you think about the cost of deploying some kind of jitney, trying to get people to an activity center where
folks need to go, that may not be the same cost as another type of mobility service.
So when we look at this, that gets back to the flexibility and agility. There's going to be different-- it's going
to be scalable in different types of mobility services because I know, oftentimes, somebody sees
something and they may want an articulated vehicle. But in some of these areas, that may not be the
most prudent course of transport for that area.
So I say all that to say that we're are going to be flexible and agile, and that's why I was working with Mr.
MacLeod as we go forward. And we want to get the input of the service counsel so we have an
understanding of what that is so we're not just coming up with some arbitrary number.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't know if Brian wants to respond to that.
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, Director Guissinger, just to close off that question, the 1%, 2% numbers have
come up, and we've heard that a number of times. We would view the $2 million as our initial, and it was
predicated on $400,000 or $500,000 RTD partnerships in the first year.
So we do look at this as scalable, for sure. But we wanted to set the expectations reasonably, at least at
the outset. But I would concur, and should it be the Board's purview, the project can scale over time. And
I think that it's entirely reasonable that we would go from 5.2 to the $2 million more should these things
prove to be successful, which I think they are going to be. That's when we could start approaching
perhaps that 1% target should it be within the Board's discretion to do that.
So look at $2 million as the initial target for the first year of this effort with the aspiration to, perhaps, get
closer to that 1%.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I guess it's a question that'll come to the Board. But my view would be, if we're
making this welcoming, to me, these are our future. We can't provide the kind of service that people are
wanting without putting together these partnerships. And this is a way of bringing income into the agency
and also saving money. So I guess, I will think about it and talk to people. But I think that we need to start
with a bigger number to be welcoming.
Another piece to consider, I assume that the Uber pilot, since we're just paying the person-- the customer
pays the first $2, and then we pay the next $20. I haven't heard specifics, but I assume that's saving us
money. And some of these partnerships have other benefits in terms of expanding our ridership, saving

us money at lower cost to us. So I think that those are important pieces in addition to what it's costing for
us.
And finally, I will mention The Hop because Director Dishell [INAUDIBLE] doesn't get 60% of the money
unless you consider The Hop. And The Hop has been a partnership since 1993. It's critical for RTD's
other transit to work well because it moves people around through the network.
And while RTD is spending $1.3 million right now, the city is spending $3.1 million. The university is
spending I think $350,000 plus something like $7 million in ecopass and student passes. That probably
was a pre-pandemic number. So just to clarify that that's a different animal that still brings a lot of benefit
to the agency at a much lower cost than we could be providing it ourselves. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Thank you for the discussion, everybody, on that. I will
go ahead and move to the next hand, which is Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you, and thanks for the presentation. I would echo what folks are saying
about the flexibility. And I appreciate the fact that we're adopting a structure, a framework that's similar to
what DRCOG has done with the subregional stuff.
And I wanted to check because a memo that we saw from GMC EO Johnson, Miss Johnson, talked about
bringing a detailed application for the partnerships to the subregional service councils in November. Will
they have a chance to weigh in so as to influence that application, pieces of that? Tell me a little bit about
your plan for that, Brian.
BRIAN WELCH: If I may, I'll start, and then, Bill, if you'd like to supplement, please do. It's our intent that,
following this meeting and incorporating the Board comments, we're going to produce a version of this
PowerPoint. But it will have great more detail about some of the specifics that you have all brought up.
What's the local match percentage? What's the criteria going to look like in terms of how we're going to
allocate the money? What the flow chart looks like so they can see how these projects flow through the
agency? Finally, probably most importantly, is we've developed a draft of a project intake form. And it will
be very clear to each applicant, oh, OK, I see what I have to do. I see what you're going to need. I see
what kind of metrics you're going to be looking at.
What we want to do and what we promised to the stakeholders during the process is we're going to show
that to you. What do you think? Does this look doable to you? Do these questions seem reasonable? Do
you think this is going to fit the type of project? And we're looking forward to that process in November
because that will inform the method by which we move forward. So Bill, would you like to add anything to
that?
BILL SIROIS: No, just to reiterate with Brian, this is going to be a major agenda item for that meet for
those first meetings. And we're looking for direct feedback from the service councils on this proposal.
BRIAN WELCH: So the answer is yes. The stakeholders at the subregional service councils are going to
give us feedback, and we're going to take it seriously and make sure that they are comfortable with an
approach that's focused on their input that it is acknowledged that we did listen to their input from the very
beginning.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, that's good. We look to these partnerships as a way to expand service. And we
got to bear in mind that these folks are coming to the table with money. They're not getting fully funded

services as other parts of the district are. So I think that underscores an argument for flexibility, to allow
them to tailor things, to bring new ideas forward, and for us to be able to see how that works. And maybe
it helps our operations as well as vice versa.
And I am worried that we set expectations in the working group and the Advisory Committee by talking
about a 1%. And I'm really worried that we're scaling it down so much that you may be able to fund one
maybe two or something in each subarea. And it will dampen the interest and enthusiasm that they may
have. What changed between that meeting and now? Tell me why we've gone from 1%, which would
have been $7 or $8 million, if I recall, down to this $2 million. What's different between those meetings
and now?
BRIAN WELCH: May I respond? I'll start, and then GMC EO Johnson, please supplement and/or maybe
direct me. The consultant team initially identified an aspirational target of 1%, and that's where that came
from. We recognized at the staff level, and their recommendation was predicated on their understanding
of the importance of the program and some national research that they had done.
What we tempered that with was our staffing and our people power and our ability to carry out the first
year successfully. But I'll just turn it over now to GMC EO Johnson. Thank you for the question.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Welch and Director Cook. Thank you for the question.
And I was just going to say the same thing. It really has to do with resources. We don't want to
overpromise. We basically don't have the staff support that we would need holistically because we still
have vacancies in every single department.
And so, if there is an expectation where we have to provide support as we look at team members in our
civil rights office, as we look at equity, ADA, and the myriad of issues that Brian and Bill Sirois touched
upon earlier, and as I said, as well as we look at our other contracts and services, we have Miss Vallejos
here who has been understaffed. And she's taking care of a myriad of different aspects of contracted
services. So that's what it boils down to. That's why we talk about the scalability as we go forward, and
recognizing that we are in a tight labor market. We still need somebody to manage this program.
And so I want to be judicious as we go forward, so that's the rationale behind that. And yes, the
consultant team presented that. And in the interest of full disclosure, I learned about that 1% that was put
forward. I had no understanding that's what they were showcasing to individuals. And whether that's
good, bad, or indifferent, I'm just being very transparent.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: All right.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. One last thing, I'm now going to recall my limited experience as a startup
doing one of these contracts, doing one of these services with RTD. Is there a way through some in-kind
support that we can actually broaden the help that we provide, actually increase the resources that we
make available? And I'm thinking of the things that cost us a lot, especially at the outset. It was really
tough to get insurance as a start-up nonprofit doing transportation. And for the first few years we paid a
whole lot.
So I don't know if there is some model we could support that would allow people to tap as a pool. And
insurance, you know what I mean? Sort of like risk management agencies will do. They'll band together
as a pool and then get better rates on insurance. I don't know. I'm just tossing out ideas.

Another one was, we were fortunate enough to have been able to work out an arrangement with MV
transportation who had training going on at the Broomfield, at the Flatirons Crossing Mall. And we were
able to do all of our initial training for a year or two by paying them an amount to get into their classroom
training for the operators, for the drivers.
So I just want to encourage us to think in creative ways that we may be able to help agencies that aren't
in the transportation business to get up on their feet on it and without costing us a lot of money that way.
So thank you so much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell, for the comments and input on there. I'll move to Director
Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, Director Davidson. Just a few quick comments and thoughts and responses
of what's been going on. I think one thing, a challenge that I know Boulder in the Broomfield area to the
extent that the office parks or rehabitated, and Cherry Creek all face are that they are census tracts that
are not equity populations. But there are many people who are low income, who may be protected class
who need to go work there.
But I think, as we think about equity, thinking about job and labor force and where people have jobs and
where they need to go is critical. And I think is something that is often overlooked in fairness to various
jurisdictions. I think that's-- I don't [INAUDIBLE] of figuring that one out, especially as we navigate federal
guidelines as well. But just want to pose that as an equity consideration, which is the people actually also
need to leave their house and go somewhere. And oftentimes, that's to a higher wealth census tract.
I think the other thing to think about is legacy partnerships and equity. While it's true The Hop provides a
great service-- I used it when i was a student in Boulder-- it does provide great connector service. It's also
important to think about equity from who had access to provide that input? Who had access and ability to
lobby for that to exist, right?
And so to say, well, of course, it's been there for forever, legacy systems, in many cases, are inherently
inequitable because of those who did or did not have a seat at the table, which is not to paint The Hop or
any of our other services of the 90s in a negative light. But just to say that maybe not everyone was there
to give that voice to advocate for their community in the same way as other communities.
So I think using things like legacy and tradition, it's really important to even view those through an even
tighter lens because, oftentimes, as we're working to dismantle power and dismantle those who had it, it's
those legacy systems, it's those traditions that we really need to examine as [INAUDIBLE] equity. So I just
wanted to offer those opposite thoughts. And I think, finally, I think I agree with the $2 million reduction.
I think it'd be great to see some sort of, hey, if we hire an extra person we could expand the pool because
the reality is, I think, if any of us were told today is October 11 and we're rolling out a new program
January 1, and you're supposed to manage a $2 million grant program, and that person doesn't exist, that
person hasn't been hired yet. That's a tough job to walk in on January 1 or possibly February 1.
If you operate on the assumption that no one's got hired, that means that Bill and Brian, their teams, and
Erin, are stretched even thinner than they already are. And if you are hiring someone new, it means
they're coming in at best November 1, December 1, and have less than 90 days to ramp up for a brand
new $2 million program that hasn't existed before, including managing five new subservice councils that
hasn't existed before.

So I say that to say, thank you to our staff who have been working overtime and working multiple jobs and
wearing multiple hats, and also to maybe put it in perspective for folks of what that would be for any of us
because I think if we said, hey, the floodgates are open, $10 million available for partnership plus the $5
million already existing, we'd do just as bad. It could be an even worse outcome by not being fully
prepared.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell for the comments. I think a lot of good thinking in there.
And I think all the more reason as we go through this program, we want to look carefully at all the
numbers, all the criteria, and how we evaluate these. And thank you to everybody for the comments. And
Director Dishell, thank you for mentioning how people get to and fro and where they go. That's something
that I think we're even more acutely aware of in the new normal after the pandemic.
There are some lines that I know have often been looked at, commuter lines. But they've changed quite a
bit, and one of the requests, one of the questions that I've gotten from folks that are in the business
community, specifically in service industries, has been questions around plans for how people get to and
from their place of business in a time when they're staff constrained and in a challenging land use
environment. So anyway, thank you for highlighting that.
Any other questions or discussion regarding the presentation? Well, thank you very much to the whole
team. It's a lot, a lot of work. It's exciting to see some things coming together here. So really appreciate it,
especially given how stretched thin everybody is right now. Certainly appreciate the situation.
Thank you very much. We're going to go ahead, we'll be moving forward with the agenda. I am going to
go ahead and say that I would like us to take a very brief break here because I want everyone to be fresh
in restroom breaks and so forth for the budget discussion. So my apologies for postponing things a little
bit here. Hopefully, folks can use the break. Let's make it pretty quick. We'll do four minutes. We'll be back
at after sharp. We'll restart everything at 8:05 PM. Thank you very much. See you shortly.

