October 8, 2019
Communications & Government Relations Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. The Communications and Government Relations Committee will
now come to order, please. Note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are
digitally video recorded and will be captioned and made available to the public on the Board's
website.
We always start with a safety moment. I won't put you through my usual bicycle safety moment.
I'll just read this one. At RTD, safety is our core value. If we have a medical emergency and 9-11 needs to be called, I'll ask our General Counsel Rolf to make that phone call.
Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist. If needed, an
automatic emergency defibrillator is in a glass case located just outside this room on the wall to
the right.
In the event we need to evacuate for an emergency, please calmly exit out the door you came in
at the back of the room, go up the stairs to the first floor, around the security desk, and go out the
front door. Police and security will be there to direct you. Anyone needing special assistance in
the event of evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff.
While RTD takes every precaution to ensure the security of its passengers, vehicles, and
facilities, the agency relies on both staff and the general public to be aware of and alert to any
suspicious or dangerous activity on buses and trains and around station stops and platforms.
So I encourage you to download the RTD Transit Watch app and report any suspicious or
dangerous activity that you see has made a big difference in some cases, even involving one of
our Board members. It's available via Google Play and the Apple App Store. All right.
Let's see. Tonight, we have a visitor. The Lone Tree mayor. We're very happy to welcome Jackie
Millet to speak here from the Metro Mayors Caucus. Jackie has also been chair of DRCOG.
And this is part of our continuing informational educational piece. She'll be talking about some
of the funding mechanisms that are being discussed around Denver and around the state and the
region.
And again, it's informational. It's to keep us all up to speed with what people are talking about at
DRCOG, at the Metro Mayors Caucus, at the legislature. We're not advocating for anything. But
thank you for coming, and all yours.
JACKIE MILLET: Thank you. Should I pull this closer?

DAVE GENOVA And then you have to turn it on.
JACKIE MILLET: Really? You want to hear me? You sure? Thank you very much, Madam
Chair, for the opportunity, and to the Board to be with you this evening. As was mentioned I do
have a long tenure in the regional transportation conversation in the Denver metro area, and I am
a civil engineer so I have a professional interest as well.
But before I get into that, I do want to take this opportunity as a representative of the city of
Lone Tree to say thank you very much for the investment that you've made in this city. We feel
very strongly about thanking our partners and our collaborators. We feel we bring a strong return
on investment. And we hope that you find the same for the great work that you have done in the
city of Lone Tree. So thank you for that.
So now with the Metro Mayors hat on-- I am the vise chair of Metro Mayors. And as you all are
aware, the Metro Mayors Caucus has long been very engaged in conversation regarding
transportation funding. So tonight, I'm going to kind of give you a little review of where we've
been, where we are today, where we think we want to go, and why we think it's important to
move forward with this initiative.
So with that, the Colorado mobility funding. And so for most of our-- and boy, this is a fast
clicker. So I'm going to be-- for most of our transportation history, the state has really relied on a
few tools like our fuel tax and registration fees. We've added tolling, P3s, and RTAs. But quite
frankly, I think it's no surprise to anyone in this room we continue to fall behind on funding for
transportation in our state.
The metro mayors were very interested in pursuing a statewide solution because we recognize
that islands of success are really of no use to the entire state. We must invest statewide, in which
we're very much proponents and instigators of what did become 110. We recognize that
Colorado communities are interdependent, but we need a safe, comprehensive, and
interconnected system, and we need to meet both state and local needs.
So we worked for nearly a decade on a collaborative. You guys probably know my predecessor
Mayor Jim Gunning very well. And he really was a champion for this effort, Impact 64, in its
first genesis, and then became 110. Unfortunately, both Impact 64 and 110 failed along with 109.
I think that from the mayor's perspective in the metro mayors region, I should say, we contribute
over 60% of the sales tax statewide. We represent 57% of the population. We receive about 38%
of the CDOT funding for state highway investment and 41% of the HUTF combine cities,
counties. And we would have held that ratio firm with 110.
I think it's important to note and we really do want to stress that the mayors were looking for a
statewide solution. It's interesting that both 110 and 109 failed at about the same rate with 109
with no tax increase associated with it. So I think it's a muddled mess.
I have to be very honest with you. There has been a lot of counseling done about why this
happened. But clearly we are not communicating to the residents in Colorado about the need for

funding or additional funding for transportation. So 64% of registered voters did say yes to
transportation, but but it was more a combination of these two initiatives than any one of them.
So where are we today? The legislature continues to chip away at about a billion per year at the
CDOT funding gap. I think you can all read the totals. We've got SB1 money. We've got 267
COPs. And then we also had an additional round. And we've had some transfers.
But we still are falling short. With that $800 million that was generated, 89% of it went to CDOT
and it really does not address the local community needs. And I think Lone Tree is an example of
how we've used our own general fund dollars to fund regional transportation improvements in
our community.
So to paraphrase an old statement, all roads are local, almost. 75% of paved lane miles are
maintained by our local jurisdictions. And that's significant. The cost for that, the burden of that,
does fall on cities, towns, and counties.
So with 110 failing, we really had to take a hard look about how we were going to fund not only
our own individual community needs, the regional needs near our community, but really
recognizing that again, a statewide solution is essential.
And should the statewide coalition start fracturing and individual cities and counties passing
their own sales taxes or tax increases for transportation, I think we would lose the cohesiveness
of a solution. So we were really looking to kind of bridge a gap between a local-only solution
and a statewide solution.
So what did we try to do? We first acknowledged what the regional mobility goals. They're
really to accelerate regional and local priorities. To address congestion, pavement condition,
mobility needs. To maximize flexibility, allowing each region to determine what works for that
area; what their priorities were.
What equity means to an individual community. What it means in Douglas County may not be
the same as what it means in Denver or Broomfield or Boulder. We think the rate for these
individual subareas might be different, and the distribution of funding and how the allocation of
those funds should be spent should really go back to the locals to decide.
The other thing that was very important to the mayors was to hold harmless. So like the regional
transportation authorities and HPTEs, we didn't want any local dollars generated to be counted
against us in a statewide funding formula.
So if we chose to invest in tax on ourselves, we didn't want CDOT coming back to us, or we
don't want CDOT coming back and saying, OK. Well, we don't have to give you as much
because you've already done it. And again, 75% of paved miles in the state of Colorado are
maintained by the local communities.
So how would we accomplish those goals? The three scenarios that we looked at were RTAs-- so
Regional Transportation Authorities. MTCs-- Metropolitan Transportation Collaboratives. And

then the EMPO, and that's empowering five existing Metropolitan Planning Organizations. Or
TPR-- so Transportation Regional Councils of governments. So with an RTA taxing-like
authority.
So why did we decide to go forward with the empowering MPOs? The RTAs were really
complex, multi-party IGAs. It would be a new layer of government. And frankly, two votes of
any of the jurisdictions or holdouts would really make them impossible to create and establish
and function.
The MTCs would require both new legislation and a new layer of government, which nobody
likes. So the MPOs we felt was no new government, no formation costs. We have staffs running- talented, experienced staffs-- the MPOs. MPOs represent 83% of the state's population. And the
regions can tailor the funding and the rates to their own priorities and local needs.
The downsides of the MPOs. It does require new legislation. And frankly, this isn't a quick fix.
Just because enabling legislation would be passed, there's a long road between having the ability
to do it and actually then assessing the tax and we recognize that.
So the five MPOs in the state of Colorado-- who can name their acronyms? I am going to be
reading these off. Other than the Denver region, we've got the Pikes Peak Authority. We've got
the Pueblo area, the Grand Valley area, and the North Front range. And again, this is 83% of our
population.
And the transportation conditions throughout the state aren't good. It is a rough ride throughout
all of Colorado. If you look at the road conditions-- this is road conditions here-- poor, mediocre,
and fair. The majority of our roads, 80% of our roads, are in that category.
And I think Colorado motorists spend an average of almost $500 per year in additional vehicle
costs due to poor driving conditions. And it's not just the daily drive but it's also the congestion
associated with the drive. And being stuck in traffic costs us time, productivity, and contributes
to our declining air quality, which is becoming an increasingly important factor in particularly
the Denver metro area.
So we also recognize that to solve this problem, funding is essential. So how do we fill our
toolbox? I think we all know Ref CC. I hope you all know the de-Brucing is on our ballot for
2019. There is still conversation at the legislature about trans bonds in 2020.
We have seen some increase in general fund transfers to CDOT. But again, 89% of those moneys
go to CDOT. It does not address the local community issues.
I think many communities want to be in the position that Lone Tree was in to come to RTD with
dollars in hand, with cash in our pocket, to leverage our dollars with your dollars and federal
dollars to accomplish things. We believe in a public-private partnership. We've seen that be very
successful.

But again, funding is required. There has and some discussion with some legislators about a road
use charge. I will leave that to the benevolence of the state legislators to figure that out. I don't
have any optimism regarding getting that done quickly.
Again, we spoke about the RTAs that already are in existence. But we do believe that the
empowering the MPOs is just another tool, again, in a toolbox that we think makes sense.
So what are our next steps? Really, it's what I'm doing here tonight. Just coming out and raising
awareness about this issue. We have been meeting with the MPOs, particularly DRCOG. There
has been discussion about enabling legislation.
And the other part of this is we don't want to get out in front of anybody on this issue. We want
to be fully transparent and make sure everyone is aware of what we are doing, what we're talking
about. And if somebody has a better solution, we are here to listen and partner with any of you,
any and all, to really address the crisis in transportation funding in the state of Colorado.
So with that, I'm here to answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Looks great, thanks.
JACKIE MILLET: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Speedy.
JACKIE MILLET: I know, sorry. But I know what it's like to sit on that side, so.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Turn that on. All right. Kate Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. And Madam Mayor. Madam Chair and Madam
Mayor.
JACKIE MILLET: I like the way that sounds.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. Sounded good, didn't it? Thank you so much for coming to share this
information with us. The only concern that I have is everybody likes to use the word mobility
here. And I don't see anything in here except cars and roads.
JACKIE MILLET: And I should prioritize that really this first slide was Colorado mobility
funding. And mobility means different things to different communities, but it is not-- I don't
think any community today just considers roads and cars part of the mobility solution. And I
certainly know that's not the case within the metro mayors.
I think we are looking at an E, all of the above, which is pedestrians, bikes, cars, transit, whether
that's light rail or BRT or just buses. And certainly we can't leave cars out of that. They are an
important part of the puzzle. And I don't think any community is going to solve it with just one
of those. I think we need all of them. And that is absolutely the position of the metro mayors.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that clarification.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Has there been any discussion in the talking about fast tracks and
how that could be dealt with the solution you're proposing, or at least one of the tools that you're
proposing?
JACKIE MILLET: What we like about this is that it allows local communities to have control
over transportation dollars and then common leverage. We have not identified a solution for any
one individual community or MPO or area.
What we say is this is a pool of dollars that then go back into the community to have that
discussion. And should the communities that are generating those dollars want to spend it on the
completion of fast tracks, we applaud that and say, amen. Go forth and do as you will.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. All right. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. And Madam Mayor. Could you talk a
little bit again about this EMPO and how the five organizations would come together in terms of
funding mechanisms? Because when I think of DRCOG, I think of the RAC, and the TAC, and
the funding for TMAs and that stuff, CMAC funding. How are you guys envisioning this?
JACKIE MILLET: So again, Director, very astute. The devil will absolutely be in the details.
And frankly, we do not want to be prescriptive to any MPO to identify what they should be
doing with their dollars. And we do feel it is up to the five different entities to come up with not
only the rate but then the distribution formula going back.
There have been discussions about-- just discussions. And again, it's very, very preliminary-potentially at DRCOG about mirroring what they just did with the last tip where 20% of it is
retained by the MPO for a large-scale regional project and 80% of it goes back and is distributed
to the counties, and then the counties make those determinations.
But ideally, those cities, towns, counties and the regional pool would be combined for certain
projects. Should they want to move forward with the completion of fast tracks, they could do
that. Should they want to move forward with the micro transit within-- I mean, I would suggest
Douglas County would do some inner transit maybe to get folks to the light rail like Lone Tree is
doing.
Again, what we like about this is the local control piece of it. Not just for the rate. And if you
don't want to tax, if an MPO doesn't want to move forward, they are independent and they don't
need to do this. Colorado Springs we all know already has a tax with Pikes Peak. They may not
want to move forward and do something like this. They maybe generating enough revenue.

But the devil will be in the details, which is what we recognize. We are a long way from actually
bringing dollars forward. We just think this is an opportunity that we want to have available to
the MPOs should one of them want to move forward with this solution.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE:If I can have one quick follow up question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I know the devil's in the details. We're just starting. But if
you had a magic ball, how long of the time frame do you think it would be to come to fruition in
your mind right now?
JACKIE MILLET: I think ideally the legislative fix would come together next year, which
would be just allowing this to happen. Then I think there'd be some very hard work back with the
MPOs.
I will be very honest with you, director. When I've given this presentation to other regional
entities, they've said, well, why do we want to go deal with DRCOG, NATA Board. But why
shouldn't we just do this ourselves?
And frankly, if you can, you should. I mean, I don't think that gets at the statewide solution,
though. And I think that's the piece of this that makes a difference. And I would hope that-- I
represent the city of Lone Tree, but I also consider myself a regional transportation collaborator.
And that Lone Tree has invested proactively and heavily in transportation, and the residents are
still frustrated with me because of the congestion and traffic in our communities. I can't do it on
my own. I need my partners around to help with these solutions.
And I think this initiative would allow other regional partners to help solve these problems.
Because we know they don't stop at district A or district O. Right?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we've got three more questions up there. We'll try to get through
those really quickly if we can because this is really good information. But we're trying not to
make our new education program go on too long. So Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Mayor, first of all, I don't know if you know the RTD service planning
division posts station activities. They just put up the information for the summer run board. And
Ridgegate, in particular, but the SERE extension stations just rocked it. They were right up there.
So good to see that.
JACKIE MILLET: Thank you for sharing that.
SHELLEY COOK: Congratulations. So glad to hear you talk about bringing money to us, as
you've already done and demonstrated to such good effect. We're starting to discuss the idea of
some effort, what our end looks like. Do we have a way to encourage that? To leverage local
resources in a way that meets local needs and that allows us to stretch our dollars?

So as time goes on, it would be interesting to have a discussion with the metro mayors or with
y'all about how our end of it looks. How can we structure a program that makes it attractive for
you to bring money and for us to work with you on that sort of thing.
JACKIE MILLET: I agree. And I really do think Lone Tree is-- I'm not bragging about my
community, but I kind of am. I do think the model that was established there of bringing dollars
to the table really is one that more and more communities are going to have to look to on
whether it's partnering with RTD or partnering with CDOT.
I think we at the local level are recognizing that the money is not there. And I think that's one of
the frustrations with this. And we can all talk about how the state could be spending money
differently. We've all done that.
But the pie cannot be split anymore. At some point, we need to grow the pie. And there's a whole
variety of options and how we can grow the pie. This is one of them. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mayor Millet. The one slide that talks
about pros and cons says empower MPOs, TPRs and COGS. But the emphasis is clearly on the
83% represented by the five MPOs. Have you done any outreach to some of the more rural
organizations such as Club 20, Action 22, and the like to see where that other 17% might provide
input?
That's my first question. The second line is CDOT just embarked upon their statewide planning
process, their new planning process, and I'm wondering how this effort would dovetail with that
planning process.
JACKIE MILLET: So you know what's interesting about this process is everyone-- if happened,
it's new dollars. So everyone's always interested in, well, how can we partner with those new
dollars?
So Director Lou and I have had a number of conversations. And I think-- so I'm answering your
second question first. So Director Lou and I've had a number of conversations about this. And
what's very important to the mayors is that this not be seen as substitute dollars for work that
CDOT should be funding.
But I think we all recognize that CDOT might need a little help. So if a community does have
money to leverage, the gap project in I-25 south where certainly El Paso County and Douglas
County were the initiators and really the catalysts for moving that project forward.
So again, I think it's, this grows the pie. So everybody wants a piece of the pie once it's grown.
And I think it will be up to the local communities, the MPOs to sit down and have those hard
conversations about what they are going to prioritize in their region.
And then to the first question as far as engaging with-- all of the stakeholders who are involved
in the 110 process have been involved in these discussions and are very much aware of these

discussions. And that was kind of the reason to actually bring the TPRs-- the Transportation
Planning zones and Regions-- into this.
Because we realize, again, priority is statewide solution. And the conversations are ongoing.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. One minute left. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. The gas tax is probably going to disappear in about
20 years as we're changing from the internal combustion engine to electric cars. It seems to me
like your time would be better spent trying to come up with a replacement for that.
Because if you accomplish this and don't do anything about that, you end up right in the same
place. And so maybe the vehicle miles traveled needs to be re-examined again. And I think more
and more people are coming to realize that somebody has got to pay to fix the potholes.
And the electric cars aren't going to go anywhere if there is no roads to drive them on. And you
know that.
JACKIE MILLET: I think very astute comments, and don't disagree with any of them. And
again, this is more of an E, all of the above approach to the solution. I think that VMT issue is
being discussed and potentially addressed by-- and has to be addressed-- by the state legislature.
And I think you will see the metro mayors weighing in on that.
But that to me seems more politically charged than this at the moment. And again, I think we
will not stop-- metro mayors, regardless of who's sitting in the chair or vise chair role, will not
stop working towards finding funding for transportation. Because it is growing in our budgets
and it is eating more and more of our budgets every year.
So you're right, Director Broom. VMTs are certainly going to have to be part of this solution.
This again would potentially be a sales tax. So not affected by fuel. Not tied to the fuel tax. This
would not be a fuel tax.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you so much, Mayor Millet. That was really great. Yep.
[APPLAUSE]
And thanks, too, for all your help and support in getting our southeast rail extension.
JACKIE MILLET: Wonderful, wonderful. Thank you for the opportunity to be here this evening.
I appreciate it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. We have two recommended actions tonight. The first is the
Federal Liason Services. We have-- Pauletta Tonilas is handling that tonight. I think most people
know that Sherry Ellebracht broke her kneecap recently. And so I think she's listening. We're
sending her our best tonight. It sounds like she's recovering.

And we're happy to have Patty Doersch here tonight. Is she joining us for this, or just later?
PAULETTA TONILAS: If necessary, we can bring her up for some questions, yeah. Madam
Chair, thank you very much. Directors, good evening. Staff is before you asking for approval
award the federal liaison services contract to Squire Patton Boggs for a three-year contract with
two one-year extensions. And this would be for a total of the five years of $1.38 million.
This helps us achieve one of our main goals in the agency, which is strong communications and
community outreach. Our history with Squire Patton Boggs goes way back. They have been
partners of ours since 2000. So for the 19 years, they have capably represented RTD in
Washington. They have helped us to gain over $3 billion, $3.28 billion in federal funds, in
federal grants and loans.
They also represent us regularly every month for matters that matter to RTD. Those of you
who've been able to benefit from taking advantage of the active legislative conference in March,
they work very hard to get us in front of key people in Washington so that RTD has a presence
there and that we're able to articulate the importance of partners in Washington and the work, the
very important work that they do there.
So we are before you asking for approval of this contract award. The evaluation team was five
members, and we all unanimously recommend approval of the contract to Squire Patton Boggs.
And we're happy to answer any questions that you have.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll read the recommended action and we have a motion in a second. It's
recommended by the Communications and Government Relations Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorized the general manager or his designee to enter into a new agreement
for federal liaison services with Squire Patton Boggs, LLC, for a three-year contract at a cost of
$828,000-- $23,000 per month, the same rate that's currently being paid-- with two one-year
options. Option year 1 at $276,000, option year 2 at $276,000.
The total amount of the five-year contract of $1,380,000 was below staff's internal cost estimate
and funding for this contract is included in the annual budgets. This recommended action
supports the following general manager's goals, core goal number 5, effective communications
and community outreach.
I believe Director Folska made the motion and Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded it. All right.
Is there discussion? Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I was impressed with the work that was done
when I was back at the APTA Legislative Conference. But I was curious why we did not get any
competing proposals.

JACKIE MILLET: So we were supposed to-PEGGY CATLIN: Haven't gotten any feedback from other people in the industry. So I was just
curious.
JACKIE MILLET: Yeah. So we were surprised at that as well because we did quite a broad
advertisement of the solicitation. And there were 14 entities that did download the RFP. And we
did only receive one proposal.
We aren't sure why some of them did not propose. Some of them felt like it wasn't necessarily
their expertise area. And so we did a very thorough evaluation and upheld our procurement
process and had a very good robust discussion as an evaluation team.
And in the end, we felt that this was a wise selection to award this contract to Squire Patton
Boggs again. But we aren't really sure why we didn't get more.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might follow up, I would just be curious if you have inquired from some
of those others as to why they do not compete. But I do trust that your evaluation was robust and
by the book, so thank you.
JACKIE MILLET: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I believe that they did inquire and only got one or two responses. But
Sherry might be able to help with that. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity to speak in
favor of the motion because I think that Squire Patton Boggs has done exceptional service for us,
as pointed out, for the last 19 years. Have outstanding relationships. Mike Dino is, pardon the
pun, the dean in Colorado. And Patty Dorsch does a phenomenal job here and in Washington,
DC working with all of the legislators.
I think that to some extent people might just have been intimidated by the notion of trying to bid
against Squire Patton Boggs for this particular position given the quality of work that they have
demonstrated over the years. So I am very happy to speak in favor, and I thank the folks at
Squire Patton Boggs for continuing to be willing to serve in this position. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. This question is actually for Dave Genova, or General
Manager Genova, excuse me. So I am curious what it is that we do when we have folks who
we've been in contract with for 20 years to be able to break down maybe some of those
intimidation factors. Because it would be nice to see more folks participating in bids. And if
we're not seeing that, what's our plan for that?
DAVE GENOVA: Well certainly, in just active discussion with those that were holders, we
could do some more outreach with those that were proposal holders and try to get a little bit more

feedback of why they didn't propose. In different kinds of contracting situations, there's various
reasons. But we can look to them to do that.
So I will say our procurement team now, they do they do a really good job of reaching out to
prospective individuals and organizations to do business with us. And they hold open hours
where vendors and contractors can come in and meet with them and talk about doing business
with RTD. So I'll ask them some questions around this procurement.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, if you could just follow up and maybe we could learn some things
before we do this again. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks I read the proposal that Squire Patton Boggs put together and it didn't
seem like it was taken for granted that they would get it, even though there weren't any others
and they wouldn't have known that until the end. But they did put effort into it.
One of the things that I've known from my life as a consultant is that sometimes it's not worth the
effort to put it in if there aren't rumblings of dissatisfaction with the performance or if it's known
in the industry that any firm-- legal, design, whatever, construction-- isn't doing its job. It's often
just not worth going after that because they cost so much to put together.
But like I said, in this case, the proposal was still like they were going after it for the first time.
Like Squire Patton Boggs was going after the contract for the first time. I know from my
experience working with them for the last seven, eight years, it's always been top notch.
Whenever we go into an office in DC, the elected official or their staff know just as much or
more about the project than I do.
And so I know that they've put in the time. They have put in the time in the life of their contracts
with us. And from what I saw in that proposal, I feel that they will continue to put forth that
effort. So I'm very comfortable supporting this with them being the only bid. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I would just add that my understanding is that Squire Patton Boggs
put in about 200 hours just in responding to the RFP. And part of that was they hired a consultant
to do some piece of it that required some modeling. So
Your question is well taken. But I think it's a lot of work for somebody to answer one of these.
All right. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: My question wasn't about them being able to do the job. I trust that. I've had
interactions with them. I think they've performed well. They did a wonderful job in Washington,
DC when I was with them.
My question of inquiry was about process improvement. And so I hope that you all took that.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I think we're ready for the vote. If the Director Folska will vote
and Director Rivera-Malpiede will second. All right. The vote is 14 to 1, Director Menten voting
no, all other directors voting yes. The recommended action passes.
We'll move on to our next recommended action, which is the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee
recommended action. It is recommended by the Nominating Committee of the Regional
Transportation District Citizens Advisory Committee, CAC, that the RTD Board of directors
reappoint three members of the committee to an additional three-year term and appoint two
members of the committee to three-year terms.
Core goal number 5, effective communications and community outreach, is what's addressed
here. I'm not sure if we need to-- do we have something to add to what we have in our report?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Not at all. Just happy to answer any questions that you have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We have a move? Moved?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, do we have a moved?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Williams is second. OK. Questions, comments? Director
Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would just like to say that I think
the CAC is an amazing group of people in the community that advocates on behalf of our
members. And I am proud that I was on the first CAC, and so I feel like I'm alumni.
But these folks-- reading their resumes is so impressive, and to think that they're willing to
volunteer for our community is really amazing. So I am really excited to vote this through.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I had the privilege of serving along with Director Lubow on the
interview panel for the candidates. And I was very impressed with the slate of new candidates
that we had as well as the existing members. So to echo Director Rivera-Malpiede's point, I
really admire all of the work that they do, and I would be in support of this motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just one quick question. So have any of these people served more than
two terms? There is a term limit. Is that right?

PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, no. So the people-- the two-- the three people we're
recommending for the next term would be for their final three-year term. And then we have two
new members we're recommending for what would be their first three-year term.
NATALIE MENTEN: So they have the ability per the charter or the bylaws, whatever is present
there. Two terms-PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: --total. Then somebody new comes in?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Believe we're ready for a vote. Director Folska and Director
Williams, if you can. The vote is unanimous. All 15 Directors voting yes on the nominations to
the CAC. Thank you very much. I think it is a great group that is going back up there. It's
impressive.
Updates-- back to you, Assistant General Manager Tonilas.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Here before you, to just give you
a brief overview of the communications department activities and progress over the last couple
of months since we were before you in early August, we have been very-- here we go. We have
been very busy launching the engagement process for Reimagine RTD.
The General Manager really kicked this off with several sessions around the district to our
employees, because we wanted to make sure that our employees had the information first and
had an opportunity to understand what Reimagine RTD is, why we're doing it, and give the
General Manager a chance to answer their questions.
Last week, we also held a regional communicators briefing with our communications partners
across the region. We look at these folks as major partners in keeping the community informed
and educated about everything that goes on here at RTD. We plan to do these about every six
months. So we had a really great meeting with them.
We also held a media briefing, so not a press conference or media conference, but a media
briefing, where we sat around the table, and we went through what Reimagine RTD is. We
answered the media's questions, got some great feedback from them. And that was a really
valuable exercise to have a really open, casual dialogue with many members of the local media.
And then we launched our current round of telephone town hall meetings, which I'll talk about in
just a second. We mentioned the regional communicators briefing, a key group for us in getting
information out through their channels. And then also, we have been very busy for the past
months in preparing for the launch of our new RTD newsroom, The News Stop.

We launched this on September 19th as a one-stop shop for information, updates, resources,
tools about RTD, to make sure that we are being of service to our public and to the local media
and national media that cover us so that we make sure the whole story is out there and that it's a
resource for everyone.
But really, this was designed for us to just make sure, in the spirit of what our collective hope is,
that we are open and transparent at what we do here at RTD. We are committed to sharing the
good, the bad, and the ugly through this newsroom. And we already have been doing that,
because some of the stories we've been telling have been tough stories, but it's stories we
shouldn't be afraid of, because it's real life what's going on here at RTD.
And just thought I'd share with you what some of the top visited articles have been so far since
we launched The News Stop. The N Line update, where we shared more about the progress and
yet the milestones we have yet to go, and you see some of the others that have been some of the
most viewed articles so far on The News Stop.
As far as news coverage goes for us, compared to what I shared with you in early August, you
can see the difference here in the number of stories and the neutral, positive, and negative stories
by way of sentiment. But still, we had over 500 media stories about us over just the last couple of
months. And that translates into over 300 million touches, as we count those through media
reach.
One of the big things that really did draw attention and was an eye-opener for people-- and we
had this on The News Stop and had several news stories about this-- was our near-miss video.
We put together a near-miss video of real life near-misses that happened on our system. These
things happen every week on our system, and they're very scary, and they're very eye-opening.
And so as part of Rail Safety Week, we launched this video. If you have not had a chance to see
it, I invite you to go on our News Stop and play this video. People have commented about how it
was like a "ah" moment for them to see this. And it's been viewed about 2,000 times since we put
this out there on September 22nd.
N Line outreach is something we're focusing on a lot of our attention on, making sure that the
public is readied for the coming of the N Line. We're doing outreach in a number of ways. We
work with the city and county PIOs and planning staff, making sure that they have information
that they can share through their channels. We share information with them that they put in their
city newsletters.
We also are planning an upcoming elected officials briefing with elected officials along the N
Line quarter, and I believe that date has been set for Thursday, November 7th. And so we'll be
doing an elected officials briefing, and we're also assisting the General Manager in content to put
in his biweekly N Line elected officials email update that he started just a couple of weeks ago.
[CLEARS THROAT] Excuse me.
Just wanted to touch on the development of our strategic communications plan, because this is
something that has been in motion. But we've been very deliberative about making sure that we,

as a communications team, know what we want to be, know what we are. What are we trying to
achieve?
We've had some team building sessions and came up with what we feel is a team vision, which is
kind of, what are you shooting for, and what do you want to be? And it's very simple. It's
communications that move people. And that has two meanings.
Obviously, anything we can do to communicate to move people physically, and what can we do
to tell stories to move people emotionally? And so we feel strongly that that's kind of what we're
trying to do. We came up with three strategic priorities we're committed to that align with the
Board's strategic priorities, enhancing RTD's image.
Many things that fall under that-- fostering community partnerships and improving
internal/external customer information. And our team core values, which is what do we want to
be in the fabric of all of us on the communications team? For us, it's committing to a shared
vision that ties everybody in our team to the goals of the General Manager and of the Board of
Directors.
Customer-focused collaboration, accountability, holding ourselves accountable, and being
committed and invested in what we're doing for the benefit of this agency. And just looking
ahead, obviously, we'll be very busy with continuing the engagement for the Reimagine RTD
effort. Our telephone town hall meetings-- we have done the General Manager's town hall and
two Director town halls so far.
We'll be completing all of those this month. We're looking very forward to working with each of
you. We have kind of a loose script each of you will be getting. It's really more of a guide for us,
but we really want to make these conversational, informal, like us having a dialogue and a
conversation, like we're conducting a live radio show. That's really what we're shooting for.
So don't feel too tied to have to be too scripted, because I know you all had mentioned that you
really don't like that, and I don't either. So we're trying to be loose on these and making sure
we're answering the questions and sharing valuable information. Our Enhanced Rider Alert
System-- the first phase will go live by the end of this month. This will make it much easier for
us to have consistent messaging through our rider alerts and make sure we can get these out even
quicker.
The second phase of that-- next year, we'll be drilling down to either the bus stop or rail stop
level, which will be a great way for people to be able to choose that, if they want to have
information about a specific stop. We will be working on redesigning the RTD website for better
navigation and ease in the near future, and, of course, the completion of our strategic
communications plan, which we'll share with all of you.
And that is what I have for the moment. Happy to answer any questions that you have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, let's see. Any questions? Oh, there they are. And I think Director
Menten, looks like you're at the top.

NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Pauletta. All right, do you think the communication
department is very capable-PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: --instead of staff members?
PAULETTA TONILAS: I would say so.
NATALIE MENTEN: Do you think that your department is good at thinking outside the box?
PAULETTA TONILAS: I believe so.
NATALIE MENTEN: Do you think you could get the communications department to handle the
task of live streaming three meetings a month at zero cost, additional cost to the agency?
PAULETTA TONILAS: This is something we're exploring, and we actually-- we haven't really
updated even the general manager on this, but we're looking into a platform that will be very
swift, which will allow us the capability to Livestream the meetings, while we then save it down
with the closed captioning as we're doing the Livestream. And it can be up on the website in
quick order versus what our current situation is, which is a whole process we have to do to then
be able to upload the file like several days later.
So we are working on it, and we're hopeful we'll be able to come to the Board in the near future
with a solution that we think could bring us up to the times in that area.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would say, thank you for the response. I think it would be absolutely
wonderful to be able to have citizens not have to drive or take the bus down or train down here,
that they could watch with convenience. And I believe that the same system will exist where we
have the closed captioning, which is partly what creates a delay of several days.
So that would still be present. And it might be a better option to get us up with at least audio
Livestreaming, especially when we make decisions. And by the time somebody is seeing that
actual video, it's already going to happen.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yep.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I believe your department is up to the challenge to be able to do this
with, again, hopefully zero cost to the agency, because I think we do probably own considerable
amount of capital related to video equipment and different options. I would suspect there might
be some stuff kind of stored away in storage. I'm taking a guess, but be willing to maybe bet a
nickel that's mostly true. So thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Pauletta, thank you for that presentation. It was great. I
think when you were talking about your strategic plan and the things that you hope to build
between RTD and the community, I didn't hear the word "trust." And I'm sure that that is in the
back of everybody's mind.
But it seems to me an important component to the kind of communication we have-- in particular
in the communities where people are dissatisfied with these service or, perhaps, even the
slowness of finishing FasTracks and that kind of thing. So I'm not sure if you can figure out and
if you think it's important to add that trust component in there, but it seems to me to be
important.
And the other thing I was interested in is the communications strategic plan is wonderful. I know
that you hired a marketing person. Can you tell me when we're going to see a marketing plan?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. And actually, we've talked about this, because the whole strategic
communications plan is kind of an overarching, bigger picture roadmap for us in
communications and almost kind of like setting up that foundation, and then every year, we work
from that. I have recently asked for and saw the beginnings of what we're looking at for the
coming year as far as a marketing plan. And we will be able to put more information to that and
share with you, because, again, for me, it's about using our resources wisely and to the best
interests of the agency. And that does need its own roadmap.
So we are working on that. And since the arrival of Stephen Breyer as the head of our marketing
department, he has made some wonderful accomplishments and is making great progress in that
group, including how we're looking ahead to the year ahead in terms of our marketing priorities.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So do you have a sense of how marketing and sales can work together to
improve or grow our sales?
PAULETTA TONILAS: For past programs and such?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Everything.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. So the market development unit is within the marketing
department, and so it's kind of an embedded-- everything we do, we look at it through the various
lenses of what we can do through pass program enhancement and social media and all. So it is
happening, and today we were even talking about some things related to how we can enhance
our past programs and outreach.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Great. And finally, thank you so much for your work and the work of
CRL Associates last night at the town hall. It's always been a pleasure to do that. I think the new
format is wonderful. It's a lot of fun. It's fluid. I think it's very authentic, and it's a great way to
reach out to your constituents.
And what I thought of when Director Menten was just mentioning this Livestreaming of our
meetings, I'm wondering, when we're in there-- and I know I can't see it, but the name of

somebody comes up, and then maybe their question or something. So that was all in real time.
And I think it makes it really exciting, and it's a dynamic way to communicate with our
constituents, each and every one of them. So maybe there's some way to blend all of that. I don't
know. But it was a great time. I enjoyed it, and thank you very much.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. I want to thank our technical staff for the
kaleidoscopic array that we've been having up on the wall. It's been very interesting.
[LAUGHTER]
You're welcome. It's been fun. OK, and thank you, Pauletta, for the work that you're doing. And
you can feel the newness happening in the communications department, and that's really good. I
want to reiterate what Director Folska said about trust. In the north, especially, there's a deep
lack of trust, and that really needs to be addressed. So I would hope that you would focus on that.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Absolutely.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: It's tied to many things, yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Cool. There's one additional point, and I don't know if you're the right person to
talk to about it, but you did bring up rider alerts. And we got a complaint that went to the whole
Board about a rider alert that went out after the ride was canceled, after that ride that was
canceled happened.
And the response was, well, gee, you know, when we have a sick call, operators are only
required to notify us within 90-- excuse me, 30 minutes of their pullout time. And consequently,
sometimes we're late. And I thought, well, why don't you change that requirement and ask them
to call in earlier? I'm sure there's a counter push the other way, but I just wanted to run that by
people and suggest that perhaps that needs to be looked at.
PAULETTA TONILAS: We can bring that to the right folks. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Let's see. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks, Pauletta. I agree with the idea of trying to Livestream. I think that
would be really beneficial, so glad to hear you're working on that.

And just to lay some stress on the idea of improving the rider alerts, I'd like to find out more,
because it seems like whenever we have an issue with a power outage or whatever it is that
disrupts service, as much as anything, what makes people mad is the lack of information. So to
me, that-- over the past several months and kind of getting involved here, that seems to me to be
a more important priority than I had previously given credit for it.
So I hope you can do that. I had seen in an earlier budget proposal, I got an FTE for something
like community events person. I'm not sure if I'm remembering that right, and I don't know if it
survived to the current budget since we're having to cut. But-- and you're doing your plan. You're
doing a great job, and you're a pro. But for what it's worth, I would hope to see equal
consideration of that customer-focused information provision, so.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, it's one of our priorities. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I run a little non-profit in my day job when
I'm not working for RTD. And we have meetings on a regular basis, and we Livestream them on
Facebook. And it doesn't take anything to do that. So I don't know why an agency of this size
with somebody of your competence couldn't arrange something similar, or I mean there's Zoom
meetings, and there's all kinds of ways to make meetings public and shared that don't cost
anything, because believe me, I don't have any money.
So yeah, anybody who works in a non-profit knows that. So I just want to point out that I don't
know that we have to wait for anything to do this. We could just do it. Thanks. Sorry.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yeah, once again, this is an amazing
program outline that you've put together. So I have a couple of things I'd like to talk to you
about. The first one is I am also a nonprofit director that works on TDM.
Is there a way to make our website user friendly so that businesses can go in and look at what an
EcoPass would cost? It's one of the biggest issues I have is it's so difficult to navigate that
website. And if folks could go in and see if they're in service level A, B, C, and what the cost is
that people could start determining whether they want that to happen or not.
The second thing I'd like to do is to ask Kyle Clark to change his, is the A line working today, to,
how do we keep ourselves safe from around rail? Because I think that's a segment that impacts
our entire community, and literally watching people almost die is beyond horrific. And I think
that we need to now ask our media partners to help us get the word out about keeping ourselves
safe.

And then I just also want to add about the rider alerts. Is there any way, when you're standing on
the light rail platform, that the signs that say the next train or whatever is coming, that you can
say, hey, we have an issue here? I think would go a long way. The one thing that I hear
consistently is the lack of information.
And if we could get it out somehow, even on the Transit Watch apps, all of them, like Uber,
Lyft, saying, these people are checking frantically. If they could just say, hey, a heads up-there's a problem with this train being late or whatever-- I think would really go a long way in
terms of outreaching to the community. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. So I was struck by a few things that
Director Rivera-Malpiede mentioned. And so I thought I'd add a little bit to that. So with respect
to using our website, maybe you could partner with the IT department and develop some user
groups from the community and different constituents, whether they be people with disabilities
or what have you so that then we know that the user experience is satisfying. And that really
keeps people coming back and engaging over and over, I think. And it could even assist you in
building trust.
With regard to the communication on the light rail platforms, there have been times when the
information that scrolls, wherever it scrolls, is audio, and I really love that. Sometimes, though-and this has been from a long time ago. I'm sure you remember. So then it was there. It wasn't
there. It was kind of inconsistent. And so I think the thing about communication is that it's
reliable and consistent, just like people want our transit to be reliable and consistent and
predictable.
But then when I heard Director Rivera-Malpiede mention, just like Uber, you know, I love my
Uber app. It tells me what kind of vehicle I'm getting, who's driving, and I can't see the picture of
them, but they're counting down-- one minute, two minutes. And so maybe in future iterations of
our mobile pay app or Transit Watch or something like that, we could have some kind of similar
information about buses and trains.
I know that we have something about real time with the buses, but you know what I mean about
that Uber. That's groovy. So we could, like, compliment them by copying them would be a good- or partnering with them on it.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Not copy, partner.
[LAUGHTER]
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Hey, Pauletta. Thanks for putting this together for us. I
just have a few questions for you. I'm curious what you're hearing around The News Stop. Are
you hearing anything from-PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, actually, I have gotten a lot of feedback from people that are
actually very happy, wanted to know how we did it. When we did our regional-- [CLEARS
THROAT] excuse me-- regional communicators briefing, several of our communications
partners wanted to know how we did it, how long we spent on it, how we're working the
resources. We're doing all of this with our internal staff, and we're thinking like a newsroom.
And because you have to keep the content fresh, but we're not trying to be like super duper every
10 minutes changing things on The News Stop. But we've gotten great feedback. We sent it out
to all the media nationally and locally that cover us. And from many of them, got some positive
feedback that we're happy to know this information is out there, and we look forward to
resources.
So it's been positive, and we're happy to hear what you have to say. I mean, if you think that-- if
there's links that aren't working, or if you'd like to-- you have story ideas is something that we
should be doing. We're always happy to be hearing ideas about what could we be writing up and
putting up there. So thank you for that question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. I don't have an opinion either way. But I do have a question. So with
the Reimagine engagement, I know the last time you came, you talked about the different
stakeholders and how we might be engaging the stakeholders in conversations, specifically
around how we might collect information. And so if you could just give us an update on the
stakeholder engagement and how we might be extracting information from them.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, so we're doing several things. And the many different ways we're
engaging with people will happen over the next two years. So right now, as we've launched this
first listening phase, we're obviously doing the telephone town halls. We're keeping track of the
questions that people ask us, the electronic polling questions that are consistent with each one of
your town halls.
We are doing-- going to be doing pop-up events at different locations, where we'll be asking
people questions right there on the spot and getting some feedback from them. Our online
engagement tool, which is active in our Reimagine RTD section of the website, is already getting
substantial use. And I invite you to go on there and look at it, because you'll see the comments
that people are already inputting into the engagement tool. There's a map that you can drop a pin
and leave a comment. And so that's been a really neat thing.
We also are going to be doing some targeted outreach with particular groups.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.

PAULETTA TONILAS: And you know, just anything we can to be where people are, so
community events and festivals or gathering places. We'll be there with some kind of pop-up
events, where we'll get some input from people in quick order, because most people are not
going to spend a ton of time with you. So we want to make this easy and convenient for people.
But yeah, so far, so good. In the few weeks we've been out there and starting to engage, it's going
well. And we'll keep you updated.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. Thank you. So we talked about the CAC, and I was curious how
you all might be leveraging the CAC.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, great question. I'm glad you asked that, because I was thinking
about that with the recommended action item. One of our big interests has always been looking
at how to use the CAC, and they've been very excited about the opportunity to work with us on
Reimagine. At last month's CAC, they actually helped us formulate some of the questions that
were out there using the wording and things that would be important to use.
So they actually already have been helping us with that. They are also going to be embedded
focus groups that we're going to be using them at key points as the process moves forward. And
some of them have expressed interest in actually helping us with some of the engagement
activities out in the communities.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Mm-hm.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Real quickly, Director Rivera-Malpiede and I were just discussing that-- the
Girls in Construction video that was played at that luncheon last week? The week before-- was
really, really well done. And we would like to see that up on your RTD news.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, yes. So what you're talking about is the Women of RTD video.
We had to do a short version for the luncheon, but we are in the process of doing a little more of
a robust video, where we're including some other women here at RTD who have had careers and
people doing vast things here and people who are showing that the possibilities of working here
at RTD spans quite a spectrum of job opportunities.
And so we are planning to put it up on The News Stop, but we're in the process of doing the
longer version. Doesn't mean we can't get the quick one up there, though, so thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much, Pauletta. I think it's always helpful to get your
communications update. It's always great. Director Cook had given me a great idea that
summarizing at the end might be helpful. And I guess I would join the people who have
mentioned that we're hearing more and more about communications about when service isn't
there or is running late or whatever the issue is. It's one--

PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, it's a challenge. We talk about this a lot. We've had probably,
you know, a couple of meetings about this. Even today, the operator shortage and what it's
causing us in the drop trips-- this is painful for all of us. It really is. And while we have been able
to work with our media partners to get the information out about why this is happening, it doesn't
minimize the pain and agony that it creates for all of us. And we're all working on ways that we
can deal with this situation.
But again, it's about it being open and transparent for us and continuing having the information
out there. Now while something like 99% of our service is available and being provided, we
don't like to drop even one trip, because that's painful. So this is an ongoing dialogue for us as a
team here, looking at how we communicate about this.
And if people at least-- I think some of you said this-- if they at least know in advance, they can
plan ahead. They may not like the information, but at least they can plan ahead for what transit
trip that they should be shooting for. So we'll continue to do that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. All right. We have our local, state, and federal
updates.
PAULETTA TONILAS: I'll turn it over to this table of folks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: CRL and got Roger Sherman, and I think Maria Garcia Berry has joined
us tonight. It's nice to have you. And then you can come on up, too, Brandeberry-McKenna and
Patty from Squire Patton Boggs. We'll have everybody up here. Roger, you want to kick it off?
ROGER SHERMAN: Sure, good evening. So I've been out of the office for like three weeks. So
I don't have a lot new to report. I put in some information on meetings that were coming up when
we had to submit this report. I will just mention that I think the Board is going to poll-- or the
Board Office is going to poll you all about the CAC dinner. We've got 13 CAC members
confirmed, so it's-- we got good attendance from that group and I think almost all the senior
leadership team. So just that's on its way. Hopefully, you'll be able to make that.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
ROGER SHERMAN: Oh, you did already? OK. Great. And then you heard about the kind of-one of the key discussions at the Metro Mayors Caucus Meeting was the EMPO, which Mayor
Millet talked about today. So I mean we are focusing. I think in the last month, our team has had
maybe 10 to 12 one-on-one meetings with candidates for the November municipal election. I
mean it's really right upon us now.
And since Maria was here, I thought I'd have her talked about-- I've mentioned it each month
about the significance of this coming municipal election and the tight races in some cities or the
fact that many of our kind of leaders that we have relied on over the years in the region are term
limited, so it's going to be significant change is coming.

MARIA GARCIA BERRY: Yeah, thank you. Good evening. So I think what Roger just said is
correct. We've been having-- we host sort of roundtables, as candidates want them to just inform
them them of the issues that we work on and what we do, et cetera.
Obviously, as all of you know in your own districts, a lot of you have very robust elections
happening. It's kind of this is the year where we went from the Denver-- the spring elections to
the Denver elections to the November elections. So every time you turn around, there's an
election happening in the state this year.
So obviously, we've got the mayor in Thornton, who's term limited out. You know Heidi. We
obviously have-- obviously, Mayor LeGare has chosen not to run. So the Aurora race, Claudia
and Bob, is obviously very heated, very competitive, very robust.
I think it's also significant, though, that we don't just focus on the mayors, but we really focus on
city councils. And there are going to be some significant changes throughout the metropolitan
area, some who have chosen not to run. Others, there-- it's just-- it's a robust election year.
There's a lot of activity out there. So I think what we ought to do shortly afterwards, we will do
sort of a recap of the elections for you all very quickly. Afterwards, I mean you'll-- I know a lot
of you are keeping track of your cities anyway, but I think it's important to have a district-wide
view of how it's changed.
Transportation is, in fact, the number one issue. And I think a lot of people are promising how
they're going to solve it, how they're going to address it, the priorities that it's going to be. And I
think it's going to be important that we fold into and particularly get to meet as many of the new
electeds as possible, because some will happen just because of term limits and cycling.
So it's been interesting. We've had some really good discussions. There's just a lot of activity in
the suburbs.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Any questions? Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So yes, it is a busy time of the year. I know that personally.
So looking at the report that we have from CRL, we have three items-- Metro Mayors Caucus
Meeting, the plans for the Citizens Advisory Committee dinner. Then there was a Gwinnett
County delegation visit. And then you have now mentioned also that you've had meetings with
municipal candidates.
How many hours would you estimate that it took to do these four tasks?
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: Well, the municipal candidates interviews-- I think we've averaged
about four to five a week in terms of doing them, you know, working around their schedule,
making it flexible. I think we have held, ever since-- probably since the petitions were turned in,
and everybody was finally certified for the ballot, to be able to do that, we've had at least several
a week since then.

ROGER SHERMAN: I think the other thing that's important is this-- you know, what I try to
include here are major events and things that are coming up. But we hold-- you know, we meet
with-- I talk weekly with Sherry. We meet with General Manager Genova. We meet and talk to
Pauletta on a regular basis and working with them on their engagement efforts.
We attend other meetings. I don't list the entire list of meetings. I'm in contact all the time with
Barbara and the Board Office on issues as requests come in from Board members. And I talk to
many of you each-- depending on what's going on.
So I don't list all of that in this. I try to list things that you all that are coming up that they want to
attend or be of interest to you.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So with the interaction with the candidates, would you say that
that somehow could be also deciding which candidate you may personally prefer and the CRL
may personally prefer?
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: Yeah. In some races, we are not getting involved in the majority of
races. First of all, in sum, they're not accepting any help or contributions. Some of them have just
reached out to sort of find out what some of the major issues are. Obviously, because we've been
involved in transportation, that's been a significant issue that we've talked about.
NATALIE MENTEN: But in some of those cases, you are choosing a candidate, one over
another and-MARIA GARCIA BERRY: CRL is not doing a lot in this cycle, in some of the races. We have
people who are individually contributing. I can give you-- I can send you-- I can't recall right
now who it is that we are getting involved with in some of the races. And a lot of the races, we're
just not getting involved.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: We have clients who do interviews also, but that's not-- I'm not
counting that into it. And that's separate and apart. We have one person who is not working on
this, who works on that issue.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So what I'm trying to figure out is what money that would be going
paid from taxpayers or RTD to CRL that is actually getting actively involved in campaigns, and
whether that's an appropriate use of taxpayer money.
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: Well, it's illegal to use any public dollars for the purposes of
working on candidates in Colorado. And we're very respectful of that. So any activity that gets
done would not get done on behalf of anything having to do with RTD.
NATALIE MENTEN: Are there time logs kept by CRL on-MARIA GARCIA BERRY: Are there what?

NATALIE MENTEN: Are there time logs kept by CRL?
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: We have calendars that we keep. We don't bill on an hourly basis.
That's not our model, because otherwise, that's just-- that's not the way we've worked it. But we
do have calendars that we keep. And we have activity reports that we do on a monthly basis.
NATALIE MENTEN: Could I have those?
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: For RTD?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: Yeah, we can get those to you.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. As I look at an agency that is tight on dollars, and we pay CRL
$8,500 a month currently, I would like to be able to report to constituents what they're getting for
their dollars.
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: Sure. I think that's very legitimate and fair. If you want additional
reporting of more detail of meetings, we'd be more than happy to do that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. That would be wonderful. Thank you.
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: Yeah, you bet.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. I had a question. A little while ago, we were
given a report about empowering MPOs as a tactic. Is that going to take the place of promoting
in 2020 a sales tax initiative raised for transportation?
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: A sales tax initiative statewide?
JUDY LUBOW: Statewide or regionally.
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: Or regionally?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: Well, I don't want to speak on behalf of the Metro Mayors and
Mayor Millet. I think that that is the direct-- I mean I was at Metro Mayors. I think the General
Manager was there. So was your Chairman last Wednesday, which is a pretty robust
conversation that Mayor Williams gave to the Metro Mayors. I think-- I'm not speaking for the

Metro Mayors, but I think it's fair to say that around the table, the thought process was that that
would be the best vehicle.
You know, the RTA legislation that currently exists on the books is very cumbersome for the
metropolitan area to do, because you have to have separate IGAs. And if its tax region doesn't
vote for it, you can't collect the tax, even though-- it's not like RTD, where the majority of people
who vote, regardless of where you are-- if you've got a majority of people voting yes versus
voting no, it passes. That's not the way the RTA does so that the RTA is really designed for areas
of the state, which have maybe one county and a couple of cities, like Colorado Springs, which
only has three parties to their RTA.
So I think right now, that's the only vehicle that is being-- I would not-- but then you've got the
state report coming up, so I'm sure that Jennifer will do that in terms of the other ideas that are
being thought through. I mean I think there are other ideas I think Director Broom brought up as
to what other vehicles of revenue that could be looked at for transportation. But I don't think
there's any clarity right now as to what that direction is going.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Appreciate the update.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. So Roger, hello. How are you? I would think so. So the
way you're looking at me, I can tell you think I'm going to scold you, and I'm not that person. I
am more of a call-in than I am a call-out. So I did receive your text message, and we can
connect.
The-- one of the things that I brought up to Dave a few weeks ago around your contract was the
lack of specificity, but it sounds like I, like Director Menten was concerned. It sounds like you
all may have more specifics than what we had available to us. And so if we could be provided
what it is that you all are supposed to be doing, that would be wonderful.
ROGER SHERMAN: And we attach an activity summary to our monthly invoices every month,
so it's a lot more-- you know, it lists meetings, phone calls, those kinds of things.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you very much. That looks like all we have for CRL. I guess
we'll go to Jenifer and Megan.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Hello. Yeah, I think to follow up on what CRL was talking about,
the state is really in the process of kind of gathering their priorities. The governor has made clear
his number one priority for next session is funding of preschool. I think he has spent a lot of time
directing his agency heads and departments to look for ways to fully fund that. It's a very, very
large budgetary ticket item.

On top of that, this administration has asked their department heads to come by the end of the
month, first part of November, with their priorities per agency of legislation that they feel like
they need to introduce. And those are currently being formulated, but they have not gotten the
blessing of the administration on all of the agency bills yet to be filed.
I think in the area of transportation, it is a top of mind issue. I wouldn't say it is on the top two
with this administration or leadership. I think health care-- you saw that last year-- preschool,
full-day kindergarten-- those are the places that the Polis administration have really put their kind
of political might. It doesn't mean that they don't have an interest in transportation, but I think
from a priority standpoint, that has really kind of fallen down more to the caucuses.
And I think given the different caucuses-- and we have a presentation I think later in November
or December from some of the members of the legislature to talk about their ideas about
transportation funding. But you have a whole conversation about fees, whether it's for AVs, EVs,
that's kind of come up and bubbled through the 239 task force meetings. I think we've sent you
notes on all of those as we've monitored those.
You also have a side conversation, I think, in the Republican caucus about looking at gas tax
versus sales tax that we've attended a handful of stakeholder meetings with Senator Priola and
others who are interested in that. The Speaker has recently requested a meeting to kind of hear
from folks in the transportation community, where they feel like they're wanting to go. But in
general, I would say there hasn't been a solidified kind of Democrat or necessarily Republican
position of these are the kind of vehicles we want to file next year to deal with our transportation
problems.
I do think there are individuals that are certainly thinking of ideas and potentially filing bill drafts
on that, but certainly not at the-- it hasn't been coordinated to the extent like you have seen for
preschool and some of the health care. You saw public option come out this week. You can kind
of see where the emphasis is at least around the first floor.
I think we have continued to follow both the interim committee on 239 and family. As you recall
last year, there was a big effort to do paid family leave. That legislation did not get out of the
legislature, and kind of what came from that was a stakeholder meeting that had-- they have been
meeting all summer and fall, and we've attended those and I think sent notes to you all for your
review of that. That process is starting to wind down as well at the end of the month.
There's a handful of other interim committees that will meet through the end of the year. TLRC
is one of them. Obviously, you have in your packet-- we've been on the agenda for them for quite
a while. Also, TLRC asked for a tour, and I think the Colorado Competitive Council is doing a
legislative trip that they wanted to kick off with some-- they prioritize various legislative regions
and so have asked to work with us on a tour of that as well.
So I'm happy to answer any questions, and I can turn it over to Megan.
MEGAN WAGNER: I just wanted to thank all the Board members that attended the AV tour
with the TLRC. A particular note I did mix up on my Board report. I did not mention that

Director Catlin attended, and I really appreciate everyone attending that. The legislators were
really impressed.
They had requested that tour, so it was their idea to come to see what RTD is doing. And we're
doing, obviously, a lot. And they needed to be engaged, and it was a really important time. And I
appreciate everyone showing up and spending time with those legislators.
Those are the real workers on that committee that were able to come, and kind of those are the
key people in transportation, minus the few that weren't able to. But I really appreciate everyone
making their time and their day to come to that. The other thing I wanted to mention with
Representative Bird is the one that had requested a tour of the B Line. And we're working with
Sherry and staff to set that up. There will be several other legislators in attendance, and so we'll
make sure we get those names to you to see if it's in your district, and you want to come.
Everyone is always welcome. And that would be on October 22nd. They're going to take the
1209 from Union Station to Westminster. So there'll be several folks in attendance, and I'll make
sure I get everything to Sherry and everyone as well, so everyone can be informed and attend.
And that's all I have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. For the record, that was Jenifer Brandeberry and Megan Wagner,
so that's OK. And I would just say-- and I think you mentioned, this is in the packet, but the
morning of October 28th, we will be presenting for RTD at the TLRC committee, 9:00 to 12:00.
Is that what it is? And I know that Brandeberry-McKenna has been encouraging us to attend.
Whoever can attend, it would be great. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Nobody mentioned Proposition CC, and I've been reading my
Blue Book about CC trying to figure out, how am I going to vote on that? And there's a couple
things that occur to me when I'm looking at that. One is that if that passes, then a lot of people
are going to say, well, we've taken care of the transportation problem. We've funded it now, so
we don't need to look at anything else.
The other thing that bothers me is the shift and shaft type of argument that's always made, where
you put an additional amount of money into transportation. And then over a five-year period, you
knock down 20% of that to put it into, you know, kindergarten for all or whatever and a lot of
other programs. And then the money disappears after five years, and you really haven't
accomplished anything as far as permanently fixing our need for transportation funding. What
are your thoughts on that?
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Sure. And I think, underline why, one of the-- there is not a
coalesced kind of caucus position for, here's how we want to deal with transportation is kind of
waiting to see what happens with CC. I think you also, with Jackie's presentation, which I
thought was excellent, you can see that people are frustrated that the state hasn't been able to be
successful at raising enough or dealing-- finding revenue to fund transportation.
And it's either they have to find it in our current budget, which as Jackie mentioned, and I think
we have in our past reports from last session, there has been some general transfer-- general fund

moneys allocated to CDOT. But I think given the overall need, from what CDOT says just for
highways, we're way, way underfunded. And so you had a statewide measure last election cycle
to try to address that in some form, and it was not successful.
So I think lack of leadership to some extent or ability to coalesce around an idea and frustration
about how to make this a priority, I think people are kind of waiting to see what happens with
CC. If it's successful, I think you might see a certain path go one way. I think fees might be more
on the table, if CC passes. That could also not be true, depending on what side of the aisle that
you sit.
So I think people are frustrated, and you can see a lot of activity on the issue, but not necessarily
a coalition of like-minded leaders on, this is the plan of where we want to go. So I think that's
going to continue to bubble up. And once the election has passed us, and bill deadlines kind of
get to us, we should have a better idea of what the legislature at least is going to look at for next
year.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Looks like all the questions. Squire Patton Boggs, Patty Doersch.
PATTY DOERSCH: Thank you. If I could just take 20 seconds to just comment that after 19
years of representing RTD, we're just so committed to the success of this agency. And your wins
are our wins. And if we would be so fortunate to have this contract renewed, it'd just be a
privilege to continue working in what I think is a very highly effective, high performing
partnership.
So with that, I turn to our general federal update. The fiscal year 2020 started on October 1st
with the Senate having passed exactly zero of its 12 appropriations bills. So once again, they've
resorted to a continuing resolution, which is a short-term extension of the prior year's funding
levels. That's fine for us. Last year's funding levels were robust.
So it's a temporary measure. We fixed a problem in there that you-- well, Congress fixed a
problem in there you probably didn't even know about, which was a-- a loss of $1.2 billion or,
basically, 12% of transit formula funds in an arcane budget rule called the Rostenkowski Test.
He's a member of Congress from Illinois, who ended up going to jail.
He has a budget test named after him to promote the fiscal health of the mass transit account.
That's his legacy, and we suspended it for the term of the continuing resolution. So it's not
permanently addressed, but there's a provision in the passed, spending bill, that would
permanently suspend this.
Again, this is a Band-Aid on a severed leg, because the problem is, obviously, there's a systemic
funding shortfall to the highway trust fund. And this little fix to not trigger a test designed to

provide for fiscal restraint, to provide for only spending the revenues that come in. It's just-- it's
just a budget gimmick. It doesn't give us a real solution.
So it's just yet another sign that we're not at the point in Congress of dealing with the real issues
of finding funds to address a chronic shortfall but for the timing that problem is solved now in
terms of an issue that's near and dear to all of us here that always travels on the appropriations
bills is the RIF program, a RIF CRP fix.
In a very wonky, kind of inside the beltway, we've made significant progress in the past few
months on our RIF CRP issue. USDOT, as you recall last September, instead of implementing
the improvement we got to define cohorts as a single fiscal year instead of doing that they've got
an emergency provision that would revoke our language because they refused to recognize the
budgetary treatment that we believe would call for return of RCRP.
Now they have come around. It took a lot of work. We got our entire delegation to go and spend
long hours getting smart on this issue. And then spend long hours talking with the DOT Build
America Bureau folks to get them to acknowledge that yes, our view of how the RIF program
works and how CRP should be repaid is accurate. So we're getting there.
The next step we need now-- we still need legislation that changes the RIF law. We still need
legislation that says, return all CRPs upon repayment of individual loan. We're not there yet. I
mean the Senators Gardner and Bennett have introduced the bill this summer. That's not in the
appropriations bill yet
I'm still hopeful the Senate has a bill. The House has a bill. Neither one has this language in yet,
but I remain hopeful, and I think realistically so, because the fix that was dropped in for Senator
Thune last year for South Dakota loan and cohort 1, miraculously appeared in the final text of the
bill, although it was never in either the House or Senate passed ones.
That's the way something like this works. It's a controversial policy rider. It's not going to be
marked up in the natural course. So there's still a very strong chance we could get that in there.
Due to the work of many people around this table, we also have the option of advancing the RIF
CRP fix in reauthorization bill, because for many reasons. But one of them is the fact that we got
APTA to include our exact provision for fixing Cohort 3 in their recommendations.
I know that APTA is shopping that on the Hill, our provision, because APTA is calling me with
questions that come back from Hill staffers. So if we don't get it in aprops-- and again, I'm
hopeful-- we do have reauthorization to work that.
So we are making progress. DOT-- the big gain is DOT acknowledges our version of the law,
and now they're going to the Office of Management and Budget, which decides on all the rules
of federal credit programs, including RIF. And they're going to OMB. They're admitting that
OMB has to act and that OMB is acting, giving us a number for the cost of our change. And once
we get that number, we work it on the Senate Appropriations Committee, and we get it done.
And then we get $29 million plus interest.

So that's our big issue. We're still hopeful appropriations bills will come through. The punchline
is that. But in general, both the House and Senate bills fully fund the FAST Act at formula
levels. They provide, again, a little bit of plus up for programs we care about, general fund
dollars, because, again, we have another one of these two-year budget deals for which highways
and transit. And transportation generally gets a bit of a kick up.
So it's more for buses, more for Low No program, and a big billion dollar build grant program.
So those are discretionary grant opportunities coming for us in the coming year.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And we thought nothing was happening in Washington, DC. All right,
Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. Patty, thank you very much. You're
awesome to work with. Your whole team is, and I've always enjoyed Squire Patton Boggs, and
thank you for that hard work. I think I heard you say they're going to be including interest on the
repayment of the CRP. Is that correct?
PATTY DOERSCH: Yes, I confirmed that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And what is that interest rate?
PATTY DOERSCH: I don't know yet. It's probably about as low as the interest at which you
borrowed. It's not going to be substantial. It's probably going to be the government's long-term
cost of borrowing itself. So it may be locked in as of 2010 when you got the loan. I'd have to
check. It's a very good question.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, that'd be great if you could share that with the Board. And that $29
million roughly, plus interest, it's not just coming back to RTD. It's also going to Denver. Can
you talk about that?
PATTY DOERSCH: Well, because you both, I think, put in half-- each put in half of the $20-- of
the $29 million, yeah, it'll have to be split in the same order in which it came in, unless, of
course, you can work your magic in.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And what effort has Denver city and county put forth to get the CRP
returned?
PATTY DOERSCH: None with me. I don't know if they're working it separately. I haven't heard
that they are. So nothing I know of.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any other questions? All right. I think that's it for tonight. Thank you all
for coming in. We are left with other matters. Does anybody on the Board have anything to raise
tonight? Our next meeting date is December 3rd. We will take a five-minute break before our
Civil Rights Committee. And we are adjourned.

[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

