Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 20, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

October 20, 2011

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October
20, 2011 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference
Room
***
Board Members Present:
2nd Vice-Chair Cohen, Secretary Malpiede,
Treasurer Bagley, and Director Tayer (via phone)
Subject:

Other Board Members
Present:

Directors Anderson and James

Board Member Absent:

Chair Kemp

Others Present:

Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington,

Call to Order:

2nd Vice Chair Cohen called the meeting to order
at 12:05 p.m.

I. October Board Meeting Review
General Manager Washington brought this item forward. He pointed out
that there will be a special recognition for the Operation Mountain Guardian
Award. He also pointed out that the items had been cleared by committee
for both the unanimous consent and recommended action items and asked
if there were any questions or concerns pertaining to these items.
The committee discussed if it made sense to have staff comment on the
routes that may be discussed as part of the public participation process at
the Tuesday board meeting. After some discussion, it was decided that the
Chair could offer up a statement around the process we have gone through
and how difficult a decision this has been. It was suggested this could be
done more appropriately around the time for voting on the service change.
The Committee requested the Executive Manager of the Board to prepare the
lobby for sound and screen in case of a large public overflow.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
move the October Board meeting agenda

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 20, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 6
to the full Board for approval on October
25.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.
Vote on the
Motion:

There were 3 Executive Committee
members in favor of moving the October
Board agenda forward (Cohen, Malpiede,
Tayer) and 1 opposed (Bagley).
The Motion PASSED.

 Unanimous Consent
 Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services
Committee that free rides on RTD for active duty members of the
United States Military should be extended from the presently
approved date of December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012.
Utilization has been relatively low to date and this extension will have
minimal financial impact on RTD.
 Kiosk Systems Support Contractor
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to award both option
years (years 4 and 5) for a kiosk systems support contractor to
Counter Trade Products. The contract (18DJ022) is being brought to
the Board because this is a Personal Services Contract per RTD
Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.
 2012 Salaried Benefit Plans
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board approves the 2012 Plan Year Salaried
Insured Benefits Budget and authorizes the General Manager to enter
into an agreement with the Insurance Carriers .

 Drug and Alcohol Policy
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the revised Drug and
Alcohol Policy mandated by the Federal Transit Administration of the
United States Department of Transportation.
 Proposed 2012 Fiscal Policy Statement
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors accept the modifications

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 20, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 6

to the Fiscal Policy Statement for 2012.
 Budget Transfer for MOW Facility at Rio Court
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the transfer of
$2,426,451for the Maintenance of Way facility at Rio Court, Denver.
The source of funds includes the 16 th Street Mall Paver expense
project and the District Shops CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) capital
project. The transfer will provide funding for the award of a
construction contract to rehabilitate the recently acquired Rio Court
facility.


Amendment of MV Transit ADA Paratransit Services contract (17DH-007) for the provision of “South Jeffco Call-n-Ride” Demand
Response Services
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee, to amend the existing ADA paratransit services contract
with MV Transit (17-DH-007) for the provision of the “South Jeffco
Call-n-Ride” services. This contract amendment will be for the
duration of the existing contract. The cost shall not exceed
$613,000. This cost includes an estimate for fuel which will be
treated as a pass through expense. The service is scheduled to begin
January 8, 2012 and run through the end of the current ADA
Paratransit Services contract, December 31, 2012.
 Recommended Action
 Service Optimization/January 2012 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve the January 8, 2012 Service
Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A
resulting in annualized cost savings of approximately $10,307,470
and, further, to authorize the General Manager, or his designee to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.


Certification of Contribution Rate for the RTD Defined
Contribution Plan – 2012
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2012
contribution rate to RTD’s Salaried Employees Defined Contribution
Plan of 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation.
 FasTracks Computer Support Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to award both option years (years 4

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 20, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 6
and 5) for IT desktop support services (Contract # 10DY001) to
Technology Integration Group (TIG). The contract is being brought to
the Board because this is a personal services contract per RTD
Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.


Authorization to Award the Design Build Contract for the Sheridan
Parking Structure
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee
to execute all documents necessary to enter into a Design/Build
contract with Swinerton Builders not to exceed $12,600,000. This
contract is for the design and construction of the RTD FasTracks
West Rail Line Sheridan Parking Structure. Funding for this project is
included in the 2011 FasTracks budget for the West Rail Line Parking
Garages, and was provided through the Certificates of Participation
(COP) issued in 2010.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the
transfer of $ 900,059 from the Light Rail Maintenance Facility project
to the West Rail Line Parking Garages project to fund project
elements that are not eligible to be funded through the COP.


Request for Approval of the North Metro Project Utility Relocation
Construction Expenditures
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
(1) execute work orders under the RTD North Metro Project Utility
Relocation Agreements (URAs) in order to proceed with the design of
North Metro Project dry utility relocations in an amount not to exceed
a total RTD financial responsibility of $1,500,000; (2) to delegate
signature authority to execute any such construction work orders to
the General Manager.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the
use of funds from the North Metro budget in the amount of
$1,500,000 included in the 2011 Adopted Budget.

II.

HOTA Membership
Director Anderson presented this item. The Historical Olde Town Arvada is
an organization that is actively involved with the businesses and decisions
made affecting Olde Town Arvada. They are able to work with all the
different facets /interests including things such as parking, etc. Since the
Gold Line will be cutting through Olde Town, Director Anderson thinks it is a
good idea for RTD to have a voting membership in this organization. Director
Anderson presently has an individual membership but think it will be valuable
for RTD to have an agency membership. The Committee concurred on the

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 20, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 6
value of having a membership and asked about next steps to move this
forward.
Paula Perdue explained the process to take this before the General Manager
and his Senior Leadership Team for review of the request. Paula will work
with Director Anderson to prepare a request for consideration. The Chair of
the Board and the General Manager will have final say on this decision for an
agency membership per the organizational membership policy approved by
the Board.
III. Graphic Exhibits for Real Estate Related Board Decisions –
Director James presented this item. He stated that the request for staff to
increase the graphical maps and images relative to action items that are
brought before the Board on real estate/land use type decisions (i.e. location
of parking structures, stations, etc) makes sense and enables the full Board
to make better informed decisions. Director Bagley added as an example that
the TOD group is very accustomed to providing this type of information to
the Board but we need the engineering group to provide this information as
well. As the role of RTD in supporting transit oriented communities, it is very
beneficial for the Board to have comprehensive and visual analysis of the
area and how it will fit in with the rest of the community.
General Manager Washington indicated that staff can provide information
but staff has a concern on making sure they fully understand the request.
He asked if the Board can provide a written clearly defined request so that
staff will understand the intent of the request. There were also some
questions around availability of the information and how far staff needs to
go to acquire this information.
Director Anderson commented that many of the planning commissions for
the municipalities should have this information. This is helpful information
for the Board. The specific land use may not be known but the zoning
information, etc is available.
Director Malpiede indicated this is useful information for the full Board and it
is important that the Board member representing a specific area is involved
in these community related type discussions in his/her respective
jurisdiction.
2nd Vice-Chair and Acting Chair Cohen summed up the discussion by stating
that as RTD embark more in the transit oriented communities, it is important
to have a more holistic vision and being a good neighbor is about
understanding the plans and how things work together.
Director James offered the comment that the question or need is really for
the Board members to better understand the forces at work driving the
community dynamics and how RTD fits into this puzzle. Director Bagley
indicated that the Railvolution conference attended by him, Directors James
and Cohen, is evident of how transit and the communities work together.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 20, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 6 of 6
IV.

Other Matters
Director Bagley expressed the concern over inappropriate use of blackberries
and other communication devices at Board meetings. Director Cohen
indicated this should be a topic for future discussion with the full Board
around acceptable general rules for behavior.

IV. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:05 p.m.

