1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit
Tuesday, March 18, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 7:26 P.M.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
7:26 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

7:24 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

7:31 PM
7:26 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Remote
Present

7:26 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Absent

7:30 PM
7:26 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:29 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

7:27 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:28 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:26 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Committee Vice-Chair
Committee Chair

Present
Present

7:26 PM
7:24 PM

Director Folska participated via phone. Director Lubow was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Carolyn
Conover, Phil Eberl, Adrina Gibson, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, George
Hovey, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Dontia Jones, Erin Klaas,
Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Robin McIntosh Jr.,
Judy McMurphy, Vivian Morales, Brenden Morgan, Paula Perdue,
Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Zamy Silva, Greg Smith, Bill Van
Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Rebecca Ashley, Dave Bata, Marshall Crawford, Jennifer Eckest, Gary
Forbes, Chad Fuller, Doug Gragg, Brad Langner, Stu Livensparger,
Pedro Ramos, Michael Schmidt, Kenny Shephard, Susan Spry, Larry
Tenenholz, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Philip Varley, Bob Walsh,
Bob Wilson

B. Recommended Actions
No recommended action was presented to the committee.

C. Updates

• Certificates of Participation Issuance and Ratings Agency Update
Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer, introduced Brenden Morgan,
Manager of Debt and Investment, to the committee. He updated the
Directors on the FasTracks financial plan as they anticipate the financing of
certain components of the FasTracks projects related to the design,
construction, procurement and/or acquisition for the FasTracks North Metro
corridor. Staff is preparing for this financing through the issuance of
Certificates of Participation (COPs), with an aggregate principal amount of
approximately $470 million during the second quarter of 2014 with final
maturity in 2044. Staff expects to present these documents to the Board in
April and request through the Resolution authorization to issue the
certificates, to establish the parameters and to approve agreements required
in connection with the issuance of the certificates. Mr. Morgan introduced
Marshall Crawford, Pedro Ramos, and Mitchell Schmidt from J.P. Morgan,
Brad Langner from Piper Jaffray, Chad Fuller from BMO Capital, and Bob
Walsh from Loop Capital to the committee. These gentlemen represent the
institutions which, along with Harvestons, a DBE firm, will underwrite the
COPs.
Director Hoy asked how the recent credit rating downgrade of RTD from
Fitch Ratings affects the COPs. Mr. Morgan replied that it is hard to say as

this will depend on market conditions, but overall it is not good and will be
of some cost to RTD.
Chair Sisk pointed out that rates have gone up and asked what the rates
would be for these COPs. Mr. Morgan said that he didn’t have a solid
number with him but could make it available. With a cost of issuance of
$470 million, he said it would be at about 1% though that percentage is
flexible.

• 2014 Amended Budget, 2015-2020 SBP, 2015 Budget Calendar
Terry Howerter introduced Jannette Scarpino, Budget and Financial Analysis
Manager, to the committee. Ms. Scarpino presented to the committee the
2014 Summary Budget Calendar and reminded them of the calendar’s
purpose: to assist the Board members in anticipating and planning their input
into the development of the 2014 Amended Budget, the 2015-2020
Strategic Budget Plan (SBP), and the 2015 Budget. She looks forward to
Board collaboration in creating RTD budgets.
Director Bagley thanked Ms. Scarpino for going through the budget with him
last October. He emphasized to the Directors the importance of the budget
and exhorted his colleagues to reach out to Ms. Scarpino if they had any
questions regarding the budget as her team works so hard to prepare it and
to have the Directors’ input.
Director Folska asked if Ms. Scarpino had an idea what might be presented
in the amended budget. Ms. Scarpino said that specifics were difficult right
now but there are a couple of capital projects that need to be straightened
out with better numbers.

• Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Recommendations
Mr. Howerter said that staff will provide quarterly updates to the committee
on the recommendations of the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force (FSTF) to
keep the Directors informed of the progress. Ms. Scarpino updated the
committee on key completed and ongoing recommendations from the FSTF,
such as adherence to the fund balance policy, sales and use tax exemption,
technology and energy innovation, and naming rights. She directed the
Directors to pages 61-64 of the Operations and Customer Service
Committee/Financial Administration and Audit Committee Packet for the
March 18, 2014 meeting for a comprehensive list of updates on the FSTF
recommendations.
Director Hoy complemented Ms. Scarpino on the written update as it was
the best reading in the packet and laid out a lot of items that he had
forgotten. Ms. Scarpino thanked Director Hoy for reading the written
update.

Director Menten asked for a legal update on the challenges for the sales tax
parity. Marla Lien, General Counsel, reported that the measure for
preliminary injunction that would’ve stopped implementation of the sales tax
parity bill was denied, so the bill has taken effect. State is collecting taxes in
accord with 2013-1272 that brought sales tax parity. RTD filed a motion to
dismiss because the plaintiff in the case was a 501(c)3, a non-tax entity.
Instead of refuting, they added a tax payer (person) on February 20th,
allowing the plaintiff to amend its complaint. The motion to dismiss will not
proceed. RTD will be filing an answer to the complaint next week.
Director Folska made a comment on naming rights, specifically about ING as
they are a fine group to be associated with. She also noted that Denver
Union Station will be known to most people as the Crawford Hotel so it is
important for RTD to differentiate the train, bus, and plaza from the hotel.
She congratulated Ms. Scarpino on the work with naming rights. Ms.
Scarpino noted that Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for
Communications, was in the audience and that the point is taken.

• Fourth Quarter 2013 Performance Measures
Bruce Abel joined Mr. Howerter and Ms. Scarpino for this update. Mr.
Howerter pointed the Directors to pages 65 and 66 of the Operations and
Customer Service Committee/Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Packet for the March 18, 2014 meeting for the self-explanatory report. Ms.
Scarpino highlighted some problem areas, such as facility complaints,
response to customer complaints, and the high level of vacancies in bus
mechanics and operators. She also noted that the Assistant General
Managers were in the audience to answer any questions.
Phil Washington, General Manager, commented the areas pointed out are not
problems, but rather challenges.
Chair Walker agreed with Mr. Washington adding that what is a problem
today may be seen as a benefit in hindsight.

• January 2014 Financial Summary
Mr. Howerter noted that his team is still working on closing the December,
2013 ledgers. Preliminary numbers for January can be found on page 77 of
the Operations and Customer Service Committee/Financial Administration
and Audit Committee Packet for the March 18, 2014 meeting.
He explained the 1% sales tax on retail and medical marijuana as January,
2014 was the first time RTD received the retail sales tax. The 1% for
January, 2014 totaled $999,415. As a point of reference, he explained the
state collects 12.9% (2.9% regular tax, 10% additional tax) for retail

marijuana sales, and that number for January, 2014 was $1.8 million. This
number projects about $21 million for the year. They also collect additional
taxes, like a 15% on growers and additional revenues for issuing licenses.
The Governor’s budget for the 2014-2015 fiscal year anticipates $133.6
million in revenue from retail and medical marijuana, which seems a bit
optimistic when using the January, 2014 numbers.
Director Solano pointed out that the subject of retail marijuana may have a
humorous undertone; however, retail sales are here to stay and that
potentially means lots of revenue to RTD.
Director Folska noted that the numbers might accelerate as businesses keep
opening and that this point of revenue will be interesting to follow.

D. Other Matters
No other matter was presented.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 8, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 7:53 P.M.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

