Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
March 26, 2019 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Broom

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of February 26, 2019

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

May 2019 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 2019 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized base system cost approximately $241,000 and a

FasTracks cost impact of $4,745,900 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or
his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose
service is impacted by these changes.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
B.

Board Policy Regarding Reimbursement for Sponsored Events

It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee
that the Board of Directors approve Resolution No. ____, Series of 2019, Regarding
Reimbursement for Expenses Incurred in Order to Attend RTD-Sponsored Transit-Related
Group Events, as presented to the Finance, Administration, & Audit Committee.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #2 –
Strong & Ethical Leadership.

XII.

Recommended Action
C.

Revised Board Expense Policy

It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee
that the Board of Directors approve the revised RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and
Procedures Manual (expense policy), as presented to the Finance, Administration, & Audit
Committee, and that the Board Office staff be permitted to incorporate additional nonsubstantive ministerial or grammatical changes or conforming amendments as necessary
without the need for further Board approval following the Board’s adoption of the
recommended action.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #2 –
Strong & Ethical Leadership.
D.

Revised Board Bylaws

It is recommended by the Executive Committee and General Counsel that the Board of
Directors approve the attached resolution and the associated revised Board Bylaws, as
presented to the Finance, Administration, & Audit Committee, and that the Board Office
staff be permitted to incorporate additional non-substantive ministerial or grammatical
changes or conforming amendments as necessary, without the need for further Board
approval following the Board’s adoption of the recommended action.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #2 Strong & Ethical Leadership.

XIII.

Old Business

XIV. New Business
XV.

Executive Session
Denver Transit Partners dispute resolution processes and negotiations. CRS 24-6-402 (4)
(b) (Conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purposes of receiving
legal advice on specific legal questions); and CRS 24-6-402 (4) (e) (I) (Determining
positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations; developing strategy for
negotiations; and instructing negotiators).

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

