Mar 26 2019 0530 PM Board of Directors Board
Meeting
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening. I now call to order the Tuesday, March 26, 2019, RTD Board
meeting. The record will reflect that we are convened as of 5:35 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I
would respectfully request everyone who is present in the room, please, just for the sake of being
able to conduct a good meeting, turn off your electronic devices or place them on silent so that
we do not interfere with the meeting. And remember also that this entire meeting is being audio
and video recorded.
The next item on our agenda is the Pledge of Allegiance. We are the victims of spring break, so
we don't have any young people to lead us in the pledge. So if you will all please rise, we will
recite the Pledge of Allegiance.
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for
which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, and you may be seated. And now, Ms. McManus, if you would
please call the roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: And I am present. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present, zero absent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And it's always good to hear Director Williams
channel Director Charles Sisk, who used to acknowledge himself in that way.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's time for our safety briefing. You've heard this before, but it's just like
when you get on the airplane. They ask you to please set aside your reading materials and pay
attention because safety is the most important value that we have here at RTD.

If we do have a medical emergency and 911 needs to be called, I will ask our General Counsel to
make that telephone call. If there are any medically trained individuals present in the room, of
course we would welcome and solicit your assistance. If needed, there is an automatic
emergency defibrillator device, and AED, in a glass case located just outside this room. It's on
the wall to your right.
And in the event that we must evacuate this building for a fire or any other emergency that may
arise, please, we ask, just calmly exit out the door that you entered through, and then go upstairs
around the security desk and exit through that front door. There will be police and security
officers present to provide assistance to you and get you to a safe meetup area. If there is anyone
who might need special assistance in the event of such an evacuation, that will be provided by
our RTD staff as necessary.
On a related safety note, please remember--and we've talked about this, but I'm amazed at how
many people still don't know about it. RTD takes every possible precaution to ensure the safety
and security of its passengers, vehicles, and facilities. We rely, however, on both staff and on our
customers, on our guests, on our public to provide us with information. In other words, as you
have heard, if you see something, say something.
So we encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download on your smartphone the RTD
TransitWatch app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and
communicate directly with RTD transit police immediately, either on a secure, private basis,
making a text message, or making a telephone call to our emergency personnel. That
TransitWatch app is available on Google Play and at the Apple App Store. Thank you.
The next item on our agenda is retiree awards, but I think they're on spring break, too. We have
no retiree awards to grant this evening. We then turn to our public participation period. This is
open to anyone who wishes to speak to the Board. As is our custom, we do allow any of our
elected officials to speak first so that they can get back to their meetings and attend to business.
If you have signed up to speak, I will call you in the order in which you signed up. If you haven't
signed up and you would like to speak, that's fine. We will acknowledge you at the end of the
list. And recall when you are up here speaking, you are limited to three minutes. I'll say that
again, three minutes.
And there's a big timer that will appear on the screen behind me that will help you to keep time.
We respectfully request that members of the audience refrain from expressing any indications of
support or of opposition to a speaker's comments because those outbursts really have the effect
of chilling the free expression of thoughts by speakers.
Please bear in mind, by the way, when you do come forward to speak, you are, by doing that,
consenting to being audio and video recorded, as all of our proceedings are audio and video
recorded. If you'd prefer to submit something in writing, of course, you may do that. And if you
do have something that you'd like the Board to consider that is in writing, please do me a favor
and hand that to the Board staff before you commence your comments.

Please come forward when you are called, state your name and your address. And I have one
person on the sign-in list, Mr. David Rothenberger. Mr. David Rothenberger, if you'd come
forward, give us your name for the record, and also your address, please, and you will have three
minutes, sir.
DAVID ROTHENBERGER: OK. My name is David Rothenberger. I live in [INAUDIBLE],
which is basically the Garrison Street station. Now [INAUDIBLE] A Line. But what I'm talking
about is graffiti. I was out there last night, basically, and I found over 27 pieces-- or actually, 30
pieces of graffiti, on the west side.
OK. Oh, now it's green. OK. So I've got 30 pieces of graffiti on the west side of the light rail
train. I have called them in numerous times. I've called it in the week of the October 31. I've
called them in the week of December 4. And I called them in last month the night before this
meeting that you had on a Wednesday, or actually, on a Tuesday, because I had another prior
meeting. Otherwise I would have been here to say it.
And basically, I'm going to list where all the graffiti is, so hopefully have it all cleaned up by
tomorrow night because you guys went through and promised me, particularly, that as soon as I
reported, you would have it cleaned in 24 hours. Then when I spoke to other people on there,
they said, oh, once we get it, we give our contractors, we give them a four-hour deadline.
So here's the list of all the graffiti that was here on the West Line Trail at Independence and 13th.
There are five at the Garrison Station. There is one at Dudley, there's one at Cody, there's one on
the west side of Carr. There's one at Brentwood. There's one east of Carr. There's one west of
Zephyr. There's one east of Carr. There's some east of Pierce Street. There's two at the Lamar
Station. There's one at Harlan. There are two at the Sheridan Station that have been there for
months.
There are-- just east of the Sheridan Station on the bridge, there's one just west of the Perry
Station. There's one between the two stations. It may actually be a fire that somebody started and
burned part of the wall on that aspect. I just haven't gotten that close. At Federal and Decatur
Station, there's also the windows and the windscreens that are all marked up over there. At the
Decatur under the bridge, they got half of it cleaned up. They didn't get the whole thing cleaned
up. And there also happens to be a bunch of pigeon stuff all coming down from the bridge where
the light rail crosses the gulch here.
There are about six different pieces on the Platte River Bridge that goes across the Platte River
Bridge, and they are not small. They are about this big along. They're around the entire length of
the trail. At the Northeast line, there's at the Platte River Trail, or the new Northeast or
Northwest Line that's being constructed right now, it's on the big column there. And also the
bridge over Sixth Avenue has never been clean. They told me it was going to look like brand
new, but all they've done is they've kind of scraped out all the white, so there's still a bunch of
white there. So I hope that it all gets cleaned up tomorrow because I'll be out there Friday to
double check. Thank you very much.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for your comments, Mr. Rothenberger. We appreciate
that. And I think you know we do not respond directly to these things. But it would appear to me
that you might have a list of those places you've identified, and to the extent you can share that
with our Board staff, I think that wouldn't be appropriate and beneficial.
That's the only person I had on the list who had signed up. But as we said, even if you did not
sign up, you are welcome to come forward if you have some pressing issue you'd like bring to
our attention, and you would have up to three minutes. Is there anyone who would like to come
forward at this time?
With a suitable pause, hearing none, we will then move on to committee reports. The committee
minutes were included in the Board packet. I'll ask first if there are any questions that any Board
member has regarding the minutes that were provided to you. If not, please be advised that those
committee reports will stand as submitted, and they become a part of the permanent record.
I will note, speaking of for the record, that during the Finance Administration Audit Committee
on March 12, there was actually a request that was made for a detailed listing of all of the
changes that we were proposing in that policy. And at that time, I stated that it wasn't appropriate
to burden that record right then with an enumeration one of the 30 or so changes that had been
distributed previously.
Since the date of that meeting, I want to point out for anyone who may have questions, the
Directors have had further time and opportunity to review and discuss these changes and to raise
any additional questions, either with staff or with me personally, as we continue to honor our
commitment to communicate, collaborate, and cooperate. So we have, in short, made sure to take
appropriate steps to respond to that original inquiry. The recommended action tonight will be
considered for final action later on in this meeting.
At this point, then, I turn to the Chair of the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee for any update that he might like to provide to us at this time as may be
appropriate. Committee Chair Broom, anything you'd like to share with us?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Not at this time. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. May I please, then, have a motion to
approve the minutes from the regular Board meeting of February 26, 2019? I have a motion and I
have a second, a motion by Director Williams and a second by Vice Chair Catlin. And we can do
an oral vote on this.
BARBARA MCMANUS: If you'd like.
DOUG TISDALE: I would. All those in favor, indicate by saying aye.
ALL: Aye.

DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. Thank
you. OK. Chair's Report. I'll try to give you just a few highlights here. But your Board has been
amazingly busy.
On Thursday, February 28, Directors Williams and Cook participated in The Road Ahead event
that was sponsored by Transportation Solutions. Then on February 27 through March 1, the US
36 Mayors and Commissioners Coalition traveled to Washington, DC to meet with the Colorado
delegation in Congress, principally to address the State Highway 119 Diagonal. And Director
Guissinger and I joined them for these very productive meetings.
On March 2, the Board and our senior leadership team held our by law required annual planning
retreat, which was very successful and rewarding. Many other Directors and I attended the RTD's
50th Anniversary Kickoff Announcement on Friday, March 8 at Denver Union Station. And that
was held before a star-studded audience, I'll tell you.
As we get closer to the official anniversary date of July 1, we will be hearing more about
additional events celebrating our agency's 50 years of moving people. Please stay tuned for that.
If you have a chance, look in the atrium and see the wonderful-- I'm told it's a life-sized version
of the logo. There are numbers-- I'm not sure how they're life size, but nonetheless, a really large
version of the logo that our staff has created for this tremendous event.
Commuting Solutions held a membership meeting in Broomfield on Tuesday, March 12, and
Directors Cook, Whitmore, and I were in attendance at that. Then last week, the American Public
Transportation Association (APTA) held its 2019 Legislative Conference in Washington, DC.
And First Vice Chair Catlin, Secretary Walker, Treasurer Cook, Directors Folska, Guissinger,
Lewis, Lubow, and I all participated.
While in DC, we were also fortunate to be able to participate in invaluable meetings with senior
members of staff representing our congressional delegation-- the delegation was on recess, so
they were out of town-- as well as the administrators from FRA (Federal Railroad
Administration) and FTA (Federal Transit Administration), including a series of personal
meetings that we had with FTA Acting Administrator Jane Williams. Administrator Williams is
planning on joining us for the ribbon-cutting ceremony for the Southeast Rail Extension Grand
Opening on May 17, and that's really very exciting news for us.
In terms of upcoming events, Directors Catlin, Cook, Guissinger, Lewis, and Mihalik will all be
participating in a district tour of RTD's facilities tomorrow. For those Directors who were unable
to participate, the Board office is working to arrange an alternate date for you, possibly the
beginning of June. Please do contact the Board Office if you are interested in attending that tour.
And then the launch event for the 15/15L Transit Improvement Project along Colfax Avenue will
be held this coming Thursday, just two days from now, March 28, at 10:00 in the morning. The
event will be held at the Carla Madison Recreation Center. That's located at 2401 East Colfax in
Denver. That's Colfax and I would call it University, but I guess it's actually York or Josephine at
that point.

CU Boulder be holding a Transportation Expo on Wednesday, April 3, and Directors Cook,
Guissinger and Lubow will be in attendance there. And DRCOG will hold their 2019 Thrive
Awards celebration on Wednesday, April 10th at the Hyatt Regency, and several of the Directors
will be in attendance.
That concludes the Chair's report. If there are events that I forgot to mention or did not mention,
please feel free to bring those up during other matters at the end because we want to make sure
that you have an opportunity to share that.
We turn, then, to the General Manager's Report. Mr. General Manager Genova, if you would
please share with us your report, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Lots of activities, meetings, and a lot of great progress
that I'll report on towards the end of the report in this last month.
So a number of meetings with FRA and FRA-related kinds of activities. Had one FRA
headquarters meeting on February 27, followed up by a call with the Associate Administrator for
Railroad Safety on March 7. Our next full meeting at FRA headquarters is next week, April 4, I
believe.
But a lot of activity going on as we pursue the opening of the G Line with the FRA, and then also
with the PUC (Public Utilities Commission). And so there's been a lot of work that's gone on
with the Public Utilities Commission, especially in regard to the grade crossings along the G
Line and the 12 crossings that we share with the freight line. So the staff's been working really
hard with both of those groups over the last month. And again, I'll give you a status on exactly
where we are in a moment. A number of calls with the Denver Transit Partners (DTP) Board,
working, again, towards the opening of the G Line and the remaining activities.
A few other things that I will highlight. The Chair mentioned many items. But we did have that
50th year celebration launch. There'll be lots of activities, of course, throughout the year. But
today we officially put out the new templates, the official templates for the organization that
have just the reflection of the 50 years. So there's new PowerPoint templates, new letterhead, a
new memo template, and then also new signature for your email. So you have all that
information available to you, and I'm sure the Board staff would help you with any of that as you
like.
On March 11, we did the launch with the collaboration that we recently did with Lyft. So now
users are able to see. It's called Nearby Transit. And if you open the Lyft app, at least as they're
rolling it out-- and one thing about these product launches that we've seen with Lyft and with
Uber is they don't do a 100% launch meaning that everyone in that area, they kind of roll it in
incrementally as they look for bugs and things like that that might be in any of the software
updates.
But that application, if you open it and you select Nearby Transit, you can see all of the transit
routes and train routes and everything that are nearby so that people are aware of that, in addition

to Lyft, if they want to make a transit selection. And then we continue to work with Lyft, of
course, on other features that'll be coming on their app later.
And as you all know, we did the Uber partnership last month, too. The payment piece, I don't
think, has launched just yet. But that's getting really close, and as we get to that date, we will let
the Board know.
I wanted to just briefly mentioned a few things about the APTA Legislative Conference because
every year we have a very good experience there. We have a lot of meetings where we're able to
influence a lot of the regulatory requirements and the funding initiatives and things of that
nature. And this year was no exception.
So in addition to just the conference activities-- and the Chair mentioned some of the folks that
we met with-- we had over 18 meetings that were largely arranged by Squire Patton Boggs that
we attended, ranging from our staff with our delegation to different committee staff. And the
committee staff is just as important as meeting with our delegation staff because a lot of times it's
the committee staff that are doing the heavy lifting on actually writing the legislation and the
rules and the requirements.
So we talked a lot on every visit we had with every group about bus rapid transit and possible
modifications to that definition to allow more flexibility or more allowable funding of use of
federal funds for a more flexible bus rapid transit, considering using managed lanes and not just
operating bus rapid transit in a specified guideway. And of course, lots of conversation about the
credit risk premium related to RRIF (Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing). And
so while a couple of years ago, we were successful in getting some really good language that got
unwound, I think they heard us loud and clear this go round.
I also had the opportunity to speak at a roundtable that was put on by the Senate Committee on
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs. And that roundtable was on infrastructure and funding.
And I was part of about a seven-member panel that presented, all CEOs from other agencies. So
it was also a very good opportunity to highlight a lot of the successes and things that we're
accomplishing, but then also to discuss some of the funding challenges we have and actually
make some recommendations to them. So that was time that was very, very worthwhile and well
spent.
You may have noticed a couple of weeks ago I reported that, in regards to the VW (Volkswagen)
settlement, that it's not quite official yet, but the CDOT (Colorado Department of Transportation)
Division of Transit and Rail has provided their recommendation for awards to the Transit Rail
Advisory Committee. And we had made a request under that funding opportunity for 15 electric
transit coaches and associated chargers. And the recommendation to us is almost for the full
amount that we asked for. So we're very excited about that to increase our electric vehicle fleet
by probably 15 more buses as that funding becomes available. So that's really good news in that
regard. We're happy to hear that.
Just a bit of information. Downtown Denver Partnership, every year they do a survey about
transportation, especially with downtown workers. How did you get to work, what modes did

you utilize. And every year, transit has been right around the 39% or 40% share of the downtown
workforce commuting, taking transit. So we've always kind of hovered right around there.
And this year, the number that they just published-- I think it was just yesterday-- is 39.9%. So
we're hanging in there on that market share. It's the largest share, by the way, of any mode. And
then the second largest share is the single occupancy vehicle, which isn't far behind. But we're
still leading the pack.
Great progress to report on the G Line. So I'm really pleased to inform the Board of Directors of
some really huge milestones that we are on the verge of obtaining. One is with the Public
Utilities Commission. So tomorrow we have 12 grade crossings on the PUC docket in front of
the commission for review, and hopefully their approval. These are the final 12 grade crossings.
There's 15 total that are under PUC jurisdiction on the G Line. There's three that have already
been through the approval process. And we expect that these 12 will go through tomorrow. So
we're incredibly happy about that. We will let the Board know as soon as we hear any
information on that.
So regarding the three that have already been approved, we received the written orders just in
two days after they were on the docket. So that's a very quick turnaround for the Commission,
and we're hopeful that we'll have another quick turnaround on these orders. But the orders are
very clear and concise and clean, and they basically say that with the three that are approved, it
means that as far as the PUC is concerned, we can remove any grade crossing attendance from
those approved crossings, and that those crossings are suitable to go into revenue service.
So again, we're anticipating we'll get very similar, if not the same exact orders for 12 crossings
tomorrow. If, in fact, that occurs, that means we're done with the PUC process for the G Line.
And that is a huge, huge milestone.
[APPLAUSE]
And so hopefully that'll be the news of tomorrow after the commissioners review that on the
docket. Also this week, we're optimistic. The Federal Railroad Administration, the next meeting
of their Railroad Safety Board is on Thursday. And we understand that they are going to take up
discussion on the two constant warning time waivers that we have applied for the G Line. So it
could be possible that those could get approved. Some of that is going to depend on some of the
work that's being done this week.
So we understand that FRA officials are here, including the Acting Administrator for Safety Karl
Alexy, who will be in an acting role as the current Associate Safety Administrator Bob Lauby
retires at the end of this month. So Mr. Alexy is supposed to be here today with the FRA team
and other inspectors doing some verification work on the G Line is what we're anticipating. But I
know that Mr. Alexy was here and scheduled to be here today.
So depending on what they see today, if they're able to verify and validate that our crossings are
performing as well as our baseline data, then we expect that we will get those constant warning
time waivers approved by the Safety Board. And then, of course, there'll be some time frame

before we get those written approvals. So we don't have them until we have them because there's
always a few conditions on those kinds of waivers. So that is incredibly good progress as well on
the FRA front.
We've filed our Notice of Establishments on quiet zones. We have a little bit of clarification that
we need on some of the dates on the ones filed in Wheat Ridge and Arvada because we had some
additional materials we needed to file. And so according to the FRA rules, that could restart that
21-day clock. But we're working with FRA on that to do as best we can to minimize that time
frame.
The two other remaining big milestones that we need to work through towards the opening, and
to get into revenue service, is to issue what's called our Revenue Service Commencement
Certificate. This is something that's a requirement under the concession agreement that we would
issue to Denver Transit Partners when they've met all the requirements to go into revenue
service. There's some items we're working through this week. Hopefully we'll get all of those
commercial issues resolved and get that issued. But that is still a milestone we need to get
through. And we're going to talk more about exactly where we are in executive session in regard
to litigation later this evening.
And then one last piece is that some of you may recall we went through major, major
negotiations with all of the freight railroads at the beginning of FasTracks to obtain the right of
way we needed to relocate railroads where we needed to relocate them, reach operations,
construction, and different maintenance agreements. Those were all done a number of years ago.
But there's one final closure we need to do with the Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF).
And there's a couple of things that are going to take us a few more months. So we need to get a
conditional approval from the Burlington Northern for them to not necessarily allow us to go into
revenue, but that was one of the things that was part of the agreement, that we needed to have all
these items closed. And it was attached to G Line revenue milestone date. So I'm personally
working, myself and Henry, with the BNSF leadership on that.
But I can't tell you the amount and the volume of work that our team has done, the RTD staff
team and the DTP team, in the last month and a half or two months, and the work that has been
done by the PUC staff and the FRA staff to get things across the line so we can get the G Line
open and ready for revenue service.
So lots of great work and lots of great progress. And hopefully by the end of the week, we'll have
some even better news for all of you. And that concludes my report, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. General Manager. An excellent report
enthusiastically delivered with some exciting news. That's a great accomplishment. And I see
that Director Menten would like to ask you a question. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Could you please give me an update on the Aurora crossings?
I may have missed that over the last few weeks. So tell me what the status of those?

DAVE GENOVA: On the two crossings in Aurora on the University of Colorado A Line? I don't
really have an update on those two crossings, so the status is that we applied for the waiver for
constant warning time. That's still with the FRA. And those two crossings are in more of an
industrial kind of an area and not a residential area. So we've not had much progress from that
with the FRA.
One of the concerns over there, I believe, is one of the crossings has a lot of hazardous materials
crossings on it, and so there's ongoing discussion and dialogue with a lot of different
stakeholders on that particular crossing on some alternative routing. And I think that's one of the
concerns FRA has, wants to see some more progress on, probably, before they issue that waiver.
And of course, we've told them that our priority are the constant warning time waivers on the G
Line because we need those for revenue service.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And is one of the two Quebec or no?
DAVE GENOVA: Chambers. One of the two in Aurora? One is Chambers and the other one, off
the top of my head-- Sable. Sable and Chambers. And Chambers is the one that has a lot of the
hazardous materials traffic through it.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And then on to your discussion where you're talking about the
Lyft coordination with the nearby transit. And if I caught your wording properly, you said there
will be some other features coming that are in the works. What are those other features?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes. So right now, the feature that Lyft has live is you have to scroll and
select the nearby transit, and it just shows you what transit options there are. My understanding is
that a future feature they're working on now is more of a travel planning, that you could actually
plan your trip with transit and Lyft in combination, similar to what we're doing on the Uber app.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you. That's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Menten. Director Cook, Madam Treasurer,
you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Mr. Genova, I was basking in the good news about the PUC and
the FRA, and I didn't pay close enough attention to the BNSF piece. What is it that's needed for
us to move forward on the G there?
DAVE GENOVA: Right now the status is we need to get a conditional approval letter agreement
with the Burlington Northern Santa Fe. We have it drafted and ready to go. I'm in an exchange of
emails and voice mails right now with DJ Mitchell, who's their VP for Passenger Rail at the
BNSF.
So there's just a few remaining items that we need to do to reach closure. But when we
negotiated those original agreements, some of these milestones were attached to the revenue
service commencement dates that were near the corridors where the work was occurring.

SHELLEY COOK: Can you give me an example?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes. So the two that are most substantial that are going to require a few more
months is there's a couple of property parcels that need to be vacated. We started that process
probably a year and a half plus ago going through the Denver vacation process. So these two
parcels in particular are owned by Denver, and they're right adjacent to the Burlington Northern
right of way. And so they would go through the vacation process and then become property of
the BN through that process.
But there's utility easements on those properties, and that's the thing that's taking more time to
work through. So the utility companies want to make sure they have the same kind of easements
once the property is transferred. So we're just working through all those details. It's not unlike
any other easements that either we have or that Burlington has in other locations.
SHELLEY COOK: Do the vacations have to take effect before we can open that line? Is that
what you're saying? We have months ahead?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, what we're asking for the Burlington Northern is that it's in the works,
we think we're about three months away from that, and we're just asking them for their
conditional approval to accept it as it is for now.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Cook. Director Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Mr. Genova, I wanted to just let you know-and you might have heard this before, but maybe other folks don't have this information. And
Director Whitmore reminded me of it this evening. There is a technology that works with your
iPhone for people with low vision or no vision called OverThere. It's a free app they can load
onto their iPhone.
And you can point it at something, like across the street, and it will tell you what it is, the
address, the store. So for folks who are using our system who have low vision or no vision in an
unfamiliar area of our transit system, it might be useful.
And so it might be useful to promote it on your website or along with your Lyft and all these
other iPhone technology offerings that we have for our customers, to include OverThere. Just
one word, OverThere.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you. I am familiar with that app. So we'll look into that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And the other thing is, can you give us an update on what's going on with
the property, the community development property in Montbello?
DAVE GENOVA: The old-- our former Montbello Park and Ride?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes. And isn't it a half mile walk instead of a transit station?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, there's a bus stop nearly right adjacent to it on-- I can't recall the street
off the top of my head.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Would you call it a TOD (Transit Oriented Development)?
DAVE GENOVA: No. No. On Allbrook. No, it's a typical street bus stop. So I would not
classify the property, really, as a TOD candidate associated with a station, either a bus rapid
transit station or more of a transit center location or a rail station. So we're in the process of
preparing an invitation for bid to put that property out on the market for open bids. And that's
under preparation right now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And how long will that be before it comes out? Because if my recollection
serves me, that there was a time limit that these folks were under. Are you being sensitive to
that?
DAVE GENOVA: Of course we are. We followed the direction after, I think, the last update we
did to the Board on this. So one of the things we went back and did was reassess the appraisal.
And as a result of that, the reassessed value did go up by a couple hundred thousand dollars. So
that kind of raises, I guess, the floor of what we would be looking for in terms of bids on that
property.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Any other Directors who wish to ask
any questions of the General Manager? Seeing none, let's turn to our unanimous consent. Thank
you very much for your report, General Manager. That was excellent.
We have two items on the unanimous consent agenda tonight. They are noted in the record on
the agenda as Roman numeral XI A and B. These are the May 2019 Service Changes. And then
secondly, the Board policy regarding reimbursement for sponsored events.
Now, if anyone has a change to or a question about one of these, or has some concern, please feel
free to express that at this time to the Chair and we'll be happy to remove these from the
unanimous consent agenda. So I'll pause.
BOB BROOM: Move for approval.
DOUG TISDALE: And I understand I have a motion from Director Broom to approve. Is there a
second to that? There's a second from Director Williams on that. Is there any discussion on the
motion to approve the unanimous consent agenda? Hearing none, if we would please proceed to
a vote. Director Broom, you are the movant, and Director Williams, you are the second.
By a vote of 14 in favor and one opposed, the one opposed being Director Folska, the motion
passes, and those two items on the unanimous consent agenda are approved.

We turn, then, to the recommended action items. That's Roman XII on your agenda. The first of
these, and they are listed here as actions C and D. C is the Revised Board Expense Policy, and
I'll read that into the record now and then ask for a motion.
It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the Revised RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures
Manual-- the expense policy-- as presented to the Finance, Administration, & Audit Committee,
and that the Board office staff be permitted to incorporate additional non-substantive ministerial
or grammatical changes or conforming amendments as necessary without the need for further
Board approval.
Following the Board's adoption of the recommended action, this recommendation is consistent
with the General Manager's 2019 Core Goal Number Two, strong and ethical leadership. May I
have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Move to approve.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Buzek, and I have a second from-- was that
Director Whitmore? All right. Any discussion on the motion, please, relative to the expense
policy? Seeing no one in the queue, I believe we're ready for a vote. Director Buzek, you are the
movement. Director Whitmore, you are the second. If you will vote, then the rest of us may vote,
and we'll have a conclusion on this.
And the votes are in, and we have 14 Directors who voted in favor and one Director who voted
in the negative, and that's Director Folska. So by a vote of 14 to one, that expense policy is
approved.
We then turn to the Revised Board Bylaws. It is recommended by the Executive Committee and
General Counsel that the Board of Directors approve the attached resolution and the associated
revised Board bylaws as presented to the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee, and
that the Board office staff be permitted to incorporate additional non-substantive ministerial or
grammatical changes or conforming amendments as necessary without the need for further Board
approval following the Board's adoption of the recommended action.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager's 2019 Core Goal Number Two,
strong and ethical leadership. May I have a motion? I have a motion from Director Lewis?
Sometimes it's hard for me to hear. All right. Director Lewis. And a second?
JEFF WALKER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Walker. So I have Director Lewis and Director Walker.
Is there discussion on-- I'm sorry? It wasn't. It was Director Williams. See, I do sometimes have
this difficulty in hearing. I apologize for that. I appreciate you're all putting up with my
disability.

All right. Director Williams and Director Walker are the movant and the second. Is there any
discussion that any Director wishes to bring forward on this item at this time? Seeing none, it
would appear that we are ready for a vote. So Director Williams, as the movant, if you would
please vote, and Director Walker, as the second, if you would do so, then the rest of us may vote.
By a vote of 13 Directors in favor and two in the negative, those two negative votes being
Director Lubow and Director Folska, the bylaw amendments are adopted.
We then turn to old business. Is there any old business that any Director would choose to bring
forward to the Board at this time? I recognize Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Chair Tisdale and Mr. Genova, it has been
troubling me since our last meeting when we viewed the sort of unveiling of the new program
called LiVE. And after thinking about it for some time-- and I'm sure it's probably unintentional- but the unintended consequence of that program amounts to a institutionalized ghettoization of
people with disabilities and people who are poor.
And I'm not sure why we don't just have the regular MyRide card. And whatever status a person
has or whatever they're eligible for is embedded in that card. Like when I go to the gym, I do my
RFID swipe, and they know everything about me, and what I've bought, and what level I'm at,
you know, so on.
So my hope is that you all would take some time to reconsider this program. I find it deeply
divisive. And I think it sort of furthers the gap between the haves and the have-nots and this class
struggle that we see so often here in Denver and across America. I don't think it's helpful for
what we're trying to do. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. So I take it that that really does
constitute old business, if you will, by referring to the fare program that was adopted by the
Board some time ago. And the Director has asked for staff to look further into the LiVE program
itself. As to the naming of it. All right. Thank you. So with that clarification, I think staff
understands that.
As to old business, then, Madam Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede, you are recognized.
ANIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I just want to also put my support
behind that very item that Director Folska is talking about. I think that we just use the MyRide
card. I think that the Affordable Fares Task Force worked really hard for 18 months to try and
figure out a methodology to serve community members that struggle. And if we could just give
them a card like everyone else has, I think that would just speak volumes to them. So I really
wholeheartedly support that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for your comments, Madam Second Vice Chair.
Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I just wanted to say in agreement that I love the idea
of the low income fare, but I would really love it if there were nothing about it that looks

segregated in any way, or different. I think it would make people feel better to have the same
card as everybody else, if possible. So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Appreciate that thought. Director Lewis, you are
recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I actually have a question. One of the things that was
presented to us in the reveal of the LiVE program was that you had taken this out to
stakeholders. And so if we could know who those stakeholders are, that would probably be
helpful, if it's something that was decided on internally, or if it was externally, or how we came
to that conclusion, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Sounds like we've hit a live wire here, Mr.
Genova, so we'll have a few more comments, I suppose. We're keeping this under the guise of
old business, and I know we're stretching that a little by doing it. But I think it's good to let the
Directors have their speeches. Director Buzek, you are recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would agree to the extent that a different card carries
with it a negative stigma that's something that we don't want to impose on people regardless of
their situation. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. It may be appropriate at some point for this
topic to come back before the Operations Committee to have some further discussion as to that.
Director Menten, one last comment.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I would like to just state that I myself have had sufficient amount of
emails with people who have argued that the regional fare at $5.25, which was a $0.50 jump, is
in part because of the low income program. And I don't have a problem except that LiVE and
Live, I think, is going to be a little bit confusing.
But that's at the end of the day. There are people riding the system who are paying more to pay
for somebody else. That's the end of the day. That's what it is. I don't have a problem with it
being a different card because the MyRide card has got its purpose.
So I'm just chiming in the opposite direction here and saying I know in my area, that we're going
to lose riders because of the low income fare program, the proposal that went along with it,
because there is no reason for somebody to pay $5.25 when they can just as easily jump in a car
or take another mode of transit that will be much easier on their pocket. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Any other old business any Director would
like to bring forward at this time? Seeing none, let's turn to new business, and we'll ask if there is
any new business from any Director to be brought forward at this time? And Madam Second
Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede, please proceed.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. You know, one of the things that I
have been thinking about for quite some time has been a way for the Board of Directors to really

make a statement in the community about our commitment to community. And one of the ways
that I thought would be great just to start discussing is to have a free ride day on Earth Day just
to promote people utilizing transit, and families being able to go and utilize open spaces and just
do a variety of things.
So I just want to put that on the table for people to think about. I just think it has some great
ideas that could go with it and can really promote environmental justice, and just having a good
time in our community, which is so beautiful.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Second Vice Chair. An intriguing proposal. Madam
Treasurer Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, I would just say I think that is an interesting thing to explore and
wanted to add my voice to that. But also, early in March-- I have these Transit Town Halls, I call
them. It's just a chance for folks in District L to ride along, and also I get a chance to hear from
them about issues and so forth.
And we took the opportunity to go out to the Panasonic, to the Pena NEXT Station. And Bruce
Abel arranged that. And we had his assistance and company and expertise alongside the folks
from Panasonic and Easy Mile. And I just wanted to say very much appreciated that I had emails
back from a dozen-- there were probably a dozen or 15 people, and pretty much all of them
wrote back to say how much they appreciated it and learned a lot, especially at the Smart City
room.
And also a couple who-- one's on a walker. One has some visual disability. And they had some
interesting feedback about the accommodation of the vehicle. And if you'd like, I'll forward that
to Bruce Abel. So first and foremost, I just wanted to say how glad I was we were able to do that,
and to extend my thanks to you and your staff, and also the Board staff who helped to make that
possible. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Treasurer Cook, and especially for sharing the
appreciation. I think that's wonderful because I think staff doesn't hear that enough. Director
Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, they're going to hear it again, Chair Tisdale. So I wanted to thank
Heather McKillop very, very much for going so far out of your way to assist my constituents and
organizing their change from their paper tickets to their card, their Smart Card or whatever it
was, and that there was a change in the dates of when the deadline was. And they're older and
they didn't get that.
And so I really appreciate you taking the time out of your busy schedule to make sure that
happened, an also for our Board staff to make that happen. So it's really a big deal for my
constituents. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Appreciate that. And Director
Whitmore, you are recognized, sir.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to let you all know, since I did not get
to go to Washington on the very worthwhile trip, I did have the opportunity to stop by city
council at the City of Brighton to give a brief overview of RTD.
And with term limits, it's a necessary item to kind of go to RTD 101-- which is kind of the level
I'm at, obviously, as a new Director-- but to talk about the Director districts, the geography, the
size and scope of our landmass and so on and so forth. So that went very well. And I just wanted
to do a shout out to staff Lisa Trujillo in helping me be prepared. And with that, Lisa's got the
joy of helping me with a couple of upcoming presentations, including tomorrow. So thank you to
staff for helping this newbie out.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for that expression. See, if we wait long enough, we
get people on the Board to express their genuine and sincere appreciation for the hard work that
our senior leadership team and all of our staff does. Madam Vice Chair, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. When we were at the after conference, we were
reminded of an event that's happening nationally on April 25th, and it's kind of along the lines of
what Director Rivera-Malpiede was talking about, and that's called Get On Board Day. And
Dave, you might want to mention what we have planned for that particular activity.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, I can report that our communications team is working on that. And we
don't quite have the outline to present to the Board yet. But we're working in conjunction with
the variety of tool kits that APTA has put out as well. But we will make it a very good day,
whatever we do.
DOUG TISDALE: I think it'll be an outstanding day. I think that's a great idea, and I'm glad that
you brought that up. It's something that we hear a lot about at APTA. And it's a lot of fun being
able to join with others all across the country with a common purpose. Are there any other-Director Guissinger, I stalled long enough for you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll just jump in the same, and thank, especially, General Manager
Genova for taking an hour or so out of his time at APTA to help me get prepared. I was on a
panel with Shoshana Lew, the CDOT Director, and John Tayer, former RTD Director who's head
of the chamber, Will Toor, who's the head of the Governor's Energy Office, and County
Commissioner and the Mayor, Elise and Suzanne Jones up in Boulder. And we had a great
conversation about regionalism and transportation and what's coming in the future.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate your sharing that. Is there any other
Director who would like to bring any new business before us? The Chair has two items to bring
to your attention. And General Manager has already talked about this a little bit. You have
hopefully, by now, received emails from staff that show the new logo in the signature block of
the email. And starting this week, RTD has standardized those templates. Please see either the
Board Office staff or the IT staff for assistance and updating your own email signatures. We'd
like to send out a very positive image and a unified image relative to the celebration of the 50th
anniversary.

One other matter, and I know it's somewhat painful. And I always hate bringing this up because I
hate having to deal with it, too. You have all, by now, received an email, or should have received
an email, regarding the required cyber security training. And it's required for all of those who
interface with RTD-owned computer equipment. And that includes, obviously, the members of
this Board.
Let me emphasize this is, in fact, a required training. It's not nearly as painful as you might think,
and it goes relatively quickly. But it is required, and there is a completion deadline of April 19
for all of the included modules so please do mark that date on your calendars and go through
that. You can pretty much blast through it all in one sitting, or you can break it up and do the
different modules at different times. But it is very important that we all exercise the greatest
caution trying to protect and to provide our cyber security.
Director Menten, I said something that triggered a new thought.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. That training and that little course, total waste of my time. And it is a
substantial amount of time. I may not take it because I don't want to waste two or three hours of
my life dealing with stuff that I have known for years. So just heads up. Nobody can fire me here
except the voters. So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. You're right. It's not a question of firing. But there are
consequences, by the way. The bylaws actually do have that. But that's not what we're talking
about. We know that at some point, we'll be able to work through all of this. And it can be
frustrating. But I promise you it's not nearly as painful. And I had a similar initial reaction last
year, but we got there
Director Menten, one last word, then. I'll give the last word to you. Who says that all the time?
I'll give the last word to you.
NATALIE MENTEN: You may be able to censure me, and I would love to see that happen. I'm
not a Committee Chair. I cannot be removed. There is no punishment, really, here for me if I
disobey. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I promised you the last word. Director Lewis. Here we go.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Rolf, you can tell me if this is appropriate. So we've had
some conversations with staff about what to do with the sale of real property. And one of the
things that we've discussed, or some of us, is if there's a policy that has community benefits
within it as we're considering whether to sell property or not to-- do you know that? Or is this the
appropriate time? And you can tell me not.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. General Counsel, if you have a brief answer that you can provide at this
time, please feel free to do so, or to engage in an offline discussion later.

ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, Director Lewis. It's not exactly benefits to the community. There can be
consideration of benefits to RTD. And there's some language to that effect. I can talk with you
more about that offline. But we have had discussion about that and what that would look like at
specific locations.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I think we have concluded new business at this point, then. And
so I would now entertain a motion to move into executive session for the purposes of discussing
the Denver Transit Partners dispute resolution processes and negotiations associated with that.
This is done pursuant to Colorado Revised Statute Section 24-6-402 (4) (b), which allows for
conferences with an attorney for a local public body for the purposes of receiving legal advice on
specific legal questions, and also pursuant to Colorado Revised Statute Section 24-6-402 (4) (e)
(I), which is in connection with determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to
negotiations, developing strategy for negotiations, and instructing negotiators.
So I will ask at this time for a motion. I have a motion from the Vice Chair. I have a second from
the Treasurer. And so we have any discussion on that motion, please, if you feel compelled? No
one feeling so? Then we will proceed to a vote. I have Director Catlin. I think it was a tie. I think
I had Director Cook and Director Rivera-Malpiede as the second, but I recognize Director Cook.
So if you guys would please vote, the rest of us will.
And the vote on the motion to move into executive session is 13 in favor and none opposed, with
no vote being registered for Director Folska or for Director Menten, which we can take as an
abstention or as an away vote.
That having been said, we have approved moving into executive session. I want to note, for the
sake of the record and for the sake of the public, that immediately upon conclusion of our
executive session this evening, this Board will adjourn its Board meeting and will not address
any additional Board business. So please don't feel that you must hang around because we might
bring something up. Our custom is that immediately upon conclusion of the executive session,
we will then adjourn the executive session and then adjourn the Board meeting, and we'll be
done for this evening.
With that advisement, I will now advise that the motion having been adopted by the required
vote, the meeting is now adjourned in order to move into executive session. And I will ask that
those people who are not eligible to remain in the room for executive session please take their
leave.
We will also take a five-minute-- let me say that again-- five-minute recess, and then [AUDIO
OUT]
...motion to adjourn. There's a second on that motion. Any discussion on that motion? Hearing
none, all those in favor indicate by saying aye, aye. Are there any opposed? There are none. That
passed unanimously. Have a good evening, ladies and gentlemen. It's 8:10 PM.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

