2018-09-18 Financial Administration & Audit Committee
KEN MIHALIK: Tuesday, September 11, that's 6:10. I am Ken Mihalik, the Chairman of the
Financial Administration Audit Committee, and I'll call this meeting to order. I just want to
check real quick, Director Anderson, are you still with us?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: Wonderful. This evening, we have a total of three recommended actions,
followed by a handful of updates. The first one-- I know, Mr. Washington never thought this day
would come. But it is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the recommended fare policy changes as outlined in attachment
A. You'll have to just refer to attachment A. Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
PAUL SOLANO: Third.
KEN MIHALIK: I have a motion by Chair Tisdale and a second by Director Solano. And Mr.
Washington and Ms. McKillop, do you have any additional information for us?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather. Michael's going to walk through some key slides,
so we can just make sure you're aware of the staff's recommendation and how that differs from
the past working group recommendations, and then with that, we're not going to go through the
whole document, because we've been through a lot of that already. But we wanted to point out
some key points there, and then we'd be glad to take any questions. So with that, Michael's going
to go ahead and point out some things that we want to make sure you're aware of.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Good evening, this is Michael Washington, Transit Equity
Manager. And so just to touch on a few slides, a few points, this is-- you've seen this slide a few
times now, just reminding you all of our targets, our fare revenue targets in our budget. I'm going
to the next slide. And this is the actual modeling results showing what we're anticipating in terms
of fare revenue, and the difference in the fare revenue that we would see under this final staff
recommendation that's in your Board packet compared to the recommendation that we took out
to the public. And so you can see the differences there in revenue and ridership.
Our current fare structure, you know that. And so I'll use this slide to really point out the key
differences between the proposal that we took out to the public and the modifications we made
after hearing the public feedback. A lot of the feedback obviously was focused on the MyRide
and 10-Ride Ticket Book. That's where we got a lot of constructive feedback saying, you know,
we really could use a discount at that level, especially for those of us that may not qualify for the
low-income program.

And so we did some tweaking and found that we could actually accommodate a $0.20 discount.
So it's not the $0.25 discount that there is on MyRide today, but through the modeling, we saw
that we could accommodate a $0.20 discount on MyRide on a per-trip basis, and $0.20 discount
for each ticket in the 10-Ride Ticket Book, which would actually equate to a $2 discount in total
on a per-book basis. So we'll go through the detail of that.
I just want to reiterate about the fact that we are still going to move forward with limiting
discount stacking, particularly as it relates to the option for the low-income program, or the lowincome discount, as well as the youth discount, in that if you qualify for the low-income
discount, that's the discount that you'll take. If you qualify for the senior/disabled discount, you'll
take that one. And if you qualify for the youth discount, you'll take that one.
We won't allow for the actual stacking of discounts, with the exception of senior/disabled. So
senior/disabled individuals will still be able to get that federally mandated discount on for
instance the 10-Ride Ticket Book or MyRide, where they will see an actual $0.10 discount. And
I'm sorry, we'll just go back here to the proposed fare structure. And so you can see that here,
where we are allowing for essentially that stacking of discounts, where if you're a senior/disabled
using MyRide, you would see $1.40 fare instead of the $1.50 if you were paying cash.
You know about the youth discount. Just to reiterate, we're looking at applying this to the
MyRide 3-hour Pass, Day Pass on Mobile, and 10-Ride Ticket Books. If you go through a
nonprofit-- and that's really to accommodate schools that still purchase fare media for their
students, so they'll be able to purchase 10-Ride Tickets for their students. You know about the
low income program. And just to reiterate here, we're offering that on MyRide as well as Day
Pass.
You've talked a lot about utilization-based pricing. Just to reiterate, we're using the utilization
from the previous year to price both the CollegePass and EcoPass programs, both neighborhood
and business EcoPass programs. And to ease the burden for those that will see some increases as
a result of going to utilization-based pricing, we're are going to be proposing on that it will be a
phased increase, where the increases would essentially be capped at 20% each year, and then
moving to full price going into the third year in 2021.
And lastly, the Access-a-Ride fares, we still had some more discussion about this with one of our
advisory councils, the APAC group, where we heard still some mixed reviews on this, where
some were ultimately feeling that this is a good deal, looking at a $5 fare, a $9 fare for regional,
and a $20 for airport. But there are also some that are saying that they still don't think that we
should raise prices for people that are on fixed incomes. So we did definitely hear from both
sides, but I would say there's mixed support there from that group. But ultimately, we heard a lot
of support for this current proposal.
And so I'll stop there to not belabor the point any more. Is there anything that you wanted to add,
Heather?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Just a couple things to follow up on a question that was asked earlier
from Director Archuleta about the low-income and youth, offering a monthly pass. So at this

time, we're currently recommending that the low-income and the youth be offered on the
MyRide card, which has, soon to be accepted here, a 3-Hour versus a one-way directional, and
on Mobile Ticketing, which currently has a Day Pass. Hopefully Mobile Ticketing will be
expanded to also have the 3-Hour shortly.
We have looked at this, and from a technology standpoint, it would be extremely difficult this
time to be able to implement anything else for those passes, but we are always open to looking at
that as technology improves. Such as, if we're able to get some more options on Mobile
Ticketing, those might be offered also.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Are they going to be available monthly?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, there will be no monthly pass. Right now, as I just said, there will
be a 3-Hour Pass available on MyRide card, and a Day Pass available on the Mobile Ticketing.
We don't have a monthly option at this time for those new products.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: And just to reiterate, we did look at that, and we saw that we
wouldn't actually be able to meet the fare revenue targets if we offered it on monthly. And so that
was the-- I mean, obviously one of the charges from the Board was for us to meet the revenue
targets, so that's why we stopped short of the monthly pass.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, and I just want to emphasize, as this program continues to
evolve if the Board approves it, and we're able to implement the low-income, we'll be able to tell
better based on what the utilization is for that, and if we're able to add some more options based
on the technology we have available at the time. Which the way it's evolving these days, we'll
probably have more options in the future than we have right now.
I also wanted to mention, because it's come up a lot on the youth program, that the
recommendation from the Pass Working Group was for 12 and under to be free. We looked at
that in detail. We talked about it at the Pass Working Group with the operational issues that we
have.
It's not necessarily a money issue, but it's a very, very large operational issue for our operators.
And we've had a lot of conversation with operators as well as our trainers. And until we're able to
offer some type of discount card for those that are 12 and under to be able to show to the
operators, it is a large operational issue and would create conflicts on the bus, is the feeling that
we have internally.
That does not mean that we aren't going to look at it in the future. We've had meetings with the
Transportation Directors of most of the school districts in the district. They gave us-- they were
very enlightening.
We were thinking a card option, like our discount card, was something that we would consider.
A lot of the transportation agencies are actually eliminating cards for their student riders on
buses because of security issues, which we had not considered. They don't like to have their

picture, their name, and their school on a card that can be easily lost by a small child. So we
hadn't thought about that.
What that brought up is a lot of continuing issues that we need to explore. So our
recommendation is that we do not implement that at this time, but that after we're able to
implement a low-income program, which is going to take a large amount of resources over the
next several months, that we then take up that issue again and see if there's other options that are
available at that time. So we're not proposing to get rid of it entirely, but definitely for the time
being, we don't think we can implement with that particular proposal at this time.
So those are the things I wanted to add. I'd be glad to take questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely. Starting off, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Mr. Washington, I sent you an email earlier
today with some questions along with an attachment. Do you have that handy?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: I do not have that handy.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, let me get it.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Folska, while you are looking for that, do you mind if I skip to the
next person?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: This is just going to take a second. It's in my email. In the meantime, I do
have another question. So if you could kindly-- it sounds to me like it's really a financial thing
rather than a technical issue with regard to these monthly passes. And I just don't think that's
acceptable. My phone's going to talk to me. So can you give me a better understanding of what
your technical issues are for the monthly pass?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I'll talk about the technical issues, and we can also talk about the
issues around the money. So the technical issues about a monthly pass are we do not currently
have the capability on the MyRide card to offer a monthly pass for full paying passengers either.
It's not going to happen anytime soon. It will probably not happen in my lifetime at RTD to ever
be able to get a monthly pass on the MyRide card. It just would be extremely difficult.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So you're saying never now?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: For the MyRide card.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, but earlier you told director Archuleta that you'll work out the
technical issues, and it will be there-HEATHER MCKILLOP: For mobile ticketing. So mobile ticketing, we have a lot more options
available to us from a technology standpoint. Right now, we do not offer anything but the Day
Pass on the mobile ticketing app. As I mentioned previously, we are looking at offering,

hopefully some time by the end of the year, the 3-Hour Pass, that would, if this Board votes on
that, that would then be available. But the monthly pass, we currently do not have scheduled.
We're working on that from a technical standpoint.
So as I mentioned previously, the options that we might have available are on mobile ticketing
for that. From a financial standpoint, we did model offering a monthly pass for the low-income
program, and it drives up the cost significantly and leaves us short several million dollars. I think
it's $8 million over the course of the three year period. So it's about $2 to $2 and 1/2 million per
year.
That would drive us into a deficit situation as it relates to this. So in order to be able to
implement the program, we are recommending not doing it on a monthly pass at this time. That
was recommended, by the way. We did have significant conversations about that at the past
Working Group meetings. We knew at that time that would be extremely difficult and very
costly. So it's not something that's come up recently. It came up in the course of the past
Working Group meetings over a year ago.
Did you want to add anything?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: No, that's accurate.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm afraid that's just inadequate for me. And I guess we could talk about it
further. I'm going to go ahead and find this email with some assistance, and then I'll get it back to
you. But I did send it to you this afternoon, Mr. Washington, and I asked you to be prepared to
discuss it in detail. Did you get that email?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Well, I did. I did get the email, yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: All right, so that has to do with the youth pass. And I want to say that I'm
very discouraged and disappointed that we don't have a 12 and under being done, that you
somehow can't figure out how to make that happen. And I'd rather see you try and fail then not
try at all.
AUDIENCE: Yes.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So with all due respect, as I mentioned, we have done quite a bit of
investigation around the 12 and under-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm going to get that letter for you, OK, and you can read it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: --and we have met with the transportation officials, and at this time,
we just do not feel it's doable.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I think you're not willing, and I'm disappointed, so I'm going to find this
letter, and that's it.

MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Well, OK. If I may, it's not that we're unwilling. That's not the case
at all. We want to figure out a way to do this. We haven't figured out a way to do that before we
had to bring this recommendation to you tonight. And we didn't want to bring a recommendation
to you that we could not in fact implement.
That was the concern. If we didn't have a path toward implementation, we didn't want to bring
that to the Board for your approval. And so all that we're trying to do is figure out a way to
implement it before we recommended it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And we mentioned that at all the open houses also, that this was
problematic for us and that was not going to be a recommendation at this time.
AUDENCE: [INAUDIBLE]
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you very much. Director Folska, any more issues?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm looking for this letter, so you can come back to me.
KEN MIHALIK: I'll come back to you, yes, I'll come back to you, yes. And this is a reminder to
the audience that this is not the forum for comment and/or approval, opposition remarks. We will
go to the next in the queue. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Director Folska, I have the same letter, and I just gave a
printed copy to Michael and Heather. But I'm asking that they look at it later, because that was
why I brought it. It's far too long and complicated, I think, for us to discuss right now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That is wat this meeting is for.
KATE WLLIAMS: So I'm just asking, it has to do with the youth pass, and it comes from some
parties that are involved with the schools and the youth pass. And I would be grateful if you guys
would look at that offline. I was not aware that you had seen it before. I'm still not aware if
you've seen it before. And we can talk about it later.
I just wanted you to know that a number of the directors got that information, and I appreciate
where you're coming from with it, that it needs development. I get that. There's been some offers
of help, to help with that, that might be addressed there. So I'd be grateful if we could talk about
it later. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much, Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I had questions generally about the nonprofit
program and what it's going to look like if we have the low-income program and the youth
program, especially in light of the fact that I think for the first six months, the youth program can
only have 10-Ride books bought through the nonprofit program. Did I get that right?

MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Well, right.
JUDY LUBOW: But I just wanted to understand the interaction with the nonprofit program
generally.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we're still going to allow nonprofits to use their means testing that
they currently do, and they're audited on now, because they do means testing now. So they'll be
able to buy product like anybody else would be able to buy discounted products. So the
difference will be that individuals won't necessarily have to go through another process to do that
if they're currently affiliated with a nonprofit.
But it will be no different now than if I went in and bought a bunch of discount tickets, I would
need to prove upon use of those tickets that I'm eligible for that discount. So right now anybody
can buy discounted tickets, but when you go to use them, you have to be able to prove that you're
eligible to use that discount ticket. And that's what we're proposing that the nonprofits be able to
do.
So they'll be able to buy as many full fare, like they do now, or discounted tickets, or for youth,
senior/disabled, or low-income. So they'll have a series of different options. So a 70% discount
for youth, a 40% discount for low-income, or the 50% discount for disabled or seniors.
JUDY LUBOW: So correct me if I'm wrong, they could buy it, but the person that they give it to
or sell it to can only use it if they show that they fit the requirements of that discount?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct, and that's the current requirement now for the nonprofits, yes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, so that would continue, really?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
JUDY LUBOW: And what about the 10-book restriction?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So for nonprofits, currently we offer the 10-Ride ticket books. It's one
of the most popular items that they purchase, and so we were going to continue to offer that for
the nonprofits at this time.
JUDY LUBOW: But not for the students themselves?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct, not for the students and low-income at this time.
JUDY LUBOW: And would that change as technology improves, or-HEATHER MCKILLOP: We're trying to get people away from paper products, so hopefully
we'll be able to drive people from the paper products to the MyRide card or the mobile ticketing
option, would be the preference.

JUDY LUBOW: OK, so they're not losing anything other than not being able to use paper
products?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lubow. If the others in the queue will indulge me, I'm
going to check with Director Anderson to see if she has anything to say.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Director Mihalik. You know, I am really encouraged by
this, because I didn't see how we could make all of this happen without harming our ability to
provide service. However, I am really excited that staff has begun the process. And what I hear
them saying to everyone is yes, we haven't answered all of the questions, but we are looking for
answers so that we can do a better job in the future.
And I think, like all things, it's a great beginning. I like the way that it has come about. I think
staff has done an excellent job. And I like the idea that you can't do discount stacking. I mean,
you are what you are. Your ability to pay is within your ability to pay, and I think that staff has
done an excellent job in looking at that issues if there are some gaps.
But I think until technology improves somewhat and we initiate this process, it's like all things at
RTD. It generally gets better as we get down the road a ways, or down the track if you want to
talk about railroads. But I think this is a great plan, and I will be a yes vote for this.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you for that.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Next up, Director Sisk.
CHUCK SISK: Thank, you Chair Mihalik, and good evening. And I really appreciate Director
Anderson and her perspective about this, because I see this as being a model by which we will be
able to incorporate concepts and technology as it moves forward.
But in that regard, I guess one of my questions, and it's certainly not a unique question. Heather
and Michael and I asked you to be available for this. But it has to do with the CollegePass
program. Let me take a hypothesis here. My understanding is that the college passed program,
that the fee has not changed since 2011. Is that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
CHUCK SISK: And secondly, there will be no fee change until August of 2019?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, that is correct, because we have already signed the contracts for
this fall.

CHUCK SISK: So it seems to me that-- I mean, goodness knows years ago when I went to
school at the University of Colorado, I wish my tuition would have stayed the same for the time I
was there.
[LAUGHTER]
I couldn't convince them to do that. But nevertheless, it does seem to me that we need to make
some adjustments. But having said that, what I'm really going to encourage staff and the Board
to look at a perspective way, to take into consideration, the CollegePass program not only, of
course, applies to the University of Colorado, but all schools.
And how, see if we can blend into that a low income variable there, so that really we can-- you
know because part of the guiding principles here is that we're really looking at trying to give
people that aren't fortunate enough to make the kind of wage that others make, and trying to
make sure that they have access to transportation. So I certainly don't want that to be a roadblock
here, but I would really like to see us share with the universities. And I think we have. I'm not
suggesting we haven't. But I'd like to see a share and share documentation so that we can have
that kind of exchange before the 20% or whatever the number is in August of 2019.
Now having said that, I also know that the Working Pass Group worked on this. I also know that,
at least my count was, we had four Boulder County residents on Working Pass Group, including
one from the University of Colorado. So we've gone through a lot of the machinations.
And I don't want to suggest that those need to be unhinged, but I would suggest that I think that
there can be some at least exchange of information, and at least looking at that going forward.
And that's what I would like to see happen in terms of, again, the credibility of what we at RTD
are doing. And you know, I know we talk about transparency, and I have every reason to believe
that this has been transparent.
And the last point I'd like to make is this. Heather, you and Michael have done a tremendous job.
I know you've had other people, but I just can't tell you how much I really appreciate and respect
your efforts that you've done. There have many other people, but again, as being the people that
have led us through this, you've done a magnificent job, and you certainly have my wholehearted
appreciation and thanks.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: We appreciate that, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank, you Director Sisk. Director, Broom, you have the floor.
BOB BROOM: Thank, you Chair. I just have a question. You spoke earlier about the revenue
target. What is the annual revenue target that you're trying to hit with the fare increases that are
being proposed?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So if you go to, I think it's on page 3 of the PowerPoint presentation, if
you can get it up on the screen. So it's the very bottom line, is the revenue targets that we're
trying to reach over that three year period of time. So the 165.2, 172.8, and 175.3. So as you

notice, we're a little short in year one, but in year two, we're identical. Year three, we're a little
over. Over the three year period of time, it comes out to about $200,000 so we are-- very, very
close.
BOB BROOM: If you express that as a percentage increase, what would that be?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So overall, the 165.2, the SBP and APE revenue targets, is a 10%
increase over our current fare collection number.
BOB BROOM: So it's a 10% increase, but that's going to be held in place for three years?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct, it grows over that three-year period of time just because of the
changes in ridership and other things.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you, we'll go back to Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Mr. Washington, I found the l-- oh, is this on?
Is it on? If you could kindly take this, Mr. Washington, and confirm to me that you received this
earlier today.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Well I-- I received it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, OK, so-MICHAEL WASHINGTON: I received this email. I didn't-- I wasn't trying to refute that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, well I think it's-- this is the committee meeting. This isn't where
we're just voting and moving on, so I would like to have a full conversation about those
recommendations. Do you have a copy of it?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Well, yes, I have Director Williams' copy.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm sure it's the same. So you've had a chance to read it already?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Yes, I have.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So can you talk to some of the key points in there? I think they are
important. I think that our community deserves to hear it, and they need to understand why you
don't think it's appropriate to do at this time.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: So I just want to make sure, because there's quite a bit here. So if I
understand, your main concern really pertains to the 12 and under free.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, it's not just that. I mean, it's the youth pass, too. I mean, it's how are
the schools, how are you going to identify them? This conflict with the drivers I think is frankly
cockamamie. I don't buy it. And furthermore, these children who are trying to get these
discounted youth passes that have to go to these nonprofit agencies, you're creating barriers to
access.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, if I can clarify, the youth don't have to go to nonprofit agencies.
The youth pass is available for a youth that's 19 and under. And we're saying five and under-which is our current policy-- we would like to continue that current policy of five and under free.
And a fare paying adult gets up to three kids for free. So the youth pass is available for 12-yearolds to 19-year-olds.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Three five-year-olds for free or three up to 18 for free?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Three five and under for free is our current policy. So right now, if
you're a youth between the ages of 12 and 19, you don't have to go to a nonprofit. That is not the
recommendation. You can go and load money on the MyRide card, or you can go to mobile
ticketing and get a Day Pass, and you'll get that 70% discount. You can buy the discounted fare.
And then when you're approached or you get on the bus, just like they do now, they have to show
proof that they're in that age group.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, if they have to show proof they're in that age group now, then they
have proof that they're 12 or under, and they could ride free. Well, that technology is now solved.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So most of what we have determined is, by talking to our bus
operators, is most do not have proof when they're that age. So they will have to come in and get a
discount card to be able to show their age at that if they don't have another form of ID. But our
operators are very concerned, which we understand, that there will be conflicts. It's easier for
them to tell the difference between a five-year-old and 10-year-old versus a 12-year-old.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I've talked to a lot of bus drivers, and they don't seem to have a problem
with it when I ask them about it. I'm going to be a no vote. I would hope that you can resolve this
before our vote next week. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you for that. Director Archuleta, you are next.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Thank you, chair. Heather, you guys were talking about low-income
passes. And they have to prove that they are low-- how do they prove it? I mean, do they have an
extra card, or-HEATHER MCKILLOP: They will be issued just a discount card, just like you're issued now if
you're disabled or you're a senior and you don't have other forms of ID to prove that you're a
senior. You can get a discount card. We have mentioned on several occasions, we're looking at
an option of being able to use a state database that we would be able to interact with to be able to
determine if somebody meets that eligibility. Once they're determined to meet that eligibility,

we'll be issuing them a discount card. So when they buy the 40% fare media at wherever they
purchase it-ERNEST ARCHULETA: They're issued a card?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Then they're issued a card, and then when they use it-ERNEST ARCHULETA: Oh, that was my question.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, they'll be able to prove that when they use the fare media.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: All right, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Hoy?
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. So this has been-- I've sat on this Board for eight
years. And this is probably one of the bigger, the harder decisions I've had to make in that eight
years. I've put down some notes here. Everybody ought to be fortunate that I didn't use my whole
pad, I just used one page.
There's a lot of things in this proposal I support. I really support the 3-Hour pass. That kind of
makes sense. The 10-Ride book, $0.20 ride discount, I'm with that. One of the things I struggled
a little bit with was we don't have a better discount for some of the media that costs us less to
produce, like the card or the mobile app. It seems to me that we ought to encourage people to use
that, because it's simpler for us.
And this proposal doesn't encourage that at all, because of the way that-- the pricing structure.
And I can't emphasize enough mobile ticketing. I think that even the six-year-olds will have
those little phones, running around someday.
But I'm really supportive of our present nonprofit program. I think it works well. I understand
that if we changed to a low-income fare pass, that there are additional costs associated with that
that the agency is going to have to pay for, somebody. And in that regard, I would be delighted to
take that cost and increase the cap of the nonprofit program we have today. It's not that I don't
want to see people in need have transit. I just don't know that the direction we're going is the
direction I personally support.
The youth program, I have some problems with that, too. The problem I have with that is that-well, first of all, I don't know that a lot of people realize it will cost more for a youth to ride the
bus after this program is implemented than it would today for a student, because the present
program allows for the double dipping, which I'm not in favor of, but it does allow it. So you're
paying about 25% of the fare. And under this proposal, the student will be paying 30% of the
fare, so the rate goes up.
I'm not entirely supportive of that for a lot of reasons, but I would just bore everybody to tears if
I went through all of that. I do support eliminating the cash one-way in lieu of the round trip.

And the value pass, that just doesn't make sense. And I get the whole thing about Day Pass, and I
really I like the part where it doesn't stack discounts under the new proposal.
And then we've had a lot of people saying, yeah, we want these lower discounts. Honestly, it
doesn't surprise me if we offer something for less, why wouldn't everybody say, yeah, I want it
for less. But the problem becomes one of, who pays for the less? And somebody is going to pay.
It's going to cost somebody out of their pocket to support somebody else's lesser fare.
So I have a little bit of a problem with that. I'd like to think that there would be equity for
everybody, not just somebody that falls below a certain threshold. There might be somebody
almost at that threshold that's working hard they can't afford to get on the bus because somebody
else falls within the threshold. And I did flip the page, but that means I'm almost done.
So whether this passes-- well, let's put it this way. If it passes, I understand. I get it, I understand.
Obviously, as individuals on this Board, we don't always end up in the majority. But if it doesn't
pass, I think this is a good opportunity for all of us to rethink and think out of the box on what
types of things, like some of the things that I mentioned, are really good and beneficial for this
agency and for all the riding public.
One group that got left out were people with disabilities. And I think we ought to look at all of
that. And so I find-- like I started, this has been one of the harder decisions I've had to make. But
at this point, I don't know that this is the package that I can support tonight.
However, I will say there will be more testimony, I'm sure. And I'm listening, listening hard. And
there may be information that I hear tonight that gives me a little epiphany, and it changes. But at
this point, I think I'm a no on this proposal. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. Director Walker, you have the floor.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you, I-KEN MIHALIK: I'm sorry, I apologize, the speaker queue is being a little stubborn, and I
skipped over Director Catlin, who had already advanced.
JEFF WALKER: [INAUDIBLE]
KEN MIHALIK: You did, yeah, yeah. Sorry about that, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't know that there are too many people that would confuse us, but-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Problem is, she also has a long list. I'm not sure about that.
PEGGY CATLIN: I-- you know, Director Hoy, I am really glad to hear that this is the toughest
decision you've had in eight years, because I'm fairly new, and this is a very tough decision. And
I'm glad to hear that they're not all this difficult.

So with that said, I too echo the compliments directed toward Heather and Michael. I appreciate
all of the hard work of staff, and actually the very creative thought that has gone into solving
some of these outstanding issues that I think were posed earlier on. And I also appreciate the
hard work of the Pass Program Working Group. I think they worked very hard over a long period
of time to reach consensus.
I very much appreciate staff's adjustments, particularly with respect to the MyRide card and the
$10 Ride Ticket Book. I think those are excellent. And it's been my experience in speaking to
riders, when I commute down here for meetings, that that's a very, very popular program, the 10Ticket Book. I also actually do agree with the limits on the youth discount, the three under five
with a full fare customer.
And a little anecdote-- forgive me. I was imagining my 12-year-old son at the time-- he's now in
his 20s-- who happened to be 6'3 when he was 12. And I know that folks would even have
questioned him at 10 as to his eligibility, and he did not have an ID. So I can appreciate the
concern among operators for not wanting to face such a conflict.
You know, I've lost a lot of sleep over this. In fact, on my Fitbit, my time card showed that last
night, I was awake 19 times. And I was tossing and turning over this particular issue, and just
really wrestling with the pros and cons, and trying to balance my responsibility as a Director for
RTD as a region, as a whole, versus the needs in my district.
And as you know, District N experienced a disproportionate amount of service cuts this last go
around in August. And I've heard quite a bit about that from my constituents. And so I have a
difficult time to those constituents justifying a fare increase for marginal service right now,
particularly since most of the trips in my region are regional trips, which are the higher-cost trips.
Now, I don't pretend to compete in any way with Director Menten on the analysis arena, but I did
a little of my own. I plotted all of the middle schools and high schools in my district, and then I
superimposed all of the bus routes on top of those districts, on top of those schools. And there are
only three schools that have a route nearby-- that's Chatfield High School that has the 116X that
goes by it, Dakota Ridge High School that has the 59 that goes actually to downtown Littleton,
and then in the Green Mountain High School area, there's the West Alameda route, which
actually goes to Director Menten too.
There's nothing that goes by D'Evelyn High School, which is a school that's a magnet school that
people go by lottery to get into. So for the students in our district, they really are not given
opportunities for school choice, but they do have the opportunity to catch the yellow school
buses to their schools. So I was just trying to see where that might benefit some of the students in
our area. And it's really-- I've told a lot of people that District N is a transit desert, and it's
because we don't have the density or the ridership.
I also heard from a couple of constituents, and one of them was-- my sister-in-law is a preschool
teacher up in the Evergreen area. She's been there for years, and she has an aide. And she came
to me the other day and said, my aide is really concerned. She loves her job. She's really willing,
but you just cut her route, and that's her only way to this job. And she would have qualified for a

low-income pass, but she will not benefit from this because she has no access to any service at
this point.
So I just wanted to point out that those are my concerns with this. And I don't have an alternative
solution at this point. Tonight I will be a no vote, but if more of the people that I talk to in the
region can convince me to vote for the recommendation, I will keep an open mind. As Director
Hoy mentioned, I will listen. And I am trying to-- I've been solidly on the fence for a long time.
And I am trying to really take a big picture look at it.
So I will very carefully reconsider and toss and turn for another week before the next Board
meeting. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. And Director Walker, we are back to you.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. So first, I want to commend the staff for the work you've done. I've
talked with a lot of you for hours-- I'm sure it adds up to hours-- about it. I want to thank the
folks who reached out to me, sent the letters and the e-mails and made the phone calls. I haven't
gotten back with everyone, but I intend to before the other Board meeting. So I really appreciate
that feedback from everybody who's contacted me, and if I haven't gotten back, I will.
So I am pleased with the discount on MyRide and the 10-Ride ticket. That's always been one of
my concerns is losing that discount for folks who are just on that edge, and who otherwise might
not be able to make that $0.40 a day-- I'll assume it's two trips. That $0.40 a day is going to make
a big deal to somebody, and I'm glad to see that stay.
I'm still concerned about ridership. 3A has a lower ridership than 3, but we're providing more
access. We're providing more financial access, but like we just heard, I'm afraid that some routes
might disappear. Hopefully-- I'm sure staff will do its best to stop a route from disappearing, and
maybe a trip will need to be adjusted or modified in some way. That's what I'm hoping, but we'll
see come the spring.
I'm very happy about the 3-Hour pass. I've talked to a couple of folks, and they're just tickled
pink about being able to go both ways on one fare. It makes a whole lot of sense for a lot of
people who just have to take a trip to the doctor's office or the grocery store or some place that
won't take, or shouldn't take three hours to get from the point of arrival to boarding the bus again.
On the youth pass, I understand where you're coming from. I have a kid who's available for that.
She's under 12. I liken that to when we had a peak period fare, and the person would get on right
at 5:00 or whatever the time was, but you know, my watch says this, and that kind of thing, when
there's 40 people waiting to get home or waiting to get to work. Those kind of arguments
disappear, and I'm OK with that, even though I have a kid who could take advantage of that.
And I still buy tickets for my kid and her friends, and I'll continue to do that. The one thing about
the youth pass is that this isn't just for school. Lots of kids work at Elitch. Lots of kids go to
Elitch. Lots of kids go to events at the Pepsi Center. They'll be working downtown at restaurants
and around for jobs.

So I guess the way Denver's built, in Littleton and Englewood, they're probably the greatest
beneficiaries. But that's not RTD's fault. That's not Jefferson County's fault. It's nobody's fault
except the planners, I guess like me, who allowed those jurisdictions to be built like that.
But I think that a lot of students, when I go home from work at 5:00 and I'm on the C Line or the
E Line, I see tons of kids piling on to that. I'm sure they don't all live in Denver. So they will be
able to take advantage of that for other reasons other than to get to school, and that's something
that I think we all can promote. So I'll be a yes vote tonight. I'll probably be a yes vote when it
comes on [INAUDIBLE].
Like I said, the ridership is still an issue for me. I do not want to see anybody lose a route or a
trip that they depend on to get to work, but I understand. So I'll support it. Once again, thank you
to you. Thank you to all the folks who contacted me and who put all the time in and all the effort
to get to understand this. So thank you. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for those comments. Director Solano, you are next.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairman Mihalik. I appreciate all of the work you've done,
Michael and Heather, and the Pass Program Working Group. I'm in support of the
recommendations, particularly option 3. I represent District K, which has a high percentage of
low income individuals. So I mean, I'm all for the low income.
The one concern I do about the youth pass, although I do support it-- if you have to provide
identification to provide their age, you had stated earlier that there was a safety issue. And how
are we going to get around that once we implement it? I mean, you're saying this technology is
down the road. Well, let's say we pass this and we implement it at the first of the year. Is the
technology going to be there for these youth so they won't have to carry a pass?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you want me answer that question real quick?
PAUL SOLANO: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So in January for the youth pass, what we're proposing is it be offered
on the MyRide card and the mobile ticketing. So those will be their two options available in
January.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. Today I'll be a yes, and next week I'll be a yes-- or next month, whenever
it comes. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. I'll go to Director Williams next.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I'm interested to hear you all say that this is a
tough decision. I think that it's the biggest thing that's gone on since I've been here. It's a huge
effort for us to try and catch up with the years worth of work that 25 people-- and I think we
count Heather and Michael in that group. So I think we are all to be commended for trying to get
it all now.

I just want to point out that in front of the upcoming midterm elections-- and I'm not running this
time-- it's a great thing that this effort has really brought transit issues to the public, and made a
lot of people aware of how we do what we do. The socioeconomic input of it, the disability, the
student, older adults, how we are all and all of our lives are affected is really what we're talking
about here, not just RTD fares, but there's a whole lot more to it. So I think that I'm glad that
we're having this discussion, and I'm glad that you all care. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I'm going to pass over you, Director Folska, and let Chair Tisdale
have a word and then I'll come back to you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I do want to express, as
others have, and whether they've expressed it or not, as others, I know, believe, that we
appreciate and applaud the work of the Pass Program Working Group, the public process that
was undertaken with the open houses and the town halls, and the telephone town halls, the
telephone surveys, and the rest, all of which brought in tremendous communication from so
many people, and obviously the work of staff. Heather and Michael, you're just the visual
realization of that. We know there were many people behind you, but you led that and we
appreciate and applaud that.
And of the electeds and the public interest groups who have reached out to us in response to all
of this-- it's been significant. And I very much appreciate and applaud the fact that a number of
improvements on various proposals that had been made from time to time have been worked out
through the course of this process.
Because I'd like to note one thing for the sake of the record-- we are required, pursuant to rules
imposed upon ourselves by ourselves, to review fares every three years. That's how we've set
things up. I would point out, however, that we are empowered to review fares annually, monthly,
weekly, daily, hourly.
Therefore, any of the concerns that have been expressed regarding, for example, assessing 12year-olds and calculating how do we do this and is there a technology, is there some mechanic
that could be put in place-- those issues can be addressed and resolved at some other later time,
just as any of the technical issues that we face can be resolved at some other or later time. And to
the extent that it might be argued by anyone that inadequate or incorrect data have been used to
justify the projections and the conclusions drawn by staff and presented to us, that too can be
addressed at any point in the time in the future that it might actually appear.
I would point out, however, that we all acknowledge that things such as projections are an
inaccurate science. I think it's just a cut above weather forecasting. I mean, you do the best you
can and you kind of hope. All of that said, any concerns, substantive, meaningful, real concerns
as to anything, may be addressed and resolved at any point in time in the future.
But we must start somewhere. We need to put a stake in the ground. We need to move forward.
And we cannot, I submit, let the perfect become the enemy of the good. So I suggest that based
upon what we have been presented and what we have seen, this is a good solution.

And as time goes by, through other iterations, should we be in a position where we're presented
with information or challenges relative to elements or improvements, we can address them and
we can make it more good. It'll never be perfect I don't think in this lifetime any of us will see
that, but I think it will be good. So I'll be supporting and voting yes. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you Chair Tisdale. Director Folska, you are next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik, and thank you for giving me that third bite at
this apple. One of the things that Director Catlin brought up-- and by the way, I echo the
sentiments of all the hard work that the Working Group has done and that you, Michael and
Heather, have done. And you put yourself out there in front of a lot of folks, including this
Board, other elected officials, for a very long period of time, and to me, it seems a pretty painful
process. Hopefully, though, this will be a template for us to move forward and be successful.
But one of the things Director Catlin mentioned that reminded me, and I thought it was really
important to mention, is that when you cut a route, like the one to her sister-in-law's preschool,
that also means, and some of you may or may not be aware of this, that RTD is no longer
responsible for providing any paratransit services, because the route doesn't exist. We provide a
complimentary service in a 3/4 mile shadow of a fixed route. And therefore, if that person who
was the para, or whoever was working with your sister-in-law, happened to be a person with a
disability and needed Access-a-Cab or Access-a-Ride or something, that's not even an option
anymore.
And so I don't see how that's even been addressed. And I think that probably troubles me more
than anything, other than understanding that investing in our youth is investing in our future.
And I don't see how this program gets there. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Broom, I'll go to you next.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I plan to support the staff recommendation. A 10% increase in
fares, given how much the cost of diesel fuel has gone up and the fact that we had to give our
drivers and mechanics 8% increases because we couldn't hire people-- the labor market is tight-I think the amount of the increase of only 10% is pretty reasonable.
The only thing that bothers me about the fare system is it's incredibly complicated. If somebody
walks up to me and says, well, what does it cost to ride on RTD, the only honest answer you can
give them, it depends. I mean, you really have to do some research to find out what a fare is
going to be. And you know, I think back as a kid, everybody that got on the bus put a nickel or a
dime in, depending on your age. It certainly got a lot more complicated since that point in time.
Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you Director Deadwyler, you are next.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I, along with Larry, want to say I've
been on this Board for eight years, and this is one of the hardest decisions I've had to consider

and now make. There are a couple of things on this program that really has me concerned, and
one of them is Access-a-Ride.
Of course, we have to invest in our youth, but we don't want to forget about our elderly, our
disabled. These are the people that pad the way for most things that's happened in our country.
They paid their dues. But to go up on their fees because a group says it's OK, it's unbelievable to
me. Those people that are sitting there and saying oh, it's OK, they can pay this higher amount,
we agree with that because it came out of the ADA community-- I don't think they understand
that we have a lot of folks that are on fixed incomes and that are low income, and they should
have an opportunity to receive some type of discount like everybody else.
The other thing that disturbs me is when this Pass Program Working Group was put together, the
first thing we said, it had to be cost neutral. Of course, Heather and Michael, they did all the
financial work, but it's not cost neutral. Especially when we have to pay $2.8 million just to
implement it, and over $1 million a year just to keep it going, it's not cost neutral. So that bothers
me right there.
And the other thing that bothers me is that we are being held responsible by some of the public
schools for getting these kids to school, telling us that it's our duty-- well, not telling us, they're
telling the parents it's our duty. They want to reduce whatever it costs for them to ride their
yellow school buses, but not one time did I hear this agency solicit or ask them to pay for some
of this, especially this implementation and what it's going to cost us a year. And to me, that
should have been a priority, because we are taking a big burden off of the schools, but they're not
willing to help this agency.
And so therefore, because of those reasons, and all the others that I have to give complete
thought to, I have to vote no tonight, because I think that the program is not fair to all and it
should be. If we're going to do this for low income and students, let's look at all low income, and
not just pick out a certain class of people because they ride the bus. We need to look at those that
use other means of RTD transportation and treat them the same way. That's all, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Lubow, you are next.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Hopefully I won't take very long. I'm going to be
voting yes on this proposal, I think for the simple reason that I believe society in all its forms
really has an obligation to help out those within our midst who are the least financially fortunate.
And so I consider it a moral duty to do this. And yes, it is not a perfect program, but we don't live
in a perfect world.
And I did also want to say that the price increase that is happening, most of it would have
happened anyway. But with our typical three-year increase, only $0.10 of the local fare increase
was related to the low income program. And that's really very, very small in my opinion. So I
want to thank everybody for taking part in this, and I'll be voting yes. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. And just one second, Director Menten, I wanted to just
comment that there are many pieces of this that I do like. And I do remember that-- I won't say

the charter of the group, but certainly direction was to simplify and optimize the existing passes.
And as Director Broom alluded to, we didn't succeed on the simplification, at least in my
opinion.
But yes, many of the existing pass recommended changes I agree with. I don't like the fact that
the disabled community is seeing the increase that they are seeing, despite maybe some of the
communications and maybe even approvals that you may have gotten or that they may have
given. That's the one vulnerable group, or certainly not all of them, by any means, but fixed
incomes and things like that we should look out for as a society that Director Lubow mentioned.
Yeah, there's so much stuff that's already been said. That's the problem with going last is that
everything's already been said, um-LORRAINE ANDERSON: Director Mihalik, could I speak too, as the second bite of the apple?
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely, yes, I will get to you in just one second. And then as Director Hoy
had mentioned, that the discounts aren't free. There's a lot of additional costs to implement and
manage this program, and that those costs are being paid for by other riders, and in this case,
even disabled riders. And so for that reason, I'll be a no tonight.
And with that-- Director Anderson, if you want to hold on one second, I'm going to go-- oh,
never mind, she is passing. And so you have the floor. Director Anderson?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you. I appreciate the second bite at the apple. I apologize for
not being there tonight. We needed to take a business trip. You know, I grew up in the city of
Denver and rode the Denver Tramway Company all my life to church and to school. I as a bride
went to Jefferson County and started my family there.
And first of all, I worked in Denver and had to ride the Denver Tramway because we couldn't
afford two cars. And so if anybody thinks I haven't been poor, I have been poor. Thank God I'm
not poor now, but I have to tell you, as I look at this program and thought about the people that
were affected, I thought about all of these high school students, and some of the grade school
students in my county, who don't get bus service.
Because in Jefferson County, the Jefferson County schools charge you for bus service. So many,
many parents choose to take their children to school by car. And if you live where I do, which is
by a K-8 and also a regular elementary school, no matter how you drive, you have to deal with
parents who are taking their kids to school.
I am hoping that with this new program that our kids in Jefferson County can go to school, can
go to the school of their choice, which that seems to be the new way to go to school, choose the
school, you can go, or you can go to several schools, as the case may be. My grandson went to
high school, but he also went to college at the same time.
And, by the way, I'm sure there are kids out there that are working and need to go to jobs. So I
see that as a plus, because as I was in high school, I went to high school and I went to a job. And

I think it's important that kids know what it is like to work in this world. And so if we can help
that, I think that's a benefit for all of us, and it is also a benefit for all of us if people can go to
work and earn a living.
And so I just have to say, I know this is not the perfect plan, and that it can be tweaked. And that
is what that future is all about. We can tweak these things.
And one more thing, people choose where they live. In my district, you can choose to live
whether you're close to transit, or you can live out where it's what they call auto development,
where you live because you can drive an automobile. So I think all of us have choices in this
world, and I like to think that even know it's imperfect at this point, and it can be better, that we
would provide transit for a lot of people.
So thank you for giving me a chance at a second bite of the apple.
KEN MIHALIK: You are welcome. With that, Director Menten, you are next.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, I'll be very brief. When I look at the area that my district
covers, one of the areas that have the most disagreement with the pricing with RTD is that of the
Golden area, because out there, it falls within the regional. And you can look at somebody
traveling from-- for those who know the area-- Jeff Co. Government Center to Sheridan, and
right there, you've already reached a regional trip. So for them, that will be, instead of what
would normally be going from the $4.50 to the $5, it will be increasing $0.75, $4.50 to the $5.25.
Since I attended the majority of the meetings, and thank you for all those lovely evenings that we
spent together over chips and lots of white boards and easels, there weren't a tremendous amount
of people at those hearings. And I think they'll catch up later, and it is their own fault for not
picking up on it. And I think outreach was done very sufficiently. That's just human nature. A lot
of people don't read, have a hard time taking the two eyeballs off the phone, looking around.
But for that reason, I don't see why, unless somebody just didn't have a car, why they would pay
$5.25 to go from Jeff Co. Government Center to Sheridan Station, or why they would take the R
Line at 2nd and Abilene to go to 40th and Colorado and pay $5.25. And is that a big difference to
the $5 to the $5.25? You can use that argument on either side. Is that a big amount? Well, you
know, that goes both ways.
The overhead-- we're looking at, I don't think we have the firm figures yet, but for rough figures,
we're looking at possibly $1 million a year in the maintenance. That is money that doesn't put
rubber on the road, and it's over $1 million dollars, now maybe less, but that's a substantial
amount of money for annual upkeep maintenance for this program.
With the program we have right now, I remember voting for the $6.8 million capped nonprofit
program. And I was uncomfortable doing that. We were increasing it from 5.3 to the 6.8. We
went and did it, and immediately that wasn't enough. It wasn't enough, right? Although I
disagree, but it gave us budget certainty.

And what I heard when I went to the open houses from many people was that they were willing
to pay a little more to know that the bus or train was going to be there. With budget uncertainty,
we don't know what is going to happen. We don't. That's-- what did you say? It's like barely a
step above forecasting the weather.
With shared ride services taking over part of the market, budget uncertainty-- can any of us
guarantee this wouldn't lead to service cuts? I don't think any of us can say that with certainty.
And could we make changes? You betcha. We could look at it next week. But would we have an
upset group of people if we gave this and then took it away? I think we would.
So I truly appreciate the amount of time Ms. McKillop, Mr. Washington, Mr. Genova, Mr. Reed,
all of the people who went out and did the job of really talking to the public, but I'm just too
uncomfortable with option three. I suspect doing a head count tonight that this would pass, but I
would love to see us moving forward with option two, because I think that puts us on better
financial standing to be able to say the transit will be there a year from now, and not continue to
be trimmed-- which at times it does, but that's where I'm sitting right now.
So I'm sorry to say I'll be a no vote tonight. Thank you very much. Happy to vote for option two.
Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Director Solano, you have the floor.
PAUL SOLANO: Do you want to move to call the question?
CHUCK SISK: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. We'll go to vote, and then I had Director Tisdale as the-- or, sorry, Chair
Tisdale as the mover, and Director Solano as the second.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Mihalik, this is General Counsel Rolf Asphaug. I just want to be clear
for the record that there was a motion to call the question, but it sounds as if in fact that doesn't
need to go forward. Nobody else is going to talk, so I just want to make sure that everyone's clear
that you're actually voting on the main motion and not on a motion to call the question.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that clarification. I didn't see any additional speakers in the
queue. I just jumped the gun. All right, so we will go on with the recommended action. Mover
was Chair Tisdale, and you were the second.
And this recommendation passes. It's actually nine yeses, including Director Anderson. So nine
yeses, six nos, including Director Deadwyler, Director Menten, Director Folska, Hoy, Director
Catlin, and myself. Thank you very much. And with that, I think we'll take just a stand up break,
just a few minutes. Let everybody get re-situated.
--to order. For those in the audience, if you're planning to stay-- yes?
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

Thank you, Director Sisk.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: The next item for this evening is another recommended action.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just want to-KEN MIHALIK: Yes, I will recognize Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I think one thing that we did not bring up is today is 9/11, and
the fact that we are in the transportation industry. We are aware, I think all the time, of potential
situations, and I'd just like us to take a second to remember that fact. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you for that. Moving on to the second of three recommended
actions, it is recommended by the Finance Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute one or more agreements with Urban
Land Conservancy, known as ULC, or its designee concerning the lease of parking spaces in the
Sheridan Station Garage, according to the code agreement parameters listed in the discussion
section of this report.
And this recommendation addresses one of the General Manager's 2018 goals, strategic goal
number one, fiscal sustainability. Do I have a motion?
PAUL SOLANO: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: I'll have a mover as Director Solano and a second as Director Catlin. Heather,
you have some explanation for us?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, this is Heather McKillop. I'm going to actually turn it over
Chessy Brady. She's been working on this for us. And so she's going to give you an update and
just a little more information than we presented last time, and then we'll be glad to answer any
questions you may have.
CHESSY BRADY: Good evening. Yes, I was here a month ago to update you on this, and now
we're here for the action. So the Sheridan Station Garage we received as an unsolicited proposal
from the developer for a property adjacent to our garage. We've gone through our unsolicited
proposal procedure, and are now in step six, coming to you for your review and request to move
into step seven.
The proposal itself is to lease up to 120 spaces in this 800 space garage. Utilization is currently
around 20%, so we have the space to lease out these parking spaces. We did look at the 2035
forecast of utilization, and at that point we anticipate 40% to 50% utilization. So we expect to
continue to have room to lease these spaces.

We also checked this proposal based on the evaluation guidelines this Board passed in February,
and it meets all the requirements of the principles that we established. And when we look at the
factors, we determine that it brings in some revenue, a little bit of ridership from the additional
units, the affordable housing units that will be just adjacent to the station. It has strong
jurisdiction support from Denver, where it's located, as well as Lakewood, which is just across
the street.
And then as far as our community facilities or affordable housing factor, this is almost 200
affordable housing units. So it's a strong benefit there. And it's also a strong benefit to our brand
image and our ability to be a partner in the community.
So just a little bit on the development project itself. It plans to open in 2020, around 163
affordable units. These will be permanently affordable, which is notable in the area. Often
affordable units are only 15, 30, 40 years, and these will actually be permanent. So that's
something to keep in mind. Per the developer, our ability to offer spaces to these residents in lieu
of the developer building them themselves really enables the project to go forward, and without
our cooperation, it would be very difficult, if not, for the developer, impossible for this project to
be completed.
The parameters that we've set out in more detail in the Board report for the agreement that we
intend to enter into are as follows-- we'll have a maximum initial term of 19 years, and then
options to renew. The rent for the spaces will be at least fair market value or our maintenance
cost, whichever is greater, and that's a base level. Obviously, we'll negotiate for what is
reasonable and what's possible. The lease we'll put in place will give us the option to modify or
cancel if we determine that transit users do need the spaces. We'll make sure that we're
prioritizing our customers.
And then, of course, the RTD Bond Council must approve and FTA must approve as well, and
we have preliminary approval from those bodies at this point. But we'll continue to consult with
them. So with that, we'll open it up for questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Director Folska, you are leading off again.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry, fast on the trigger finger I guess. Thank you very much for that
presentation, and I think that the Sheridan Station needs an injection of something to create some
activity. I particularly appreciate the Urban Land Conservancy. I think they do a really important
job in the Denver metro area.
I also think that it's worth noting that this is permanent affordable housing. I think that's really
important, because up until now, all I've heard is affordable housing that, you know, like you,
said converts to market rate at 15, 20, 30 years, and then you're back to square one and you have
to come up with the money again, and so it seems like you're in a vicious cycle.
What kind of affordable housing? Is it senior housing, or--

CHESSY BRADY: It's not specifically senior housing. It meets several levels of area median
income with an emphasis on 60%, and but also reaching lower area median income, down to
30%, I believe.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm sorry, I didn't understand your answer. Is it senior housing?
CHESSY BRADY: It is not specifically geared towards seniors, no.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, but it could be? Or, who's going to live there? Workforce, or-CHESSY BRADY: 60% area median income would be workforce, and then it will also reach
lower incomes as well.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, lower income doesn't mean they're not working.
CHESSY BRADY: Absolutely.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, right, but because what we know about seniors is they're not
commuting to work, right-- most of the time. And then I thought I heard you say there were 200
units, and then there was 163. How many units are there?
CHESSY BRADY: I apologize, 163.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, and how many parking units?
CHESSY BRADY: The request is for up to 120 parking spaces.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And you said it will cover the cost of maintenance or the market value,
whichever is higher?
CHESSY BRADY: That's right.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: For no longer than 19 years. And what are you going to do if you need it
in five years, and these people got there and they want their parking, and you took it away?
What's the plan?
CHESSY BRADY: Our expectation-- and that's why we looked at the forecast for 2035, and
seeing that our forecast is not even at 50% at that point, we're not concerned about being able to
offer the spaces in five years. If we were, I think we wouldn't be entering into this agreement.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But it could happen, because I mean, if we got like 100,000 new jobs here
in the next five years-- for example, if Amazon and the Stock Show came, you might find
something different. So I mean, I think it would be wise to have a plan. I'd like to know what that
is. Taking away parking is a painful thing.
CHESSY BRADY: We'll speak with the developer about that.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom, you are next.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I notice you had to get approval from Bond Council. What
kind of bonds were sold to cover this? Were they sales tax revenue bonds, or were they
certificates of participation, or-HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather. They were certificates of participation (COP).
That's the reason for the 19 years, is we had to look at what was on the certificates, and they were
24 year useful life, and then we subtracted the five years of depreciation. And so we're down to
the 19-year lease. At that time, the COPs would be paid off, and then we would be able, as was
mentioned, to enter potentially into other different types of lease agreements with them. Right
now, we're restricted by the 19 years, and that's due to the issuance of debt through the COP
process.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I was just wondering if by some twist of fate we
needed those parking spaces, would the terms be lenient for us to be able to get them?
CHESSY BRADY: Yes, that's something we will be working into the lease.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, and the other thing I wanted to say is that I had done some research on, I
think it was University Station. And there was parking spot leases, and it was almost a give
away. And so it makes me leery of these deals. And I'm just wondering how are you going to
make sure that you get good value for this?
CHESSY BRADY: We have looked at the University lease, and we're going to make sure we're
learning from that. And we are also looking at fair market value in the area, and then also
looking at our maintenance costs and making sure that we're getting a fair deal.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Chair Tisdale, if you'll allow me to check in with Director Anderson real fast
before we get on to the rest of the folks present-- Director Anderson, did you have any comments
on this? I don't know that she's still with us. I'm getting a no. OK, well we'll continue on. Chair
Tisdale, you are next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Mr. Chairman. I'm delighted to hear that you have
looked at and used the University Station lease as an object lesson, if you will, what not to do,
which is why we have those Transit Oriented Development (TOD) guidelines that we adopted in
February of this year, was to address exactly that kind of situation. And thank you for taking
those into account.

I believe that the parameters that you have recited appear to be reasonable and protective, and
very much beneficial to the RTD in its furtherance of its mission. Relative to jurisdictional
support, I see the indication that there is. Please just tell us what that evidence of jurisdictional
support is. Do we have a letter of support from city council or what, because that's an important
element in going forward.
CHESSY BRADY: Sure, we have a letter of support from the Denver TOD Manager and we
have a letter of support from the City Planner in Lakewood.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, perfect. I appreciate hearing that. Thank you very much, and kudos
on doing a good deal, and keep those negotiations strict.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Catlin, you are next.
PEGGY CATLIN: I like this proposal a lot. I think with only 20% utilization of the 800 spaces,
leasing 120 spaces is just an additional 15%, which leaves quite a bit of capacity. Would we be
so fortunate to have the additional 64% used for transit purposes and needed to take back those
120 spaces, I would caution you that it's very difficult to take something like that away. So that
was my comment as well.
But I do like the agreement parameters, especially the fair market value or the maintenance costs.
I think those are excellent guidelines for that, so thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, we're hoping transit use will be so popular because its literally
next door that they wont even need all those spaces potentially. We're being very optimistic.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Director Mihalik, I am back.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, wonderful. We wondered where you went to. I was just going to-CHUCK SISK: Uh, don't go there.
[LAUGHTER]
KEN MIHALIK: That's good timing, because I had-LORRAINE ANDERSON: I pressed the wrong button.
CHUCK SISK: Take the fifth, Lorraine.
KEN MIHALIK: Well with that, you may have heard me call on you just prior, so I'll let you
have a chance if you have any questions or comments.

LORRAINE ANDERSON: I just want to say, the Sheridan Station has been under utilized, and I
think this is a great way to bring it into a helpful situation, and I think it will be good for the
whole area. So I just wanted to say that. And I apologize, I hit the wrong button.
KEN MIHALIK: Not a problem. Director Solano, you have the floor.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairman Mihalik. When we talk of 100% affordable housing
development, will these affordable housing units accept section 8 vouchers?
CHESSY BRADY: I am not fully aware of that. I might ask the developer to respond to that
question, if that would be all with the Board?
KEN MIHALIK: Sure.
GEORGE THORN: I'm George Thorn, and Aaron Miripol from Urban Land Conservancy is also
here. We currently have 13 voucher projects. In the project, as we stand today, we will accept
section 8 vouchers throughout the whole process. We have eight units that are being provided
vouchers through the housing authority, and another five through a State of Colorado agency.
But we regularly will accept section 8 vouchers, and other people who can find a way to
subsidize their rent. Those would typically be at the very low income level of 30%
[INAUDIBLE].
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you very much. That's great.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Williams, you are next.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I want to say I think it's a great way for RTD to
partner with the community. I think it's good for our image. I think it's great that we're thinking
outside of the box in this type of project, and I'd like to see more of this kind of use of our
facilities in conjunction with other projects, and I'm glad that it's meeting one of our 2018 goals.
So I am supporting this one. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Archuleta, you have the floor.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Thank you, Mihal-- Chair Mihalik.
We'll call it good.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: You guys, what your guesstimation, just a guesstimation of what
you're going to charge for the lease. I mean, what is roughly dollars a month? A guesstimation,
just guessing?
CHESSY BRADY: We haven't made it that far, and I'd rather not say since there's a party that
we're negotiating with in the room, so--

ERNEST ARCHULETA: All right, thank you.
CHESSY BRADY: I'll be glad to talk about it offline.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: All right, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: George would like that answer, too.
CHESSY BRADY: Yeah.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, thank you, Heather, for that. Director Hoy, you are next.
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. So the previous decision was one of the tougher ones
we've had to make. I would put this down as maybe one of the easier ones we're going to have to
make, or at least for this Director. We have 800 spaces, 400 of which will be surplus in 2035.
This Board has given direction repeatedly to our staff, it would be great to hold onto our assets
and not sell them.
This is exactly the classic example of that. We're getting rent for one of our assets that we will
not be using. So it provides an income to us, a benefit to society-- boy, I mean, this one just
works.
And I might add that this thing started a long time ago. And the direction was given to
everybody, go figure this out. And I'm glad to see that that happened. Thank you very much. And
I'm excited about this. I'll be a yes on this one. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Walker, you are next.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks, I'll be supporting this. I'm fortunate enough to have a bunch of rail
stations in the district I represent. And the developer has buildings, a couple of them, and ULC
has one near Evans Station, and I pass that one more frequently because I live just a couple
blocks away. The developments are always clean, orderly, neat, fantastic, I believe fantastic,
additions to the neighborhood and at the station.
So like has been mentioned, we'll be gaining revenue for an asset that would otherwise just be
empty, and I think we're providing a service to the developer or the residents who will be in the
development. So I see very little to gripe about, other than it didn't come along four years sooner.
But this is fantastic, so I'll definitely be supporting it. So thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Sisk?
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I really support the continued partnership with ULC.
They've been very good partners with RTD. One of the thoughts that just creased my brain was
that in fact they're going to be affordable housing units. What could we do to perhaps, to use
Chair Tisdale's point, put a stake in the ground for some of our employees and mandate that a
certain number of these units be for RTD employees?

KATE WILLIAMS: You don't have anybody [INAUDIBLE]
CHUCK SISK: Uh huh. I think you might be surprised. So just a thought, but I do think that we
have assets, and it's something where we should protect our own. And if I'm in the City of
Louisville and we're giving up great property, I want to say, what is in it for the residents of
Louisville? So here's a chance for us to show up for our employees. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten, you are next.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I am just wondering, at some point in time in the past, this
Board had made recommendations to look at a paid parking program. Not exactly sure, actually,
where that's sitting at this moment. But related to this agreement, and perhaps using the example
of the University Station, how would that impact the contract if we were to say, we're going to
start to charge $3 for every person parking in the garage? Would we plan for them?
CHESSY BRADY: That's a good point that we should take into consideration as we put together
the logistics side of the implementation side with the developer, if we were to change our
parking policy. So we will think about that as we put this together.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And I'll just add that, yes, this one does seem to tick all the boxes. So we'll
move to a vote. Director Solano, I had you as the mover, Director Catlin as the second. And
Director Anderson, I don't know that I got an affirmative yes or no, but based on your comments,
I would-- I don't want to assume.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Yes
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KEN MIHALIK: OK.
[LAUGHTER]
KEN MIHALIK: And we have 13 yeses, including Director Anderson, one no vote, that's
Director Folska, and this passes. Thank you very much.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Moving on to the third and final recommended action tonight, it is
recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the transfer of $420,140 from the Railway Worker Protection Project-- that's project
10470-- to the PLC Upgrade Project, or 10426. Do I have a motion?
CHUCK SISK: So moved.

KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: I've got Director Sisk as the mover, and Director Williams as the second. And
Heather, again, you will-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, I'm hoping this goes on the-KEN MIHALIK: --update us.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: --easier side of one for the night, but we'll see. So we have a project
that is ready for closure and is complete, and that's the Railway Worker Protection and Early
Warning System Project. It was funded in 2016 and early 2017. It now is, like I said, ready for
closure. And there is money available in the project, about $420,000.
Normally, that money we would just return to the unrestricted fund, and it would roll forward
into another project or program later on. However, we do have another project in rail, the
Program Logic Controller Project, which was budgeted in 2015, and it was intended to purchase
controllers for 17 substations on the southeast corridor. Those substations need to be replaced.
They're obsolete, at the end of their useful life, and we can no longer get them or parts.
That project for the controllers was delayed due to the R Line construction. We had to put
controllers in the R Line. They were a new manufacturer, and the thought was, let's see if those
controllers work. And if they do, we'll go ahead and use those same controllers and purchase
those for the southeast corridor. However, after the R Line was implemented, we became aware
that those controllers would not work in the southeast corridor due to the amount of rewiring that
was required to be able to do that, which would be very costly for the project.
In the meantime, when we went out and looked at the price of the controllers, we realized that
the price had increased over that period of time, and we're short about the $420,000 that's
available in the other project. So the request this evening is to be able to transfer the $420,000
from the project that's closing, the Railway Worker Protection Project into the Program Logic
Controller Project. The reason it's coming forward is because it's beyond the available limit of
the general manager, and therefore requires Board approval to be able to take this action.
So with that, I'd be glad to answer any questions. And I also have my help line here back here
just in case I can't answer them.
KEN MIHALIK: There's at least one question. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Heather, I'm sorry I feel so confused right
now. I thought that the General Manager had $500,000 limit on what he could do based on the
couple of months ago when we were renewing the state lobbyist, I think it was, or local-DAVID GENOVA: Director Folska, this is Dave. This is a budget transfer. It has a different
dollar authority.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK.
DAVID GENOVA: So the authority is $250,000 for a transfer. So the other project we were
talking about was an Request for Proposal (RFP), or a contract let under an RFP. The General
Manager authority on that is 500,000, but for budget transfers, it's 250,000.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, that's what I was confused about. I didn't know. So are there any
other levels of authority for cash?
DAVID GENOVA: If there's a contract that we put out under an invitation for bid as opposed to
a request for proposal, that's $1 million is the General Manager authority.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Wow, I never knew that. That's great.
[LAUGHTER]
Any more?
DAVID GENOVA: Those were the biggies.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, those are the-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, nothing more than a million? So you've got a million, 500 and a
quarter?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Great, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: All right, that's good clarification. I see no other speakers. We'll move to a
vote. I had Director Sisk-LORRAINE ANDERSON: Uh, excuse me.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, my apologies, my apologies. Thank you for the reminder, Director
Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I'm sorry, but as a wife, a daughter, and a granddaughter of a rail
worker, I absolutely support safety for our employees.
DOUG TISDALE: Here, here.
[LAUGHTER]
CHUCK SISK: I didn't hear you, Lorraine.

KEN MIHALIK: No disagreements, thank you for that, and my apologies. We will move to the
vote. Director Anderson, I'm going to assume that's a yes?
[LAUGHTER]
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. And with that one, that passes 14 yeses and no nos.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
With that, we will move on to the first of a handful of updates, and General Manager Genova is
going to yield this first one.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Yes, I wanted to give you all an update on the
Workforce Initiative Now Program, or the WIN program. And the Board knows that we've had
the WIN Program in place almost since the initiation of fast tracks. And when we initiated the
WIN Program, it was geared largely towards our capital projects and providing training and
workforce assistance to primarily the communities in our fast tracks projects to be able to staff
all of those construction jobs, but also be a good community partner.
Well, in the last year or so, as our construction is not as large as it once was and we're shifting
more into operations and maintenance, we've also made a great shift with the WIN Program. And
so we've actually physically moved the WIN Program from reporting in the Civil Rights Group
to reporting in the Human Resources Group. And we've done that primarily so we could focus
with the new and improved WIN program on recruiting for our internal jobs, so bus operators,
maintainers, rail operators, and that. And so we're really retooling it. It's going to be heavily
community based, community based recruiting.
And about a month ago, I would say, we have hired our new WIN person. And I'm going to ask
Andrew Gale, our Senior Manager of Human Resources, to introduce Michelle, and then she can
just talk a little bit about what she's doing.
ANDREW GALE: Hi. Again, I'm Andrew Gale, Senior Manager of Human Resources. A couple
of months ago, we put out a recruitment for the WIN Program. That's moved to Human
Resources. We had quite a lot of interest, very robust applicant pool, and we selected Michelle
Spreutels-Martinez as our WIN representative to go out and do some external recruiting for us.
MICHELLE SPREUTELS-MARTINEZ: Good evening, and thank you for having me. Within
the last month and a half or so, conversations have already been initiated with a variety of
community agencies to start developing some initiatives on how to partner up and gather more
pipelines for candidates for our hard to recruit positions, those being the operators, the body shop
technicians, the mechanics. So we are in talks with the Community College of Aurora, the
Community College of Denver to make sure that we are again creating those initiatives to help
cushion the various challenges that RTD has faced within the last couple of years.

And my job, my primary role, is to be able to help continue to develop existing relationships as
well as create new ones. We're reaching out, and being creative as to who we're reaching out to,
and creating those initiatives. So I'm very excited to be a part of RTD. And I'm very excited to
what those partnerships will look like here within the next couple of years. And I thank you for
having me tonight.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Michelle. I just wanted to make sure the Board was aware that
we've made this transition and that Michelle's on board and the great work she's already initiating
and out in the communities, and we're looking forward to some really great results.
MICHELLE SPREUTELS-MARTINEZ: Thank you. Good night.
DAVID GENOVA: There might be some questions.
[LAUGHTER]
MICHELLE SPREUTELS-MARTINEZ: Sorry.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, don't leave just yet.
MICHELLE SPREUTELS-MARTINEZ: My apologies.
KEN MIHALIK: And I'm actually going to start with Director Anderson, so I don't make that
mistake again. Did you have any questions or comments?
[INAUDIBLE]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KEN MIHALIK: I'm hearing none. I'll go to Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I want to say welcome,
Michelle. It's a delight to have you here. And relative to the comment about the outreach to the
Community College of Denver, I can assure you you have no more enthusiastic, willing partner
than Everette Freeman at the Community College of Denver. President Freeman is exceptionally
interested in continuing, expanding, and doing everything he can to collaborate with us relative
to the WIN Program. So I just bring you those greetings personally.
MICHELLE SPREUTELS-MARTINEZ: Thank you, sir. I appreciate that.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom, you are next.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. What happened to the position in the Civil Rights Division
that handled this program before?

DAVID GENOVA: Director Broom, we transferred the position over. So it was a conversion of
that position.
BOB BROOM: And what happened to the individual that filled it?
DAVID GENOVA: Oh, I'm sorry. That's a good question. That person resigned about four or
five months ago to pursue other matters.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Hoy?
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. So welcome aboard.
MICHELLE SPREUTELS-MARTINEZ: Thank you.
LARRY HOY: I've got all the confidence in the world you'll do a great job. And I might echo
Chair Tisdale's comments about his assistance, or if you need any assistance. I am very
acquainted with the President of the Front Range Community College System, which is multiple
campuses. So do your thing, but if you encounter any problems, I can make a phone call.
And the other thing I was really wondering about, though, is what about technical high schools?
For instance, within Adams County District 12, there is Bollman High School. They train
mechanics, and that's about all I know. You know, they have an automotive section. Do we reach
out to that lower level of education?
MICHELLE SPREUTELS-MARTINEZ: Correct, yes, absolutely. And those are initiatives that
we are starting to develop. I have been in talks with Denver Public Schools as well as Denver
Schools of Science and Technology to be able to see what programs are available at the high
school level, and how we can plant that seed from that very primitive age, if you will, to start
funneling those students to RTD and other various programs that would support positions with
RTD. So research is being done. And all I can say is that's certainly something that we are
targeting.
LARRY HOY: So you mentioned a couple of times Denver. I don't live in Denver. I don't work
in Denver. And so I'm just w-- in fact, I would ask you, if you would like, give me a call,
because the STEM Program made me think of another thing. Northglenn High School has an
excellent STEM Program, and that Principal happened to be selected last year as Principal of the
Year in the State of Colorado. So they have a great program going on.
MICHELLE SPREUTELS-MARTINEZ: Wonderful.
LARRY HOY: So anything you would need, because I am really excited about this.
MICHELLE SPREUTELS-MARTINEZ: OK, wonderful.

LARRY HOY: I think this is very important-MICHELLE SPREUTELS-MARTINEZ: Thank you, sir.
LARRY HOY: --for RTD as well as our community.
MICHELLE SPREUTELS-MARTINEZ: Of course, that's very important.
LARRY HOY: Thank you very much, that's all I have.
MICHELLE SPREUTELS-MARTINEZ: Yes, thank you. I appreciate it.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, they get it. I think that's all. It sounds like you'll get lots of help.
MICHELLE SPREUTELS-MARTINEZ: Yes, sir. Thank you for help.
KEN MIHALIK: And we're onto the next update, an update on the 2019 budget.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Shall I start?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Are you ready, chair?
KEN MIHALIK: We are ready for you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK. Jannette's going to go ahead and get started then on the
presentation.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: All right, I'm here to do a high-level overview of the 2019 budget. I
want to review our basic assumptions and development. So our agenda tonight is the following.
We will go through it quickly.
I always think it's a good idea to refresh on why we are here. It certainly forms the basis of our
budget. I just want to review the Vision Statement of RTD, and also our Mission Statement. I
think the elements of the Mission Statement should be noted. We have used them as a touchstone
for many of our project decisions.
So our major elements of the 2019 budget-- operations and maintenance of existing assets-- that
is an important element, kind of close to the top-- enhancing safety and security, continuing
investment in state of good repair, workforce and human capital-- there's a lot going on there-fiscal sustainability is front and center. We want to continue to grow our fund balances to desired
levels, and we will monitor our future revenue levels. We are expecting a strong sales and use
tax growth in the near term. And then it looks like it may fall off a little bit in the following
years.
I'm going to skip this slide. We have talked about this before. Suffice to say, we operate under
the rubric of responsible long-term financial management.

We also have to bring forward a balanced budget. And I think we should review that definition
here at RTD. We start with our total anticipated revenues plus our beginning reserves. We want
them to be greater than or equal to our planned expenditures. A structurally balanced budget is
something that we strive for, and this is what we try to do in the Strategic Business Plan (SBP).
So here we are trying to support financial sustainability for multiple years into the future, and in
the SBP, we plan to replenish our reserves at desired levels if they are drawn.
And then just to touch on this definition of fiscal sustainability. We bring this forward from time
to time as well. I'll just let you read that. I think one of the more important criteria to be able to
meet financial commitments now and in the future.
So our budget starts with the 2019-2024 Midterm Financial Plan. As you know, it is a strategic
capital and operating plan for both the Base System and FasTracks, and it is currently under way.
It consists of the SBP and the Annual Program Evaluation (APE). We are working towards a
final, have had some challenges very recently. But we hope to work through them. The SBP and
the APE form guidance for development of the 2019 budget.
On the Base side, we include projects based on State of Good Repair criticality. We've had to
defer a number of projects, which we do every year. And this year, our deferrals total a little over
200 million over the time period 2019 to 2024. We will bring forth a list of those deferrals as we
bring the SBP forward. No new debt-- we anticipate not having to issue any new debt to finance
fleet or construction over the term of the mid-year financial plan. And we are setting target
amounts for operating expenses and projects for 2019 within the Midterm Financial Plan.
So a Budget Overview, we will include both the Base System and FasTracks projects and
operations. And I list there how we develop the operating budget and capital budget for the Base
System and also for FasTracks. We have different methodologies for both Base and FasTracks.
We hope to develop our fund balances to the tune of 28 million-- at least we hope to contribute
an additional 28 million to fund balances on a combined basis, both Base and FasTracks.
We are going to continue to cost allocate from Base System to FasTracks for the cost of
operations that touch FasTracks. We are looking to make a fuel lock in 2019 at $2.30. Correct
me if I'm wrong, but that is what we are looking to do. We've also budgeted that in the 2019
budget. And our investment in State of Good Repair is driving our project selection.
Our assumptions then, briefly-- right now, we are assuming that fare revenue will be
approximately 10% higher in the 2018 amended budget. We are building in a sales and use tax
increase of 6.6% over the 2017 estimate. We have seen an increase of 6% year over year through
June of this year. We are budgeting diesel fuel at $2.30 a gallon versus $2.20 in 2018.
We are inflating our Base System capital and expense projects at the 2.8% Consumer Price Index
over 2018. We will fund fleet purchases by previously issued debt and internal cash flow. And
then our planned increases to our fund balances, that 28 million that I mentioned, is broken down
as follows-- to the Board Appropriated Fund, Capital Replacement Fund, Unrestricted Operating
Reserve, and the FISA.

So these are our targets, preliminary targets, for the Base System only that we usually share with
the Board at this point in time. These targets are based on the 2018 amended budget, net of onetime expenses and project carry forward. So we back those two items out. But these targets are
all within the SBP target. For FasTracks, we target our project costs and O&M costs in relation
to the APE.
And just to list our sources and uses for both the Base System and FasTracks. You can review
that-- nothing really new here. And then finally, our budget calendar-- we will be here on
October 9 to present the requested budget, which is our first draft budget. On November 13, we
will bring forward the recommended budget, which converts to the adopted budget once it is
approved by the Board, if it is approved by the Board, on November 27. We are happy to take
questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, everyone got real quiet. I'll ask Director Anderson real fast if she has
anything. Director Anderson, do you have any questions or comments on the budget update?
Well, she may not be with us anymore. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: The fare revenue assumption increase of 10%, is that due to the anticipated
opening of new rail lines?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, so this was answered in a previous question that Director Broom
asked earlier. So we anticipate a fare increase every three years, and we base that on the CPI. So
we add the CPI for those three years, and that just equals around 10% for the current one.
PEGGY CATLIN: So it assumes an increase in the fares?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct, what we just discussed, the previous discussion.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
KEN MIHALIK: I see no other speakers. We'll go on to the Second Quarter Performance Report.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: I think this was covered thoroughly earlier by the Chief Operating
Officer. Are there any additional questions that have arisen that we can answer for you?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that reminder. Seeing none, yeah, we'll go on to the June 2018
Financial Status Report.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And so Doug MacLeod's coming up to give that report.
DOUG MACLEOD: Good evening, Doug MacLeod. I will be very brief. I just wanted to point
out a couple of things for the July financials. Sales and use tax-- so we have an estimate in there
in the Board package.
We had an anomaly again this month with the reporting that came from the Department of
Revenue. They had a last minute amended return filed with them from the utility company, as it

so happens. You might remember we had some issues with utility filings earlier in the year. And
they had to do some research. It turns out that there's about $5.6 million less than what they
reported.
So some of that is included in our estimate. So we're going to go with this estimate until we find
out what the true numbers are. We should know by the end of August. So we don't know exactly
what our July numbers are, because our $5.6 million dollar fix, part of it was for August, part of
it was for July.
So we feel pretty comfortable with the estimate that's in here at this point, especially with the
additional retail marijuana sales taxes that we began collecting in July again. So we'll know a
little bit better when we get into August what the true number was for July. Hope that makes
sense.
Just to update the Board, we are collecting the retail marijuana taxes again. So prior to the
reinstatement of the enforced collection of those taxes in July, we were still getting about
$200,000 per month on the retail marijuana. That jumped up to $561,000 in the month of July.
It's still just over 1% of our revenue. So it's not significant, but that was a big issue, as you are
well aware. And we also collected about $160,000 in medical marijuana as well.
Moving onto ridership-- so you'll see in the left hand side there, both ridership and fare revenue
was under budget for the month. That's mainly due to the fact that the budget increased in the
second half of 2018, with the expectation of new services coming online. So we will be under
budget on ridership and revenue.
The good news is that our expenses are under budget by significantly more so. Bottom line, we
should be fine. Ridership continues on year to date basis to be down year over year, which is a
phenomenon that all transit agencies are seeing, as we've discussed before. Fortunately, our fare
revenue is up 2.3% over the prior year.
That's really the only thing I had to mention on July's financials, and we'd be happy to take
questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams, you have the floor.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Doug, I have a-- I guess it's just me. When I
look at the charts, which I did like on Sunday afternoon-- let's look at the one on page 74, for
example, where it says ridership year to date, actual versus budget. There's actually a really small
percent of variation, but because you started 55,000, the numbers look-- you know, the thing
looks really skewed.
If you had the whole amount on there, then these three different columns would look-- and so
then when I noticed that and I went through, they're all like that. The one on page 76 is the same
kind of thing. It's actually a very small but it looks like a big giant change. So I'm just
wondering, because I am not a financial person, if there is a reason that you do that.

DOUG MACLEOD: The primary reason is because if we were to start at the bottom of the scale
at zero and go up to 59 million, for instance, on this one, these would be so close together that
say the blue and the green would almost look identical, so it's kind of to point out those smaller
differences.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, that's my point, is that they really are smaller differences. OK, so I tend
to kind of be a visual person. And sometimes at 3 o'clock on a Sunday afternoon, when I'm
trying to keep awake reading this stuff, you know-- yeah, exactly-- who also sometimes have a
big variation between what they're doing that ends up not being so big. OK, I just wondered if
there was an accounting reason, and thank you for that.
DOUG MACLEOD: Sure
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll be more careful to watch.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Solano?
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I'm zooming in on the light rail actual year to date,
and a slight increase in 2018. How much of that increase can be attributed to the R Line?
DOUG MACLEOD: Are you looking at ridership? I'm sorry.
PAUL SOLANO: Uh, let's see, what am I looking at-- ridership, yes.
DOUG MACLEOD: Oh, yes. So this is the page that General Manager Genova was referring to
earlier. It should be the very last page. It's kind of tough to see up there on the screen.
PAUL SOLANO: OK, I'm just looking at the graph.
DOUG MACLEOD: The numbers are small. What you-- oh, that didn't work very well-- we
have each one of the light rail services listed on the left, C Line, D Line, et cetera. The second to
the bottom one is the R Line. So over to the right, year to date, 2018, we have a million 53 riders,
versus the prior year of 686,000. It's a 53% increase year over year, but you have to remember
that we didn't have-- I believe the R Line opened in April-PAUL SOLANO: February.
DOUG MACLEOD: February, so we didn't have the full seven months to compare it to.
PAUL SOLANO: OK, but it looks like it's increasing.
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct, yes. So as General Manager Genova referred to earlier, you can
see in January, we had 144,000 riders. Six months later in July, we've got 158,000 riders.
PAUL SOLANO: Great, thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: And that looks like the last question for that item. We'll move on to the
SmartCard project update. Thank you, Doug.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And this is Heather. Tonya Anderson's going to give an update. We
have a few things coming up, with the go-live in September. And then I wanted to give you a
little update on mobile ticketing, since we've made some huge strides there that have exceeded
our expectations.
TONYA ANDERSON: Hi. This is Tonya Anderson. I just wanted to give a quick update on
SmartCard and mobile ticketing. So we have been working diligently over the last year or so on
our PCI compliance MyRide Portal release. Testing is planned to be completed sometime this
week, and we have identified no significant issues with the software. So Conduent has delivered
a very good software update for our MyRide Portal.
As Heather has mentioned, the release is targeted for next week, on or about September 20. And
when the software is released next week, it will really be a major win for the SmartCard team.
This software release, being over a year long, will be implemented on time, on budget, with all
of our requirements being met. I'm really proud of our team. We've worked really hard. And I'm
proud of Conduent. They're part of our team, and we did it.
And then quickly an update on our mobile ticketing. Mobile ticketing sales continue to steadily
increase. It currently represents 5.5% of our revenue, which is double what we had initially
anticipated. So at the beginning of the project, we had anticipated oh, maybe 2.2% of our
revenue. And here we are, just under a year after launch, and we have already more than doubled
the percent revenue for mobile ticketing.
And this is mobile ticketing with just one product. So we don't sell monthly passes. We don't
have a single ride of any type. It's just the Day Pass. So mobile ticketing is really exciting and
we're doing very well. And that's a quick update. Heather, if you wanted to add-HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, I just would say we've been very impressed, especially-- and I
know Tonya and our contractor are working on other options that are available for our customers
in the future. Hopefully we'll have the 3-hour, assuming the Board approves that, moving
forward here shortly, so with other products to follow. So we're very excited about that.
And we have a really good vendor. I think I can say it's been very nice to work with, as it comes
to rolling out additional options to our customers there.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that positive update. Director Hoy?
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. So I probably could have done this offline, but I think
it was a week ago or something we were talking about this. I don't know who I was talking to,
and I bought a ticket. I don't know where it is right now, but obviously I don't need to buy a
transit ticket, but I bought one just to see how it works.

I figured I'm an old guy, by the way, so I only had to pay half price. So I think it was like $2.60
or something, because we only do Day Passes or whatever?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It's a round trip.
LARRY HOY: Does it-- can I-DAVID GENOVA: Look in your wallet.
LARRY HOY: OK, ticket, wallet. It says local Day Pass, discount inactive-- oh, wait, wait, wait,
wait, activate ticket. Oh, I understand now. So how long-- I think I saw that too, it expires
October 12, so they go away. So if somebody buys-- here's really the question after all of this.
You want to know what the question is?
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
LARRY HOY: Yeah.
DAVID GENOVA: What's in your wallet?
LARRY HOY: If somebody buys something and doesn't use it, we get revenue and they never
step foot on one of our vehicles.
TONYA ANDERSON: Yes.
LARRY HOY: And that happens apparently within a month?
TONYA ANDERSON: 45 days.
LARRY HOY: 45 days, OK. All right, that's my question. Thank you, I'm done.
[APPLAUSE]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
[INAUDIBLE].
LARRY HOY: We'll assume that I learned by spending $2.60.
KEN MIHALIK: We are on to other matters. Thank you for that update. Anybody care to share
any other matters? Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I'd like to ask General Manager Genova for a little update on
the repairs that are about to take place on the light rail in downtown Denver. As I recall, it's
about a $19 million project to fix one area. Is the rest of the track down there in good shape, or
do we have a big backlog down there that we should be concerned with?

DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Director. I'm going to ask Dave Jensen, our Assistant General
Manager (AGM) of Rail to respond.
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening, this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. And the experts
left a little bit ago, but I think I can give a general sense. The major repairs will be done with this
project. It doesn't mean that everything is done, so there still may be some minor repairs. But
something of this magnitude will be taken care of with this project.
BOB BROOM: So we don't have any big liability out there that we're looking at to finish it up?
DAVE JENSEN: No, if I'm understanding what you're asking, no, we should we should repair
that. That doesn't mean that there's still not areas of tract that need to be repaired, but in terms of
liability or real substantive defects, we should be OK.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: No problem. Director Williams, you are next.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry, I happen to know that the Performing Arts Center is sending out
notices saying that the service may be interrupted for all of their shows and events. So do we
have any idea when that's going to be over with?
DAVID GENOVA: This is a relatively longer shutdown than we like to do for maintenance, but
it is incredibly necessary. If we don't do it, we could have very severe problems with reliability
and safety. So due to the nature of the work, rather than doing-- when we look at these kinds of
shutdowns, and we look at these very closely. We have a whole group that looks at these kinds of
issues, and when we're doing maintenance, and what's the most efficient and effective way to
attack these. And we also consider all the things that are going on in the communities.
But any more, it's very hard to find a weekend or any time where there's not something major
going on. It really is very difficult for us. And we've had some messages of some groups that are
upset this week, but we look at the packaging about what works best. Is this something that we
could do in just one weekend? There is a significant enough amount of work in this case where
we could look at doing it over about a 10-day period.
If we didn't do it in a 10-day period, we'd probably be looking at more than five weekends,
because you've got startup and shutdown, and you lose a lot of time when you have this amount
of work to do. And if you want to do it just over weekends, it would take us much longer to get
the work done. And we think in the long run, it would be much more disruptive, because we'd
probably be disrupting probably 7 to 10 weekends versus doing a 10-day period.
But this is very unusual, too, that we would have a shutdown of this magnitude that's longer than
a weekend. So we are running bus bridges, full bus bridge components during this maintenance
work. You know, we are trying to communicate this as this is improving infrastructure. This is
not-- we don't have a condition out there that is currently unsafe, but it's improvement work that
we need to do in the infrastructure to make sure we have a reliable system for everybody to use.

And so these are the downtown lines. We still have service going in and out of Union Station.
And so we're working very closely with the Communications Team and our field staff and
everybody to make sure that we try to get as much communication in as many different channels
and ways as we possibly can.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, that's some stuff that I needed to be able to say to people who,
when they ask me in District A in particular where that's relevant, 10 days, I can tell them
ballpark.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, and I don't want to overstate what he just said, but-KATE WILLIAMS: We got it
DAVE JENSEN: --if we don't do the repairs, then it will become unsafe.
KATE WILLIAMS: That, I got no problem saying that stuff.
DAVE JENSEN: So at some point, we have to get the work done.
KATE WILLIAMS: And that there is a bus bridge, I've said that. The big question is when, and I
didn't have an answer, so now I do.
DAVID GENOVA: I have observed that we have been getting a lot of good media coverage on
at least getting the word out about the services.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that repair update. Seeing no other speakers, our next meeting is
October 9. And motion to adjourn.
SPEAKER 15: Move adjourned.
[GAVEL POUNDING]
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

