Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 17, 2011,
at 11:00 a.m.
Page 1 of 8
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

February 17, 2011

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February
17, 2011 at 11:07 a.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference
Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Kemp, 1st Vice-Chair Tayer, Secretary
Malpiede, Treasurer Bagley, Director Deadwyler,
Director Daly
Subject:

Other Board Members
Present:
Board Member Absent:
Others Present:

Call to Order:

I.

2nd Vice-Chair Cohen and Director Tobiassen (via
phone)

Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington,
Sherry Ellebracht, Julie McKennaBrandeberry/McKenna Lobbyists
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 11:07
a.m.

Recommended Action
 Resolution No_________, Series of 2011, Decrease in Director’s Local
Expense
 Resolution No_________, Series of 2011, Decrease in Director’s Travel
Expense
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move
the resolution for a decrease in Director’s
local expense and the resolution for a
decrease in Director’s travel expense to
the full Board for approval at the February
22 Board meeting.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 17, 2011,
at 11:00 a.m.
Page 2 of 8
Vote on
the Motion:
II.

The Motion PASSED.

February Board Meeting Review
General Manager Washington reviewed the Board meeting action items.
There were no changes to the agenda.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
approve the February Board meeting
agenda for the February 22 Board
meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Vote on
the Motion:

Director Tayer expressed concerns over
the recommended action item, Lease of
Parking to Mile High Development LLC at
University Station, and the lack of true
cost analysis for the value of the parking
spaces associated with this transaction.
He wanted to ensure that the parking
spaces had been priced appropriately. He
would like to see more information and
better cost comparisons. General
Manager Washington indicated he was
not sure this could be done by next
week. They had looked at the utilization
rate and it is apt to go down as time goes
along. This is a value capture for RTD.
Our expectations are the occupants of
the affordable housing will become transit
users increasing the ridership on our LRT.
Director Bagley reflected on the similarity
with the Lincoln and Dry Creek Stations
and indicated a need for a policy to
address this issue raised by Director
Tayer. Director Malpiede added a
concern over what happens if the
developer who is currently committed to
affordable housing sells this development
to someone else. How does that affect
our pricing arrangement with them?
Director Bagley added he thinks the
current purchase is with a CHAFA loan.
Phil Washington indicated he will talk to
Bill Sirois.
The Motion PASSED.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 17, 2011,
at 11:00 a.m.
Page 3 of 8



Unanimous Consent


Resolution No ______, Series of 2011, Decrease in Director’s
Local Expense



Resolution No. ______. Series of 2011, Decrease in Director’s
Travel Expense



Recommendation for Planning Support Agreement with the
BNSF Railway Company for the Northwest Corridor
Update
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to enter into a contract with the BNSF Railway Company
(BNSF) for an estimated $650,000 for Planning Support
including preliminary engineering for the Northwest Rail (NWR)
Corridor to provide a better cost estimate for an RTD operating
easement for NWR Corridor service.
It is further recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize a transfer of
$650,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to the
Northwest Rail project to fund this work in 2011.



Voice Radio Equipment Hardware and Optimization Support
Contract Award
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary
to award a contract for the Fixed Radio Equipment hardware
and Optimization Support (Request for Proposal (RFP) No.
50DH028) to Motorola, Inc. (Motorola) in an amount not-toexceed $3,050,000.
This price includes equipment,
optimization support and warranty. The purchase is through
the Western States Contracting Alliance (WSCA) contract.



Execution of an Oracle eBusiness Suite ERP Services Work
Order Contract with Cedar Crestone
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to execute all documents necessary to award Cedar
Crestone a three (3) year Work Order based contract to
provide technical and functional Oracle eBusiness Suite ERP
services (Contract Number 10FH026) with an annual not to
exceed contract limit of $2,000,000.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 17, 2011,
at 11:00 a.m.
Page 4 of 8

III.



Proposed 2011 Fiscal Policy Statement
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors modify and update the
Fiscal Policy Statement.



Approval of May 2011 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the May 15,
2011 Service Change package as revised and summarized on
Attachment A resulting in a net annualized cost of
approximately $1,119,000, and, further, to authorize the
General Manager to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.



Recommended Action



Lease of Parking to Mile High Development, LLC at University
Station Update
It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager and/or his designee to enter into negotiations and
execute all documents necessary to enter into a lease
agreement with Mile High Development, LLC for the use of up
to 50 parking spaces in the University Station
parking
structure.



Authorize an Inter-Governmental Agreement with Stakeholders
for the Design/Build Contract for the Union Avenue
Bridge/Belleview Station Transit Project
The FasTracks Monitoring Committee recommends that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee,
to execute an Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) with the
stakeholders that include City and County of Denver (CCD),
Madre Metropolitan District No. 1 (MADRE), Southeast Public
Improvement Metro District (SPIMD), and Goldsmith Metro
District (GOLDSMITH) for participating in the design,
construction, funding and staff involvement for a Design/Build
Contract that will provide the improvements of the proposed
Union Avenue Bridge/Belleview Station Transit project.
Funding for this IGA is included in the 2010 Amended capital
budget for the FasTracks Southeast Corridor projects, and has
been carried forward into the 2011 Adopted Budget.

Approval of Special Board Meeting for March 8

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 17, 2011,
at 11:00 a.m.
Page 5 of 8
Chair Kemp shared he wanted to make sure everyone understood why the
adoption of the 2011 FasTracks Plan was moved to March 8th and that
there are two components to this vote: (1) option for going to the ballot (2)
the amount to ask.
General Manager Washington added there is a letter going out in the
packets from staff identifying the next steps and what they will be
providing leading up to the March 8 vote. There will also be a public
participation component to the March 8th special Board meeting.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
approve a special Board meeting for
March 8 for the purpose of Board
adoption of the 2011 FasTracks Financial
Plan.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The Motion PASSED.

IV. Discussion Items

Joint Board/Staff Advance Planning
Chair Kemp reviewed the proposed draft for the joint Board/staff advance on
March 5, 2011. Phil Washington shared the staff will be presenting white
papers on two items: personnel related matters and service distributionoperations matters. Bruce Daly expressed concern that this conflicted with
the Congressional re-organization meeting that will be taking place on the
same date. Chair Kemp shared that he had a discussion with some of the
affected Board members who will try to work around their schedules to be in
both places as appropriate. This is a very important meeting as identified by
the State Auditors to set goals for the District and the General Manager.

Julie McKenna-State Lobbyist
Julie McKenna shared an update status of significant bills. The majority of
the ones affecting RTD had died in some manner (i.e. HB 11-1054, HB 111075 (FASTER), SB 11-095, SB 11-112). Marla Lien and Terry Howerter
had worked with them over the concern that RTD was being excluded from
the vendor allowance bill and they have received reasonable assurance that
RTD will be included in this bill. Director Tayer inquired about the soda pop
tax and the energy tax that also excludes RTD. Julie expressed they think it
more appropriate to focus on the vendor sales tax allowance and does not
expect much success on these other taxes. Director Tayer requested her to
keep an eye on these anyway.
Sherry Ellebracht indicated they believe that RTD’s appearance before the
Transportation Committee will be delayed until after the vote on FasTracks
so they will be able to provide a more updated status.


Board Business Cards

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 17, 2011,
at 11:00 a.m.
Page 6 of 8
Chair Kemp explained that significant work with staff has gone into the
branding and re-branding efforts for RTD including hiring a consultant to
look at the public perception of RTD and what we need to do to improve
name/branding
recognition.
The
Board
participated
in
marketing/communications meetings with PI and concurred that we
need one look, one message. We decided on what the face of RTD will
be. For the Board business cards that are provided by RTD, we will
support the standardized look for business cards as approved for the
RTD business. The only changes that can be made is with the phone
number, email address and basic text but we will not modify this card
with other information such as 2-sided cards with business information
or using the union bug.
Director Deadwyler inquired about the union bug and stated she has
used this on a number of personal cards. She feels having this bug on
the card just shows that RTD is being inclusive.
Director Bagley stated that this was an effort to have a unified, standard
card for all including the staff.
Director Tayer shared he understands that cards paid for by RTD are
using public funds but they also serve as a calling card for RTD
members. He believes they can be individualized to reflect personal
interests.
After more discussion, Director Bagley called for the question. Director
Deadwyler asked why she could not get her thoughts completed or on
the table. Director Bagley insisted on calling for the question.
Chair Kemp called for the question on this issue of Board Business
Cards.
Motion: Director Bagley called for the question
on the Board Business Cards.
Director Malpiede seconded.
Vote: The Committee voted to call for the
question which ended the discussion on the
Board Business Cards.
Motion: Chair Kemp made the motion that The
Executive Committee recommends the Board
follow the RTD standardized business cards for
card paid for by RTD. If a Board member wants
to go outside and purchase their own business
cards at their own expense they may do so but
the official RTD business card will be the
standardized card.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.
Vote on the Motion: The motion passed.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 17, 2011,
at 11:00 a.m.
Page 7 of 8


V.

Sherry Ellebracht passed out a copy of the APTA schedule for the
Legislative conference in D.C. She indicated she was tasked with
recommending important meetings to attend but her perspective is they
are all important. Director Tayer inquired if they would have talking
points and Sherry indicated she is working on them now. He wanted to
makes sure what RTD is saying is in sync with the US 36 Coalition who
is visiting in Washington DC now.
Other Matters

Director Tayer requested that even on polling that is not sponsored by
RTD, it is important to message that the Board needs to be at the top in
hearing the results of the polling and not at the back end. Chair Kemp
indicated there will be a second polling targeted for the March 1
meeting as well. General Manager Washington understood the request
but when someone else is paying for the poll, we may not have the
authority to place such a request.

Director Bagley requested if two Board members could work with staff
on the presentations going forward. He has done a number of these
and this presentation is too hard. Director Tayer indicated the feedback
that he has received is the presentation is too dense and need to be
streamlined. Director Deadwyler indicated she would like to work on
this since she has lots of experience in doing presentations and know
that it should be "bulletized" and less writing on the presentation. She
has some ideas on how to put the presentation together.
General Manager Washington indicated this might be too difficult and
time consuming.
Director Bagley restated his request to say the Board members can send
in their ideas to the staff about the presentations.

Director Bagley would like to see Rolf present to the Board on
Robert’s Rules in a study session.

Director Bagley indicated that pursuant to a Board vote on the
FasTracks 2011 plan and when to go to the ballot, there should only be
one face of the Board who will respond on behalf of the Board’s position
and that is the Chair of the Board. We need to have a uniform message
going out to the public. The Chair will work with PI on the proper
messaging.
General Manager Washington stated that the PI team sends out the
Friday facts following the Board actions. Part of the reason for that is
to give the full Board words on how to properly message and articulate
the position. Everyone should refer to the talking points. At a minimal,
if a Board member speaks, he should be careful to add the caveat, “This
is my personal opinion” and not try to speak on behalf of the Board.

Director Deadwyler inquired about the proper protocols to be heard in
Board meetings such as this.
When is there a proper time for discussion and to not be shut down as
occurred earlier under the discussion of the Board Business Cards? She
thought she was following procedure in having the discussion at the
Executive Committee instead of in a more public forum.
Director Tayer indicated she had followed the correct protocol and gave

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 17, 2011,
at 11:00 a.m.
Page 8 of 8
her some pointers on how others get their issues on the table.
Paula Perdue explained that Robert’s Rules on calling for the question is
to stop the discussion. When someone calls for the question, it is the
option of the Chair of that committee to either stop the discussion
immediately or let the people in queue complete their thoughts before
calling for the question. Either way this needs to be voted on and if the
vote is affirmative, the discussion needs to stop immediately.
VI.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 12:43 p.m.

