Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

STUDY SESSION
February 24, 2015 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Barbara Deadwyler
Director, District B

Status
Absent
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
5:12 PM
5:37 PM
5:32 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present
Present

5:17 PM
5:31 PM
5:22 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Absent
Present
Present

5:22 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present
Present

5:37 PM
5:31 PM
5:36 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:23 PM

5:26 PM
5:28 PM

Directors Anderson and Lasater were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Doug
Gragg, Janet Huhn, Brian Iacono, Erin Klaas, Barbara McManus, Paula
Perdue, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Marta Sipeki, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Andre Vita

II.

RFP/RFI/Procurement Process (Brian Iacono)
Brian Iacono, Sr. Manager for Materials Management, reviewed the presentation included
in the Study Session Agenda packet for February 24, 2015. The presentation included
purchasing authority/guidelines and procurement methods (Micro, Small, Sealed
Bid/Invitation for Bid, Competitive Proposal/Request for Proposals, and Non-competitive
Procurement/Sole Source).
Among the items highlighted, he noted that small purchases, those in excess of $3,000
but less than $100,000, are accomplished by obtaining oral or written quotations from a
minimum of two qualified sources. Brian Iacono mentioned that non-competitive
procurement, also known as sole source, needs to be a purchase exceeding $3,000.
Documentation must be submitted to justify only considering one entity.
At the end of the presentation, Brian Iacono made reference to the APTA Transit
Procurement Guide for Transit Board Members which was distributed to the Directors
during the Study Session. A copy of the guide is available at the Board Office. Director
Folska requested an accessible digital file of the document. The guide makes reference to
geographical preferences not being allowed as selection criteria but exemptions can be
made for design and engineering firms.
Brian Iacono told the Directors that any suppliers and/or contractors should be referred
back to him or his department. He said that Director interaction with suppliers/contractors
may give the impression of impropriety as well as impede staff with the negotiation
process. Brian Iacono noted that it is important to maintain the procurement process’
integrity by following the process and guidelines. The Senior Leadership Team ensures
that we follow all the rules and requirements. RTD needs to be responsible in spending the
tax payers money and has a reputation locally, nationally, and internationally of doing the
right thing. He told the Directors that they are part of the integrity of the process and
deserve a pat on the back for RTD’s reputation.
Brian Iacono noted that RTD follows the Federal Transit Administration (FTA)’s guidelines
for the unsolicited proposal process. It does not include real property but staff is
developing that policy for the Board for approval.
Chair Sisk thanked Brian Iacono for his wealth of knowledge and his vast 30 years’
experience.
Director Menten expressed her surprise in hearing that small purchases could be
accomplished with an oral quotation. She asked how often purchases were made in this
manner. Brian Iacono replied that 80% of purchases were made with written quotes. He

explained that quotation requests for small purchases are done in a more informal manner,
for example, via email. The FTA allows for oral quotations. He stated that RTD likes to
get most quotations in writing. Director Menten added that she imagines seeing an item’s
price on a website would constitute a written quotation. Brian Iacono agreed with Director
Menten.
Director Menten asked how Buy America, the Department of Transportation’s provision to
ensure transportation infrastructure projects are built with American-made products,
affects the procurement process. Brian Iacono explained that Buy America under the FTA
requires that all iron, steel, and manufactured products used in the project are produced in
the United States. Rolling stock requires a minimum of 60% of all components and 100%
of final assembly to take place in the United States. Director Menten asked if these were
in place to ensure the quality of the product or to keep the investment in the United
States. Brian Iacono said that Buy America ensures both the quality of the product and
that the investment stays in the United States. Director Menten wondered what happens
when an item is not available in the United States. Brian Iacono said that Buy America
makes provisions for waivers and that this mostly happens on materials for building rail.
Director Menten inquired if there was a central website where different government
agencies could post their working bids in order for companies to maximize their time and
effort. Brian Iacono replied that he wishes that website would exist. He mentioned that
even in Colorado there are multiple listing venues, including RTD. RTD uses Quest
Construction Data Network, a cloud hosted service of no cost to the agency. Bidders are
charged a nominal fee ($5-$10) in order to download a project’s specs, RFB, etc. RTD
provides hard copies at no charge upon request. Director Menten noted that it seemed like
the free market was taking care of the bids. Brian Iacono agreed.
Director Lubow thanked Brian Iacono for his presentation and expertise. She asked for
confirmation that sole source is only used when necessary as RTD’s preference is
competitive procurement; if sole source is used it needs to be justified. Brian Iacono
affirmed Director Lubow’s statement. He said that the documentation needs to be
approved by himself, the Legal Department (Legal), and at times by General Manager Phil
Washington. He noted that some specific items are only available through sole source.
Director Bagley reminded the Directors that the commuter rail vehicles qualify under the
Buy America. He noted that the body of the vehicles is done in South Korea, assembled in
Philadelphia, and transported to Denver via rail. Brian Iacono added that his team ensures
that the project meets the requirements.
Director Bagley recalled the Eagle P3 procurement process. At the time, Directors James,
Tobiassen, and he were members of the Board. He said that the process was similar to

drinking from a fire hose. He pointed out asking developers of the proposals for help in
writing the RFPs as one of the key elements of the process. This allowed for significant
community involvement and collaboration, adding value to the final $2.04 billion designbuild-finance-maintain-operate contract. Throughout the process, the Board received
updates via Executive Sessions before the final decision was made which was very
beneficial. He added that a similar process was used for the unsolicited proposals for the
I-225 and North Metro corridors. Brian Iacono added that the unsolicited proposals also
went through the Request For Information (RFI) process.
Director Francone thanked Brian Iacono for a very enlightening presentation. She also
appreciated having the materials ahead of time. She asked why geography is not a
criterion except for architectural and engineering firms. Brian Iacono answered that the
FTA allows agencies to determine if there are enough local firms to be competitive. This
enables savings in traveling costs.
Director James thanked Brian Iacono for all the consultations throughout the years.
Director James asked Brian Iacono if he had heard of Rocky Mountain e-Purchasing
System. Brian Iacono replied that he was aware of Rocky Mountain e-Purchasing System
as well as other similar systems. He noted that he would like to have a conversation with
Phil Washington regarding available software services that could make the procurement
process more efficient. Director James noted that he is more aware of the system from a
real estate point of view. Director James thanked Phil Washington for directing staff to
develop a real property unsolicited proposal policy.
Director James asked Brian Iacono to address the real estate disposition and acquisition
process since real estate is more than products and services and may become a messier
procedure. He also wondered how to ensure competition in this process since the
standards are vaguer. Brian Iacono agreed that competition is healthy, and of good value
to the tax payers. He added that there are policies regarding disposition of assets (i.e.
used buses, equipment, etc.) Public auction is utilized and all dispositions are
documented. Disposition of real estate property is currently looked at on a case by case
basis. He reminded the Directors that recent real estate disposition was specific to a land
locked property. Staff is reviewing all the nuances and developments in the real estate
arena as they work on the real estate unsolicited proposal policy. Brian Iacono added that
transparency is key. Director James thanked Phil Washington for moving the real estate
process forward.
Director Walker noted that the procurement process presented by Brian Iacono is very
similar to other places he has worked across the country in both private and public
sectors. He agreed that consistency and competition is important. The integrity of RTD’s

process is paramount in getting solid proposals. If not, we will see competition take a
nose dive.
Director Tobiassen thanked Brian Iacono for his help whenever he has been contacted by
many entities regarding introductions and referrals. He asked Brian Iacono to explain the
complaint/protest process. Brian Iacono explained that the solicitation instructions clearly
articulate the protest and clarification process. He noted that RTD has not had any formal
protest or lawsuit in over 2 years. He attributed this to following RTD’s policies and
having a staff that does their job and homework. He noted that this sends the message
that Director Walker referred to: if contractors trust we are being fair and objective they
will chase our projects.
Director Tobiassen asked Brian Iacono how evaluators that have a relationship with
bidders are prevented from influencing the process. Brian Iacono pointed out that all RTD
employees that are involved at any capacity in the selection process have to fill out an
annual disclosure form. This form is handled by Legal. Once analyzed, Legal provides the
procurement office with a list of companies on the disclosure forms. He added that before
doing business with any of the companies listed, he has a conversation with Legal in order
to figure out the conflict and what to do to mitigate it. RTD’s code of ethics also calls for
any member of the evaluation team to excuse themselves from the process if any conflict
arises throughout the process.
Director Tobiassen wondered if Brian Iacono’s department finds itself with an end of year
surplus and how they go about managing it. Brian Iacono replied that RTD is a lean and
mean organization. The budget is spent early throughout the year. The end of year
surplus does not happen very frequently at RTD.
Director Folska thanked Brian Iacono for the clear and concise overview. She asked how
many employees worked in his department. Brian Iacono said his department consists of
35 employees: 20 purchasing agents, buyers, inventory control, specialists and contract
negotiators that help support internal and external customers and 15 represented part
clerks.
Director Hoy asked when the land disposal policy would be available. Phil Washington
said that the timeline will be discussed during the Transit Oriented Communities update
during the Planning and Development Committee meeting on Tuesday, March 3. The
policy will be brought to the Board within the next 30 to 60 days.
Director Hoy noted that from his past experience in the trucking business he has painful
memories of large amounts of money tied up in inventory. Naming inventory loss and
discontinued parts as a concern, Director Hoy asked about the internal policies to ensure

that RTD has what we need on the shelves. Brian Iacono noted that RTD has over 27,000
items in inventory. It operates 172 rail cars and has 13 operating facilities. In order to
keep track of all parts, his department ensures that RTD has the right part at the right time
at the right place – not more, not less. There is a district goal to prevent stock outs as it
has a direct impact on the public. Brian Iacono mentioned that there are cycle counts
every day. His department works closely with the maintenance department to know when
something will be disposed. He noted that it takes a village communication wise in order
to run this aspect of RTD. He noted he is proud of his team for all they do, especially
finding out what mechanics need and finding additional space for storage.
Director Hoy wondered if the rebuilding of parts was a Collective Bargaining Agreement
(CBA) component. Phil Washington replied that it was part of the CBA agreement as to
what is rebuilt in house versus contracted out. He could provide the language for
clarification. He noted that union work and work that can be put out is watched very
closely. Phil Washington added that the in-house team does a great job. Director Hoy
added that RTD employees are very important and that he understands the CBA situation.
Chair Sisk noted that since he has been part of the Board of Directors he has had a
number of new friends that want to be introduced to RTD’s procurement process. He is
concerned about the ethics of giving anyone unintended priority. Chair Sisk said he wants
to have a clear policy directing calls to staff and not through the Directors. Brian Iacono
shared his concerned and reiterated to the Directors to refer any contact to him, who will
in turn refer them to the appropriate person within the organization. Brian Iacono noted
that it is common practice for him to give presentations and meet with business
owners/representatives and chambers of commerce to explain how RTD does business.
Chair Sisk recapped that the recommendation is to have the person or business contact
Brian Iacono directly.
Chair Sisk wondered how RTD allows itself to use information presented in an RFP that
may not have been selected. Brian Iacono noted that it would be a challenge to use
information the proposers identified that information as proprietary or confidential. He
added that in some major complex projects RTD has offered a stipend to the unselected
proposers in order to use information that will save RTD money. This may result in
additional cost up front but savings in the long run. Phil Washington used the Eagle
project as an example. He mentioned that proposers were asked to submit an Alternative
Technical Concepts (ATC) agreement at a stipend valued of $2.5 million. If accepted,
RTD would own the ATC. Those were reviewed and RTD ended up saving $305 million
on a $2.2 billion project. The savings were spread throughout the District and this was a
huge success. Phil Washington also noted that the Eagle RFP had a provision for$20
million compensation to selected contractors in the event that RTD backed out. He noted
that the ATC are used often and may be used on the Southeast extension.

Director Folska asked if RTD uses inventory management software. Brian Iacono replied
that RTD uses Oracle. It has a sophisticated process for tracking history, usage, etc. to
make recommendations. The software processes a daily report on what needs to be
restocked. He added that 3 to 4 staff review the report as the system does not allow for
inventory retirement knowledge. Director Folska noted that this is included in the State of
Good Repair as it ensures that we have what we need at the moment needed in order to
continue operations.

III.

Other Matters
No other matters were presented.

IV.

Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 6:57 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

