2023-10-03
Finance and Planning Committee
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening. The Tuesday, October 3 Finance and Planning Committee of the RTD
will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask
everyone who's attending this meeting to mute yourself, please, unless and until you are recognized by
the Chair to speak.
I want to thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the Committee meetings of the RTD
Board of Directors will continue for a period of time to be held remotely via Zoom. Now, these meetings
will be audio and video recorded. And the meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of these
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com to access
these. And in addition, a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Now, Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would please like to be
acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, I would ask you please to raise your virtual hand and wait for
me to call upon you before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff who are participating by phone can
also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like to speak by pressing Star 9 on your phone.
And to toggle your mute setting on the phone, please press Star 6.
So I would now like to call the roll for the Committee members. Director Peggy Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Bobby Dishell is excused from the meeting and will be absent. Chair Lynn
Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Michael Guzman?
MICHEAL GUZMAN: I am present.
DOUG TISDALE: And Director Ian Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: And Committee Vice Chair Erik Davidson
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here
DOUG TISDALE: And I am Chair Doug Tisdale and I am present I am not seeing-- and I think that's
because of the way I have my screen set up-- the other Board members, but I do see now Director
Marjorie Sloan is with us and Director Troy Whitmore is with us. Are there any other Board Directors who
are with us whom I have not recognized?

All right. So we have those two, and we thank you for that. I will now open the public comment portion of
our meeting. This is an opportunity for anyone who would like to address the Committee regarding any
topic that is listed in the published meeting agenda, either for this current meeting that we're having now
and also for the immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and if you've not already done this,
please now either raise your virtual hand or press Star 9 on your phone so that we will know you wish to
speak.
Now, please note during this time, the Committee will not offer any direct comments or responses to
anything that you say. If you would like to be contacted personally regarding your public comment, please
simply email the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. So now may I ask of staff, are there any
hands raised at this time?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No, there are no hands raised.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Then I can forego the description of how we process these comments and
even avoid my advance. Please do not feel that you are compelled to use the full three minutes that
you're accorded during this public comment period.
Having now confirmed with staff that no hands are raised, I will let you know that Board Office staff has
also advised me that we have not received any emailed comments for today's meeting. And so therefore,
with no participants in the queue and no email comments received, we will close the public comment
period at this time.
Next is our information from external entities. There is one external entity report on the agenda this
evening. That report is for the sales and use tax forecast. Now for the sake of the record, these materials
can be found at Committee Packet Page 3 through Page 77.
I would like to ask Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, if he would now introduce this item and
also please introduce our distinguished advisors from the CU Leeds School of Business. Mr. MacLeod,
the floor is yours.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and good evening. As the Chair mentioned, we do have a
discussion item or an external party presentation from the CU Leeds School of Business. Joining me
tonight are Rich Wobbekind, Robert McNown, and Brian Lewandowski who will have a presentation
momentarily. Also in the packet is included the August 2023 sales and use tax forecast, the most recent
forecast. The entire report is in there too for your reference.
Before we jump in, I just wanted to refer to a couple of items that are stated in the Board report itself. The
last forecast, the previous forecast received by RTD from the Leeds School of Business was in March of
2023, the most recent forecast being the one received in August of this year.
Just for your information, there is a table in that Board report that points out the changes between those
two forecasts. We use-- here at RTD, we use those forecasts for both our budget as well as our Mid-Term
Financial Plan.
So within the-- comparing the two forecasts, the most recent forecast actually shows a decrease in sales
and use tax projected collections for 2023 for the year of $21.5 million, which is a 2.4% decrease. That's
really based on our recent experience.

The last four months have been relatively flat compared to the prior years, so we're not seeing the
historical growth that we've seen over the last few years, at least over the last four months. So I think that
tempered some expectations in the remainder of this year in terms of sales tax collections.
And then for the full six-year period for the Mid-Term Financial Plan, the forecast has decreased with the
August presentation by $19.4 million. So $21.5 million for one year, $19.4 million for six years. So
obviously, there's some years that actually show increases as you get further into the six-year period. So
Mr. Chair, without further ado, I would like to turn the floor over to Mr. Wobbekind to lead the
presentation.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Believe you're seeing the slides.
DOUG TISDALE: We are indeed, Rich. Thank you very much, sir.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: OK. So we're ready to roll. Well, thank you so much, Doug, for the introduction.
And yes, I'm Rich Wobbekind. And joining me tonight in the presentation is Dr. McNown, our lead
econometrician on these modeling projects. And also as mentioned, our team leader, Brian Lewandowski
is on the call and will be taking questions at the end as needed, as we go through. You also see in this
slide our other team members, Miles Light and Adam Illig, who work at the Business Research Division.
I would highlight and repeat what you just heard. So this was an August 2023 report. And again, more for
newer members of the Board even though it's been a year now for-- probably almost a year for everyone.
We do this twice a year, and typically roughly six months apart to fit into RTD's budget and forecasting
cycle for future budgetary uses-- sources and uses, if you will.
So this is the second time this year we have presented. And as mentioned, this is updated and does
show a change. And you'll hear more about that in the second part of the presentation from my colleague,
Dr. McNown.
So when looking at the sales and use tax forecast, we always talk about, what's going on in the
background? And when you look at this particular slide, you come away with a couple of pieces that are
clear. There's been a lot of uncertainty in the forecast, and that has been shown in the actual reports that
we've given you. The error bands are pretty wide around the forecast. A lot of these things continue to be
questionable or unknown.
When we have entered the year, we were not forecasting a recession, but we were forecasting a very
slow economy. And the economy has clearly outperformed. The first three quarters have all been over
2% GDP growth, so that's on the positive side.
But on the flip side, if I showed you this graph that-- I'm sorry, this slide that we showed you a year ago,
you would see a lot more of these arrows in green. Far fewer in red than you see on this particular one.
So even though the economy has outperformed, the mixture of the red and yellow arrows on this
particular graphic still give people concerns.
And we see this reflected in confidence surveys and other things by both businesses and consumers that
they're still worried that there's potential for a recession in next year, and we're not out of the woods yet,
that kind of a background piece. So that, of course, creates a lot of uncertainty.
And just to tie it to something that Doug mentioned, the retail sales that you'll be tied to as we go through
this, we're focused a lot on the consumer in this overall picture because the consumer, of course, is a

huge percentage of GDP. But the consumer is also driving the retail sales environment. So pay a lot of
attention to that obviously in the modeling, but just in general in terms of looking at the overall macro
economy. So a little bit more about that as we go along.
So again, GDP has outperformed through the first two quarters-- and in the beginning of-- and so far in
the third quarter. It officially ended on Friday. But most of the forecasts for the third quarter are suggesting
it's going to be over 2% for Q3 of 2023.
Going forward, again, when we look at the Moody's analytics and the consensus forecast outlooks for
2023 and 2024 in particular, you can see the 2024 forecast for both Moody's and from consensus
forecasts are much lower growth than this year. This year at 2% and next year at sub 2% kind of growth.
So looking at another year of relatively weak growth overall in the economy.
Of course, underlying some of this is our prices in the economy. And the Fed I believe, at least a lot of the
commentary seems to flit around, they feel like they're winning the battle in terms of controlling inflation in
the economy. But they do think the 2% number that is their target is a somewhat elusive goal. All of that
behind the scenes signals that it's unlikely we're going to see much change in interest rates, particularly in
the downward direction, anywhere in the near future.
So you can see the Consumer Price Index-- this is national at the moment on the left-hand side. And one
of the things that's been encouraging is the Producer Price Index used to be referred to as the Wholesale
Price Index. But the inputs, if you will, in the production process had really come down dramatically. More
recently, we're seeing those inputs turn up as well. Still in a very modest way and still at a very good level
year over year, but not going to be able to continue to extract any gains, if you will, from lower and lower
producer prices.
And as you know, and it got tons of airplay, the Denver-Aurora-Lakewood MSA has been one of the
higher inflation areas in the country. Again, as a primer, I guess, for understanding the CPI, if you care to,
you can see that a few components-- the weights are in the far right-hand column.
And there are just a couple of components that really combine to come up to about 80% of the overall
index, those being food and beverages, housing, and transportation. So you could see those pieces
together again. 75%-- better than 75% of the overall index when we add those pieces together.
So when we look at that, how are we doing in those areas? And what our expectations could be about
those areas. And frankly, the housing component, which is measured by a formula for cost of shelter,
continues to plague the Denver-Aurora-Lakewood MSA, at least through the July numbers, which are the
most recent-- well, July for Denver-Aurora-Lakewood, August for the overall index. If that's confusing, I
apologize. Denver-Aurora-Lakewood's only done every other month, so that's why we're sort of a month
behind there.
We always like to look at the metrics of Colorado versus other states that are out there. And you can see
the other states that are out there, you know, how we are ranking and how we feel. And a year ago, a
little bit more than a year ago we were in the top 10 to 20 in most of these. We in this past year have
dropped into a rank that's somewhere more in the middle of the pack for most of these.
But doing certainly better than average has been per capita personal income. It's certainly top 10 in the
country. Average annual pay, seventh in the country on average. So those are particularly strong

numbers. Labor force participation also a very strong number with fourth highest labor force participation
rate.
We do see a slowing in the home price index growth for both one year and quarterly. In terms of our
rankings we went out of the top 20 down into the 30s and 40s. Probably a good sign in terms of overall
affordability of housing in Colorado, but it really hasn't been reflected in terms of the rents and other
things, at least to this point in time.
Surprising maybe to some, but the population growth continues to be slower than it had been. We were
always a top 10 kind of population growth state, and now we're at 19th in terms of population growth. So
that particularly has gotten a lot of focus.
One quick comment here before-- and I'll try to move this along or speed this up just a little bit-- but
employment growth, our rank dropped all the way down 32nd and has gotten a lot of attention in the
newspapers and in broadcast media, print and broadcast media. And there's been a lot of discussion
about, is the luster off?
Or one of the comments that we have made in our reports is that we think it may be a combination of a
labor supply shortage, but it also could be possibly a reflection of maybe miscounting. We've heard from
the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment that this may be getting underreported. So we don't
really have sort of a firm grip on this.
Well, the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment has come out with some suggested revisions,
employment revisions based on what they think may be inaccuracies on how some of these numbers, the
basing point of some of these numbers, monthly numbers. And if you put those revisions in, it does put
Colorado back up into the top 10 or 15 employment growth states.
So that's an encouraging sign if, in fact, all of this comes to fruition after-- everything gets rebenchmarked every quarter. The economic data gets re-benchmarked. Happy to explain that in more
detail in Q&A if people are interested.
We do seem to continue to have an acute labor force shortage. In the data that just came out this
morning I updated in this particular slide, we're now at 1.9 to one, 1.9 available jobs for every one job,
every one unemployed person. It was 2.1 in the previous month, so it has come down ever so slightly. But
it is still a bigger or larger gap than the nation as a whole, so it does appear to be a labor force shortage
issue to some extent in terms of available labor to fill the jobs that are out there.
We have seen consistent, again, with Mr. MacLeod's comments in the introduction. We have seen a
slowing of national retail sales year over year, 2.5%, and 6/10 of a percent month over month. And the
tan line on this graphic is Colorado. And you can see Colorado tamping even a little bit more over the last
couple of months. So that's very consistent with what we're seeing in your data and the RTD data that
we're working with. We're seeing this sort of dampening of retail sales.
Some of it's a lower inflation rate environment, but some of it may be the consumer actually slowing down
a little bit. And that's why we pay so much attention to the consumer in this environment. There are lots of
studies that are looking at the fact that a lot of the excess savings, which accrued over the COVID
recovery period, have been burned down.
There are some additional concerns being expressed with student loan repayments starting this particular
month, which will affect individuals, a segment of the population, $200 to $300 a month on average. So

some of those things could continue to damp retail sales as we go forward. That's at least what people
are looking at in terms of things people are thinking about.
We have a wide variety of tailwinds, headwinds, and unknowns. I-- spend a little bit more time on the
headwinds just for a moment. The ones hopefully in the left-hand side would be somewhat obvious. The
job openings. Consumers still continuing to spend, obviously, the employment growth, which has been
very positive income growth. Again, we got very good income growth numbers just today, actually. So
we're continuing to see very good signs in terms of the fundamentals of the economy in terms of moving
forward.
But there's just this number of headwinds that are out there. Financial, which I'm happy to talk about in
more detail, commercial real estate, the government shutdown. Now that's been averted for-- as of
yesterday and today. But still, we're facing that again in 45 days. The continuing challenges of climate
change, worker shortages, worker patterns, and so on. You can see the other things we have in our
headwinds category and our unknowns category.
So just to highlight three of these quickly before passing the baton to my colleague, so one of them-- and
they overlap. But I think these are important things to keep sort of in the back of our mind as we're
looking.
So one of them is the future of work in terms of central business districts, office vacancies, what that
means in terms of multiplier effects of people spending, sort of the downtown vibrancy, and so on. You
can see that. And potentially commercial defaults, which bleeds into the financial expectations that I
mentioned a little bit earlier.
But this is from 2020. The 2019 data is very similar. We don't have any updated data from here. But this,
for example, is the inflow and the outflow of commuters to the Denver Metro area, to Denver specifically,
the city and county of Denver. This is county-based data. Brian can correct me in the Q&A. But I'm-county-based data, so city and county of Denver.
And you can see the city and county in Denver is certainly getting a lot more inflow than it has outflow. So
these are the people coming into work. These are the people going out to work, 180,000. And the
150,000 are the people who live and work in the county. So you could sort of see why we're paying a lot
of attention to this if that pattern changes.
Certainly, bank deposits had gone through a significant decline. You can see this now. I don't know if you
get the full box up in the right-hand corner. This has most recently ticked up a little bit, but this, of course,
is an area of concern in terms of banks having enough money for lending and whether they pull back on
lending.
And that, of course, impacts far more than the commercial real estate market. It affects small businesses.
It affects consumers. And so we're paying a lot of attention to that. And you can't ignore that it's out there,
that it's part of the issue.
And then again, I said there's a lot of overlap here in terms of these three things. But the higher interest
rates in the economy certainly putting a lot of pressure on the banking system, but putting a lot of
pressure on other sources of venture capital flows and other sources of capital.
When you can get a 5% rate of return that's essentially risk-free at this moment, and someone else is
saying, it's a difficult investment environment, I may be able to get you 8% or whatever, there's a lot less

interest in the part of money to flow to those types of investments. So it just makes it more difficult to get a
lot of the creation of-- money for high-growth ventures or the creation of new businesses. So with that, I'm
passing the baton to my colleague, Dr. McNown, to talk about the RTD forecast and the drivers of that
forecast.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yes, thanks, Rich. Happy to be here to present and discuss our forecasts with the
Board. So just a quick overview. The core of our economic forecasting project and the forecasts of RTD
sales and use tax revenues is a model of the Colorado economy. And clearly, the Colorado economy is
influenced by what's going on at the national level, although with some degree of independence. And I
think that's indicated by some of the slides that Rich presented.
So you have an overview of the current situation at the national level, and this is summarized in the table
here. The forecasts at the national level come from Moody's. And we're emphasizing Moody's baseline
scenario, which they and we also have determined is the most likely outcome. We also present forecasts
with alternative scenarios, but we'll focus on the baseline to begin with.
And so you can see just focusing on 2023, there's going to be a lot of numbers here, and I'll only point to
a few of them. But obviously, what's happening with retail sales is really crucial, a crucial driver of sales
tax revenues, although we're going to be particularly interested in the change-- the rate of growth of retail
sales for Colorado. But you'll see it's quite similar to what's being projected here for the rest of this year,
and then even a little weaker in 2024 at the national level, anyway.
And it's important for me to point out that even though the growth in retail sales is positive, it still falls far
short of the increase in costs, as indicated by the rate of inflation here. So in real terms, retail sales are
falling behind. Let's go on to the next slide.
So the focus then here is on the Colorado economy, key macroeconomic indicators here. And you see a
similar picture that say compared to 2022 and 2021, we had really robust growth in retail sales for the
state of Colorado. For the current year, we're down around 3%, far below this higher rate of inflation that
we experienced here in the Front Range. And that's something you saw in one of Rich's slides as well,
that our rate of inflation tends to be about one percentage point higher than it is at the national level.
And a little bit different here from the national economy is that our model is forecasting a slightly better
picture for retail sales in 2024. So let's go on to the next slide as well.
And this is, of course, the heart of our forecast. Some of the historical data going back to 2020, but also
for the current year, 2023, and then to our final medium term forecast to rise in 2029.
And of course, the tall part of the bars here, the tan part represents sales tax revenues. And once again,
similar to what we saw for retail sales, we see a really strong growth in the previous two years, 2021,
2022. Double-digit growth in sales and use tax revenues.
But now what's projected for 2023 is really extremely modest. Keep in mind, it is still a positive rate of
growth. However, it's not as strong as what was projected back in March, and I think that's a point that
Doug was making as well.
But there's quite a strong bounce-back that's expected for 2024. And I think that reflects a slightly
stronger picture that we saw for some of the key economic indicators for the state in the previous slide.
So let's go on to the next slide as well.

So we provide the short-term forecasts for 2023, 2024. The model also projects out to 2029, following a
planning horizon that RTD uses. And so here's what our forecasts have looked like over the past several
vintages when we've presented these semi-annual updates.
And let's focus on these top two lines. So first of all, we see this black line. And this was the fairly strong,
steady growth that was projected back in March for RTD revenues. And the blue line is the current
forecast that we're making now.
And you can see that it's much weaker into 2023, but then converges back to the level or the trend level
that was predicted back in March. So it just seems to be a temporary shortfall with a strong recovery back
to our previous level, or back to the level that was forecast in the previous update in March.
In any case, both of these forecasts that we've generated in this year are stronger over this entire forecast
horizon than what we saw a year ago. And that's, of course, reflecting the really strong recovery that
we've experienced in 2022. And the next slide.
So it's important to emphasize the uncertainty that's involved in any forecasting project. There are a
couple of ways we do this. The dotted-- the dashed lines that are labeled High Forecast and Low
Forecast are statistically based on confidence bounds, such that the probability that the actual revenues
collected in any one year falls outside these confidence bounds, either above the high or below the low.
That probability is only about 33%. So I think it gives you a good range of the possible outcomes.
Another way of incorporating the uncertainty is to consider alternative scenarios coming from Moody's.
And so Moody's, I've emphasized previously, mostly this baseline forecast. Moody's presents a number of
alternative forecasts, and we've selected for further information an optimistic scenario, which is just a little
bit stronger than what the baseline says.
A pessimistic one, however, has a real notable recession here going into 2024, but then a recovery,
although it takes a long time to move back to a previous level. And in fact, never quite moves back to that
baseline projection even by 2029.
So if a significant recession does come to pass in 2024, that's incorporated in the revenue forecast for
RTD indicated by this red line. Well, we hope that doesn't happen, but of course, it certainly is possible.
And the next slide.
So we're also charged with developing forecasts that go out to 2050. And the basis for our model
forecasting out that far is that we emphasize particularly demographic change. And we're fairly confident
in predicting or using the census forecasts in predicting what's happening in terms of the aging of our
population as well as the decreased growth in overall population. And that strongly influences economic
activity in a variety of ways.
And so what we see here in the forecast-- and we can focus on the blue line as sort of the medium or
baseline forecast that we're generating here-- is that there's considerable variation over time. It's not like a
straight line projection by any means. And that reflects the variation in the demographic change that's
likely to occur over the next about 30 years.
So what we see here is that in the current decade, in this second row here we've got fairly strong growth
in RTD taxable sales, and therefore sales tax revenues. And we've already seen that materialize in
particularly what we observed in 2021 and 2022. And even if it continues at a modest level, we're still
going to achieve an average rate of growth of retail sales or taxable sales of over 6%.

But now that falls off dramatically in the following decades because of the demographic changes that
we're very confident are going to occur so that the average rate of growth annually over this entire
forecast period is only about 3.33%. And the next slide.
So I do want to emphasize some aspects of our forecasting methodology. We rely on an econometric
model. We don't introduce judgmental adjustments such as add factors to the model forecasts. We think
that the best information that we can provide to the Board, to RTD and the staff is through careful
consideration of the model, that it follows the best available econometric methodologies and also the
most recent data.
So when we do our forecasts every six months, we bring-- of course, bring in the most recent data. And I
should also emphasize that we don't have any particular political or financial interest in what comes out in
terms of the forecast numbers. Of course, we do want them to be as accurate as possible. So thanks for
your attention, and we'll be happy to take some questions. So go to the last slide.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Dr. McNown, and Rich Wobbekind for an as always stellar and
informative presentation. Now, I'm going to ask if there are any comments or questions from the
Committee or from other Directors.
And let me point out that we will not be repeating this presentation at the full Board meeting later this
month. Therefore, tonight is the only opportunity that you will have to ask our distinguished visitors from
the CU Leeds School of Business any questions about this forecast. So with that, I will now open up the
floor to members of the Committee and to Directors.
And let me ask, Rich, if you would be so kind, maybe if you can stop screen sharing for right now just so
we can see people, and then we may come back. But if you would like to speak, please raise your virtual
hand on the Zoom app or press Star 9 on your phone to indicate to staff that you would like to speak. So
I'll pause and give you an opportunity to do that. And I'll go first to Vice Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair, gentlemen. Always good to see you. Thank you for
coming, and as always, presenting a look. Just more a comment, less a question here.
I think the gap that we see between the low or the pessimistic scenario and the baseline that's in the near
term in the 2024 represents where the uncertainty lies. And I think I'm just stating the obvious for
Directors here, but once again, that's timed right around our TABOR exemption on the base system, so
something we'll be talking about more later.
But we've been talking about that hypothetical for a while, and boy, does it stick out seeing that gap. And
as you said, Dr. McNown, hopefully that doesn't come to pass. But given that that's where the uncertainty
is, something this body needs to think about. So thank you very much for being here. Great presentation
as always.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. And I should point out too for everyone, recall that
beginning at Packet Page 26 there's a great deal of additional information that the CU Leeds School has
given us relative to this forecast model, and a much more in-depth analysis than they could accomplish
during the PowerPoint presentation. Madam Chair Lynn Guissinger, you are now recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And thank all of you for this presentation. It's always helpful.
I was in a little conversation on this with Doug MacLeod today, and it's sort of a follow-up from Erik's

question. If we don't-- if we become subject to TABOR and there is a-- moving down the pessimistic
version, do you have a number that you use for the property value as you're projecting forward?
DOUG TISDALE: Dr. McNown, if you'd care to respond to that.
ROBERT MCNOWN: I'm sorry, Director. I'm not sure I understand-LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I'm sorry. Maybe I didn't say-ROBERT MCNOWN: --your question in terms of-- you referred to the property values or-LYNN GUISSINGER: If we become subject to TABOR, it's measured by the annual-- Doug might have to
help me-- the gain in property values. I think it's appraised values, is what they use. And that's what we
would have to start factoring in. And in fact, I think our team has factored it in. And I was just curious if
you've looked at that at all, what appraised values over the course of time would look like.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, I have to say no, we have not. Now, in other forecasting projects that we do
for other municipalities in the area, we do forecast property taxes, which of course require a forecast of
appraised and imputed values. And that's certainly well within our purview and expertise. But since that's
not been something we've been tasked with so far, I really can't give you a good answer on that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thanks very much. I think our consultants in the Reimagine project did come
up with some numbers, so I'm not asking you to do it. I just was curious what your numbers might look
like. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: In short, as I understand it, they have the capacity and the expertise, but it's not in their
brief, and so that's why they have not performed that analysis for us. But we could certainly ask for that in
the future, should that be desired. Are there other comments from any members of the Committee or any
other Directors who are in this meeting tonight relative to the CU Leeds School of Business forecast that
we have received? And paused, giving people a chance to unmute. Director Guzman?
MICHEAL GUZMAN: So I have one. And maybe this is just me being pessimistic, but why are we using
the baseline model instead of the more pessimistic line to be more conservative in our forward thinking
about budgeting? And just general would be fine. I just don't understand why we wouldn't look at it in a
more conservative manner. What would be the kick in the pants I need to understand why we're looking
at a higher amount when there's so much uncertainty? Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. Dr. McNown?
ROBERT MCNOWN: That's a perfectly reasonable question. And in fact, one of the reasons that we
provide these alternative scenarios and the forecast based on them is to give you, give the Board, the
staff the opportunity to consider the more pessimistic possibility. And I think your question is very well
placed.
We like to think that our task is to provide these alternatives with some basis for why we think the
baseline scenario is the most likely. But of course, there's a reasonable probability that a more pessimistic
outcome could materialize. And so I think it would be entirely reasonable for-- if the Board were to decide
that possibly the pessimistic scenario or maybe even a midpoint between the pessimistic and the baseline
scenario might be appropriate for your planning purposes. I don't know if Brian or Rich want to enter.

RICHARD WOBBEKIND: I was just going to highlight that the pessimistic scenario is in the error band of-it's in the high-low error band for the baseline forecast. And so-- and I would certainly argue exactly what
you just said, Robert, that you should be thinking about, you can be on the lower side of that error band if
you think the uncertainty is uncomfortable.
Brian and I were talking about this this afternoon. And I don't want to go off on a side rail here, but just
really quickly, we track how many times the forecast is high and how many times the forecast is low. And
over the last couple of years, it's been high. You've come in higher than the forecast many-- in the last
two years. We've had these really high retail sales numbers.
But for a long period of time prior to that, we would be over one quarter. We'd be below the next quarter.
It would really fluctuate up and down like, I would argue, a good forecast should, that you're getting in and
out and around that band. So I think your question, Commissioner Guzman, is super valid, and that's
something that the group has to think about.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Appreciate that, Rich. Brian Lewandowski, did you want to weigh in on that
too? Your name was s a couple times there.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: No, I guess the only thing I would share is following on Rich's comment, when
we take a look back at the entire history of doing this with RTD for the last 13 years or 14 years or so,
we've had a tendency to be a little bit low about 55% of the time and a little bit high in our estimate, 45%
of the time. So I think that's a pretty good judge of our record over time.
We do scrutinize the Moody's scenarios with every update and decide what we think is the appropriate
base model to use. And sometimes it happens to be the Moody's actual baseline that they're publishing,
and then sometimes we choose a different scenario because we're trying to discern what we think the
most likely path of the economy is. And as we were going through that exercise for this update, we did
select the Moody's baseline scenario because it does seem very plausible.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you for repeating for the benefit of Directors who have not heard you say
that before, which is a question I have asked in the past. How often have you been right and how often
have you been wrong? And to say that 55% of the time your forecasts are just a little below what we have
and 45% of the time they're a little higher than what we have received. And think our CFO Mr. MacLeod
wants to weigh in on this too. So Doug, you are recognized.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And just to add a little bit more context. The forecast is provided by these
gentlemen at CU Leeds School of Business is a forecast that it's up to RTD to choose which scenario is
to be used in our planning and budgeting.
And as Mr. Lewandowski indicated, the medium forecast historically has been the one that's very close to
what our actual experience is. And statistically speaking, it's the highest probability in terms of what's
likely to happen. I believe the optimistic and the pessimistic forecasts are around the range of 33% likely
where 60-- think it's somewhere around 60%, 70% likely that the medium forecast. So statistically
speaking, it makes-- it's more valid to use that forecast.
Now, we could do something lower. And we actually have forecasted a little bit lower, and I'll talk about
that a little bit during the MTFP, because of the TABOR challenges that we have. So I guess it's all to say
that this is great information. These gentlemen are expertise. We tend to take-- experts in their area. We

tend to take some liberties with some adjustments within our planning process based on the internal
factors. Thank you, Mr Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. We appreciate that. Director Catlin, you are
recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And you and Director Whitmore may recall four or five years ago
when we had considerable debate about some of these forecasts and we had some angst about taking
the baseline. And I believe we did not adopt a mid-term financial plan because we were nervous about
the forecasts.
And so to Director Guzman's comments, we do have the ability to adopt something that's a little more
conservative to give us a little bit of comfort. But I just remember those four years ago or whatever, we
were very, very nervous about the projections and kind of punted when we did not pass a mid-term
financial plan that year because we wanted to wait and see. So I'm just augmenting what Doug MacLeod
and our experts have said, but we did have that period of time where we were ultra cautious, I guess.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for sharing that, Director Catlin. That's right, and I recall that well, and I know
Director Whitmore does also.
MICHEAL GUZMAN: Thank you for answering those questions. I really do appreciate it. I know that it's
coming from a place of super curiosity. And I'm not an expert in finance at all, so I rely on this information.
But I've read through it thoroughly, and it just boggled me. I'm like, what are we doing, and how do we do
this? So you know, I hate to say it, but this is only the second time I've experienced one of these reports,
and I am grateful for them. So thank you for your expertise and for your guidance.
DOUG TISDALE: Your questions are always welcome, Director Guzman. It's important to have everyone
make sure that they leave this meeting feeling satisfied relative to the information provided. As I said, we
will not have this presentation at the full Board meeting. This is our shot, so we develop as complete a
record as we can so that Directors who have not had the opportunity to participate in this meeting may at
least watch the video or read the transcript and have an opportunity to understand what this particular
forecast means to us.
Last call for any further comments or questions regarding the projections and forecasts received from the
CU Leeds School of Business and Professor-- Dean Richard Wobbekind and Dr. Robert McNown and
Brian Lewandowski. Any further comments or questions? Hearing none, we'll close out our discussion on
that. Gentlemen from CU, thank you very much. Go Buffs, and good luck next week.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. We turn now to recommended actions. There are four recommended actions
on the agenda this evening. The first action is for the third amendment to the RTD Salaried Defined
Contribution Plan. Now for the Board of Directors-- the recommended action is for the Board of Directors
to approve a third amendment to the Salaried Employees Defined Contribution Plan to change the vesting
schedule to 20% vesting at one year of employment and an additional 20% at each year of employment
thereafter with 100% vesting at five years.
Now for the sake of the record, the materials for this recommended action are found at the Committee
Packet Page 71 through-- 78 through Page 81. Do we have a motion?

PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: And a second to that motion?
IAN HARWICK: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have Director Catlin as the movement and Director Harwick as the second. And I
would now like to ask Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, to present on this item. Mr. MacLeod,
the floor is yours.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Just a little bit of additional background about this action-requested action item. So as we've mentioned, this is the defined contribution plan for our salaried or
nonrepresented employees. These are employees that were hired on January 1, 2008, and thereafter.
Salaried or nonrepresented employees hired prior to that point participate in the Defined Benefit Pension
Plan.
So with this plan, RTD contributes 9% of wages for each salaried employee hired after January 1, 2008.
The employee does not contribute any of their funds, but has another alternative in a 457(b) plan.
However, with this defined contribution plan, it contains a cliff vesting which means that there's no vesting
that happens for each employee until they reach their fifth year anniversary. So if an employee were to
terminate prior to their fifth year of employment, they would not own-- they would not be able to keep any
of that money that RTD has contributed because there's 0% vested. So that money would be forfeited
back into the plan.
What's being proposed here is to change that vesting schedule so each-- as Chair Tisdale described,
each successive year of employment, the employer would earn another 20% ownership within those
contributions. So Year 1, they'd own 20% of the contributions. Year 2, 40%, and so on, still getting to
100% at five years, but it's ratably over the five years instead of a cliff at the five-year point.
The reason this recommendation is coming forth-- and by the way, it's a recommendation from the
trustees of that plan, including a unanimous recommendation including Directors Dishell and Directors
Broom that serve on that trustee-- on that trust. The reason is to bring parity with this-- between this plan
and the vesting schedule on the new plan, defined contribution plan that was open for represented
employees with a collective bargaining agreement that the Board approved.
So really, it's a parity issue to bring parity between the two plans, to not have two different vesting
schedules amongst different groups of employees, as well as to enhance the competitiveness in terms of
retaining and attracting employees. We feel it's much more market competitive to offer something that's
closer to what the private sector offers.
So Mr. Chair, with Committee approval and Board approval this month, the changes would take place.
There are some coding that needs to take place with Empower, the contracted firm that takes care of this
plan, that would not occur until February 1. With Board approval during this month, that would give
Empower the time to actually implement these changes, which would be in effect on February 1. Then
they would apply to all of those employees participating in this plan.
So if I'm a-- I'm at my three-year anniversary by February 4, I automatically go from 0% vested up to 60%.
So it would apply across the Board. I think I've covered all the salient points, Mr. Chair, and would be
happy to answer any questions.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. At this time, I will ask those Directors who have
questions or who wish to speak to raise your virtual hands, and I'll call on you in turn. Remember, for
Directors or staff calling into the meeting, if you wish to speak, please press Star 9.
And before recognizing Directors, let me just highlight that the intent of the plan amendment is to create
parity and equity among our workforce, treating our salaried employees the same way that we treat our
represented employees. And that is the central focus of this recommended action. And speaking of
workforce, I should note for the record that Charlene Polege, our Chief People Officer, is also on that
committee that unanimously recommended this.
I see a number of Directors, but I see General Counsel. And as a lawyer, I will defer to General Counsel
first to ask a question or raise a comment that she may have. So General Counsel, the floor is yours.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. I just wanted to
highlight-- it looks like a couple edits that I had made on the third amendment that are in the Board packet
on pages 80 and 81, those didn't get entered into the packet, unfortunately. So it's just the effective date
that CFO MacLeod just noted. It's February 1, 2024. There's a few dates that still say January 1 2024. So
I will work with Board staff to ensure that we get that attachment swapped out and we'll get those records
updated accordingly.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for that. And the Chair will note that is a mere ministerial
administrative change that can be made to the document and does not impact the motion requiring any
kind of amendment. Thank you for alerting us to that.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Vice Chair Catlin, Board Vice Chair Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Maybe Mr. MacLeod can answer this for me, but I believe when I
was reading through the packet it said that there would be no fiscal impact. But then again, it said that the
forfeited funds as it stands currently could not be used for benefits, but they were used for administrative
funds. So this is effectively going to change some of the administrative cost-- or administrative funds that
have we have available to the agency. Am I correct?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you, Mr Chair. Yes. Great question. So currently-- and thank you
for serving on the trust previously, Director Catlin. As you know, the contributions that go into the plan
cannot be returned to the employer if they're forfeited, right? So-- per IRS rules. Those funds have to stay
within the plan. And as you mentioned, they're used for administrative expenses.
Those forfeitures have grown to over-- the last time I heard a few months ago, it was $680,000 in
forfeitures. More than enough to pay administrative expenses.
And we also took a look at, hey, if we change this vesting schedule, the forfeiture would probably be less
from people who leave and take some of their-- leave before five years and take some of their contri-RTD's contributions with them and not leave them in the plan to pay administrative expenses. But based
on our look at it, we think there's plenty of money so there won't be a fiscal impact to RTD having to

backfill that loss of any funds that are taken out just because there's such a big chunk of money in there
already. So hopefully, that answers your question.
PEGGY CATLIN: You anticipated my second question, which is, what's that amount that's sitting in
reserve? But the other thing is that with respect to the Chair's comment, there still is-- there is still not
parity in terms of the agency's contributions to the different plans, represented versus nonrepresented. I
mean, they are different percentages. And so I just want to just state for the record that they are not all
exactly the same. And this Board has taken action for certain percentages or certain amounts to be
contributed to increase the solvency of those plans, so I was just stating that for the record. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: That is an excellent amplification and clarification, yes. Parity relating to the vesting
rights, not specifically as to contributions. Thank you. Yes, I appreciate that. Director Guzman, you are
recognized, sir.
MICHEAL GUZMAN: Thank you. I want to make sure I understood something clearly, and that is that
once this becomes effective February 1 of 2024, this is retroactive to the employees that were hired after
January 1 of 2008? Did I hear that correctly? So that it is-- the 20% is going to accrue for people who
have worked already?
And I just want to make sure that I'm clear on that because I was not under that impression. Reading the
paragraph on page 79 right above financial impact made it sound like that was only going to begin on
February 1 of 2024. Just getting clarification. I'm excited if the answer's yes, that's correct, so-- [LAUGHS]
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod, you may feel free to excite Director Guzman.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yeah, correct. [LAUGHS] You're absolutely right. And yeah, it was difficult
to phrase that correctly. I'm not sure retroactive is a good term because one of the things is we didn't want
to give the indication that somebody's already left with Board approval that this would automatically entitle
them to forfeited contributions, recognizing that the coding can't be completed until February 1. That
would be the date that it's effective. But it would be unfair for an employee to be here versus somebody
new to vest on a different schedule and not recognize their years of service and reward them accordingly.
And it has been, frankly, a pain point with several employees. It's been brought up with-- the dialogue with
everyone on a few occasions as well. So I think it's a very good thing for our current employees to
recognize their contributions, and I think it will be very well received.
MICHEAL GUZMAN: Thank you for clarifying. It's the word that I would have used, but you explained
why. That's what I was trying to get to, so thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Guzman. Director Whitmore, you are recognized, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr Chair. While not quite as excited as Director Guzman, I am pleased
with that answer, Mr. CFO. Not so much with my colleagues on the Board, and certainly not with staff, but
it seems like in the public when we talk about People Power, we dwell on recruitment, recruitment,
recruitment. And when we looked at numbers last night with Ms. Polege's report, retention is critical. And
that seems like such an important priority on the People Power front.
So to have this parity brought into the right focus, at least on the vesting rights, I think is a very smart
move. So I certainly appreciate the trustees bringing this forward and the discussion and the clarity, and
us understanding what hopefully we can do to improve situations for retention, because it is so important.

So not being a member of the Committee, I still would like to urge a yes vote, Mr. Chair. And with that, I'll
go back to silent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Whitmore. Always happy to hear your voice. Any other
comments or questions from Committee members or other Directors present at this meeting? Hearing
none, thank you all for the discussion. Therefore, on the recommended action as moved by Director
Catlin and seconded by Director Harwick, are there any no votes on this recommended action?
Hearing none, then the record will reflect that there is a unanimous vote of support from this Committee,
absent Director Dishell who is absent from the meeting. And it will proceed to the consent agenda for the
full Board meeting.
The second action for this evening is the 2024 investment policy. It reads for the Board of Directors to
approve the 2024 investment policy. For the sake of the record, materials for this recommended action
are found at Committee Packet Page 82 through Page 107. Do we have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: And is there a second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second, Davidson.
DOUG TISDALE: Davidson. All right. So I have Chair Guissinger as the movant and the Vice Chair of the
Committee, Erik Davidson, as the second. And we will now proceed to discussion. I would like to ask,
once again, Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, and Brenden Morgan, our Senior Manager of
Debt and Investments, to present this item. Gentlemen, the floor is yours.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Just briefly, a little bit more information about this item. We like to bring
the investment policy once a year-- at least once a year to the Finance and Planning Committee and also
to the Board to approve it for the upcoming fiscal year. We can bring it at any time to make any additional
changes, obviously, but we like to establish it since it is a policy to have it established on an annual basis
and have Board agreement as to what that policy is. We also time this recommended action to coincide
with the budget preparation, so it aligns with how we're putting the budget together.
Regarding the 2024 investment policy, there are very, very small changes. What you'll see in your packet
is the Board item, final requested version, and then a red line version. There are just a handful of small
grammatical changes, some cleanup items that we wanted to put forth. But there have been no statutory
changes, investment changes through the state. And we follow those guidelines.
Obviously, it's a very conservative policy. RTD is not allowed to invest in more volatile investments such
as equities or primary investments or in federal government instruments, such as US treasuries, federal
agency bonds, those types of things. So they're very safe investments. This investment policy is very
structured. A lot of it's guided by statutory requirements for governmental agencies in Colorado where we
can and cannot invest in. Guidance on how Brenden and his investment advisors invest the funds, make
sure we're following those.
And it really focuses on in order of importance of safety of principal; liquidity, that the cash is available
when RTD needs it, and finally by yield. So investment income is a concern, but it's down the line from
ensuring that we're good stewards of taxpayers' money. So again, there's no substantive changes to this
investment policy, and it would be in effect for fiscal year 2024, Mr. Chair. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr MacLeod. At this time, I would ask those Directors who have
questions or who wish to speak on this matter to raise your virtual hands, and I will call on you in turn. For
Directors or staff who are calling in, recall you need to press Star 9 if you wish to speak.
Now before recognizing Directors, permit me to highlight what Mr. MacLeod just said. The 2024
investment policy recommends only minor, administrative, ministerial, editorial changes to the 2023 policy
that you all discussed and approved just one year ago. With that, I open the floor to discussion. I see-MICHEAL GUZMAN: Two of us did not participate in that conversation, so this is brand new to us. Just
want to make that clear. [LAUGHS] And thank you. It looks great. I appreciate it.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I understand, Director Guzman, but the Board on which you served last October
did, in fact, discuss-- oh, no, wait. You didn't. I'm sorry. That was '22 election. Forgot. OK. Director
Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: I don't need to get into major details on this, but I'm just curious, like, we're making some
administrative changes. To what end? I mean, just like, what is this? How does this help us? That's it.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. And Mr. MacLeod, do you wish to respond to that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, thank you. And I think the changes that we're making are so minor, that's not the
important point. It's to bring to this governing body what the investment policy will be and to prove that on
an annual basis, just so that everybody's clear and we have the governing body weigh in on what the
policy should be. So that's really the intent of this action item. Thank you for the question.
DOUG TISDALE: And it does afford the opportunity-- and I apologize, I did misspeak when I say you all
approved. Obviously, Director Harwick and Director Guzman did not, but I speak to the others here who
did. Director Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr Chair. And actually to Director Guzman's point, I just think it would be
good for our new Directors to take a look at the policy, even though this Board did pass it last year, and
I'm still comfortable with it. Just wanted to make sure that new Directors were comfortable with that policy
as well. I think it's pretty sound and very prudent, and I'm supportive of it. But if you're new, you might
want to take a little closer look at it to see if you're comfortable. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. Director Guzman, you are recognized.
MICHEAL GUZMAN: I just want to say I did read through it. I'm very comfortable with it. And changing '23
to '24, it's super simple stuff. I get it. But yeah, no, it's awesome. And it's great to know that we have
something that we're relying on to lead and guide so if there's a question later, we can come back to you
with it.
And Doug's done an awesome job with us new Directors, getting us onboarded properly with the right
information. So it's not our first time seeing this, just the changes. So that's great. Thank you for the
heads up, though, because we've got to make sure that our third new Director reviews it as well.
DOUG TISDALE: Indeed. Thank you very much, Dr. Guzman. All right. We have a motion that was made
by Chair Guissinger and was seconded by Committee Vice Chair Erik Davidson. And I will ask at this
time, are there any no votes on the recommended action? Hearing none, the record will reflect that the

matter has passed unanimously out of the Finance and Planning Committee, and that only Director
Dishell was absent from the meeting.
The next action before you is the 2024 fiscal policy, and this is for the Board of Directors to approve the
2024 fiscal policy. For the sake of the record, materials for this recommended action can be found at
Committee Packet Page 108 through Page 121. May I have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I hear Director Catlin as the movement, but I heard Director Guzman in there. Director
Guzman, can I hear that as a second?
MICHEAL GUZMAN: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, sir. It is so recorded. I will now ask once again-- I don't know.
Who should we get? Why don't we ask our Chief Financial Officer Doug MacLeod if he could present on
this item, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'd be happy to. So with this item similar to the investment
policy, this is the actual fiscal policy that we like to bring to the Board once a year. There are a few more
changes that we're requesting in this one that I'll go through briefly, each item.
Again, this sets the standards by which we build the budget, essentially. So you've seen things in there
such as the accounting policies, the investment-- it refers to the investment policy, capital improvement
policies, budgeting policies. So really, as a policymaking body really establishes on an annual basis, or
more frequently if necessary, what policies we will follow as an agency in terms of keeping financial
records and developing forecasts and budgets and the like.
So there are a few. Same format. There's a Board report, there's a final version, and then there's a red
line version that incorporates the changes. And I'll discuss each one of those red line changes that we're
requesting here.
You'll see throughout there's a few very minor grammatical changes, again, in this version, in this 2024
fiscal policy. Another item-- these are all laid out in the Board report as well.
There's a reference in the capital improvement policies to the Mid-Term Financial Plan that was
duplicative in the budget policies. We thought it didn't belong underneath the capital improvement policy,
so we just simply moved it down and combined it into the budget policy. It's more of a budget planning
type of policy, so it was just an administrative change there.
Under fund balance policies-- so we've had several discussions or mentioned on several occasions that
RTD's in a good financial position. Our intent is to make all of our capital purchases with cash as opposed
to borrowing additional money.
Typically what we do, as you know, we're out of bonding capacity and cannot issue more bonds, but we
do have the ability to issue certificates of participation, which we historically have done for equipment
purchases, rolling stock purchases, buses and trains. But we stopped doing that when we got into a
better financial position because we didn't want to incur additional debt and pay additional interest.

The one thing that we wanted to change in this language is to modify just slightly that we would only
purchase capital with-- capital assets with cash, that we would continue to do that unless it was financially
advantageous to do otherwise. So let me explain a little further on that.
So why we wanted to change that is currently the cash that we have on hand that we've invested, we're
earning over 5% yields on, but the cost to borrow using a certificate of participation is 2.5% to 3% interest.
So actually, if we were to go out and borrow money, if we needed-- if the Board chose to pursue a path of
borrowing additional money for some larger project, we might want to consider actually issuing a
certificate of participation because we can keep our cash invested at 5% and only pay 2.5% to 3% and
keep that difference. So it's not concrete that we would do that, but we just wanted to have that in fiscal
policy that it gives us the option as an agency to consider such a move.
Next item. We moved the net revenue coverage ratio from the debt policies to the budget policies. It is a
debt policy. However, the debt portion is on the back end, so it kind of is the reporting of what actually
happened. But for our budget policies, we want to aim for a net revenue coverage ratio of 1.2% for this,
for 1.2 times for this policy.
The reason being is that ratio is calculated by taking total revenues minus operating expenses. The
amount that's left over is what would be-- the credit rating agencies look as, what would be available to
pay debt?
We want to keep that ratio at 1.2 times so our leftover money is actually 20% higher than what we need to
pay our debt. That gives all of our investors as well as our stakeholders comfort knowing that we're not
cutting it too close so we have enough money to fund everything with a little bit of cushion. So that is
more on the budgeting side. Moved it to the budget policy because we want to ensure the way we budget
ensures that we meet those ratios. That was just the movement of that item.
The other significant item that we did is we removed the reference in the budget policies to an amended
budget. That doesn't preclude our ability to come and ask the Board for an amended budget. But
historically, what we've done mid year is we've come to the Board and done an amended budget to
update the budget.
Our General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson has been talking about, we need to eliminate the budget
for several-- for a few years now, the amended portion of that, and really be intentional in our budgeting
and stick to what we're budgeting and not have changes, which we all agreed to. So that's the intent of
removing that amended budget. Doesn't mean we still might not come with certain changes to the Board
or request for different appropriations. But this wholesale amending of the budget going forward is not
probably a good business practice, so it'll force us to plan a little bit better.
Finally, Mr. Chair, just one more item. One of the items that we have in there, we refer to the six-year MidTerm Financial Plan, the MTFP. We would like to change that in 2024 to a five-year financial forecast. We
still need to come up with a catchy acronym. General Manager Johnson has called it the F cubed, the
triple F for the Five-year Financial Forecast. Something pithy and clever like MTFP.
But we thought it would be more appropriate to be-- we really didn't have a good justification for choosing
six years. And the longer out you go, a six-year plan, the further out you go, the less certain it is, the less
accurate it's going to be.

We thought we'd go to the industry standard. And what our General Manager is used to is a five-year
financial forecast. So what we would do is start presenting the budget year plus five years as opposed to
the budget year plus six years. So that concludes each of the changes that we are requesting to this 2024
fiscal policy, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. So at this time, I would like to ask those Directors
who have questions or who wish to speak to raise your virtual hands. I will call on you in turn. For
Directors or staff calling in, please recall, press Star 9 on your phone. Permit me to frame this discussion
a little bit by noting that the key focus that I heard from these policy changes is principally to do that,
which is financially advantageous to the agency. Always a good goal.
And to bring our financial planning process into alignment with the industry by going from a six-year focus
to a five-year focus. If it's a Five-Year Financial Forecast-- I think it's a FYFF, by the way. With that, the
floor is now open, and I will recognize Director Catlin first.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Sorry to dominate some of this conversation. First of all, I think I've stated
before, But I'm a little bit nervous about a 1.2 coverage ratio. I would personally like to see that a little
higher. But as far as the changes that you've proposed for this fiscal policy, I'm comfortable with it. But I
just wanted to state that I just would really like to see a little bit more cushion there.
But with regard to that additional 20%, does that include our budgeted reserve? Is that included in that
20%? Or is the-- or is the budgeted three-month operating reserve included in the base? Am I making any
sense? I don't know.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Please, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And point well taken. Certainly for financial success, we certainly want to
have the most money and have the highest ratios that we can in that respect. Where we're trying to
balance that is the expectation that we will spend the taxpayer dollars on service. So we cut back on
service and put more money away and have 1.3 debt service coverage ratio.
By the way, that ratio, we always pay our debt first. So especially with the bonds, the Department of
Revenue takes the taxes-- the sales tax remittance from the Department of Revenue goes to a trustee.
They take out what's necessary to pay the bond payments and hold it in trust to make sure that we're
paying those that debt on time. So that really comes out first. But in terms of looking at it from a credit
rating agency or an investor standpoint, that 1.2 ratio is really looking at, what's left over?
And frankly, that 0.2 can be used and is used for other things such as capital expenditures. So really, the
formula is total revenues minus operating expenses. Whatever leftover is to pay debt. And the 0.2 also, it
needs to kind of be left over to pay capital expenditures.
So to answer your second question, because we have fluctuations in our revenue and expenses-- so
sometimes our expenses will pop up a little bit each year just because we'll have certain one-time
projects, and then they'll come back down. In those years, they only look at it on an income statement
basis. They do not take the balance sheet and our funds-- fund reserves into account when they look at
that debt service coverage ratio. They calculate itself, but they do take into context, hey, all right. RTD for
one or two years fell below 1.2, for instance.

But if you did look at their balance sheet, they have a billion dollars in reserve. So we as a credit rating
agency aren't super concerned about that, as long as their forecast, their financial forecast shows they're
going to get back on track. So that's kind of a quick way of-- it's like most financial metrics. You have to
take it into context, but the calculation itself is just a strict revenues minus expenses divided by debt
service.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything further, Director Catlin? You wanted to add to that?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I'm fine. And I'm obviously familiar with other debt financing where their coverage
ratios are higher and the ratings are higher. So I just-- in the case of-- it's comparing apples to oranges.
But in some cases, I've seen debt coverage ratios of higher than 2, which, that's a really healthy position.
But as you said, it's taxpayer dollars and you have to really balance and spend them wisely. So I'll get off
my soapbox. But I just would-- I'd feel more comfortable with a higher coverage ratio, but that's just my
preference. Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair, if I may?
DOUG TISDALE: Please feel free to supplement, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. What I was going to add, Director Catlin, is we actually have been in the
1.3, 1.4 for a few years, particularly with COVID funding because our revenue was so high. But we
anticipate being quite a bit above that 1.2 by one or two percentage basis points going forward. So I think
we will continue to exceed that. And the 1.2 is really just a floor that we don't want to try to drop below.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I really appreciate that, and that makes me feel better.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you, Director Catlin, for your involvement. And please, for someone who was
the Deputy Executive Director of CDOT for 11 years, your input is never questioned or regretted, so
please continue to participate to the fullest extent possible. Vice Chair Davidson, you are recognized now,
sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Mr. MacLeod. I'm certainly glad to see
some of the changes. I think being intentional with the budget is important. We've talked a lot about our
capital carryforward and that being a symptom of seeing things getting postponed. Also makes a lot of
sense to move to a five-year look on a forecast as opposed to the Mid-Term Financial Plan that we've
been doing.
I just wondered if you wouldn't mind speaking generally-- and I think this may be as much to General
Manager and CEO Johnson as to Mr. MacLeod-- just about the changes that are coming to the budgeting
process. And I know that you all have been talking about that and talking about operational changes. And
wondering if you can just share a little bit more context and a little bit more about those ongoing changes
with the Committee.
DOUG TISDALE: Vice Chair, I'm going to allow the question if there can be a brief response. But it's
beyond the scope of the motion, and so I don't really want to get us too far afield. But let's take a couple
minutes for Mr. MacLeod to respond to that or General Manager CEO Johnson, should she choose.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I can clarify, specifically with respect to if it would do away with the amended
budget as the expectation, which has really been the case since certainly I've been on the Board. Just

speaking to the process that is going to get us to a position where there is no longer a material need to do
so would be helpful context.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That helps clarify that. And let me recognize our General Manager and
CEO Debra Johnson to respond to it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you very kindly, Vice Chair, for the
question. As I have shared with you all, we need to be more intentional relative to our fiduciary
responsibility and recognizing that this body did adopt a strategic plan in which we talk about four
strategic priorities. I look to those priorities of the functional pillars of which decisions are made.
And more specifically, as discussed last night at the Operations and Safety Committee, there's three
initiatives of which we collectively as a Management and Leadership team are focused on quite naturally
being that of getting Back to Basics, which is the state of good repair, and just establishing processes and
procedures. Our People Power, which Director Whitmore talked about the importance of retention. And
then lastly, a Welcoming Transit Environment.
And so as we look to make decisions going forward, whether it's good, bad, or indifferent coming into the
organization, I recognize that we weren't necessarily forecasting in the best ability-- to the best of our
ability. And oftentimes, the amended budget process was used just out of not a necessity, but out of past
practice.
And so working in conjunction with CFO MacLeod and members of his team and having conversations
with our Leadership team, we have decided to be more intentional, create that sense of ownership
amongst people in the organization and be very transparent, and not do things in a siloed approach. We
are focused on one RTD, recognizing that one individual in this organization can't do anything by
themselves.
And more specifically, we need to look at it from the vantage point of, what is it that we need to
accomplish? And looking to discern whether or not, is it regulatory compliance? Are there core aspects
that we need to include in budget requests that are going to impact us doing our core business functions?
And third, what are the interdependencies?
So recognizing that this is going to be an evergreen change as we come full steam ahead. There will be
continuous improvement. And this is the first foray as we look at what we're doing with operational
expenses and capital expenses, and so it's across the agency holistically. And so I'll yield the floor to Mr.
MacLeod. So that's what I would offer at this juncture. So thank you very much for the question and for
the opportunity to respond.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And kudos to you for avoiding the use of the phrase out of
laziness when you were describing that process. Mr. MacLeod, she has yielded the floor to you, so you
are recognized, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. I think General Manager Johnson really encapsulated where we need to
go as an agency. And this has been needing to have been done for quite a while. I'm very encouraged by
it. I really think, as she mentioned, we can be much more intentional and very-- not only very intentional in
what we're budgeting, but ensuring that we're actually executing and we're only budgeting for the items
that we intend on completing during the fiscal year.

So I'm encouraged by that. We've already taken some steps, as you know, under General Manager
Johnson's direction to kind clean up some of the things like capital carryforward. And you'll see that as we
go through the budgeting process that we're going to be much more in line with what the strategic plan is
saying.
And part of employee ownership, one of the strategic priorities is to ensure that people are executing on
what they say they're going to execute on and be efficient with the taxpayer dollars that we don't tie them
up. We've had-- in years past, we've had fairly large budget underruns where we over-budgeted to a
certain extent because we haven't been able to execute due to People Power and other issues.
But we want to be very methodical and intentional on how we're budgeting, appropriating money, and
actually executing on what we say we're going to complete. So that's all I would add. Thank you, Mr
Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. Are there any further comments or questions
relative to this recommended action? Dr. Guzman, you are recognized.
MICHEAL GUZMAN: I just quickly want to say I think part of my resistance to the Leeds School of
Business is that it forecasts out so far. So that you're pulling it back even one year makes me feel more
comfortable that that budgeting process and those forecasts are going to make more sense because it
allows more nimbleness in receiving that information quickly and adjusting properly.
Not needing to amend a budget all the time necessarily, but really having a realistic look on what's
coming up on the horizon. Six years seems so far away, and we don't know what's going to happen in 45
days, if you catch my drift. So thank you for that, and I'm glad that this is on here. I'm in support of it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Dr. Guzman. Any other comments or questions from the
Committee members or from any Board members? Hearing none, let me ask at this time on the motion
made by Director Catlin and seconded by Director Guzman. Are there any no votes on this action?
Hearing none, then the recommended action is passed unanimously. And when I say unanimously, that
refers to six aye votes and zero no votes. And Director Dishell is permissively absent from this meeting.
The matter will proceed to the consent agenda for the full Board meeting.
The final action item that we have for this evening is the 2024-2029 Mid-Term Financial Plan, referred to
as the MTFP. And the recommended action is for the Board of Directors to adopt the 2024-2029 MidTerm Financial Plan, the MTFP. For the sake of the record, the materials for this recommended action are
found at Committee Packet Page 122 through Page 134.
And before asking for a motion, let me explain for the sake of the record why we are revisiting this item.
As you may recall, this item was brought forward as a recommended action item to the Finance
Committee on September 12, and after a full discussion was passed unanimously.
However, prior to the September Executive Committee meeting, a formula error was identified by staff
that required correction. At the request of the GM CEO, Chair Guissinger removed the item from the
September Board meeting agenda to allow the MTFP to be corrected by staff. We are bringing this item
back through the Committee to follow our pre-established best practices and to honor the role of our
standing Committee in the Board's governance structure.

To emphasize the point again, the only change to the MTFP that you previously passed unanimously is
the correction of some numbers, as Mr. MacLeod will explain further. With that as a background, do we
have a motion to approve the 2024-2029 Mid-Term Financial Plan as amended by staff?
MICHEAL GUZMAN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion by Director Guzman. Is there a second?
IAN HARWICK: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second, Davidson.
DOUG TISDALE: I heard Harwick first, so I'm going to give it to him, Mr. Vice Chair. And I would now ask- I'm stumbling again now. Who am I going to go to? All right. Well, look. We'll start with our Chief
Financial Officer Doug MacLeod, and we'll just take it from there. But we're also going to have a tag team.
And we have Todd Nikkel, our Senior Manager of Budget, who will be available to present on this item.
But Mr. MacLeod, the floor is yours.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. In a moment, I will call up the revised MTFP presentation, MidTerm Financial Plan presentation that's been changed since the September 12 presentation. Thank you
for setting that up.
I appreciate the Board's commitment-- the Committee's patience in considering this a second time. I
regret that we did not catch this error the first time. It was there and just missed it. Our intent is not to let
that happen again, this formula error. We have error checks in place to ensure that this particular one
doesn't happen again.
So with that said-- and I do thank you. General Manager Johnson also sent out a communication to the
Board members notifying you that we would be pulling this item from the agenda for September. So I
appreciate her support with this too, and we'll get it right this time.
So what I intend to do is pull up the same presentation that was given on September 12, but just skip
down to the cash flows where the numbers change and explain what has changed since that time, Mr.
Chair. So let me share my screen. Mr. Chair, can you confirm that you see the presentation on screen?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, sir. I can confirm it is visible on our screens now.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you very much. So as I mentioned, again, this is background information, these
first several slides. No changes there. Just explaining the thought process behind development of the
Mid-Term Financial Plan. Again, this is the six-year financial forecast past the 2023 budget year. So it
goes into 2029 revenues and expenditures.
So just to explain where the error occurred. So we have-- when we talk about our sets of financial books,
our financial records, we've talked about that we have a book-- a business for the base system, which is
the 6/10 sales and use tax. Then we have a separate book within our financial system for the FasTracks
system, which is the 4/10 sales and use tax.
The reason why we keep those two entities separate is because per voter authorization, 4/10 funding
cannot be spent on the base system side, but the base system funding can be used on the FasTracks. So
we keep those numbers separate in the way we account for things.

We are going to talk a little bit about allocation. So not to get too deep into the accounting for this, but
what happens is all of the invoices, payroll, everything else is paid out of the base system. That is
because we have one set of bank accounts.
And if you think about it, it would be really hard to take, for instance, my salary and allocate it between
base system and FasTracks for every invoice, for every paycheck, et cetera. So what we do is we actually
pay everything out of the base system. Then we calculate based on activity on FasTracks how much of
that total expense belongs to FasTracks, allocate that expense by reducing the base system's books, and
increasing the FasTracks systems books.
So if you look at it in total, there's really no change when we do that allocation. It's just trying to get the
two pieces stated correctly for the fair presentation of their financial position.
When we were putting together the Mid-Term Financial Plan, there was a formula error that we
encountered with the allocation. So this is a plan. So we do this allocation within software. It's different
from our actual set of books where we actually book expenses. So it's just an outlook, and it's a financial
plan.
So we do certain calculations to put these numbers together within the software. That allocation was
actually over-allocating the expenses from the base system over to FasTracks, making it appear that the
operating expenses-- this line item, operating expense, less depreciation for the base system was
actually showing as lower than it should have been because too many of the expenses were pushed over
to the FasTracks system.
Likewise, if you were to look at that previous version of the operating expenses on the FasTracks set of
books, it was much higher than it should have been. In fact, if you were to compare this Mid-Term
Financial Plan with the one presented last year, the operating expenses on FasTracks were almost
double what they were last year.
So once this was pointed out, we realized we had a problem, pulled it from the agenda, and fixed the
allocation. But the question that arose was, well, jeez. You know, FasTracks looks like it's losing a lot of
money and the basis is going to have to subsidize a lot more of the FasTracks operating expenses when
in fact, the operating expenses were incurred [INAUDIBLE].
So to wrap it up, what we did is we fixed-- we corrected the formulas within here. So now the operating
expenses for each entity are correct. And you can see on the bottom line there that cash flow. So that's
everything that comes in and goes out the door for FasTracks in terms of finances. It shows a positive.
And these are stated in thousands. So in 2023, it shows a $32.6 million net cash flow.
So you can see it's all positive. There's not a subsidization necessary. Just the subsidization idea was
that once the base system paid off its debt, which happens in 2024, it would free up cash flow in case the
FasTracks system needed additional financial support. That's not the case here in the next six years
through 2029. Could be the case down the road. Don't know for sure. But because the base system can
run FasTracks but not vice versa, it was the prudent thing to do in terms of planning cash flow and cash
availability to support the entire system.
So going on to the consolidated total. So this bottom line-- sorry, net cash flow. Not the bottom line, but
the bolded line, the net cash flow, this actually-- so there was a problem between allocation between the

two. But in fact, not only had the base system over-allocated, but there was an additional allocation just
on the FasTracks side, overstating the total expenses.
So sorry to make this too confusing, but what ended up happening when we fixed those formulas is the
bottom line actually changed too. So the bottom line net cash flow of the six-year period plus this year is a
positive $171 million. [INAUDIBLE] So that sounds like a lot of money, but it's really not. When you
consider revenue of $9.1 billion, it's about a 2% variation.
And again, this is a six-year forecast, so these numbers get a little softer as you go out. So it's not
something to hang our hat on, but it does at least show that we have an over-balanced budget projected
to be at least balanced and have enough money to fund reserves still and end up with a net positive cash
flow. So Mr. Chair, I believe that kind of encapsulates the problem that we're trying to rectify by bringing
this back to this Committee. And I'd be happy to take any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr MacLeod. At this time, I would like to ask those Directors who
have questions or who wish to speak to this matter to please raise your virtual hands, and I will call on
you in turn. For Directors who are online with a telephone, if you wish to speak, please press Star 9.
And to reiterate, we are not here this evening to reinvent the wheel. We already discussed this matter at
length last month, and we are here to review only some revisions in some numbers. And for the sake of
the record, I would like to acknowledge and extend appreciation to Nate Minor of Colorado Public Radio
for raising this issue with our staff. The floor is now open, and I will recognize our Board Chair Lynn
Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Doug. It sort of-- it is a little bit back into the
mix of this, but to answer Director Guzman's question earlier and sort of based on our conversation today,
as you go forward in this MTFP, you did cap the growth based on a TABOR limit. Is that right?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, Ms. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes, thank you, Chair Guissinger, for pointing that out. Forgot to mention
that. So you're absolutely right. So when we talked earlier about the forecast that CU Leeds provides,
those numbers that are stated in that Board-- that Board memo are strictly related to what they provided
us in the forecast.
When we take those numbers and put it into the Mid-Term Financial Plan, you're correct. What we do is
we actually adjust down a little bit. So they show that they have a 3.3% annual increase on average in
their forecast. For the base system, because we have this potential TABOR revenue growth limitation
issue looming starting in 2025, for the Mid-Term Financial Plan what we've done is we've limited that
growth to 1.4% instead of the average 3.3% each year.
So it's not a lot, but it takes it down a little bit, to be a little bit more conservative than what the
professionals are saying we should collect. And that 1.4% is based on the analysis that was done by a
subcontractor of WSP that did the Reimagine contract. They looked at the growth in property tax
valuations within the district over 10 years. It increased by 1.4%.

So that's really the only basis that we have to go on. So we used that number for a placeholder for now,
but thank you for pointing that out. We are trying to be a little bit more conservative than what the forecast
actually shows.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Any other questions or comments from any member of the
Committee or any Director? Director Harwick, you are recognized.
IAN HARWICK: Sorry. And this is-- I probably should have asked this question last time, but I'm just
curious about-- so hypothetically-- and this is about de-Brucing. So maybe this is the right time. Maybe
this is wrong. And if it's wrong, just tell me it's wrong time.
So hypothetically, we see this post-cliff in 2025 if we don't go to the voters before then this happens. But
let's say we decide, OK, 2026 feels more favorable. If we go to then and de-Bruce, we're not then-- all of
this sort of bad financial situation that might be happening in theory could go away. Is that-- am I
understanding that correctly? We're not stuck at that lower level even if we de-Bruce, are we? Did that
make sense? Sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: You are right, Director Harwick. This is not the right time.
IAN HARWICK: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: That having been said-IAN HARWICK: Yeah, I know. I'm just-- that's-DOUG TISDALE: Having been said, if Mr. MacLeod wishes to offer any comment on that briefly, he may.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yeah, just really briefly. And yes, you're right, and that's one of
the strategies that we're trying to-- with the revenue diversification group. So that's one strategy, right? So
we're not so dependent on sales and use taxes potentially that we can spread that out so we're not so
susceptible to those swings where we drop down and then be limited in our growth back up. So that's one
strategy.
The other issue is just the TABOR growth limitations that would really only affect in 2025 the base
system. FasTracks is de-Bruced until 2050. So that whole investigation, we've got to get our-- got to get
all of our facts straight. And that's part of what we've done with this revenue diversification group, which
we met for the first time yesterday, I believe.
Vice Chair Davidson's going to share some additional information. But yeah, that's the intent of this
organization is, what is our policy prescription for addressing the [INAUDIBLE]? There will be more to
come, so thank you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr MacLeod. And thank you, Director Harwick. And I just-- I
couldn't avoid the joke. All right. Are there any other comments or questions? Chair Guissinger, you are
recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sort of on this thing, and Doug and I discussed it. But in page 122, it says "sales
and use tax projections provided in August 2023 by the University of Colorado Leeds School of Business

projected $31.7 million decrease over the March 2023 forecast." I think, Doug, that what we talked about
is their projections were at $21.5 million, but with your 1.-- in other words, this may need-- this memo may
need a little adjustment. With your 1.4% with the change that you made, it came to $31.7 million. Is that
right?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod, you're recognized.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yeah, correct, and thank you for pointing that out. It's incorrectly worded.
So it really should say the forecast-- the forecast provided by CU Leeds did show a $21 million decrease.
However, RTD staff with General Manager Johnson's approval reduced that down for the additional-down to the 1.4% on the basis [INAUDIBLE] to be more conservative. So the difference between those
two numbers. So yes, I'll look at if we can adjust that language for the final package, so thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mm-hmm.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. So we could simply adjust that number for presentation in the final report
that is attached to the minutes as a part of this process. Any other comments or questions from the
Committee or any Director? Seeing none, let me now ask on the motion by Director Guzman as
seconded by Director Harwick, are there any no votes on this item?
Hearing no expression of no votes, then we have a unanimous vote on the recommended action. It will
proceed to the consent agenda. That's six aye votes, zero no votes. And Director Dishell is, as we said
previously, excused for his absence. And this may be the last time that this Committee has to talk about
the MTFP. And from now on, we'll talk about the FYFF and go from there.
All right. That concludes our recommended actions for this evening. There is one discussion item on the
agenda, and that item is for the 2024 proposed budget. Now for the sake of the record, the materials for
this discussion item are found at Committee Packet Page 135 through Page 165.
And let me give my own introduction as Chair. As you all know, the budget is one of the most important
functions of this Committee and of the RTD Board. And for that reason, we take an extraordinary amount
of time in its preparation. We take information from the CU Leeds School of Business. We engage with all
of our departments. We incorporate and take into account numerous other studies and initiatives that we
have put in place. We create a six-year, now presumably, hopefully amended to a five-year FYFF
forecast.
We then draft a proposed budget and have a discussion to examine that proposed budget. And at long
last, we create a final budget and hold a public hearing on that, and then and only then take action to
approve a final budget.
Transparency and accountability are the keys throughout this entire process. With that in mind, I now ask,
just because there's nobody else to ask, and I'm going to ask the marathon man, Doug MacLeod, our
Chief Financial Officer, and Todd Nikkel, our Senior Manager of Budget, to present this item. Gentlemen,
the floor is yours.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. And I have a presentation to walk through here just
momentarily. I did want to point out too that within the Board package, there's a Board report followed by

the actual budget document. That's the document that we intend to present or make available for public
inspection.
You'll note that there's a letter from the General Manager included in there, some narrative information.
It's a really good document. I hope--and very informative-- that you all have the chance to read it over. So
I wanted to point that out to this Committee. And without further ado, I will share my screen with the
presentation of the actual numbers. Mr. Chair, can you confirm that you can see that?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Excellent. Thank you. OK. So this is the 2024 proposed budget. We call it a proposed
budget because it's not the official budget until it goes through the process of the Board approving and
appropriating the funding. And I'm Doug MacLeod, obviously. And Todd Nikkel's here too to help answer
any questions that may come up.
Just a quick review, the proposed budget timeline. The Chair mentioned this draft budget is presented to
the body as a discussion item. So it will not go to the full Board, but it is presented in open forum at this
meeting, and then it is also provided for public inspection through posting on our website.
We also are required by state statute to provide notice in two daily newspapers. So we put a notice out in
the Boulder Daily Camera and The Denver Post, saying that RTD's budget is available for public
inspection. You can find it here at our website, for instance, and some contact information. We also leave
a copy over in the Board Office if anybody wants to come in and inspect it in person.
That must be done by October 15 per statute. So we get this post out there for public consumption, public
review. It is posted until it is approved. And we would come back to this Committee on November 14 at
the next Financial Planning Committee to present this as an action item.
In that intervening period, there may be a few adjustments that-- we're continuing discussions. We don't
anticipate any large adjustments, but we've had several discussions with departmental and then
consolidated discussions with the General Manager to go through the budgets with a fine-tooth comb.
Those continue to happen after we've had a decision on what those numbers look like to present to this
body.
Tonight, there will be additional discussion, really going through it one more time with each department.
So there may be some changes. When we bring back the action item, there will be a schedule included
from what was presented in this meeting to anything that changed by line item to the final presentation.
So you'll be able to see what we're actually requesting for appropriation and what changed during
commentary.
So I'd mentioned that our budget process is improving each year. We already discussed some of the
intents of our General Manager and this agency in terms of becoming better at budgeting, more
intentional, having more frequent meetings, more frequent reviews to have an agency-wide
understanding of where we stand on projects, et cetera.
So we continue to refine that project, really trying to narrow down some of our asset management plan,
repair and replace schedules, prioritize those [INAUDIBLE] strategic plan. So I would say we've gone
through a very detailed budget process, and we intend to continue to improve this going into next year.

This proposed budget aligns with the 2024 through 2029 MTFP, Mid-Term Financial Plan. So what we
use the MTFP for is we first set a target of what's a sustainable operating expense level as well as what
we know that needs to be replaced on a capital expenditure basis. Those two numbers are the targets
that are used for the development of the budget.
As you can imagine, the budget requests always come in higher than what that projection shows. And as
we talk more about it and are more intentional about what we're actually going to execute on, our target is
to bring those numbers in line with what the Mid-Term Financial Plan shows is a fiscally sustainable
amount. So that was the target that this was based on.
Again, it aligns with the strategic plan initiatives. So within this plan, you'll see in the narrative there's
discussion items that relate back to these specific items, explicitly Back to Basics, People Power,
Welcoming Transit Environment. So I won't spend a lot of time discussing that since it is in the document.
Some of the assumptions. Fare study and equity analysis was taken into account as the Board knows
and approved. Those recommendations the Board approved of being implemented for being in effect in
early 2024. We've taken that into account in adjusting the fare revenue to what the projections are, which
is lower than what we've historically seen.
We've talked already about the forecasted sales and use tax from CU Leeds in the budget. Again, 2024,
we do not-- we will not be subject to TABOR limitations, so we did not reduce the growth. We used the
actual sales and use tax forecast for 2024 from CU Leeds. That doesn't come into effect until 2025.
The operating expenses were based on the System Optimization Plan and what we're currently spending,
in addition to open positions are included. There are all these frontline positions that remain unfilled that
were discussed during last evening's presentations. Those positions are actually budgeted within this
budget. We do have a provision within there so we don't over-budget for vacancy savings, knowing that
there will be turnover and there's a time period of when [INAUDIBLE] adjusted accordingly on our biggest
cost in the agency, which is compensation.
We assumed a 5.1% inflation rate. The July Bureau of Labor Statistics inflation rate that came out for
Denver-Lakewood-Aurora is what they call it, that area surrounding a district, was at 4.7% in July. We
used 5.1%.
The math actually worked out that way because we have certain adjustments that are different from
inflation, so there's different components such as labor. We have contractual increases. We have
contractual increases within a lot of our contracts for a lot of the services that we contract out that are built
in that arrive at that 5.1% inflation.
All of this is to say that I think that we're being conservative in assuming what the inflation costs will be in
2024. We're not at our historical 3% inflation rate. We're assuming 5.1%.
A big component of not only our budget, but our longer term planning is the Transit Asset Management
plan. The FTA requires that we submit a Transit Asset Management plan at least once every four years.
And if there's any updates or significant changes to that plan, we need to notify them and submit a new
plan.
It's very specific and very prescriptive in terms of the way we evaluate our assets. We're still working on
continuing to develop that plan and make it more solidified and more ingrained in our process. But as far

as the financial planning for that, that's one of the key elements, to ensure that we have the funding to
make sure that our assets are maintaining a state of good repair.
And again, we allow a provision to maintain our reserves according to policy. Within the fiscal policy, we
still have the requirement to maintain three months of operating reserves, excluding depreciation. It's kind
of our rainy days. But we actually have more than that three months currently. But this budget also
maintains those reserves at or above those levels, [INAUDIBLE] district policy.
Just quickly, strategic priority alignment. Again, I touched on this earlier, but that's the big thing. You
know, when there are new budget requests or new initiatives that are brought forward in the budget
process, budget preparation process, a big part of the discussion is, how does that align with our strategic
priorities and our strategic initiatives
People Power constraints is a big item, obviously. And I mentioned that we budgeted for positions that we
think is adequate for what we think our turnover as well as our net hiring because obviously, we have a lot
of open positions, but we're not going to hire them all on January 1, so we've budgeted accordingly and
ratably, such as with the police department. [INAUDIBLE] approximately 35 officers in the budget, so
that's been planned for and it's been scheduled throughout the year.
I mentioned during the fiscal policy discussion that we're going to discontinue the amended budget
process. This will be the first time that we've done this since I've been here. I'm not concerned. I'm glad
that we're doing it. I think it's really good for us as an agency and for all of us staff members to ensure that
we adhere to that budgeted-- what was originally set forth and appropriated through the budget process.
We still have the ability to be flexible. There's certain delegations and certain Board responsibilities in
terms of moving money for those appropriations that we would come to the Board certainly for certain
items that fall within that purview to ask for additional funding or transfer funding if necessary. But we're
not going to do the one big amended budget.
I wanted to point out that I still believe we're in a strong financial position, which is good. We have about
$1 billion in cash and investments. Also in reserves about $500 million, on the basis of $500 million on
FasTracks.
So we're in a good position to weather the storm. We don't want to burn through that money because it's
really earmarked over several years to maintain our assets. But I don't see us getting into a lot of trouble
and being in a panic trying to figure out what we're going to do, at least in the short term if there's a big
economic event.
So this all to say is total what will be requested for an operating budget is $856 million. That's right in line
with what we-- I believe in the Mid-Term Financial Plan for 2024, and approximately $58 million in capital.
We're still going through that. There's going to be some carryforward. So when we get down to the cash
flows, you'll see that it's $32 million. But those were our targets on that when [INAUDIBLE] the actual
appropriation [INAUDIBLE].
Just quickly, this is what the revenue picture looks like. So you can see we've had really good growth.
The orange bars are the COVID funding, which was good because you can see the blue bars from our
regular recurring funding really dropped during COVID. That was a great help to us not only to sustain
operations, but it also allowed us to save some of the excess sales and use tax and build our reserves
during that time, getting us in a good financial position.

The growth-- [COUGHS]-- excuse me. The growth that you see from 2023 budget to 2024 budget is partly
due to-- mostly due to sales and use tax growth, but we also will be receiving additional funding through
the bipartisan infrastructure law for our preventive maintenance grants. We used to receive about $100
million a year. That goes up to $130 million in 2024, so that's also helpful. But I'm pretty confident that our
revenues-- by the way, the lower fares are embedded in there too, so still seeing some growth in 2024.
This has been in the presentation too, just to give you an idea of how our expenses break down by
category in the budget. Again, wages and benefits are our largest category. In fact, General Manager
Johnson often refers to them being 3/4 of our expenditures.
And if you were to take what's in purchase transportation and our services-- those are our contracted
services. If you took the wage portion out of that, what are being paid for wages for folks that are being
contracted, this slice of the pie for compensation would actually be closer to 75% So just to give me an
idea, that's how dependent we are on People Power for our business. Then you can see some of the
other expenses broken down there.
To give you an idea of the cash flows, so this is our income statement. We have a column for 2023
budget versus what we're presenting tonight for the proposed 2024 budget. A couple items that just focus
on total revenue in Row 5 with the blue number there. You can see the increase is projected to be about
$62 million next year.
All of our operating expenses are summed up in Row 14. There's [INAUDIBLE] $56,165 million. You can
see the components that make that up. So it's really small growth over the last year.
And what I'd point out is why that-- even though we're including 5.1% inflation, the reason why that's only
growing by $1 million-- less than $1 million next year over this year is because we're really, as I
mentioned, being very intentional and specific about how we budget instead of budgeting everything that
we might want to do and not actually accomplishing that. So in fact, we're over-budgeted in 2023. We're
really going to be close to our budget in 2024, so we want to be very specific in what items were
budgeted for [INAUDIBLE].
Debt service, Row 15 there, you can see that's come down a bit. That'll continue to be at that level. Those
are really due to the refinancings. We've reduced some of our debt service needs, so that's been really
helpful. Even though it's only $2 million, it's much more over seven years.
CapEx. We have $32 million in there. That number that I showed you, the $58 million, also includes some
of the capital carryforward, which is not included in this number yet. So we're going to be-- when we come
back to you, the capital carryforward will be $58 million or thereabouts. And we have to reconcile that
carryforward when we get enough data. We have to pick a point in time and say, OK, this is what hasn't
been completed on these already started projects. That's our number that we included in this budget, so
that will get updated at the time.
You can see there on the bottom line is net cash flow of $145,978,000. We're anticipating in 2024 that will
change slightly with the capital carryforward, as well as if there's any tweaks that we do between now and
November. We expect those to be small, if any. That money actually will go into the capital replacement
[INAUDIBLE] and also be used to build up our [INAUDIBLE] contribution reserves.
Every year as our expenses increase, we're going to keep that three months of unrestricted operating
reserve. So our expenses increase. The three-month reserve needs to increase. So we add-- next year

we'll add $5 million to keep that at three months, and then everything excess of that 145 goes into the
capital replacement.
So Mr. Chair, that concludes the presentation. One thing I was going to add is during this intervening
period-- I know this is just a discussion on tonight. But we are available if any Board members or
Committee members want to see more detail, have any questions. We have contact information on what
we're putting out there. You know how to get a hold of me. Please don't hesitate if you want to have more
details, have more discussion about the [INAUDIBLE].
And I'll stop there, Mr. Chair, and ask for questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. As they say, be careful what you wish for. You might get it.
Let me start with Vice Chair Davidson. You are recognized, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. And Mr. MacLeod, thank you for going through all of that,
and to Mr. Nikkel as well for being here and supporting this. Just one question. First of all, it's great that
we are seeing the debt service. In some of those older Mid-Term Financial Plans, we can actually see it's
big enough to show up here, so that's great.
And just a point of clarity on the capital expenditures, I think you answered the question I had had, which
is the presentation referenced, the 58. But you mentioned that included the capital carryforward, and then
you mentioned the capital carryforward amount. Is it correct that the capital carryforward will be the
difference between the 32 and the 58 that you referenced? So it'll be 26 is about what you expect the
carryforward to be? Is that right?
DOUG MACLEOD: Sorry. Yeah. I may not have said that correctly. So our capital-- let me explain just a
little bit more. Sorry, Mr. Chair. I'm just jumping right in.
But the capital carryforward used to be about $567 million. It was growing year after year after year. And
what we realized is we've got all these projects that we've agreed to fund, but we haven't been executing
on them. That's why it's growing. So we undertook this initiative. We got it down to about $200 million. So
I'm sorry. I didn't state that correctly.
The capital carryforward would be in addition to the 58. The 58-- what's shown in the 32 right now is the
asset management plan things, that we know of and we're still evaluating the new capital that will come
into play there. But our target is the 58. So it may not be at 58, but that's what we're-- not that we have to
spend it, but that's what we think we have available, depending on whether we can execute it.
And to clarify on the capital carryforward, so that money has already been appropriated. It's
approximately $200 million after we reconcile it. So the money has already been dedicated to it. That
money is sitting over on the balance sheet where we're just looking at the income statement.
So that money's already earmarked to take care of the ongoing capital carryforward, so there's really no
necessarily impact. But it will still have to be appropriated. That capital [INAUDIBLE] continue to be
appropriated for future years.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. Yeah, that's very, very helpful. Thank you. Yeah. Very different
numbers. That makes sense. This was the appropriation of that and bringing that. Thank you for that
additional clarification. I appreciate it.

DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you, Vice Chair. Director Guzman, you are recognized, sir.
MICHEAL GUZMAN: Thank you. I don't know if this is for Debra or-- excuse me, General Manager CEO
or the Chief Financial Officer. I'm very comfortable with you guys, and I'm a very comfortable person. I'm
so sorry. I try to remember. Every time, I forget.
With respect to the budgeting numbers for capital expenditures, I want to hear from you that we are not
tying your hands to not be able to meet what you are planning to do this next year with these numbers,
that you are confident that this is going to be the sufficient amount of monetary investment you need to
keep our system in a state of good repair and also to fund any other operational needs that you have.
I just want to make sure that I hear that and it's on the record that you are confident in this. And if there's
any reservation, can you please speak to that so that we can request those adjustments be made and
take another look at this? I'm confident that you presented us the right information, Mr. MacLeod. Debra, I
would-- excuse me, General Manager CEO Johnson, I would love to get your feedback on that. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: General Manager CEO, you are recognized to respond.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Chair Tisdale. And thank you very much, Director Guzman,
for your question. I will state that this is another process that's evergreen as we look at the capital
carryforward and recognizing that I have shared with Mr. MacLeod, Finance and Budgeting staff, as well
as members of the Leadership team, when it comes to our Transit Asset Management plan, that is our
guidepost.
We are looking at critical aspects. We do not put a price tag on safety. So there could be some
reallocation of funds as it relates to what we have before us.
And Mr. MacLeod made reference earlier on in the presentation about subsequent meetings that we're
having with the Leadership team, because there are some projects that have been on the books that
have yet to come to fruition that we need to ensure come to fruition as we look at our facilities that may
have not been kept up to par relative to what our TAM may have indicated. So those are the types of
things when we come back to you with the proposed recommendation for the budget in November-- on
November 14 that we will shore up because we have a greater opportunity to align the capital projects
with those three strategic initiatives.
So I can't answer the question right now, but I am, like, 85% confident that we are going to address all
things safety-related because that's where our priorities rest. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam General Manager CEO Johnson. We appreciate your
input on that very important point and the question that Director Guzman raised. Are there other
questions or comments from Committee members or Directors?
Seeing none, I have one that I just wanted to direct to our CFO, and that's relative to the 5.1% inflation
rate that is utilized as one of your basic assumptions. I recognize that currently statewide, we're at almost
5.2% for this year with a projection that it will drop down to close-- under 4% next year. And you've looked
at all of that, I know.

But I also know that the Denver-Aurora-Lakewood MSA is historically significantly higher than the statewide inflation rate. And I just want to make sure that you're very comfortable with that 5.1% inflation rate
that you have used for planning purposes in this proposed budget.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, it's as comfortable based on current information as we can
be. Now, I think most-- and you saw this in the CU Leeds presentation. The most that the-- the inflation
rate spiked up to around 10% and has slowly been trickling back down because the higher interest rates
that the Fed has been putting in place, trying to slow the economy down.
So there's probably a better chance that inflation will be lower than what we're assuming, being at 4.7%,
5.2% currently. And we budgeted 5.1%. There's probably a better chance of it going lower. And it could
certainly go higher.
I think one of the bigger concerns we have-- I mean, inflation, certainly if it jumps a lot higher, would be a
big concern. But one of the bigger concerns we have is just the metrics that were provided in terms of
availability of people. 1.9 jobs for every one unemployed person.
The other issue being supply chain constraints that we're still incurring some real challenges there. And
so what we're seeing is some of our vendors come back asking for increases to their contracts just
because when they bid it two or three years ago, inflation wasn't where we are now, so they're struggling
too. So it's really a lot of moving pieces. But to answer your question, I feel pretty comfortable about the
5.1% at this point.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. I appreciate that, sir. Are there any other comments or
questions from the committee members or from any Director relative to the 2024 proposed budget? All
right. Hearing that, we have concluded the discussion on that discussion item. Are there any other
matters that a Director wishes to bring forward at this time? Vice Chair Davidson, you are recognized.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. At the last Finance and Planning Committee meeting, I had
committed to keep this Committee apprised on the ongoings of the Revenue Diversification Working
Group that has formed within staff. Again, just as a reminder, this is a staff-led group that's looking at
opportunities to diversify our revenue, as well as to look for opportunities to make our revenue and our
financial position more resilient.
This is in reaction to the discussion we had at the Board retreat earlier this year regarding our
commitment to financial success. The working group from a staff perspective is comprised of our CEO
and General Manager Debra Johnson, General Counsel Melanie Snyder, Chief Financial Officer Doug
MacLeod Government Relations Officer Michael Davies, and Senior Manager of Debt Investments Mr.
Brenden Morgan.
And the Committee-- sorry, the Working Group met yesterday on October 2. Dare I say the theme is a
common set of facts at this point. It is working together to really establish where we are. General Counsel
Snyder has been doing some investigation ahead of this in terms of what our financial opportunities are
now as they are currently permitted under RTD's enabling legislation. So there's some just background
investigation that's occurring that was discussed and will be further discussed at an upcoming meeting.
Additionally, it was pointed out by several, including General Counsel Snyder, that in looking back at our
historical records, we do have some history of looking at these types of opportunities within RTD. Past
Boards and past staff leadership has looked at revenue diversification and revenue ideas, other ideas for

financial resilience. And we really identified that there needs to be some work done to really look at all of
those past efforts, what their results were, and where they landed.
There's also a really interesting discussion around other transit agencies and how they are financed and
how they may compare to us or not compare to us. And some really good, you know, gaps in our
understanding were pointed out just in that it's hard to do an apples to apples. And as our General
Manager has been saying in a couple of meetings recently, and I think came up yesterday, where we run
the risk of being apples to fish sometimes.
So the way we categorize what's state funding, for example, we had a discussion around sales tax is a
form of state funding when it's done across an entire state. So when we look at the different budgets from
different agencies, we have to be very intentional.
So I just want to talk about some specific action items and one that I think is going to be something for the
Committee to really tune into shortly here. So some actions coming up is additional research on historical
data of what we've done in the past, what's worked and what hasn't, as well as there's an opportunity in
front of us to engage with the Citizen Advisory Committee to further engage some of the minds that we
have around us to look at a number of ideas.
Similarly, there is the Alliance to Transform Transportation that has been formed. There's an opportunity
for RTD to be directly engaged at the staff level with that group. Also, and I want to highlight this, there's
going to be some work done to come up with a comparable metric that really kind of looks at the
percentage of state funding that agencies receive, including RTD and other agencies.
Out of this will come some talking points. I think this is a really important point that I can bring back to the
committee, that once we have some comparable metrics and some ways to talk about this, Board
members I think would be then encouraged to reach out to our networks and share this information
openly, especially as the legislature is dialoguing about RTD. It would be good for us all to be on that
same page. Additionally, there's going to be some work done investigating some additional matters, and
again, looking at some of those historical recommendations.
So the group is meeting again on November 6. I do plan to attend that to, again, take some notes and
liaise. Again, I encourage-- as much as my job here is to come back and report to this Committee on
what's happening with that Working Group, given that they will be providing recommendations to this
Committee, my job is also to take any ideas from Board members and Committee members back into that
working group as well. So I certainly encourage my colleagues to reach out to me with any and all ideas
or thoughts related to this.
So with that, thank you. And also, a huge thank you to all of the staff members I mentioned earlier for
their involvement in this group. I think as it was pointed out, we have repeated this effort in the past, but
it's all about the intention with which we go into the effort. And this group really is working in earnest to
find something material that can be done for the agency, and I certainly thank staff for using their time
and expertise on that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Vice Chair. We appreciate your operating as our liaison to
the Working Group and creating that information base for us. Let me ask if there are any questions of
Vice Chair Davidson at this time from any of the Committee members or Board members.

Hearing none, then I will point out that our next meeting date of the Finance and Planning Committee is
scheduled for Tuesday, November 14 at 5:30 PM Mountain Standard Time. And I want to congratulate all
of you on being very focused and very productive over the last almost 2.5 hours. You have gone through
a massive information item, four action items, and a long discussion item, and acquitted yourselves quite
well. Director Whitmore, the interloper to the Committee, you have a final observation. Your hand is up.
TROY WHITMORE: I do. I was quite impressed by the work of this Committee. And since you're the
keeper of the FYFF, I'd like to recommend that you're also known as the drum corps from here forward.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. That's an excellent way of putting it. All right. Seeing no other
discussion, then let the record reflect that this meeting is adjourned as of 7:54 PM Mountain Daylight
Time. Thank you all so much for your participation. Good evening.

