Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, January 26,
2010at 5:30p.m. Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

January 26, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 26,
2010 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Board Member
Absent:

Chair Kemp; Vice-Chair Martinez; Directors Bagley, Brohl,
Busck, Christopher, Cohen (left at 7:00), Daly, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Pulliam, Tayer and Tobiassen.
Directors Chacon (resigned) and James

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Chuck Culig, Kevin Diviness, Carol
Duecker, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry
Howerter, Marla Lien, Caitlin Magee, Andy Mutz, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Cal
Shankster, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Julie Skeen, Greg
Straight, John Tarbert, Liz Telford, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van
Meter, Phil Washington, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Juliann Pulliam, Mac Callison, Bob Wilson, Bruce Johnson,
Brian Middleton, Roger Sherman, Maria Garcia-Berry, Robin
Kniech (FRESC), Daryl Kinton, Edie Bryan, Jason Longsdorf,
Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Bill Mosher (Trammell-Crowe),
Joe Sallard, Mari Lipponen, Tom Acre, Hunter Sydnor (Kiewit),
Darren Roue (Kiewit), Ed Bush, Doug Gragg, Kristopher
Takaus, Jerry Glick

***
Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:46 p.m.

I. Denver Union Station
Marla Lien provided an update and indicated we were cautiously optimistic
that things are moving forward. Some of her updates included:
 Resolved some issues pertaining to maintenance, etc.
 Completed 2 MOU’s with Amtrak
 Denver City Council votes to back up federal loan for DUS
 RTD has approved the $360M which is $12M per year that is

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, January 26,
2010at 5:30p.m. Page 2 of 4
authorized without coming back to the Board for approval.
Bill Mosher introduced the team and turned it over to Kristopher Takaus who
walked through a design presentation including the moving walkways. He
talked about some of the architectural challenges and opportunities of the
design which included meeting the primary requirement for open, light,
accessible and friendly space. He also discussed the change to include two
relatively short travelators which represented approximately 27% of the
concourse length and 25% of the concourse width. He described the length
of the travelators as approximately 20’ total with an 11’width each. The
recommendations by DUSPA is these travelators would serve little value and if
taken out, could accommodate a better exposure overall and improve
circulation. He also talked about the use of circulators within the bus terminal
space to help mitigate the distance.
Board members had several questions related to this design:
 Director Brohl was interested in the size of the moving walkways in
relation to the walking size of the concourse. Kristopher responded
about 43’ for the concourse and approximately 20’ total for the moving
walkways. Director Brohl also expressed the need for the Board to reevaluate the staging area reserved for buses in the area of prime real
estate.
 Several of the Directors expressed concern over the narrow space for
walking or waiting for public transit & the lack of capacity for growth.
Director Bagley noted that the size being discussed for the projected
1800 users per peak hour was no greater than the space in the Board
room at RTD.
 Director Martinez was uncomfortable with the 1800 projection and
asked staff to take a closer look at the derivation of these numbers and
how it vetted with what we are seeing for Market Street today. He
expressed the concern that the number 1 focus has to be
transportation and we may be compromising that for the expressed
priority of environmental needs—open, light, accessible and friendly
design. He also questioned the assumption that less than 10% of the
riders would be making the connection from LRT to commuter line to
DIA and commented we are an aging population (i.e. Baby Boomers
aging) so we need to be concerned about the distance they may be
asked to walk while carrying luggage.
 Director O’Boyle inquired about what the original plan had called for
which included side x side which have now been replaced by these
travelators. He offered up several options to consider including
acquiring sub-terrain rights for the future and 30’ of vertical section
outside.
 Director Pulliam expressed great disappointment and likened this
experience to a “bait and switch.” He expressed strongly that short of
a redesign he could not approve such a design.
 Director Christopher concurred with Director Pulliam perspective and
expressed that public transit has gotten slighted. He expressed that
there is a balancing act between the development needs and public

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, January 26,
2010at 5:30p.m. Page 3 of 4




transportation and his reason (tradeoff) for approving in 2004 was the
movable walkways. He felt the Board was the last ones to hear which
puts them in a corner. The process was not good.
Several questions were asked about the circulators and the options for
moving users of the multimodal facility (i.e. LRT, bus, CRT) quickly and
efficiently.
The Board expressed general feelings that the proposed travelators
offer no value and in most cases would serve as interference for the
traveling public. It is a no brainer to vote against the travelators.
However, the process that was used to get to this point is
questionable.

Chair Kemp reiterated some of the concerns expressed by the Board members
and requested this item for further discussion at the next FasTracks meeting.
The Board needs to understand what are the items that may be coming up for
approval and the impact to schedule if revisions are made.
III.

2010 Annual Program Evaluation-Followup
Interim General Manager Phil Washington introduced this item and turned it
over to the team of Bill VanMeter and Julie Skeen to walk through the details.
For a copy of this presentation please refer to the Study Session minutes
located in the Board office. Bill Van Meter provided the followup updates to
questions asked around the APE financial analysis. Julie Skeen presented the
follow-up questions on the potential critical adjustments (PCA) and presented
next steps.
Maria Garcia Berry provided a brief outline of the polling information they hope
to have before the March Board meeting including the ability to finance a
campaign.
Questions raised by Board members included:
 What is additional interest cost on 35 year bonds versus 30 years?
(Christopher)
 Wants to see a workplan for going to the ballot in 2012 that provides
similar analysis of the 2010 plan (Tayer)
 Wants some insight into why Sounder in Washington ridership
predictions were so far off (Christopher)
 Would like to go over the corridor x corridor numbers in more detail
(Daly)
There was general consensus by the Board that the projected potential critical
adjustments did not buy them anything nor is there enough cost savings plus
it runs a real risk of antagonizing the people in the North and other corridors.
General Manager Phil Washington asked clarity in if he should pursue the
PCA’s or move ahead with the Financial Plan without the PCA. The general
nod of the head was to pursue in the analysis without the PCA.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, January 26,
2010at 5:30p.m. Page 4 of 4

V.

Other Matters
Director McMullen indicated he will be attending the February 25 Longmont
Chamber event and invited fellow Board members to attend these events in
other districts.

VI.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:22 p.m.

