Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – Christopher Martinez, District B
Second Vice Chair – Noel Busck, District K
Secretary – Kent Bagley, District H
Treasurer – John Tayer, District O
Barbara Brohl, Director, District D
Juanita Chacon, District C
Bill Christopher, District J
Matt Cohen, District M
Bruce Daly, District N

Bill James, District A
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Wally Pulliam, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, February 16, 2010 at 5:30 PM

I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Anthony R. Abeyta, Special Service Events Coordinator - 39 Years of Service

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Christopher
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director O’Boyle
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Martinez
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Brohl
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Busck
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director Busck
ACED – Director Busck
DRCOG – TBD
Denver Union Station Advisory – Director James
Northwest Parkway-Chair Kemp and Director Pulliam
Pension Committee - Director Pulliam
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority-Director Christopher
Chair’s Report- Chair Lee Kemp

VI.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE UPDATE

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JANUARY 19, 2010

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
A.

Approval of Proclamation for Director Chacon

B.

Transfer of Funds for the East Metro & Boulder Boilers – TIGGER Grant
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,095,000 from
the Transit Reserve account and $156,000 from the Energy Conservation
program, to the East Metro and Boulder Maintenance Boiler Replacement Project
accounts. The Energy Conservation funds are included in the 2010 RTD budget.

C.

Proposed Eagle P3 IGA with CDOT for Coordination
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to sign a proposed Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) with the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) for the
Eagle P3 Project. The agreement includes specific terms defining coordination,
and the rights and responsibilities of each party.

D.

Amendment to West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement with Jefferson
County
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or designee to enter into an amendment
to the West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between Jefferson
County and the Regional Transportation District which was originally executed on
March 25, 2008.
The amendment sets forth rights, duties and obligations of RTD and Jefferson
County in regard to the Modified Parking structure including design, construction,
maintenance, operation, parking management, funding, and shared use.
The amendment further defines and clarifies changes to the original IGA language
in regard to the parking access road construction, use and maintenance,
conveyance of property, local match, aesthetics at the site, temporary parking
and station naming.

E.

Approval to Adopt the Southeast Corridor Extension Final Environmental
Evaluation (EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the adoption of the Southeast Corridor Extension Final
Environmental Evaluation (EE) document.

F.

Approval to Adopt the Southwest Corridor Extension Final Environmental
Evaluation (EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the adoption of the Southwest Corridor Extension Final
Environmental Evaluation (EE) document.

G.

Approval to Adopt the Central Corridor Extension Final Environmental
Evaluation (EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the adoption of the Central Corridor Extension Final
Environmental Evaluation (EE) document.

H.

FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks Citizens
Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD
Board of Directors reappoint four members of the Committee to an additional
three-year term and appoint one member to the Committee to fill a vacancy
created by resignation.

X.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
I.

Approval of May 2, 2010 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 2, 2010 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual of cost of approximately
$173,100, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.

J.

2010 FasTracks Financial Plan Adoption
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt a financial plan scenario for the 2010 FasTracks Annual Program
Evaluation that includes the passage of a 0.4% sales and use tax increase
commencing in January 2011 and successful receipt of an additional Full Funding
Grant Agreement (FFGA) for the East and Gold Line Public Private Partnership
Corridors (EAGLE P3 Project) in the amount of approximately $1 billion. This plan
will be referred to as the “2010 Scenario”. This scenario results in the completion
of the full FasTracks program by 2017, and provides the basis for RTD to
proceed forward with DRCOG review of the FasTracks program and financial plan
as required by Senate Bill 90-208.
Because a decision has not been made as to the timing of a potential election, it
is recommended that the RTD Board of Directors also adopt a “2012 Scenario”
plan. This would include adoption of a financial plan scenario for the FasTracks
program that assumes the passage of 0.4% sales and use tax increase
commencing in January 2013. This scenario results in the completion of the full
FasTracks program by 2019, assuming current cost escalation and revenue
growth forecasts.
This action does not represent a decision or commitment at this time by the
Board of Directors to place a sales and use tax increase on the ballot, but it
preserves the capability for the RTD Board of Directors to continue consideration
of all potential scenarios for completion of the FasTracks program. Should the
Board choose not to seek a tax increase in 2010, the secondary financial plan
would be adopted by the RTD Board.

K.

L.

Approval to modify design to remove moving sidewalks (travelators) from the
underground bus facility at Denver Union Station (DUS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or designee to approve a change
order on the Denver Union Station (DUS) project to remove the travelators
currently designed to be built as part of the underground bus facility. In
addition an analysis shall be performed of the feasibility and cost of
eliminating the bus staging area in the future and using this space to expand
the passenger area including installation of travelators. This analysis shall
be completed no later than June 1, 2010.
Approval for providing construction funding in an amount not to exceed $9 million

to the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) for continued
construction for Denver Union Station (DUS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an IGA with DUSPA
to provide additional funding through a loan in an amount not to exceed $9
million for construction on the DUS project. This funding will allow DUSPA
to issue a full Notice to Proceed prior to financial close of the federal TIFIA
and RRIF loans for the DUS project, and will be repaid by DUSPA through
draws on the federal loans. This recommendation is contingent upon receipt
by DUSPA of a favorable decision by the U.S. Department of Transportation
(DOT) for the TIFIA and RRIF loans respectively.
It is also recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $9 million
from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide continued funding for
the DUS construction. This action will accelerate funding programmed in
the DUS Budget for 2010 to allow full construction to start and maintain the
FasTracks schedule. The Contingency Reserve will be replenished from
DUSPA’s federal loans draw.
M.

Goldman Sachs – Payment for Additional Scope Item and Increase in Monthly
Retainer
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve payment in the amount of $1.40 million to Goldman Sachs in
consideration of work performed outside of original scope of its contract as
financial advisor on the Eagle Project. These additional work scope items are
further detailed in Attachment A to this report.
It is further recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board
of Directors approve an increase in the monthly retainer paid to Goldman Sachs
from $25,000 to $56,500, effective as of January 2010, in consideration of the
future out-of-scope work and efforts beyond those anticipated at the time of
contract award.
It is further recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize a transfer of $1,778,000 from the FasTracks Contingency
Reserve to the FasTracks expense budget to fund payment and the increase in
the monthly retainer for 2010.

N.

Proposed East Corridor IGAs with City and County of Denver and
Denver International Airport for Coordination and Local Funding –
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to sign two proposed Intergovernmental
Agreements (IGA) with the City and County of Denver (CCD) for the East
Corridor project (a part of the Eagle P3 project). The agreements include 1) a
proposed IGA with CCD regarding overall coordination with the City, and 2) a
proposed IGA regarding coordination with Denver International Airport (DIA). The
agreements include specific terms defining CCD’s local agency contribution,

coordination, and the rights and responsibilities of each party.
O.

Approval of Board Revised Bylaws

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XII.

NEW BUSINESS

XIII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
1) C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) Railroad Negotiations

XIV.

ADJOURN

