Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

February 16. 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
February 16, 2010 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Thirteen (13) Board members were present at roll call. Director Brohl was absent and Director
Chacon resigned.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager, presented Anthony Abeyta, Special Services
Coordinator, who retired after 39-1/2 years. Tony started his career as a driver and
progressed to scheduler and special events coordinator. He worked on the schedules for
BroncosRide, RockiesRide, Boulder-Boulder and other special events. Tony and Mike Gil,
Acting Assistant General Manager for Operations, shared how they had spent many years
working together.
Mr. Abeyta shared how when he was asked the question, “How did you work for RTD so
long?” his reply was it is a good company to work for. He truly enjoyed his career with RTD
and encouraged the team to carry on.
Chair Kemp revealed the big secret of his nickname to be”Pinky” which Mr. Abeyta explained
as having been given by his uncle when he was little and had big rosy cheeks.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Ken Katt, Littleton, spoke to his disappointment on FasTracks and the reasons RTD has given
for not going to the ballot. He expressed his feelings that the people have been deceived and
RTD was not meeting the promises made to the voters in 2004. He challenged the Board to
take this issue to the voters in 2010.
Former Director Jack McCroskey continued on his issue of the revenue forecast for FasTracks.
He compared information he saw in a prospectus with information given to taxpayers in 2004
where he stated the prospectus states less than 3% but the taxpayer’s document stated 6%.
He proceeded to provide an explanation of these differences but ran out of time.
Director Christopher requested that staff sit down with Mr. McCroskey to enlighten him on
information provided in the APE process and other updated sales information.
Ira Schreiber spoke on the issue of DUSPA funding. He encouraged the Board to reconsider
voting on the action item to approve providing construction funding in an amount not to exceed
$9 million to DUS pending the outcome of a lawsuit which hopefully will be resolved in the next
30-60 days.

Mr. Rich Himmel, Thornton, also spoke about FasTracks. He stated his disappointment in how
the project has been managed. It was oversold and underfunded. Nevertheless, the Front
Range needs FasTracks. He challenged each Board member to go back to his/her district and
re-sell FasTracks to the voters. Board members need to accept responsibility for this situation.
Mr. Russell Greear commented this was a corrupt Board that has been lying to the public. He
stated Mr. Phil Washington was an honorable man. He is on his way to New York where if the
Board does not clean up their act, he will have his New York lawyer sue. He is moving in14
days. He also introduced his new wife.
Mr. Robert Wilson, Arvada, speaking as an engineer with some design knowledge asked if an
analysis could be done on what it would involve to move the West wall of the bus station in the
future.
Mr. Brian Pinkerton, City and County of Denver, spoke in favor of the proposed East Corridor
IGAs with City and County of Denver and DIA.
Ms. Mary Buckley, Director of Government and Community Affairs for DIA, also spoke in favor
of the proposed East Corridor IGAs with City and County of Denver and DIA.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes to the Committee reports.

VI.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE
Chair Kemp reported there has not been any Metro Mayor’s meeting and therefore nothing to
report.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JANUARY 19, 2010
MOTION:

Director Bagley moved for the adoption of the January 19, 2010
regular board meeting minutes.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Brohl was absent and Director Chacon has
resigned.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 Presentation to Black Ministerial Alliance of Clergy
General Manager, Phil Washington made a presentation on FasTracks to a group of
ministers who were interested in the impact on the community and churches located
along the East corridor.
 Congresswoman Diana DeGette Luncheon and Roundtable for Leaders of Denver
African-American Community
General Manager Phil Washington participated in Congresswoman Diana DeGette’s
roundtable to discuss job opportunities, affordable housing and other issues of concern
for the African-American community. Approximately 250 people were in attendance.

 Presentation at Mile High Rotary Club
General Manager Phil Washington was invited by Former Board Director Bill Elfenbein to
speak to the Mile High Rotary Club. It was a good event.


RTD Small Employee Group Forums
General Manager Phil Washington is beginning another round of RTD Small Employee
Group Forums where he meets in small groups with salaried and represented employees
to listen to their issues and concerns. He also meets with his staff to identify those
issues that can be resolved quickly.



Lower Downtown District Board Meeting
General Manager Phil Washington did a presentation with this group to provide an
update on both the RTD Base and FasTracks systems. The information was well
received.



Denver Hispanic Chamber
General Manager Phil Washington will be meeting with the new president of the Denver
Hispanic Chamber, Mario Carrera, on February 18, 2010. He will share the benefits of
the FasTracks program and partnering with the Hispanic minority community.



Speaker at National Association of Black Military Veterans
General Manager Phil Washington will speak to the National Association for Black
Military Veterans in honor of Black History Month. Representatives from the Tuskegee
Airmen and other armed forces will be present.



Meeting at First Transit
General Manager Phil Washington plans to address the Safety Meeting for Employees at
the First Transit contractors on February 18, 2010. This is just one of the steps taken
to break down walls and differences between RTD internal employees and the private
contracted services.



ATU Membership
General Manager Phil Washington plans to talk to the ATU represented employees on
February 18, 2010. This is part of his vision to tend to the needs of the employees.



Greater Denver Metro Chamber Transportation Committee
General Manager Phil Washington will speak on the status of FasTracks before the
Greater Denver Metro Chamber Transportation Committee on February 19, 2010.



Training/Job Creation Opportunities for FasTracks Corridors
RTD is aggressively pursuing partnering with various community organizations to
identify training and job opportunities with FasTracks. The partnership is focusing on
the economic benefits of FasTracks and getting the community trained and ready to
work on various aspects of the project.



Options for the 16th Street Mall
General Manager Phil Washington spoke briefly about an article that appeared in The
Denver Journal that shared there are three options they are studying for the 16th Street
Mall. Two of these options could involve a re-location of the mall shuttle. No decisions
have been made and RTD has members on the team that is reviewing these options.



DUS Groundbreaking
General Manager Phil Washington indicated RTD is working with the DUSPA Board for
a groundbreaking next week. RTD has deeply embraced the direction of the FTA for
early job creation and from February 5, 2010 when the award was made until about
twenty days later, RTD is positioned for this groundbreaking. RTD will be messaging

the significance of early job creation.


“Good to Great” Marketing Campaign
General Manager Phil Washington announced RTD is moving full steam ahead in its
campaign featuring RTD employees in our natural environment. This campaign is
geared around showing what our employees do on a daily basis to get everyone home
safely. This is one of the core values of the new General Manager.



Economic Recovery Projects-Job Creation
The RTD staff is preparing for the next round of ARRA II Economic Stimulus and is
responding to a request from DRCOG to identify projects that might meet the criteria.
The information around money or timeline is still a bit sketchy but RTD is working to be
in position to apply. They plan to give this list to the Board on February 18, 2010.



Light Rail Car Full Side Advertisement
General Manager Phil Washington indicated the first full side advertisement on light rail
vehicles should be in the fleet within the next ten days.

Several Directors had comments relative to the General Manager report:
 Director Daly noted that this might be the first time a General Manager visited the
privates and offered to attend the First Transit meeting with him.

IX.



Director Martinez shared that he and the General Manager were at a breakfast where
there was lots of discussion on the impact of the sales forecasting on the
municipalities. In fact, Denver and Aurora are preparing for some substantial cuts as a
result. They are now experiencing what RTD acknowledged a couple of years ago
when RTD received a lot of negative feedback. The reality is the sales forecast issue is
a phenomenon that everyone including government and municipalities has to struggle
with and there are no quick fixes. He also wanted to point out that in spite of the sales
revenue shortfall; RTD has been able to manage the operational side of the house with
minimal impact to our constituents and employees.



Director Christopher asked the status of the TIGER grants. General Manager
Washington indicated that the awarding of that contract should be February 17, 2010.
Director Christopher complemented the staff on their projections for sales tax in 2009.
The official report shows a decrease of 10% over the 2008 while staff had anticipated
a 10.3%. This just shows how much better we are getting in accuracy and closeness
in the forecast. As a former City Manager he understands that sales tax is hard to
forecast especially when you have to extend this out over 30-35 years. He commends
the staff for their efforts.



Director Pulliam added that it is much easier to do annual budget and sales tax
projections. People need to be aware that the projections made in 2004 were 20 years
forecast.



Director Bagley commented that he appreciated receiving the memo from the General
Manager on process for communications and think this is a good start. He also asked
about the letter from Mr. Hoban and wants to see any records of comments that were
made by Mr. Hoban during the period in question. General Manager Washington
indicated a GMR has been issued on this.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda items A through H.

Director Cohen seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Brohl was absent and
Director Chacon had resigned.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Approval of Proclamation for Director Chacon

B.

Transfer of Funds for the East Metro & Boulder Boilers – TIGGER Grant
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,095,000 from the Transit
Reserve account and $156,000 from the Energy Conservation program, to the East
Metro and Boulder Maintenance Boiler Replacement Project accounts. The Energy
Conservation funds are included in the 2010 RTD budget.

C.

Proposed Eagle P3 IGA with CDOT for Coordination
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to sign a proposed Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) with the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) for the Eagle
P3 Project. The agreement includes specific terms defining coordination, and the rights
and responsibilities of each party.

D.

Amendment to West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement with Jefferson County
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or designee to enter into an amendment to the
West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between Jefferson County and the
Regional Transportation District which was originally executed on March 25, 2008.
The amendment sets forth rights, duties and obligations of RTD and Jefferson County
in regard to the Modified Parking structure including design, construction, maintenance,
operation, parking management, funding, and shared use.
The amendment further defines and clarifies changes to the original IGA language in
regard to the parking access road construction, use and maintenance, conveyance of
property, local match, aesthetics at the site, temporary parking and station naming.

E.

Approval to Adopt the Southeast Corridor Extension Final Environmental Evaluation
(EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the adoption of the Southeast Corridor Extension Final Environmental
Evaluation (EE) document.

F.

Approval to Adopt the Southwest Corridor Extension Final Environmental Evaluation
(EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the adoption of the Southwest Corridor Extension Final Environmental
Evaluation (EE) document.

G.

Approval to Adopt the Central Corridor Extension Final Environmental Evaluation
(EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the adoption of the Central Corridor Extension Final Environmental Evaluation
(EE) document.

H.

X.

FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks Citizens Advisory
Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of
Directors reappoint four members of the Committee to an additional three-year term
and appoint one member to the Committee to fill a vacancy created by resignation.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
I.

Approval of May 2, 2010 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 2, 2010 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual of cost of approximately
$173,100, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve item I,
Approval of May 2, 2010 Service Changes.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

The motion passed 13 in favor and 0 against. Director
Brohl was absent and Director Chacon had resigned.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

J.

2010 FasTracks Financial Plan Adoption
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt a financial plan scenario for the 2010 FasTracks Annual Program
Evaluation that includes the passage of a 0.4% sales and use tax increase commencing
in January 2011 and successful receipt of an additional Full Funding Grant Agreement
(FFGA) for the East and Gold Line Public Private Partnership Corridors (EAGLE P3
Project) in the amount of approximately $1 billion. This plan will be referred to as the
“2010 Scenario”. This scenario results in the completion of the full FasTracks program
by 2017, and provides the basis for RTD to proceed forward with DRCOG review of
the FasTracks program and financial plan as required by Senate Bill 90-208.
Because a decision has not been made as to the timing of a potential election, it is
recommended that the RTD Board of Directors also adopt a “2012 Scenario” plan.
This would include adoption of a financial plan scenario for the FasTracks program that
assumes the passage of 0.4% sales and use tax increase commencing in January
2013. This scenario results in the completion of the full FasTracks program by 2019,
assuming current cost escalation and revenue growth forecasts.
This action does not represent a decision or commitment at this time by the Board of
Directors to place a sales and use tax increase on the ballot, but it preserves the
capability for the RTD Board of Directors to continue consideration of all potential
scenarios for completion of the FasTracks program. Should the Board choose not to
seek a tax increase in 2010, the secondary financial plan would be adopted by the RTD
Board.
MOTION:

Director James made the motion to approve item J,
2010 FasTracks Financial Plan adoption.

Director Cohen seconded the motion.
VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

The motion passed 13 in favor and 0 against. Director
Brohl was absent and Director Chacon had resigned.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

K.

Approval to modify design to remove moving sidewalks (travelators) from the
underground bus facility at Denver Union Station (DUS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or designee to approve a change order
on the Denver Union Station (DUS) project to remove the travelators currently
designed to be built as part of the underground bus facility. In addition an
analysis shall be performed of the feasibility and cost of eliminating the bus
staging area in the future and using this space to expand the passenger area
including installation of travelators. This analysis shall be completed no later than
June 1, 2010.
MOTION:

Director Tayer made the motion to approve item K,
Approval to modify design to remove the moving
sidewalks from the underground bus facility at Denver
Union Station.
Director James seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Pulliam stated he would like to include additional
language change to the action item as read by him that
would answer the questions before a decision was made.
Director O’Boyle added we should do it right the first
time and the cost, feasibility, etc should be answered.
They should do the analysis and factor it into
consideration before making this decision. Director
Christopher dittoed the comments made by Directors
Pulliam and O’Boyle. He expressed his ongoing concern
for the people who could benefit from a moving sidewalk.
He stated that RTD needs to anticipate future expansion
of people as they transfer from LRT to commuter. This
will be a lot more costly proposition later. We are doing a
real disservice to not look ahead to determine the needs.
Director Tayer stated he agrees there is good reason to
be upset or appropriately outraged at the lack of time to
respond. Nevertheless, he believe that moving this action
item forward with the language that he added to the
Board item is a reasonable alternative which will provide
some time to respond early in the process pending the
outcome of the feasibility analysis. This is a compromise
that allows FasTracks to move ahead while allowing staff
to provide an honest review.
Director Bagley made the point that if this item had not
come forth from DUSPA on the moving sidewalks, we
could have ended up with two useless travelators to
nowhere which would have been an ineffective solution.

Director McMullen indicated he would support this Board
action and imagined a world where busses and shuttles
would be providing frequent service into and out of DUS.
He also talked about the support from our partners.
Director Pulliam commented that it would be the LRT
riders that Director McMullen is envisioning who would be
the greater disadvantaged.
Chair Kemp closed out the discussion by stating this was
a healthy debate.
VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

The motion passed 10 in favor (Cohen, Busck, Bagley,
Daly, Kemp, James, Martinez, McMullen, Tayer and
Tobiassen) and 3 (Christopher, O’Boyle and Pulliam)
against. Director Brohl was absent and Director Chacon
had resigned.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

L.

Approval for providing construction funding in an amount not to exceed $9 million to
the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) for continued construction for
Denver Union Station (DUS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an IGA with DUSPA to
provide additional funding through a loan in an amount not to exceed $9 million
for construction on the DUS project. This funding will allow DUSPA to issue a
full Notice to Proceed prior to financial close of the federal TIFIA and RRIF loans
for the DUS project, and will be repaid by DUSPA through draws on the federal
loans. This recommendation is contingent upon receipt by DUSPA of a favorable
decision by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) for the TIFIA and RRIF
loans respectively.
It is also recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $9 million from the
FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide continued funding for the DUS
construction. This action will accelerate funding programmed in the DUS Budget
for 2010 to allow full construction to start and maintain the FasTracks schedule.
The Contingency Reserve will be replenished from DUSPA’s federal loans draw.
MOTION:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve item L,
Approval to provide construction funding in an amount
not to exceed $9 million to DUSPA.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

General Counsel Marla Lien shared that she had been
contacted by Colorado Rail and advised of their intentions
to file a temporary restraining order should the RTD Board
approve this action. She provided her opinion that she
did not see any reason to delay.

The motion passed 12 in favor (Bagley, Busck,
Christopher, Cohen, Daly, James, Martinez, Kemp,

McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer and Tobiassen) and 1 against
(Pulliam). Director Brohl was absent and Director Chacon
had resigned.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.
M.

Goldman Sachs – Payment for Additional Scope Item and Increase in Monthly Retainer
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve payment in the amount of $1.40 million to Goldman Sachs in consideration of
work performed outside of original scope of its contract as financial advisor on the
Eagle Project. These additional work scope items are further detailed in Attachment A
to this report.
It is further recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve an increase in the monthly retainer paid to Goldman Sachs from
$25,000 to $56,500, effective as of January 2010, in consideration of the future outof-scope work and efforts beyond those anticipated at the time of contract award.
It is further recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize a transfer of $1,778,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve
to the FasTracks expense budget to fund payment and the increase in the monthly
retainer for 2010.
MOTION:

Director Busck made the motion to approve item M,
Goldman Sachs payment.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Busck stated he had originally objected at the
Committee meeting but now feels comfortable approving
this request for payment for work performed out of
scope. However, he stated this was a process issue that
we allowed this work to continue for as long as it did
without doing an amendment to the contract. He would
like to see better controls and management of this
contract.
Director Christopher inquired if Goldman Sachs had been
underpaid does this mean J.P. Morgan had been
overpaid? Teresa Sedmak indicated that both had
performed appropriately to the scope of the contract.

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

The motion passed 13 in favor 0 against. Director Brohl
was absent and Director Chacon had resigned.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

N.

Proposed East Corridor IGAs with City and County of Denver and
Denver International Airport for Coordination and Local Funding –
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to sign two proposed Intergovernmental
Agreements (IGA) with the City and County of Denver (CCD) for the East Corridor
project (a part of the Eagle P3 project). The agreements include 1) a proposed IGA with
CCD regarding overall coordination with the City, and 2) a proposed IGA regarding
coordination with Denver International Airport (DIA). The agreements include specific
terms defining CCD’s local agency contribution, coordination, and the rights and
responsibilities of each party.
MOTION:

Director Martinez made the motion to approve item N,
Proposed East Corridor IGAs with City and County of
Denver and DIA.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Martinez stated that in the Committee meeting
he had objected to this action item and indicated he
would need to hear from the developers supporting the
IGA language. He had subsequently met with DIA and
the developers and has received those letters. While he
will be supporting this action he had several
requests/comments to staff:









Need to take a look at the new station policy
Request staff to allow Board members to weigh in
sooner on IGAs—not good practice for a Board
member to oppose the IGA especially one in
his/her own district. There needs to be a better
process.
Has difficulty with a third party calling the shotswants staff to work with DIA to make sure the
process is transparent and fair to both developers
in this area.
Wants a criteria for new train set and what O&E
really means.
Needs a defined methodology for moving forward.
Wants staff to do a better job of notifying the
local municipalities when IGAs are coming up for a
vote. Some of the staffers in Aurora were not
aware this IGA was up for vote.

Chair Kemp added he supports Director Martinez in this
matter as Director Martinez is making the extra effort to
support the Board. Approval of this action item does not
obligate RTD to any additional dollars that would affect
the “have and have nots”. As a matter of fact, DIA has
given substantially above the 2.5% they are obligated to
give.
Director Bagley added he had spent time with Director
Martinez and one of the potential developers. He is
concerned about the process and wants us to get it right

since this will set a trend for how we add stations or do
business in the future.
Director Tobiassen expressed several concerns over and
above what was termed process. He saw a lot of
ambiguity in the train set and requested that we table this
discussion until the members had a chance to review the
IGA.
Bill Van Meter provided some clarity on the IGA and
stated that RTD obligations would be if a train set was
required for the first station. However by their analysis
this has a low probability. RTD is not responsible for a
train set for the second station. He reiterated that DIA
had provided additional funds to this process. Director
Tobiassen had several other questions all pointing to the
risk factors that RTD could incur if the developers
changes their minds, additional train sets were required
and various other scenarios. Mr. Van Meter indicated the
need for a train set is really a factor of travel time and by
his analysis, this was a low probability.
Director
Tobiassen wanted to know where the funds would come
from if a new train set was required. Rick Clarke
responded from the East corridor project contingency
fund.
Director Christopher asked for the cost to add an
additional train set.
Mr. Van Meter responded
approximately $12M for the train set and an annual $23M in O&E.
Director O’Boyle piggybacked from Director Tobiassen
questions and wanted to know how the decision was
made to determine if an additional train set was required.
He felt it was premature for the Board to approve this
action without the approving body (RTD Board) fully
understanding the risks and obligations. He also wanted
the Board to study the IGA and to table this action item
until they had a time to review the IGA and station policy.
General Manager Phil Washington indicated there was a
time element here. The Eagle P3 concessionaires need a
finalized IGA in a timely manner so they can make a more
accurate submittal. This IGA is on the critical path for
that submittal.
Several other Directors noted their discomfort with this
item and thought tabling this might be a good idea
(Christopher, McMullen, Pulliam, Tobiassen, Tayer,
Cohen)
Director Martinez stated strongly that he is in support of
the IGA and that it needs to be moved forward tonight.
Failure to do so could jeopardize the Eagle P3 contract
award and timelines and could create a risk with our
partners (DIA) who have already committed to a

substantial financial support. The issue that he brought
forth initially was a process issue, not a risk issue. He
sees two components right now: (1) If we can move
forward now, getting more funds from our partner can
potentially make more funds available for other corridors
(2) The risk of RTD having to incur more train set costs
(capital costs) is a low risk as stated earlier. We need to
trust staff in their analysis and move ahead.
Furthermore, if the Board decides to table this so they
can view the IGA, then they need to do just that. The
IGA has been available in the Board office for some time
now and no Board member has reviewed it. He will not
support the tabling of this IGA.
After much discussion a motion was made to table this
action item until the March 2 special Board meeting (lay
over as corrected by Director Pulliam).
SECONDARY
MOTION TO
TABLE (LAY OVER: Director Tayer made the motion to table the approval of
this action item until March 2nd special Board meeting.
Director O’Boyle seconded the motion.
General Manager Phil Washington tried to summarize the
situation. There are two developers. RTD will pick up the
cost for the train set if required for the first station. The
probability of having to do this is low (5-10%). RTD will
not pick up the cost for a train set for the second station.
This has been a discussion of risk versus rewards. In his
view, the risk is low and the reward is high with the third
party picking up a significant share of the cost.
VOTE ON THE
SECONDARY
MOTION:

After some parliamentarian procedure clarifications, The
motion was voted on and FAILED with 2 in favor
(O’Boyle and Tayer),
10 against (Bagley, Cohen, Christopher, Daly, Busck,
James, Pulliam, Martinez, McMullen, and Tobiassen) and
1 abstain (Chair Kemp).
Chair Kemp declared the motion FAILED.
Director Busck called immediately for the question on the
primary motion.

VOTE ON THE
PRIMARY MOTION: The motion passed 13 in favor and 0 against. Director
Brohl was absent and Director Chacon had resigned.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
O.

Approval of Board Revised Bylaws
MOTION:
Director Busck made the motion to approve the Board
Revised Bylaws.

Director Christopher seconded the motion.
VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

The motion passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Directors
James and Pulliam had left the room. Director Brohl was
absent and Director Chacon had resigned.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

XI.

NEW BUSINESS
There was no new business

XII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
1) C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (e)-Railroad Negotiations
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to adjourn to
Executive Session for the purpose to discuss C.R.S. 24-6402(4) (e) Railroad Negotiations.
Director James seconded the motion.
General Counsel Marla Lien added she will do a brief
update on pending litigation.

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

The motion passed 13 in favor and 0 against.

The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 7:50 p.m.
XIII.

ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 8:51 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, February 16, 2010

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bruce Daly
Bill James
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Timothy Aguilar
Rolf Asphaug
Mark Bauderman
Shirley Bennett
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
Kevin Diviness
Jane Donovan
Carol Duecker
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova

District I
District B
District K
District H
District O
District J
District M
District N
District A
District E
District G
District L
District F

Mike Gil
Terry Howerter
Marla Lien
Caitlin Magee
Brian Matthews
Tony McCaulay
Robert Merriman
Andy Mutz
Jerry Nery
Paula Perdue
John Perry
Bill Porter
Scott Reed

OTHERS PRESENT:
Paul Ryan – the Keeney Group
Ken Katt
Holman Carter – ATU 101
Mac Callison – City of Aurora
Ira Schreiber
Rich Himmel
Tommi Himmel
Brandon Wysynski – CNR
Doug Connor
Sam Waggen
Alex Rooney
Sean Kelly
Michael Smith – Spectrum A/V
Healther McWilliams – The Denver Post
Jack McCroskey
Bill Hipp – MV Transit
Andy Vuong
Daryl Kinton
Russell Greear
Philomena Haas
Bob Wilson
Angie Lampiede

Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
Cal Shankster
John Shonsey
Julie Skeen
Henry Stopplecamp
John Tarbert
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Ashland Vaughn
Phil Washington
David Weil
Susan Wood

M. Cherouts – H & H
John Ackerman – DIA
Brian Pinkerton – City and County of Denver
Dob Overn – City and County of Denver
Mary Buckley - Denver International Airport
Sharon Terranova – DRCOG
Ed Bush – CRMCA
Steve Lorden
Cal Fulenwider

