Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
June 18, 2019 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Juan Hernandez – Sales/Information – 16 years
Michael E. Reid – Bus Operator – 28 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Broom

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 14, 2019

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Expense Policy Amendment

It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee
that the Board of Directors approve an amendment to the RTD Board of Directors Expense
Policy and Procedures Manual (Expense Policy) regarding the attendance or participation of
a Director’s spouse or significant other or invited guest in a local, transit-related event
when the Director is unable to attend the event.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #2 –
Strong & Ethical Leadership.

XII.

Recommended Action
A.

August 2019 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 2019 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized base system cost savings of $856,000 and,
further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments
as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
B.

Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approves the General Manager’s goals for 2020 as
defined in the attached General Manager’s Performance Evaluation document.
C.

Approval Pass Program Phasing from 3 to 5 Years

It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to move the phasing of the price
increase due to the 2019 fare changes for CollegePass, EcoPass, and Neighborhood
EcoPass from a 3 year phase-in period to a 5 year phase-in period. This would extend the
20% cap on price increases to not only year 2019 and 2020 but also years 2021 and
2022 with the full implementation of the fare increase in 2023.
GM Goals
 GM Core Goal #3 Strong Financial Management
D.

Approval FT Litigation Contract Authority

It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to negotiate and execute

contracts, including contract amendments, to engage, or continue to engage, outside legal
counsel to represent RTD for an additional $4 million for a total amount not to exceed
$12.5 million.
This recommendation satisfies GM Core Goal #3 Strong Financial Management and GM
Task Goal #1 Fiscal Sustainability.

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV. Old Business
A.

XV.

Staff FasTracks Update - Resolution 004, Series of 2019

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

