June 18, 2019
Board Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: Reflect that we are convened here as of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time on
Tuesday, June 18, 2019. I would respectfully request that everyone please silence your phones
and other electronic devices. We'll also note for the sake of the record and for your benefit that
all of our proceedings are video and audio recorded.
And if you would please all rise with me now so that we may recite the Pledge of Allegiance.
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for
which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. You may be seated. I will note we have included in
the Monday morning dispatch a plea, and we have also included on various social media
accounts a plea that if you have young people who would like to lead the RTD Board in the
recital of the Pledge of Allegiance, please contact the Board Office.
We'd be more than happy to help these young people become a part of a civic institution and an
appreciation for how government works by being here at the RTD Board meeting and leading us
in the Pledge of Allegiance. Ms. McManus, if you would now please call the roll of the Board.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present, ma'am.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 14 present, one absent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. McManus. Ladies and gentlemen, at RTD, we
always begin our meetings with a brief safety briefing. And we do that because safety is a core
value of what we do at RTD. So if we have a medical emergency that necessitates calling 911, I
will ask our RTD General Counsel to make that telephone call.
Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist. Be advised if
you only play a doctor on TV, you are not requested to assist. If needed in the event of an
incident that would call for this, we have an automatic emergency defibrillator device-- that's an
AED-- in a glass case located just outside this room. It's on the wall just to your right.

And in the event that we must evacuate the building for a fire or some other emergency, we
would ask that everyone please simply calmly exit out the door in to this room through which
you entered. Go up the stairs, go around the security desk, and go out to the street, and there will
be staff there to identify themselves and assist you in relocating. Anyone needing special
assistance in the event of an evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.
Now on a related safety note, we want to emphasize to all of you that RTD takes every possible
precaution to ensure the safety and security of its passengers, its facilities, its vehicles. But we
also rely upon you-- the public, all of our staff, and everyone who comes into contact with RTD.
And we ask you please to be aware of and alert to any suspicious or dangerous activity on buses,
on trains, around the stations, around the stops, and the platforms. So we do encourage all of our
employees and all of the members of the public to download the RTD Transit Watch app.
That app allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate directly with
our RTD Transit Security Personnel on a real time basis either in a telephone call or through a
text message so that in any emergency situation, you are covered. That Transit Watch app is
available via Google Play and also at the Apple App Store. Remember, if you see something, say
something. And if you use Transit Watch, you'll never ride alone.
We do have two retirees for the month of June. Neither of whom I believe is able to join us this
evening, if I am correct. Let me ask if either Juan Hernandez or Michael Reed are with us here in
the audience. I'm getting an indication that they are not.
So let's take a moment to acknowledge their many years of dedicated service to this agency.
First, we mention Juan Hernandez. Juan is a Sales Information Agent with the Customer Care
Division, and he's been with the RTD for 16 years. And Michael Reed is a Bus Operator out of
East Metro, and he's been with the agency for 28 years. So we very much appreciate their
service. Let's demonstrate our appreciation to them now.
[APPLAUSE]
Our June retirees. Thank you. And then we come to the public participation portion of our
meeting. This is open to anyone who wants to address the Board. It is our custom to allow any of
our elected officials present to speak first so that they can get back to their own meetings and
attend to their constituents' businesses.
If you have signed up to speak, I will call your name in the order in which you signed up. If you
haven't signed up, not to worry-- at the end of the list of speakers, we will allow any additional
speakers to come forward and speak at that time. Each speaker is allowed up to three minutes. I'll
say that again. They are allowed up to three minutes to speak.
Don't feel compelled to use all of that. You are respectfully requested, if you are here in the
audience and someone speaks, that you refrain from any indications of support or opposition to
any speaker, because really, those outbursts reasonably have the effect of chilling the expression
of thoughts by speakers. And we don't want to do that.

Please also bear in mind that by appearing at that microphone over there at that podium, you are
consenting to being video and audio recorded, because as I said, all of our meetings are recorded.
And they are made available on the RTD website. So if you do not wish to be recorded, then
your comments will have to be submitted in writing.
So please, if you would come to the lectern when your name is called. State your name and
address, and if you have documentation or reference materials you would like the Board to have,
please do submit those to the Board Office staff in advance so that they can be distributed.
Now, I will ask first if I have anyone who has signed up. No one has signed up to speak tonight.
So then I will ask, is there anyone who has not signed up and who now feels so incentivized or
motivated that they want to speak to us? Going once, going twice-- so there are no public
speakers during the public participation session. We thank you.
Next, we turn to committee reports. We consider these committee reports. Be advised that all of
these committee minutes were included in the Board packet distributed to the Board members as
of Thursday last week. And they've had an opportunity to review those before this evening.
So we ask at this time, are there any questions from any Board member relative to any of the
committee minutes that have been provided? And so I will recognize Director Lewis for a
question as to the committee minutes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sorry. Thank you, Chair. I actually have a correction. On the June 4th
meetings for the minutes-- excuse me. For the General Manager Oversight Committee, it says
that I voted unanimously, and I actually was not in the room to vote. I had just walked in. So just
to correct the record.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. So we can make a revision to that. And I'll recognize
the Executive Manager of the Board to respond.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So the vote was taken prior to you being there, so it was unanimous to
the body that was present.
SHONTEL LEWIS: We could maybe double check it. I think Angie, or Director RiveraMalpiede wasn't in the room, and so it says 6-0, but I think there were seven of us, if I'm correct.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And I hope she was on the phone, but we will check that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I just want to make sure that I'm not taking something from someone
else.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for bringing that forward. We will absolutely double
check that and verify and see what it is. And however, it stands corrected. That's how the final
report will go in for those minutes. So we thank you. Are there any other comments, questions,
considerations that anyone wishes to raise relative to any of the committee minutes that were
circulated to you?

And we thank you very much, Director Lewis, for paying such close attention to those. That is a
great thing to do. Hearing none, then these reports will stand as submitted with the qualification
that the GMOC report will be reviewed for the issue raised by Director Lewis, and they will then
become a part of the permanent record of the RTD.
So then the next matter is the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update.
I would recognize Committee Chair Broom at this time. If you would please share with us any
comments that you have regarding the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee. Director Broom-BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Our committee got a slow start this year, but now we're
wound up, and we've had two meetings recently. And I'll go over a few of the items that we have
dealt with. We received and modified the GM's 2020 Core and Task School Plan, which is
before you tonight on the agenda for approval.
And we also developed the General Manager's performance survey for the first half of 2019.
You'll fill the same form out at the end of the year when you'll have the benefit of having a full
year's experience to use. You also, I noticed, were given a hard copy of the survey I'd like for
you to be sure and fill out. But you need to fill it out on the computer. It's a computerized thing.
The one major change from last year is there's a lot more area set aside for verbal comments
rather than just checking boxes. It's more meaningful if you would provide your comments to
backup however you scored the manager's performance for the past six months.
And then finally, our next meeting is on July 9 at 3:00 PM. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very-- thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Are there any
questions for the Chair of the GMOC? I don't see any indicated, and I don't see any indications
from others, so therefore, the GMOC which report has been with the potential correction
indicated received.
We'll move on from the GMOC and look at the approval of Board meeting minutes of May 14,
2019. Again, circulated as of last Thursday for everyone's opportunity to review and consider.
May I please have a motion to approve the minutes of the May 14 meeting?
I have a motion and I have a second. So that's Director Buzek and Director Williams as the
movant and second, respectively. Is there any discussion on that motion? Hearing none, all those
in favor, please indicate by saying aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? We can also do it electronically just to make sure that
we have an easy record that is made. So please feel free-- Director Buzek as the movement,
Director Williams as the second-- to indicate your approval of those minutes.

By a vote of 14 in favor and none opposed, there being one Director absent, we have approved
the minutes as submitted without correction. We then turn to the next agenda item, which is the
Chair's report. There are a number of things that have been going on. And we have had an
exciting time this year.
RTD just recently celebrated the grand opening of the E, F, and R Line extension. Many of our
fellow Directors were there. I was fortunate to be with you, to be able to take part in the
ceremonies and festivities. This was, ladies and gentlemen, our sixth major opening in three
years. That is a monumental achievement that stands us out in front of all other transit agencies
in the country.
You have to go back to the legacy systems and their beginnings in order to see that kind of
activity in such a short period of time. Immediately following the opening of the E. F, and R
Line extension, General Manager Genova and I went to Louisville, Kentucky, to take part in the
APTA Mobility Conference and the bus rodeo.
And I'm very pleased to say that our team in the bus rodeo scored very well. I think there were
something like eight points off of the leader-- the winner of the competition. So they did a great
job, because this was a team of rookies. And they were all very young people and very, very
positively received.
On Wednesday, May 15, Commuting Solutions held its third Sustainable Transportation Summit
and mobile tour at CU Boulder. Our First Vice Chair Catlin and Treasurer Cook and Director
Guissinger all attended that event. Directors Folska and Lewis-- and Second Vice Chair RiveraMalpiede was there as well, and I am sorry for not mentioning that. I apologize.
And then Directors Folska and Lewis attended the annual COMTO scholarship banquet held at
the Westin Denver International Airport on Saturday, May 18. And that is always a very
worthwhile and a moving event. And then Director Williams participated in the Colorado
Association of Transit Agencies Spring Conference, which was held in Denver this year on
Wednesday, May 22 through May 24.
And I had the privilege of speaking on a panel with Senator Faith Winter and Denver Public
Works Director, Eulois Cleckley. Director Williams also attended as did first Vice Chair Catlin
and I, the Mizel Institute annual dinner at Wings over the Rockies Air and Space Museum on
Wednesday, May 22 with 2,400 of our dearest friends and got to meet a lot of folks who are very
important to transportation in the state of Colorado. Last week, Director Folska joined many
other Colorado business leaders in Washington DC where she continued her great work with
Accelerate Colorado and its business mission and continued to champion for us the fight to get
our credit risk premium refunded to the RTD.
Directors Buzek, Whitmore, and I met with North Metro elected leaders last week to give them
an update on the end line, and last night there was a quiet zone the town hall in Arvada with
Treasurer Cook and Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede and I in attendance at that event. We
have some upcoming events, and that will include Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede, Director

Buzek, and I heading off to Toronto to participate in the Act Rail Conference. And that will be
held from June 23 through the 26th.
Then on July the 1st, ladies and gentlemen, RTD officially turns 50. This is an incredible
milestone. There will be rider appreciation events held in each of the 15 director districts that
day, and we do encourage all of you, not just the directors but everyone, staff, stakeholders,
members of the public to join us and help RTD celebrate the quinquagenary anniversary. That's
the word all right. That's the quinquagenary. And please refer to the updated two week calendar
that will be posted on the Board's website this coming Thursday for more details.
But in addition to those individual district events-- I think we're referring to those as pop up
events that will happen on July the 1st-- there's also a grand public celebration that will be held
at Denver Union Station Plaza on Friday, July the 12th. Make note of that, Friday, July the 12th.
This event will feature live entertainment, speakers, RTD sponsored information booths, and
activities for kids of all ages. More details will be forthcoming on that, so please do stay tuned.
And then also another activity coming up that is that Treasurer Cook and Director's Buzek and
Whitmore will all take part in a study session in Adams County on July the 9th. And then before
I turn to questions-- and I have noted that there is one waiting in the queue-- I do want to remind
you all about one thing and that is the 2019 RTD Cares Charitable Giving Campaign. That has
been extended until this coming Friday, June the 21st, this Friday, June the 21st.
This campaign is an opportunity to contribute financially to the charities and funds of your
choice through either a recurring automatic payroll deduction or a one-time contribution. Your
donations make a big difference to the charities you support. No amount is too small.
Now, the campaign has just passed the half way mark toward this year's goal of $50,000. It's
$50,000, because we're 50 years old and it seems like the right number. So at least if you can
come up with $50 that would be a nice gesture. If you intend to pledge his loyalty and you
haven't yet done so, it's not too late.
You can go online. You can do it. It's a very simple process. Please make your donations soon,
because the campaign is winding down. You follow the link on the hub homepage, or you can
just search for RTD cares. If you have any questions, you can also reach out to the RTD benefits
office. And I know you're taking notes, so that's extension 3021 if you can call them.
Bear in mind, ladies and gentlemen, of course, your gifts are tax deductible, and your friends and
family can also contribute. And they can do so by credit card or check, and that is also tax
deductible. Remember, rule number one it's for charity. All right, now having said that, there is a
question and/or comment on the chairs report, and I recognize Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you for your report, Mr. Chair. I really appreciate it. I wanted to
ask if our communications department had planned on inviting whatever original founders of
RTD are left in the area, and there are some. One of them was my constituent. Now he's Director
Broom's constituent. But do you have plans on inviting the original founders to this July 1 event
or the July 12 event?

DAVE GENOVA: For the July 12, yes. That is going to be a pretty large, large scale event, so
we are going to try to reach out to as many folks that have an RTD history as we can possibly
identify.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, I just, like, think the founders would be really grateful to be
included. So thank you. Thank you for your report, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate your comment to that effect. Any other questions on the Chair's
report before we turn over to the General Manager for his report? All right, then let us now
recognize the General Manager for the General Manager's report. If you would please share with
us, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. A number of items to report to the Board this evening
as are-- it seems like we had a pretty big gap between meetings anyway. And specifically, as I
saw the E, F, and R Lines opening on the report, and so sometimes it seems like these things are
further back and they were just yesterday.
So in early in the month of May, I had a great opportunity to meet with our citizens advisory
committee and, kind of, update them on high level things that we're working on within the
organization and especially about our Transportation Transformation Comprehensive Plan, and
the opportunity that we'll have to engage the CAC members in that process. And they were very
excited to hear about that work and then the opportunity to engage with us there. And I also
updated them on the FasTracks resolution and the report that we'll talk a bit about tonight.
Continue of course with the leadership calls between RTD and the Denver Transit Partners
Board. We have moved those two about a monthly frequency now since the opening of the G
Line. I had several meetings with Eulois Cleckley, who's the Manager-- or the Executive
Director of Denver Public Works. And we continue to just meet he and his staff, myself, Michael
Ford, Bill Van Meter, and others typically join us. And it's a good opportunity for us to just
exchange what's happening in the transportation realm with the city and country of Denver and
then also with the things that we're working on at RTD so that we can collaborate well.
So a couple of meetings within this month. Just one yesterday and one on Thursday, May 16. Of
course, we had the E, F, and R Line grand opening events, services running well on those lines.
And we're very happy to be providing that service to our patrons.
The Chair mentioned the APTA Mobility Paratransit Conference. So at that conference, we had
an APTA to Executive Board Committee meeting that I attended-- several committee meetings-but then I also was able to make two presentations at the conference. One was on our
collaboration with Uber on the planning and payment platform that we have.
And so, I can't tell you how much interest there was in that session. There was a lot of CEOs, lot
of GMs-- everybody wanted to know how we arranged to do that, and they wanted to know a lot
about the details. So it's very interesting opportunity to exchange with the rest of the industry on
a national level.

And then also, I was invited to a peer exchange where I was able to present on our micro transit
work that we're doing within the organization, here. Some of the pilots were running in the
technology area and then also our re-branding and redeployment of FlexRide.
And on May 23, we had a group from Vancouver, Washington, come-- a peer exchange of
business leaders, elected officials. As we get a number of these visits throughout the year-- every
year we seem to get five or six visits from different cities that want to come and learn about
what's happening in the Denver metropolitan region-- but there's always a lot of interest in what
we're doing in the transit realm.
This group was particularly interested in our bus rapid transit projects-- the Flatiron Flyer along
US 36, how we're doing that within the manage lanes, what our plan was for bus rapid transit for
future, because they're doing quite a bit of work on bus rapid transit. And of course they were
very interested in the overall FasTracks program. So, a good opportunity for us to profile some
of the things we've done and are working on here.
And towards the end of May, Henry Stopplecamp and myself, along with Andrea Warfield from
Fluor of DTP, attended a couple of meetings with the FRA headquarters team in Washington,
DC, largely talking about the continuing 90-day plan and talking about the progress on that. And
then also, some of the good events that came about after opening the G Line. Our next meeting
with the FRA headquarters team is in July-- July 18.
On Thursday May 30, we had our DBE public meeting on goal setting methodology. And that
was attended by Chair Tisdale and First Vice Chair Catlin were there. And basically what that
meeting is about is for our civil rights team to present-- every three years, we have to present to
the FTA what our overall DBE goal will be for a three-year period. So it's not the SBE, but the
but the DBE goal. And there's a lot of things that-- there's a lot of meetings that happen in
advance of this with different organizations, and chambers, and business groups.
But this is the opportunity for us and it was pretty well attended-- a lot of small businesses and
chambers there-- for Zamy Silva and her team to talk about what the methodology is and what
the goal target is that we're going to be shooting for the next three years. So, good attendance,
and then we will be coming back and reporting to the Board on the status of that at the next Civil
Rights Committee meeting that's coming up shortly. I don't have the date in front of me.
A few other items-- Metro Mayors Caucus had a meeting on June 5. I attended that, as well as
Chair Tisdale was there, Director Williams was there, and there was a little bit on transportation
at that meeting. I also happened to be at the Denver Zoo, so it was a good-- I hadn't been to the
zoo for years, so it was interesting to see a little bit. I got lost on my way out, though. I don't-[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 1: You got stuck in a cage.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, yeah. I almost panicked, but I made it out. I made it out OK. And, let's
see-- oh, the North Metro Elected Official's Briefing. The Chair mentioned, this we had this last

Thursday. We only had a couple other electeds come but the ones that did were very engaged.
There was a lot of really good questions. And I think it was a really informative, great exchange
at that particular meeting. So we were happy to see that.
Just last Friday on June 14, I participated, along with a variety of our federal and local partners-the FTA, CDOT, National Highway Transportation Association-- on a national safety campaign
about grade crossing safety, called Trains Can't Stop. So all of us presented a brief safety
message and it was just good to be with a lot of partners that are concerned about safety and
particularly around grade crossings and trains.
I'll talk a little bit about the open house we had last night on the G Line. And as The Chair
mentioned, the focus of this was really to talk about quiet zones. And we presented a little bit of
information in terms of what quiet zones are and what they aren't, and other expectations around
quiet zones. But then, most-- I think-- importantly, is we got a lot of good feedback from the
community-- lots of comments, lots of observations, things from a perspective that sometimes
we don't think about. So it was very good to be with the community. About 50 people from the
public attended-- a few very regular riders that were very appreciative of the service. And so, we
got a few questions that we need to do some research on and get back to them, and we'll be
working on that, but I appreciate everybody that attended and the staff.
And I'll-- just a reminder, we have a similar open house scheduled on the University of Colorado
A Line for Monday, June 24 at 6:00 PM-- so next week. And then, we have a couple of pop-up
pancake breakfasts that are going on along those lines, as well. And that's all in the two-week
calendar-- or will be. So that concludes my report. Mr. Chair, I'm happy to take any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, General Manager. And a busy time it's been and we
appreciate your sharing that information with us. Director Broom, you are a recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. I had a question about the new parking garage at Ridge Gate. Is that
being used and has CDOT the posted signs all along 25 according to RTD parking?
DAVE GENOVA: I will have to get back to you, Director Broom, and the Board on both of
those questions. It's been something I've been wondering myself as I've driven past it a couple
times but I don't know what the utilization is just yet and I don't know about the CDOT signs, but
I'll get back to you.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Teasdale. I was intrigued when you mentioned that you saw
the CAC and talked to them about input they could have with the T2. I'm just wondering what
you were thinking and what you told them?
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, so, a couple opportunities there. I talked about kind of the structure of
how we're going to have the committee that will have a couple of directors on that will be really

kind of the policy in the steering committee, and then about different technical advisory groups
that we could have. And so, several members expressed interest in participating at various levels
of those committees. So as we continue to advance that, we'll see where they might fit in best.
But then the other piece, too, is that being able to put them to work in an engagement way out in
out in the public is kind of an extension of what we're doing, as well-- is another opportunity that
they were interested in. So, those were kind of the main things we talked about in regards to the
engagement of the CAC members with T2, but there'll be lots of opportunity for them.
JUDY LUBOW: Excellent, thank you. Because I know they have such interest in really being a
part of it. Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: You're welcome.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. And Treasurer Cook, you are
recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: I simply wanted to say thanks to you and the staff-- the Communications
staff, in particular-- and you and others who were involved in producing the event last night. I
think was really helpful. And, as you said, a good exchange of views and some concrete items to
follow up on, I think. So the general sense I'm getting from folks who attended is similar. They're
anxious to hear what we say but feel like it was a good meeting, worthwhile meeting. So thank
you very much.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer. And Director Folska, you are
recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Dave, you'll remember in 2010 when I was sort of
working with the PUC and an expert witness for the W Line on the quiet crossings.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And out of that process, RTD engineers came up with the community. We
worked on this bell ringing that would be sort of starting at 45 decibels and elevate to 90 decibels
based on ambient noise. And I'm wondering if that kind of technology could be transferred over
to the G Line or maybe even A Line?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Director Folska. In fact, I talked a little bit about that last night.
And keeping in mind, too, that that is-- so I talked to Henry Stopplecamp first thing this morning,
especially about the bells that activate at the grade crossings. So, while Light Rail is regulated
under FTA and not FRA-- so there's a difference in environments for the grade crossing.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah.

DAVE GENOVA: So what we really have to do is a number of things to see whether we could
do something similar to what we did on the W Line. And the first thing we have to dig into is the
FRA regulations and requirements around the bells and see exactly what is prescribed and what
is not prescribed. So that's the first thing we'll dig into.
Then the second thing we need to look into is the design and the engineering that we submitted
in the notice of-- notice of intent for the quiet zones-- is critical. Because since we already have
established quiet zones, if we want to do any changes, we have to go back and look at how that
might impact the quiet zones, the constant warning time waiver.
And then the third piece is a Public Utilities Commission process, which you're familiar with and
I think the Board's familiar with. So, three pretty big pieces where we've got to go do some
research on to try to determine whether any kinds of changes might be a viable option for us.
And that's pretty much how I described it to the attendees last night.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. And a question was clearly framed
last night and it's good to have an articulation of that and the response before the general public
this evening. And so, now, Secretary Walker, you are recognized, sir.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Mr. Genova, I heard you say a delegation from Vancouver came to
Denver. Is that mean Vancouver, Washington or BC?
DAVE GENOVA: Vancouver, Washington.
JEFF WALKER: OK, all right. So I know that Portland is experiencing similar housing cost
issues like we are. Did the conversation to go into that realm of development, housing around
transit stations or was it strictly operational?
DAVE GENOVA: It was mostly operational. Of course, I talked a lot about our TOD
experience, here, and, particularly, the statistics around what we see within a half mile of transit
stations and things. I think it's kind of recognized, whenever we have the city visits, that the big
topics are around transportation, affordable housing, attainable housing-- is almost always a
topic. But our panel was pretty much focused on transportation.
JEFF WALKER: OK, thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to let General Manager to know that the G
Line isn't in my territory-- not even the end of it, isn't even in my territory. But I've been in a
number of situations lately where people have been discussing enthusiastically, even with affairs
added, how much they have enjoyed it. And the particular comment that I noted was that they
think the stations are gorgeous. So I thought you would want to hear from a completely unbiased
source that I have heard that regularly.

DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. Always appreciate having you're
sharing with us on those things. Any further questions or comments directed at the General
Manager's report from any Director at this time? Hearing none, then we've concluded that.
We turn to our unanimous consent agenda item. Tonight we have one item on the unanimous
consent agenda, that's noted as agenda item number 11, action A. It's labeled in your packet as
Expense Policy Amendment. It was approved unanimously at the Executive Committee last
Friday.
I have, however, been advised that there has been an expression of concern by one Director that
Item A did not go through a Standing Committee as well as the Executive Committee before
coming to the Board. While that's a, perhaps what might be viewed as a minor procedural matter,
we respect our fellow Board members. And so, we will take this item to the Finance and Audit
Committee first-- that will be on July the 9th. So we'll pull agenda Item Number 11 A and that
we'll come back to in Finance and Audit.
We then turn to the recommended action items. There are four recommended actions on the
agenda tonight, noted in your packet as agenda items number 13 actions B through E. The first of
these is B-- the August service changes.
It is recommended by the Operations Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the August service change packages revised and summarized in Attachment A, resulting
an annualized basis and cost savings of $856,000 and further to authorize the General Manager
or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service
is impacted by these changes.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager goals. Core goal Number
One, successful delivery of transit services. Task Goal Number One, fiscal sustainability. May I
have a motion to approve? I have a motion to approve from Director Williams, may I have a
second?
BOB BROOM: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a second from Director Broom. And now we are available for
discussion on the service changes action item for the August 2019 service changes. I'll recognize,
first, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm going to continue to vote no on this because it's
going to recommend that the second Broomfield FlexRide vehicle be terminated. The
assumption is that it won't be terminated as Broomfield is going to be getting a grant but we
won't know that until right before. So I will be pro forma, so to speak, be voting no on this.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. Recognizing Vice Chair Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I just wanted to make note of the letters from
Golden and Jefferson County. And it was not so much the service changes but expressing
concern about the fares at the end-of-line station. And I'm supporting the service changes but did
want to make note of those particular attachments and wanted to say that hopefully through the
T2 process these items among many others will be looked at on a regional basis, not necessarily
on a quarter-by-quarter basis Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam First Vice Chair. Director Lewis, you are
recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I'm actually going to direct this to-- well, he's not here.
Good, that's OK. Then he won't be offended by my words. So the 43 is in here and one of the
things that is being looked at is a bus stop consolidation. There are actually no cost impacts. And
one of the comments within the packet that we received was from Mr. Elmer Smith, who lives in
Park Hill, utilizes this route often, and said he has a really hard time accessing transportation.
But if we were to remove it this stop from near his house, he'd have an even harder time
accessing transportation.
I mean, I'm quite sensitive to my constituents and what I've heard from them is that they feel as
though RTD sometimes takes a lot of services away from them. And so this is not personal to
Jessie, as I know he does a lot of good work, but really uplifting Elmer Smith's voice from this
Board because I don't know what it's like to not be able to walk for many miles, but I am
sensitive to that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. Director Buzek, you are recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you Mr. Chair. I want to thank staff for a service cut in my district.
That's right.
[LAUGHTER]
The Number 31 Federal Boulevard, there was an issue at Front Range Community College that
after the college closes weekdays at 10:00 PM and I think 7:00 or 8:00, maybe 9:00 PM on
weekends, that their campuses used for end-of-line on that route and does a turnaround and drops
people off. And they were having a big problem with homeless from Denver coming up and just
being let out and wandering around their campus and not having any where appropriate to go or
things to do. They had a big issue with all kinds of different people-- drug use, all kinds things.
Met with Front Range Committee College. The service staff people were there. There Chief of
Police was there to tell us all about the issues. And even at the 11th hour, they were able to put
this change in place so that after the college closes, the end-of-line will no longer be 112th, but
further down at, I think, 106th & Melody or 104, something like that. And also, the service
between those two points after 10:00 PM was de minimis. So it wasn't impacting many people.
So thanks and I'll probably never thank you again for [LAUGHTER] affecting service in my
district. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Folska, you're recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. I was just curious and perhaps Director Buzek could
tell us what's at 106th that will be impacted by the homeless drop off?
DOUG TISDALE: Director Buzek, since the question was directed to you, you have a right of
reply.
VINCE BUZEK: I do, thank you. So that's a good question because part of what happens is the
problem moves further away and into a different area. But the Front Range Community College
Chief of Police is working with the appropriate-- I think that's either Federal Heights or
Northglenn-- and they're working with their police staff to work on that situation. And,
ultimately, there may be a longer-term issue with where those people get their bus passes in
Denver. So, we'll talk about that, too. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Folska, that conclude your remarks.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It does.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Guissinger you're recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't think I've mentioned this before, but I just wanted to thank staff
and Heather, and Michael, and Jessie, and everyone who have been working with the University
Colorado for a number of business reasons and cost-saving reasons-- are taking over the
stampede, which will save us six to seven operator FTEs and some significant money. And I
think it's gone very smoothly, so thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. Director Menten, you are
recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I just want to make sure since this is not my area and I haven't
focused on it closely, with this Route 31, when we went out to the public hearings, was this
change present at that time or was this added in?
DOUG TISDALE: To the extent that the General Manager may be in a position to respond to it,
that's fine. This is a period for discussion, not for questions of staff, but General Manager, if you
have a response or can secure one from someone and report that to us, please do so.
DAVE GENOVA: I would like to ask Jessie Carter to quickly address it, please.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: It's a yes or no question.
[LAUGHTER]

JESSIE CARTER: I will take that to mean that you would like brevity from me, as much as I
can.
DOUG TISDALE: Too late.
JESSIE CARTER: It was-- yes.
[LAUGHTER]
The answer was, yes, it was included in the information for the service change prior to going out
to public hearing.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Any further questions Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Thank you, I do have one more. Are there bus passes provided and
it's specifically telling people to get on this route and go somewhere?
DAVE GENOVA: I have-NATALIE MENTEN: Through a donor. Sorry, let me clarify that.
DAVE GENOVA: I have no knowledge either way of that-- if anybody's providing passes to
anybody for that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. That's all I have.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Madam Second Vice Chair, you are recognized.
ANGIE REIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also would like to extend my thanks to
Jessie Carter's team for doing another outstanding job of doing public outreach in these meetings
when we're talking about potential service changes. I also want to just make a statement in terms
of the Route 33, the Platte Valley, that's going to be eliminated in this run as a regular bus
service but will be implemented as a FlexRide with the smaller bus. And I just want to state for
the record, so that my constituents know it, and ask that the communications department do a
robust outreach to those folks who are riding the bus so that they know that this is coming.
Thank you, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you Madame Second Vice Chair. Any further comments on the
motion? If not, we are ready to vote. Director Williams was the movant and Director Broom was
the second. If you two will please cast your votes then the rest of the Board may cast its vote
relative to the August 2019 service changes.
By a vote of 12 in favor and two opposed, that motion passes. The two opposed were Director
Lewis and Director Lubow. And there was no vote from the absent Director Rick Moore-- who I
believe may be here with us in spirit and possibly even in ear, but not in voice.

We turn, then, to our next recommended action, which is the approval of [COUGHS]-- excuse
me-- General Manager's 2020 Core and Task Goals. It is recommended by the General Manager
Oversight and Performance Management Committee that Board of Directors approves the
General Manager's goals for 2020 as defined in the attached General Manager's performance
evaluation document. May I have a motion please?
JEFF WALKER: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Sec-DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Walker a second from?
VINCE BUZEK: Second
DOUG TISDALE: Director Buzek. OK, I'll take it from Director Buzek at this time. And then, is
there any discussion now on the approval of General Manager's 202 Core and Task Goals?
Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. As I had mentioned in committee, but also will just bring up
now for the record, the way this document reads is it is addressing the 2020 goals for the General
Manager and the agency, which then drives the budget, yet this document shows, under financial
impact, no financial impact in approving the 2020 goals.
And that is completely wrong. There is financial impact. And so without any dollar amount
listed, I would be doing a disservice to the constituents by saying go forward and do such
without telling me how much it will cost. And that's like a blank check wish list at Christmas
time. So that's why I'm voting no. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Menten. Any other comments or discussion relative to
the approval of the General Manager's 2020 Core and Task Goals? If not, then we're ready to
vote. Director Walker, I have as the movant-- the secretary. And Director Buzek I have as the
second. If you would please vote, then the rest of the Board may vote.
By a vote of 12 in favor and two opposed, that motion passes. The negative votes are from
Director Lewis and Director Menten. All other votes are in the affirm affirmative except for
Director Whitmore who is absent from the vote.
The third recommended action this evening is the approval of the Pass Program phasing from
three to five years. It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to move the phasing of
the price increase due to the 2019 fare changes for CollegePass, EcoPass, and Neighborhood Eco
Pass, from a three-year phase-in period to a five-year phase-in period.
This would extend the 20% cap on price increases to not only year 2019 and 2020 but also years
2021 and '22, with the full implementation of fare increase in 2023. This is to support General
Manager Goal Core Goal Number Three, Strong Financial Management. May I have a motion?

KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Williams. Is there a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second. Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have Director Guissinger as the second on that motion. Is there a discussion
on the motion for the approval of Pass Program phasing from three to five years? Seeing none,
we're ready for a vote. If Director Williams would vote first as the movant and Director
Guissinger as the second, and then if the rest of you would vote relative to the approval of the
Pass Program phasing.
By a vote of 10 in favor and four opposed, that resolution passes. The negative votes are from
Director Folska, and Director Lewis, and Director Menten, and Director McCulloch. And that is
a vote of 10 in favor and four opposed.
We then turn to the fourth and final recommended action item this evening and that's the
approval of the Litigation Contract Authority. It is recommended by the Finance and
Administration Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or
his designee to negotiate and execute contracts, including contract amendments, to engage or
continue to engage outside legal counsel to represent RTD for an additional $4 million for a total
amount not to exceed $12.5 million dollars. This recommendation satisfies General Manager
Core Goal Number Three, Strong Financial Management and General Manager Task Goal
Number One, Fiscal Sustainability. May have a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Broom and a second from Director Guissinger,
thank you. And we have opportunity for discussion on the litigation contract authority increase in
the amounts as indicated in the motion. I will recognized Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, I'm going to address my question to either General Manager
Genova or legal counsel-- Asphaug. OK. In looking back at my notes today, I was looking
specifically at the Regional Rail Partners agreement and the settlement. And my notes indicated
that we, as a Board, were being asked-- well, we approved, I should say-- $32.5 million
settlement to RRP.
And at the time, we were having the discussion, which would have been middle of last year
maybe. At that time, we were going to be giving a settlement check for half of the amount,
roughly-- so $16 million. And then-- or about there, $16-point-something. And then the
remaining amount would have been paid this upcoming September. So to start with is that the
correct amount of the dollars in the settlement? And I apologize that I'm-- I had to dig this out of
my file folder so I'm not sure if you're able to answer that right off top of your head.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Menten. We'll recognize General Counsel to respond to
the question framed by Director Menten relative to the amounts and the timing.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes. This is Rolf Asphaug, general counsel. And I do apologize. I can't give
you the exact amounts and the exact timing because I don't have that information. And I wasn't
aware that the question would come up. But I can certainly find that out for you. It is a matter of
public record what the settlement is. And so we'll get that information for you.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And leading up to this, the $8 and 1/2 million is litigation third party
legal counsel. That covers both issues, DTP and RRP, correct?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And was the $8.5 million also covering any other legal fees involved
with that settlement? Or was that in addition?
ROLF ASPHAUG: I'll have to double check with you to make absolutely positive about that.
But my recollection is no, it was not, that this actually was for legal fees, that we had ediscovery. We had a payment to outside counsel, litigation counsel, and other expenses.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you. And I do apologize that I caught you off guard. This was
something I myself was 2:30 PM today finally getting to that point. All right. Thank you. That's
all my questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, director. Any other discussion on the motion to
approve the litigation contract authority as indicated in the amounts as indicated? Seeing none,
we're ready for a vote. And if we would have Director Broom as the movement vote and then
Director Guissinger as the second, then the rest of the Board may vote.
By a vote of 10 in favor and 4 opposed, the motion passes. The negative votes are from Director
Folska, Director Lewis, Director Menten, and Director Williams. So there are 10 affirmative
votes, 4 negative votes, as described, and one not voting, being absent. That concludes the action
items presented on the agenda for this evening.
There is no executive session that has been scheduled for this evening. That item is always on the
agenda as a place holder. Should we have any item that would come up and merit executive
session, this is when such session would be conducted.
We then turn to old business. And we have one express item on old business. If there is other old
business, that will be recognized after the conclusion of this discussion. But the stated item under
old business is the staff's FasTracks update, and specifically it refers to Resolution 004 from the
series of 2019.
Now, if you will recall, during our April 2019 Board meeting, we adopted a resolution wherein
we expressed the Board's strong support both for the swift completion of the unfinished
FasTracks corridors, and for the further investigation by RTD staff into a proposal that is known

commonly as the Peak Service Plan. The Board instructed staff in that resolution to report back
regarding possible funding scenarios for these projects. And we requested in that resolution a
report on proposed steps be sent to the Board within 60 days.
You will be happy to know that that initial draft report, in fact, was submitted to you on the 59th
day following the adoption of the resolution, Friday being the 59th day. And General Manager
forwarded to us at that time this draft initial report. You have it before you now. This report-- let
us emphasize, this report will be addressed at length-- I have no doubt it will be at length-- in our
Tuesday, July 9th committee meeting. That's the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee.
Director Mihalik gets to get another one of these meetings for us. And that will give us all an
opportunity to discuss this in detail. That's just three weeks from now. Three weeks from now we
will have a comprehensive discussion.
But General Manager Genova will now give us, briefly, an introduction to this initial report.
Because this was sent to you on Friday, the 59th day, you've had time to look at it briefly. The
General Manager and his staff will give us some more information to set the stage. You can
cogitate over that. You may ask questions tonight, of course. But you may cogitate and think
about that. And then this matter will come before us again for an extended discussion on
Tuesday, July 9. So let me now recognize General Manager Genova to briefly provide that
introduction. General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for those framing remarks regarding
our draft initial report. So it's because of the time frame is why we're doing this at a Board
meeting under all business, as opposed to bringing it up through a committee. But we don't have
another committee meeting until, I think, the July 9th committee meeting. So it was either wait
another three weeks to be able to have an exchange regarding the information or do it tonight,
and we just felt compelled it would be better to do it tonight.
There's a lot of information in the draft initial report. Some of it might be very, how should I put
it, eyebrow raising to some. And others, I know there's a variety of different interests. So you
have in the binder the entire report broken down into its different parts. So there's the report and
the different appendices. And we just wanted to provide that to you for your convenience, if you
want to take notes and things like that. And so you didn't have to print out that big document.
I also want to let you know that right as the meeting was getting started tonight Pauletta Tonilas
sent out some key messages regarding the draft initial report. And so this is in your email box as
of about 5:35. So as you get questions or other comments, feel free to use that for your key
messages, as you like.
So what I'm going to do tonight is quickly go through the report, or go through the PowerPoint
that I sent to you in the email on Friday. It had the report. And then it had this overview
PowerPoint. I'm going to go through that rather quickly. Hopefully you've had a little bit of time
to review it.

I've asked Bill Van Meter, Heather McKillop, and Henry Stopplecamp to join across the room
there to answer any detailed questions that we may have at the end of the presentation. And then
we also have about four questions that came to us in advance, that right after the presentation I
will have them address those quickly. And then we'll open it up to questions.
So I think most of the information's been covered as far as what the Board resolution of April
16th directed the staff to do, to provide a report within a couple of months outlining proposed
steps to move forward on the unfinished corridors in the Northwest Rail Peak Service Plan.
Again, we're calling this our draft initial report. It's the beginning of-- I think this is really
important-- an iterative process with the Board. And I think what it will do is allow us to have a
lot of good dialogue amongst ourselves and then also with stakeholders and the public. And then
as the Board provides feedback and input to us, then we can refine and refine and refine the
report based on the Board's directions.
There's a few financial scenarios that you probably saw in the report there based on our most
recent sales and use tax forecasts provided by CU Leeds School of Business. And I thought we
fixed that typo, but we will fix it. I saw another one that I'll correct a little bit later. I don't know
why that doesn't show up in spell check.
But the Board might recall we just recently, had an update from CU Leeds School not that long
ago in March. And so it was that forecast. And it's also important it's a forecast. So forecasts are
going to change. And so the next one that we get from Leeds School of Business will probably
reflect some different things. And so that's important to know over time, especially as we look at
scenarios over our mid-term financial plan of six years and then our long-range financial plan,
which is now being adjusted to the 2050 horizon.
So a few observations right off the bat. And no base system funds are available to support the
unfinished corridors in terms of the information we have to date. And also because there just no
funds available, there would be no funds available to loan. And so that was one of the questions
we had is, would it be possible to loan money from the base system to the FasTracks program?
And I really think that would be a Board policy decision with this Board, if the Board chose to
do so. We don't see any reason why that couldn't be a possibility. But the practical side of that is
there's simply no funds available, even if the Board wanted to do that.
There's also no capacity to support base system bus or rail service increases at this time. And I
think the Board service is here to talk about this quite a bit as we've talked through the different
budgets as we prepared for the retreat and went through the retreat in terms of where we are as
an agency with kind of what I would call sustained growth and not suspensive growth. And then
also, it's important to recognize the unrestricted fund balance for the base system under all
scenarios is negative between 2021 and 2049.
So let's just for a moment talk about what we have done in terms of the FasTracks investment.
About 70% to 75% of the program is complete, seven transit corridors, plus one coming up in
2020-- that would be the end line-- and of course Denver Union Station. I think it's also
interesting to point out that originally the FasTracks budget in the original vote in 2004, the

budget was $4.7 billion. And we've actually invested $5.6 billion since we embarked on the
FasTracks program. And of course that's knowing that we had much higher construction
materials costs and much lower projected sales tax because we had the recession in there, which
we estimate we've lost approximately $1 billion in revenue due to the recession.
And then in 2013, just to point out to this Board, that we started the FasTracks internal savings
account. That was a Board action in late 2012. And one of the things that did was cap the bus
service increase that was going to happen annually. It capped it at the 2013 levels. And I know
there's a discussion in the report, and that's a challenging section to get through. And maybe
that's something we can take up in more detail on the 9th, but I wanted to make the Board aware
that that action was taken.
And so it I'll just address it now, too. There was a question about the FISA money. Have we ever
used any FISA of money for the base system? And we have not, correct, Heather?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. And then this is just a snapshot of the unfinished corridors. It shows
the corridor, a little bit of a description, projected daily ridership, the capital cost in millions of
dollars, and then the annual O&M cost in millions of dollars. And this is for 2018. There's a
couple of asterisks on the chart, and it's for the Peak Service Plan. And it's regarding the
estimates for capital.
And the estimate for capital is an estimate that we came up with based on the information that
was provided to us in the last iteration with the Burlington Northern Santa Fe. And Henry has a
little bit more information that he'll share as a response to a question that we received to talk
about that estimate. Now, the O&M cost for that estimate, though, is our estimate. So it doesn't
have anything to do with receiving numbers from the Burlington Northern.
And I should say that we have not yet received information for the Peak Service Plan on the
Burlington Northern. But Henry just spoke with BNSF today, and he'll brief you on that in a
moment. So we included three types of funding scenarios. They are generally no new bonding
authority or funding.
There is an option of a TABOR election for just additional bonding and then a TABOR election
for additional bonding with the sales and use tax increase. So we divided these into scenario 1, 2,
and 3. And so I'll just quickly run through them.
Scenario 1-- no new bonding authority or funding. We have two scenarios here, scenario 1A
sequences the unfinished corridor, starting with the least expensive first. And so we did this in a
few scenarios.
We didn't prioritize anything really in any of these scenarios, other than starting with the least
expensive first in order to be able to get as much done faster. And then in some of them we
flipped it. So you can see with one 1A, where we do not finish the Northwest Peak Service Plan

or the Full Service Plan before the 2015 long-term horizon. But Central we complete in 2039, the
Central Rail Extension Southwest in 2014, North Metro in 2041.
Now scenario 1B sequences the Northwest Rail Peak Service first. And that would happen under
this scenario, no new bonding or funding in 2042, and no other quarter complete by the 2050
horizon. Let's look at scenario 2, TABOR election for additional bonding.
This would be an election held prior to 2032, authorizing additional bonding authority and we
would use COPs to fund replacement of vehicles, although that wouldn't have to be part of the
TABOR election, I don't think. It would just be the bonding authority. So scenario 2A, similar to
1A, sequences the unfinished corridors first, starting with the least expensive first. And this is
where I have a typo. I apologize. I just I just caught it as I was reviewing this.
So the Central would finish in 2037, Southwest in 2038, North Metro 2039, and Northwest Rail
Peak Service Plan in 2048, does not finish the Full Service on Northwest Rail by the 2050
horizon. So if we go to the next two scenarios, scenario 2B completes Northwest Rail Peak
Service Plan first in 2042, followed by the other corridors, all done by 2049, Central in '47,
Southwest in '48, North Metro in '49, does not finish the Northwest Rail Full Service Plan by
2050 horizon.
I'll mention to you now that these slides, while they may not be the best visuals for this, there are
two tables. The one is in the report, and one is in the appendices, where it has all the scenarios
laid out by table so you can compare them very easily across. But they wouldn't have displayed
very well up here at all. So I would point you to those couple of tables to see everything all at a
glance so you can really kind of mix and match how things compare.
So 2C has the capacity to finish the entire Northwest Rail Full Service Plan by 2046. We could
do that but wouldn't finish any of the other unfinished corridors by the 2050 horizon. Now,
getting into scenario 3 this would be a TABOR election with bonding and a sales tax increase.
And we would assume that this would be held in 2021.
We're limited to do a sales tax increase initiatives in odd years by our authority. So that's why
you see 2021 there predominantly. So this would authorize both additional sales and use tax and
additional bonding. Under these scenarios, under 3, there would be no need for certificates of
participation.
So all of the scenarios here finish all unfinished corridors by 2040. So 3A assumes 0.1%. So
0.1% is not very much. That's not much more that we would need to do what we're going to be
talking about here.
So it's just a bit more than what we already have of our 1% sales and use tax increase. If we
sequence Northwest Rail Peak first, we could finish that by 2026. And then the last corridor is
Northwest Rail Full Service by 2039, with Central being done in '27, Southwest and '32, North
Metro in '35.

Scenario 3B assumes, again, a 0.1% sales and use tax increase. But it sequences the corridors
with least expensive first, finishing with Northwest Full Service-- Full Service not Peak Service-by 2032. And that would be Central in '26, Southwest in '27, and North Metro in '28. And then
we would not do the Peak Service Plan under this scenario because this scenario focuses on
getting everything done in their entirety.
Scenario 3C, a 0.1% increase and issuing more bonds with more debt, completes Northwest Rail
Service Peak Service first by 2026. The last corridor would be Northwest Rail Full Service 2037.
And you can see the dates for Central, '27; Southwest, '28; North Metro in '30.
I think just two more scenarios to get through here. 3D assumes a 5% sales and use tax increase,
sequences corridors starting with least expensive, finishing with Northwest Rail Full Service by
2032. So Central would complete in '26, Southwest in '27, North Metro, '28. Interesting thing
about scenarios 3D and 3E, it not only completes the unfinished corridors, but it gives this
flexibility to support the base system for expansion as well. So again, not much of an increase,
0.15%-- we can do an awful lot with that.
Scenario 3E assumes a 0.1% sales and use tax increase, three-year delay in delivery, least
expensive first, finishing with Northwest Rail Full Service in 2035; Central, '29; Southwest, '30;
North Metro in '31, also supports additional funding for the base system as well. So those are
some scenarios. And then we added a lot of different items in terms of other kinds of possible
funding and revenue strategies that are worth considering.
And so federal New Starts and Small Starts we've talked about quite a bit. There is information
in the report that talks about the analysis that we did, I believe, in 2016 on the remaining
corridors and how they might compete for grants under those programs, of course, TIFIA and
RIF, private activity bonds, transit grant application revenue vehicles. So this would be federal
loans and finance options.
Stakeholders could always contribute cash. Stakeholders could loan to us. There could be private
equity contributions. Of course those kinds of things, if it's a loan or private equity contribution,
those things would have to be paid back. They'd have to go against our TABOR allocations.
Tolled roadway facilities, this happens in a few areas in Washington, DC. There's highway
tolling that is paying for-- is funding the Silver Line, the extension to the Dulles Airport. It also
happens in Pennsylvania, where some tolled roadway goes to fund transit.
There's a vehicle miles traveled tax-- we've talked about that a number of times-- parking
charges, fees on other transportation modes and delivery models. So some cities-- Chicago is
one-- they have a fee on transportation network companies that goes strictly to funding transit in
Chicago. Fees for access to RTD trip data-- so for example, all of our data is open record. We
can't hang on to our data and sell it to people that might want it because they can access most of
our data through CORA. So is there a way that we could turn that around?
There could be property tax in a special assessment district, could be an opportunity. There could
be development impact fees. There could be additional marijuana tax. There could be state-level

transit and rail funds, which currently there is no state funding that comes to RTD for transit
other than a bit of money under the Faster program, sale or lease of air rights over RTD stations,
and lease of rights of ways to other private entities.
And then there's a few other creative items in here that aren't available under current law or
practices. But we thought we'd put them up their-- investment tax credits, projects of national
and regional significance, earmarks, and next infrastructure and surface transportation bill. So
quickly to summarize, this is really a report-- I didn't mention this earlier. But this is a report on-and I want to really be clear.
This is a report on possibilities. It's not a report on recommendations. And I know that we might
have groups or individuals that would say, oh gosh, RTD is going to do this or do that. No, this is
simply for discussion about ideas that are all conceptual at this point in time. What we're eager to
hear back over the next few weeks will be input from the Board on what you think about the
different things that we proposed-- or not even proposed, but we just identify.
So our next steps, of course-- I think this was outlined well by the chair. July 9th will be our
opportunity to have a greater in-depth discussion after the Board has had time to review this
information in much more detail, maybe talk with some of your stakeholders and formulate some
additional questions or comments. And then based on that, then we can refine the possibilities as
the Board directs us to.
But I would say that you don't have to wait until July 9th. If you have comments, questions,
concerns, I would say send those either to me, to Bill, to Heather, or Henry. We were kind of the
primary group. Of course we had a pretty big support staff that worked on all of this. It was a big
lift to get the report done.
But if you have questions or comments in the meantime, send them to one of us. And we'll either
collect them for response at the July 9th meeting, or we'll respond as we can. If you would like to
meet with one of us in the meantime to have a one on one and further dive into some things, just
let us know, and we'll accommodate that as well.
So there were a couple of questions that I want to just quickly address. One was on ridership.
And so Bill, could you address that ridership question, please? And this was on the Northwest
Rail specifically.
BILL VAN METER: Yeah, so there was some interest in-DOUG TISDALE: Excuse me, Mr. Van Meter, just for the benefit of the record, would you
identify yourself for the record.
BILL VAN METER: Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager Planning. So the question
pertained to Northwest Rail ridership projections. The Northwest Area Mobility Study completed
in 2013, '14 time frame, forecast ridership of up between 9,300 and 10,000 in the horizon year, in
the future year for the Northwest Rail corridor.

This report has a forecast of about 5,400. And so the question was, what's the difference? Where
did those numbers come from? As I noted, the Northwest Area Mobility Study, or NAMS, was a
study prepared in 2013-2014 frame based on then current socioeconomic forecast from the
Denver Regional Council of Governments.
The current numbers were presented to the RTD Board and stakeholders in 2016, as part of the
analysis as to eligibility for all of the unfinished corridors for federal funding. So they were more
recent numbers, most recent that we have based on updated DRCOG land use forecasts and
DRCOG's model. In the intervening time, we looked at their land use forecasts, specifically
along the corridor in the 2013-2014 NAMS forecasts. The average annual growth and
employment, for example, was average annual. So this compounds over a 20-year period 1.5%
per year.
The more recent forecast was an annual average growth of 0.9%, which compounded over 20
years. It's a pretty significant change in the land use forecasted, which had a significant impact
on ridership between those two forecast years. DRCOG updates their land use forecasts and their
model fairly regularly. I anticipate that these numbers, a la the Leeds School of Business
economic forecasts, will also change over time. There are a number of other minor factors that
impacted the 9,300 to 10,000 previous number and the 5,400 number today. But that's kind of an
explanation as to both the times frames and the impacts that we've seen in the forecast ridership
for the Northwest Rail corridor.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Bill. So I'll ask Heather McKillop to address a couple of
financial-related questions.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So there were two financial-related question.
DOUG TISDALE: Ma'am
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, I'm sorry, Heather McKillop. I'm not Bill Van Meter. So two
questions, the first was, why isn't there money available in the base system to either loan or
transfer to FasTracks? So the answer to that is based on the forecast that you saw back in March
that the Leeds School submitted, between 2019 and 2040, we are estimating $1.5 billion less in
revenue than what we were estimating in last year's 2018 adopted plan, long-range plan.
That's $900 million from the base system, $600 million from FasTracks. As we went through this
process, we had to balance the FasTracks to get the numbers to you that you wanted for this. But
in the base system, we have not gotten to the point that we've been able to figure out where to
come up with $900 million in cuts to just balance the base system, let alone come up with money
to lend to FasTracks or to transfer to FasTracks.
So that is the reason it's not available. As we move through the long-range plan process with you
over the next several months, we'll be having that conversation with you about where we are
planning on reducing expenditures to meet those revenue targets for the base system, as well as
FasTracks for the long-range plan. But we've currently been having that conversation with you

on a monthly basis related to the mid-term financial plan, which is just the first six years of the
long-range plan. And that issue just compounds over time. So that's the first question.
The second question is related to the FISA. So the main reason, or the main way that the FISA is
funded-- it was in 2012, the end of 2012, beginning in 2013. The Board agreed that they would
no longer be increasing the bus feeder system in the base system by 1% per year, which was in
the FasTracks plan. That's what had been happening.
Starting in 2021, that 1% was supposed to go up to 1 and 1/2%. And that was supposed to last
through 2025. In 2012, the Board passed a capping, I would call it, of that bus feeder service. So
it was capped to whatever it was at the end of 2012 and only inflated by CPI, and that's what the
base system could grow at.
Anything above that amount in what was projected to be the 1% number would all be transferred
from the base system to FasTracks into the FISA account. That is what's been funding the FISA
count. Now, we do make occasional sales of property and small things like that that goes into the
FISA. But the majority of the funding estimated probably around between $14 and $15 million a
year all the way up in 2025 would be about $20-plus million a year is all coming from that base
system feeder service.
So with that capping and making that transfer, that's how we've been funding the FISA account.
What we discuss in detail is how that was laid out in the FasTracks plan, then what happened
with the capping, and then resulting amounts that are going into the FISA from the base system.
So there is a transfer from the base system every year into the FISA.
Every month we include in your monthly financial statement report a recount of the FISA count.
So it's in that document. It's usually the second-to-the-last page right before the ridership page.
And it lists everything we funded out of that FISA account and how much money we've put into
it since its inception in 2013.
The funding uses have been US 36, which is a FasTracks corridor has been North Metro, when
we had significant shortfalls a couple years ago in that budget, and then also SERE. And the
reason the SERE money came out that is part of the Board's policy is that if you receive money
in the 2-and-1/2-% cash contribution, it gets funneled through the FISA and then comes back out
again. So there was a deposit of $25 million and then a reduction of $25 million. So those offset
each other. So that's been what's been funded out the FISA. So that answers those two questions.
So with that, I'll turn it over to Henry.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, so I asked Henry Stopplecamp to talk a little bit about the estimate and
how we devised that estimate for the Peak Service Plan and then also current update on your
conversation with Burlington Northern today.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So good evening, Henry Stopplecamp, AGM Capital Programs. The
question came through, and it was a very good question. The order of magnitude estimate for
Northwest Peak Service costs makes these costs approximately half the Full Service costs, even

though the number of Peak Service runs is only a small fraction of the Full Service. So you'd
think the it'd be incremental.
Bottom line, quick answer is it's the infrastructure. So whether we're running three trains more
and three a night, or 55 trains, there's a lot of infrastructure that needs to be done on the corridor.
And so I did touch base with DJ with BNSF, DJ Mitchell. And we've been talking back and forth
for part of the last four or five months. They've been trying to model the system and demonstrate
that our assumptions work on their system.
And this has gone back and forth, and they're trying to get it so the Peak Service is very
comparable or faster to the bus service. And that's not really necessary to help us out. It helps
them out as well because it means we are on their system less time. So it is more of a capacity
issue for BNSF.
But they're still working on it. It's going to be 30 days plus out. We are going to need to put a full
signal system in on the system. PTC, the corridor will have to be PTC equipped. One of the
challenges we've got is we don't have interoperability with the BNSF systems. Our radios, for
example, are not the same radios that the BNSF are using, the same frequency. So there's a lot of
infrastructure to make that work.
And currently they are not doing any civil improvements. We asked them to do bare bones, see
what we get. But without doing those civil improvements, the travel time is increased because
we don't flatten out the curves. We don't increase the speed. And unfortunately, where the
stations are, the tangent track, and that's where we can pick up speed.
So the question is, what makes up the $708 million? We looked at the original numbers we got
back in 2012. BNSF was looking about $535 million of infrastructure. So we looked at the draw,
tried to figure out, and we didn't get a numbers from the BNSF.
We mentioned that through the NAMS process. We mentioned it through the Peak Service
process. We're going on best guess. That's why there's a couple asterisks on tables.
So it's $535. So we looked at it, see how much what we thought was track, how much was signal.
It was a lump sum number. It wasn't x for track, x for signal, x for PTC. So we could do an
educated guess in there.
So we looked at what it'd take. We looked at our vehicle needs, our maintenance facility. We're
looking at DMU, Diesel Multiple Unit. So we need a maintenance facility. It is not compatible as
far as maintenance with our EMUs. So we had to factor that in there.
So when we looked at what we had back in 2012, plus the studies looking at the designs, the
$708 is an educated guess. But it is not a-- it's based on a 10% design, if that, and a concept of
operations. And that's as far as we've gotten so far.
DAVE GENOVA: Thanks, Henry. So we're happy to take your questions.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for the report. We appreciate your very tightly focused
description. And I know that the directors are sensitive to the fact that they will have an
opportunity for a full discussion on July 9th. But let's get some preliminary thoughts, questions,
and observations out there, commencing with First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair, I wanted to compliment you all on completing this large
task in 59 days. And I could tell by my initial read of it that there was a lot of work that went into
it. So thank you very much for meeting that commitment.
I attended the financial workshop earlier this afternoon. And that was really helpful to see where
we were going forward. So I want to thank Heather and her staff for a very thorough discussion
earlier today.
But I do have a couple of questions. One is it pertains to ridership, that you mentioned this, Bill.
You talked about the study that was done in 2016. And I believe you mentioned also ridership on
the other corridors. Is that included in that 2016 report?
BILL VAN METER: Yes, that is correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I could go hunting for that. But I would really appreciate seeing that so I
could kind of review.
BILL VAN METER: I can provide the PowerPoint presentation that had costs and assessment of
federal financial feasibility or capability, cost ridership, and that sort of information.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that would be really helpful-BILL VAN METER: That was presented to this Board at that time
PEGGY CATLIN: --to see what return on the investment would yield in terms of ridership. I
think that would be important.
BILL VAN METER: Make sure we get that to our Board members.
PEGGY CATLIN: And then also-- because I think that weighs into some of the discussion and
ultimately decision making. And then secondly, in the scenario 2, which is going to a vote to
authorize additional bonding authority-- I believe you mentioned this earlier in the workshop
today. But maybe for everybody else's edification, what would the repayment method be for
that? Because you don't include another funding source. So if you did get authorization to bond,
against what revenue would that-- what revenue would be pledged for that and how?
DOUG TISDALE: And before responding, let me emphasize again, to the extent that the
response to the question is let me get back to you on that, and we'll let's address that on July the
9th, that's a perfectly acceptable response.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, I can respond that way. I have a quick answer. It will be the
FasTracks funding that would be available out in those years for actual repayment that we would
use. And that's why it takes so long to start those projects because we don't have any money
available till way out there to actually pay back debt and operate.
PEGGY CATLIN: That makes sense. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam First Vice Chair. Director Broom, you're
recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Couple of questions. In the past, there's been a number of
ballot questions that voters in the Denver area have approved, where they approved a 1/10-cent
sales tax to do stadiums and those types of things. But they typically have a sunset clause in it.
When the bonds are paid off, the tax goes away or whatever. Is there any sunset provision
contemplated in what you presented to us?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So in the particular scenarios we presented, no, we did not sunset it.
But we have run sunset scenarios that look at that.
BOB BROOM: And then the second-- and this deals or something that's being looked at. In T2
there's a number of subdivisions in Aurora that wasn't annexed into the RTD district. And then
there's the Castle Rock area that, for whatever reason, is not included in the area. And of course,
T2 is going to look at should we reconstitute our entire boundary, even up to the north, in some
degree. And if you were to do that, what kind of revenues would that generate to help defray
some of these costs? I know you're not going to have an answer on that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I don't have an answer. But we probably have some information
where we could look at that. Especially at Castle Rock, since they were in the district at one
time, we can probably come up with a guess on that. But I think that will be examined more. And
that's part of the T2 discussion that you mentioned.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Treasurer Cook, you are recognized, ma'am.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. I'd wondered-- oh, also wanted to make a thanks to the staff for
putting this together. It's very impressive and a lot to chew on here. I wondered if a couple, three
extra items could be worked on between now and July 9, so I don't expect an answer today. But
on page 11 there is a series of columns that sort of phase the Northwest via at the NAMS report.
I wonder if you could just add a column that details the Boulder to Longmont segment. And I
don't want anybody to be alarmed, just to the extent that discussions regionally take place about a
Front Range Rail, for example, that may be useful to know. So I wondered to see if you could
add a column for that last segment.
And the second thing is, OK, a lot of these scenarios, just in the cursory review I've done,
contemplate different sequences for completing the corridors. And that's going to be a difficult

discussion to have, I think. But one thing that would help me in terms of evaluating them is an
additional factor that reflects the service that's been on the ground over time.
So it struck me that the Finance Committee meeting, we talked about train miles, which I took to
mean the train segment length times the service that goes on it. If we had that for the existing
corridors, maybe also the rapid transit not just train, but bus rapid transit or something and the
number of years of service, that would be helpful to me as an additional factor in deciding from
an equity standpoint, which ones we might we want to sequence first.
I'm not saying that that would exclusively drive my judgment. But that would be a helpful added
factor. Does that make sense?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I apologize. I'm not quite clear. Are you saying that-- so we did it as
simply as possible because, as it is, we ran many dozen scenarios.
SHELLEY COOK: No, I'm not asking for a new scenario, just a table that is by each line, the
C,E,W-HEATHER MCKILLOP: That have already been built?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: In FasTracks only or all of our rail lines?
SHELLEY COOK: I think all, yeah.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Got it.
SHELLEY COOK: And then number of years they've been operating, so train miles or whatever
you want to call them, and the number of years of operation. Thanks so much. And then just this
observation. In tandem with this is a regional discussion taking place at DRCOG and at Metro
Mayors and so forth about potential funding sources for transportation revenue shortfalls
otherwise. So it just seems like we need to be considering this effort in that context and be
thinking about how we integrate or work within that milieu.
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chairman?
SHELLEY COOK: That's it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer. Director Buzek, you are
recognized, sir. Oh, I apologize. I didn't see General Manager wanted to respond further to the
Treasurer. Please, if you would go first, and Director, if you'll bear with us for a moment.

DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. But I just wanted to respond to that last comment. And
that's definitely what-- we are working hard on that. I didn't want to be as bold as to say we were
going to join in on that. But I really think that, just from my perspective, I think a regional effort
is important and that regional transportation funding is important and that we should be part of
that funding at RTD.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And if I may, I think that that's addressed specifically by the report in several
places. I can't find right now where that is. But I know that the staff-- oh, page 22 of the report in
the last paragraph concludes with that comment about collaboration with DRCOG, metro
mayors, and the rest. Anything further on that, Mr. General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Buzek now, thank you for your patience.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And like Madam Treasurer Cook, I don't expect any
answers tonight but maybe on just more info on July 9th. I think one thing we might want to
address-- we had a-- when we passed this resolution, a Longmont city council member stood at
that podium and was thrilled that the Northwest Rail Peak Service Plan was going to cost $112
million. And on page five now we're seeing $700 to $800 million, which I always thought was
probably more realistic in terms of the cost. So we might want to address that.
Also, Henry, with regard to BNSF, one of the things I'd be curious to learn more about is if in the
whole scheme of thing, BNSF says, OK, we'll work with you on this Peak Rail Plan, what
happens if it's wildly successful and we want to begin incrementally increasing? How likely is it
BNS-- NS-- NS-- whatever, Burlington-[LAUGHTER]
--Burlington Northern is going to say, yeah, sure, we'll just-- yeah, we've got track just laying
around doing-- and you don't have to answer that now. But I guess I'm kind of curious about that.
How easy is that, or how likely is that to even happen? And then finally, I guess, it's important to
stress that these cost scenarios all talk about just RTD funding, right?
And the other funding, grants and stakeholders and all, there are other options that can happen,
just like they did with SERE. That's one of the reasons that kind of rose to the top so. I guess
that's some things I'd want to hear more about. And appreciate it. Thanks. That's all I have.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'd first like to say that I had to go to the dictionary
to look up iterative process, so I appreciate the extra work because I didn't know what it was. I
have several questions about bonding. And basically, as we know, the cash flow charts show
deltas between cash coming in and expenditures. And it keeps going up.

And my question is, can we bond against that delta amount? And if we can't, why not? How do
we know that we can't? Doesn't it look like that we have extra money?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather. Well, actually, no, in the charts we provided with you,
we desperately have higher in expenditures than we have funds available.
JUDY LUBOW: But the cash flow chart shows that starting in 2026 that there's money.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Not the ones we provided you. Remember, I just mentioned we're a
billion and a half in the hole. So all of those charts, none of them show that there's money
available to do that. And so that was the purpose of showing the charts that way, which you had
asked for is, where are we now and what makes up that difference. So when we layer in the fact
that we're hundreds of million dollars short on the base system, there is no available area to bond
in. So-JUDY LUBOW: But when you say short, I mean basically it's less than the year before, which
was so grandiose, right? Isn't that what you're talking about?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Right, which in 2018, when you adopted the plan, we had some money
left over.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That money has now all been wiped out, and we're in the hole a
considerable amount of money.
JUDY LUBOW: I see. OK. I misread that. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Doesn't mean it won't change in the future, like it did last year.
JUDY LUBOW: It changes every time.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. Right now that's not where we are.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. So another issue that I had is that there were a lot of different financial
possibilities listed, and they're kind of abstract, just a list of all these things that-- tolling and
whatever. Have we had any discussions with our stakeholders about the political will to use any
of them with us to move forward on the rail?
DAVE GENOVA: No, not really.
JUDY LUBOW: Are we planning to?
DAVE GENOVA: It's a possibility. I think one of the good things about having a body of work
like this is it does engage people and can start conversations. And so, in fact, I had a good
conversation yesterday with one of our partners that I said, hey, this report's coming out. I want

you to know about it because you're going to see some things, and you might say, wow, well,
RTD's going to do this or RTD's going to do that.
And it really made the person realize, well, we should be aligned in what we're doing good
because we both need funding. And I said yes, exactly. So we need to change that dialogue and
make sure RTD's included in regional funding.
So I think that this will generate some very good discussions around that. Now, some of them
may be very challenging, too, about our history with FasTracks too. But my job and our job is to
change that dialogue and say, how can we help you, RTD? And I think the other thing the
scenarios show is that it's not that much more, that we need to do a lot of work.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, Thank you. And I wanted to say something. Not to throw water on things,
but where I live, I don't know how probable it is that a tax increase would pass for RTD. There's
a lot of animosity. And I'm wondering is there a way to do polling to see whether the options that
have to do with increasing sales tax are basically wish fulfillment or not?
DAVE GENOVA: There could be. I think it's probably early to have those conversations until
we have an opportunity and the Board has opportunity to really digest this information and to
have greater conversation around all these things. But that's certainly something that we could do
in the future. But also keep in mind it could be RTD individually, or it could be RTD as part of a
regional package with others.
JUDY LUBOW: Mm-hmm. Thank you. And I guess that's where I'm coming from. It's like it's
not going to be us individually. And we need to work with our stakeholders on this. Thank you
very much. And thank you for the work.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. We appreciate that. Madam Second
Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. Genova, I too just want to commend
you and your team for putting together this amazing report. I look forward to really delving into
it. I too would like to dovetail on Director Lubow's comments in terms of not now, but could you
let me know what your strategies are in terms of pulling together a proactive kind of ask of the
community to pass a tax increase, because I'm a little bit concerned about that.
But I am feeling really great that you're talking about collaborations with key stakeholders and
starting conversations now. But I'm just wondering, when you do the presentation, if you can
maybe talk a little bit about what your strategies will be in terms of inclusively? Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: OK. Thank
DOUG TISDALE: You. Thank you very much, Madam Second Vice Chair. Director Broom,
you are recognized.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. When time permits. I'd like to get some, I guess, railroad oneon-one instructions in terms of Burlington Northern. Years ago, when both passenger trains and
freight trains used the same tracks, the freight trains would pull into a siding, and passenger
would trains roar on by to stay on time and so on and so forth. Obviously, now freight's the
number one priority for Burlington Northern and not passenger trains.
The other is there's a lot of coal traffic, coal train traffic going to Texas. But they're shutting
down all the coal generation plants all over the country. And maybe those coal trains are going to
go away. What impact is that going to have on the availability of the track time in the future? Or
does that only take 5% of the time now, and it's 95% other freight? But I just don't have a feel for
that. So I'd like, at some point, if you could take a few minutes and explain to us from their
viewpoint, how they look at us sharing their tracks with them. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And I know as to each and all of the
questions that have been asked, the staff have been taking careful notes. It is intended that they
will be able to come back in just three weeks and give you some greater response to those things.
And again, as part of this iterative process, there will be revisions to this report as time goes by.
Director-- I'm sorry, Secretary Walker, you are recognized, sir.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Number one, the document looks great for two months' worth of
work. And I'm wondering, was this done in house, or did you have a consultant help out with it?
DAVE GENOVA: We did this all entirely in house, with a little bit of input from Patty Doersch
at Squire Patton Boggs on some of the more innovative funding opportunities.
JEFF WALKER: Well, the formatting from the brief overview, I mean, I just looked at it now,
but from what I can tell, the formatting on this stuff is fantastic. So great job to the folks who put
this together, especially since it was done in house, because I know you all are busy doing other
things. So I have a question. I'm assuming that the route for Northwest Rail and maybe for the
Southwest extension are an existing railroad corridor, except for the part where the Southwest
Rail heads east towards Lucent Boulevard. Was there any discussion or thought about getting out
of existing railroad corridors so we don't have to deal with the railroads?
DAVE GENOVA: We didn't for the purpose of this document. And that's something that, I don't
know, Henry, if you have any more information on?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I can cover that real quick. Yes, when we did the EIS on Northwest
Rail we looked at alternative routes, not including the BNSF. The Southwest Rail, we actually
owned the right away along the BNSF corridor. So that's not an issue. We brought that from the
Denver Rio Grande originally. And then on the North Metro corridor we are already own the
right away from 124th to Highway 7. So we already have all that in place as of right now.
JEFF WALKER: And I remember some of those discussions. You're right. Thanks for reminding
me. I remember some of those discussions during the names, when we we're looking at the
names. But like Director Broom mentioned, there's always flux in the rail industry. Sometimes it
lasts longer. Sometimes there's contraction and expansion.

I think back in '97, '98 or so there was a big sell off. And I think that's how BNSF came to be
back in that time frame, when it purchased Southern Pacific or something. Anyway, I guess that
was my only question. You answered it well. So thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Walker. Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Thank you all for your hard work on this. I really do
appreciate it. And thank you for having things that are written. I also appreciate that-- papers. So
one of the things that we talked about, Dave, was the sustainable versus expansive. And I'm
curious if you can prepare to speak to that on July 9th, that dichotomy and how that interacts
with the scenarios that you all have put forth, please?
DAVE GENOVA: We will. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. Director Guissinger, you are
recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I repeat all the other statements from other people that this was great
work and thank you very much. And I know especially, too, that General Manager Genova and
all of you have been working with DRCOG in the Metro Mayors and the MCC all of the groups
because that's what they're all talking about. And certainly we want to be a part of that, if we can.
And I've mentioned this to a couple of people, and we have something that they don't have that
would be wonderful if we could trade it. And I don't know what the finances are. But that's the
fares. Is there a way to lower fares and ask for more? And I've seen a detailed methodology that
Boulder County went through several years ago. I know it's a big ask. But we're starting T2. I
figured I'd throw it out there.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. We appreciate that. And all ideas
are fair game. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: This should probably come as no surprise to Heather. I have participated on a
national level on both a Managed Lanes Committee and the Standing Committee on Congestion
Pricing. So of course those two items about utilizing tolls and congestion pricing to fund transit
piqued my interest. There's been quite a bit of dialogue nationally on that. And I've probably
been involved in the discussion for about 15 years. I am happy to provide some additional
resources or suggestions as you move forward on this.
DAVE GENOVA: You're hired.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam First Vice Chair. We know that the invitation will be
accepted. The staff has work very hard on this. There has been a tremendous commitment of

energy and resources to responding to this Board's direction and request, direction to come up
with some specific proposed steps that might be followed and recommendations relative to how
the process might go forward. And I think it's been very considered and very helpful. So we
appreciate that.
Are there other further questions relative to staff concerning the first initial draft staff FasTracks
report? Hearing none, bear in mind that, again, we will be discussing this in much greater detail
three weeks from tonight, same time, same bat channel. So just look for us here.
Is there other old business to come before the Board from any Director? Seeing none, is there
any new business that any Director would like to bring forth at this time? The Chair will note
that a request has been made for the Chair to consider the appointment of a special committee to
review litigations and attorneys fees.
That request is being taken under advisement and will be discussed with the Executive
committee so that we can have further discussion relative to that. And there might be individual
discussions with directors as time goes forward. But definitely it is being considered and will be
addressed in the appropriate manner.
Any other new business any Director would like to bring forward at this time? Then let me say
for the sake of those of you in the audience tonight, particularly because the Directors already
know this, there are no scheduled meetings of the RTD Board for the next two weeks. Our next
meetings will be held on Tuesday, July 9th.
And those meetings will include the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee meeting.
And just as a preview, that will include expense policy 2, if you will. We'll return to that to have
that go through full committee and then the FasTracks further discussion.
So seeing no other business to come before this Board, I will at this time entertain a motion to
adjourn the Board meeting of June 18, 2019 as of 7:28 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I have a
motion. Is there a second? There is a second. Any discussion? That motion passes unanimously.
We'll see you all again in July. Thank you.

