Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2012
Page 1 of 10

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

July 11, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
July 10, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair James, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams.

Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:
Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Skip Brown, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Chuck Culig, John Dawson, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Tina Jaquez,
Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Tony McCaulay,
Anthony Menendez, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent
Ratcliff, Jannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Phil Washington, Susan Wood
Others Present:
Dennis Arbogast, Debra Baskett, Heidi Backfield, Matt Becker, Peter
Blake, Bryan Blakely, James Bobick, Ralph Bozella, Courtney Brand,
Michelle Brier, Rod Brown, Mac Callison-City of Aurora, Bernard
Celestin, Matt Christianson-Kiewit, Jeff Cole, Leonard Dinegar, Jane
Donovan, David Dyer, Don Elliman, Dave Erb, Greg Fischer, Charles
Flax, Claudia Folska, Mike Fitzgerald, Jeff Frahm, Nancy Fred, Maria
Garcia-Berry, Lisa Goodbee, Stan Gronek, Mayor Jim Gunning, Lucia
Guatney, Lloyd Herrera, Mayor Steve Hogan, Jeff Holwell, Sherman
Hamilton, Ken Hampshire, Seth Hoffman, Tom Holfert, Dr. Franklin
Jackson, Roxanne Jacobson, Tom Howell-Kiewit, Erika KampeTransportation Solutions, Sheila King, Melanie Keene Knaus, David
Lewis-CAC, Tim Mackin, Tim Madden, John Migliaccio, Peter MuellerPRT Consulting, Rick McClintock, Frank McCurdy, Rick Muntean, Dana
Niemela, Amanda O’Connor, Ryan Parkes, Jim Paulmeno, George Peck,

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2012
Page 2 of 10

RA Plummer, Jim Poggemeyer-Kraemer, Mayor Ron Rakowsky, Laura
Riker, Brad Rodenberg, Richard Romig, Bernie Rogoff, Darron Rowe,
Larry Rushing, Benjamin Sanchez, Commissioner Nancy Sharpe, John
M. Shaw, Roger Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Julie Skeen, Danielle Smith,
Karen Stewart, Marla Stauth, Hunter Sydnor-Kiewit, Jacob Riger –
DRCOG, Chris Taylor, Landri Taylor, Jeff Thompson, Lisa Truong, Ron
Vasonez, James Walker Jr, Martin Willie, David Willman, Jeff
Whiteman, Mark Witkiewicz, Bob Wilson, Susanne WilsonZann&Associates, Doug Wotzkorski, Peter Zurawe.

****
Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair James called the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee meeting to order at 6:55 p.m.

Recommended Actions
 Contract amendment to increase Triunity Engineering & Management, Inc.
annual not-to-exceed limit contract amount (Perez/Ratcliff)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to amend the Triunity Engineering & Management, Inc.
(Triunity) (Contract Number 12DK001B) to increase the contract amount
annual not-to-exceed limit from $500,000 to $1,000,000. The contract is
structured on a negotiated labor hourly rate schedule; for a one-year period
with annual extension options for an additional four (4) years (potential total
contract duration of five (5)-years).
Carla Perez explained to the Board that the Triunity Engineering &
Management, Inc. and DatamanUSA recommended actions go together.
These were associated with an RFP that was put out by RTD to do work on
our contracts associated with our IT activities. We were fortunate to get a
number of proposals but we found that with these two contracts in particular
we were able to accomplish some cost savings goals as well as accomplish
some other objectives. Both contracts are DBE’s and they have put together
some wonderful teams. RTD would normally select 3 or 4 vendors but has
selected only two because these two companies provide us the technical
value that we want along with the financial estimates we were looking for.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at
the July 17, 2012 Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2012
Page 3 of 10

Discussion:

Director Deadwyler asked how we are assessing success and
wondered if RTD itself could handle some of this work.
Carla Perez explained that when looking to these specific
contracts, this is specialized work that RTD does not have the
talent to do or is supplemental to what staff is working on but
those individuals are at capacity.
Director Deadwyler indicated that is seems like the contract IT
projects are ongoing and wondered if any projects had been
completed.
Trent Ratcliff explained that all projects have defined start and
end dates as well as deliverables.
Director Williams expressed that this was a significant increase
and wondered if RTD has been bumping up against the
$500,000 that was allotted in the past and have we been
unable to get some work done because of the budget.
Carla Perez explained that rather than selecting four vendors
with $500,000 limits RTD wanted to select two vendors and
increase the amount.
Director Williams asked if by configuring this way, is there some
kind of cost savings that would have not been otherwise
experienced.
Trent Ratcliff explained that the vendors chosen are some of the
lowest in price with the highest technical merits. This was a
rebid of an existing contract vehicle that was put in place five
years ago and awarded to four different vendors. Since the
evaluation committee of the 11 proposers, the top two on
technical merit and cost were Dataman and Triunity who have a
wonderful set of subcontractors. The 3rd overall highest ranked
vendor was a subcontractor under the other two. So this
contractor was covered but with better pricing.
General Manager Washington explained that this is a work order
contract, so this only says that these two firms will do work for
RTD and be paid only when needed. He explained that as Carla
said, this goes from four contractors to two so that is why RTD
would be upping the not-to-exceed piece. He went on to say
that staff does a cost/benefit analysis. Whenever RTD looks to
do this sort of work, staff looks to see if we can do it in house
and if we have the skills necessary. If we do, we go in house.
If we don’t or if work is short in duration it makes sense to go

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2012
Page 4 of 10

with a consultant. He informed the Board that there are sixteen
different areas in which these DBE contractors will do work for
RTD when needed. He shared that the two contractors selected
do good work. RTD has not missed a payroll, has implemented
a new enterprise resource programming system and changed out
to an ERP system that was delivered on schedule and under
budget. He went on to say that we may not even need the full
$1,000,000. It is up to whenever we need that particular work.
This is a work order deal and we are saving money on this deal.
Director Tobiassen asked if when we do these work orders, do
we pay by the hour or job. Trent Ratcliff explained that these
are typically deliverable based contracts. He stated that we
don’t spend weeks or month writing a scope of work with all
the deliverables. We deliver a short abstract and put the
responsibility on the two vendors to write a detailed proposal
that is deliverable base that we review. This allows us to get
the project more quickly and saves money.
Committee Chair James called the question.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 15
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, James, Kemp, Malpiede,
O’Boyle, McMullen, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and
0 against.
Committee Chair James declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.



Contract amendment to increase DatamanUSA’s annual not-to-exceed limit
contract amount (Perez/Ratcliff)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to amend the DatamanUSA LLC (Contract Number
12DK001A) to increase the contract amount annual not-to-exceed limit from
$500,000 to $1,000,000. The contract is structured on a negotiated labor
hourly rate schedule; for a one-year period with annual extension options for
an additional four (4) years (potential total contract duration of five (5)-years).
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
move this item before the full Board
at the July 17, 2012 Board meeting.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2012
Page 5 of 10

Director Anderson seconded the
motion.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 14
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, James,
Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker
and Williams) and 1 against
(Deadwyler).
Committee Chair James declared
the motion PASSED.



2013-2018 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) (Howerter/Scarpino)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors adopt the 2013-2018 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
Janet Scarpino provided a brief review of the 2013-2018 Strategic Budget
Plan.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
move this item before the full Board
at the July 17, 2012 Board meeting.
Chair Kemp seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Daly commented that he is very happy to see under
Exhibit 1 it says no service reductions are proposed.
Director Deadwyler expressed some frustration that they were
moving through the SBP too quickly. She asked if staff could
provide more directional reference relative to what page they
were on, etc.

Director Tayer commented that as always, the work of the staff
is so excellent and thanked them very much. He informed the
Board there will be a meeting of the Fiscal Sustainability Task
Force next Tuesday. This will be an excellent opportunity for
folks that follow budgets and budget issues to see if they have
any reflections on this that might be of use to the Board as they
move into final approval. He indicated that he guesses that they
will not have anything unusual but it will be interesting.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2012
Page 6 of 10

Director Williams commented on the graph on page 22. She
indicated that it looks like we’re playing pretty close to the line
when you look at budget versus actual until we get to May,
where we’ve had a decrease in revenue over projections.
Director Williams expressed concern if we have sufficient
reserves and what our plan B will be if it is going to continue to
be this close or we are going to fall under the projected line.
Terry Howerter explained that we do have at this point a strong
sales tax receipt year to date. We are at 9.9% above the prior
year. CU Leeds is currently project a little over 8%. We
monitor it, report it each month, and feel that using the CU
Leeds forecast is our best tool at this point.
Director Hoy commented that the 8.33% tax projections
seemed aggressive again but he heard Terry Howerter say we’re
seeing that year to date at this point. He did question how the
I-225 proposal before the board fit into this or was this just
based off operations. Terry Howerter explained that yes, this
was just based off operations.
Director Walker asked for an explanation of the 10% farebox
rate increase. Terry Howerter explained that the 10% was a
blended rate across all media. He indicated this is something
that has always been budgeted but it is a Board option and
something we can choose not to do. Director Walker asked if
the numbers were also run without the 10%. Terry Howerter
indicated that they have not but based on the fund balances
when we get to 2014 it is something that can be talked about
at that time.
Director McMullen indicated that he was not surprised by the
increase in sales tax and Director Anderson added that it is
looking up for the first time since 2008.

Committee Chair James called the question.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 14
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, James,
Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker
and Williams) and 1 against
(Deadwyler).

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2012
Page 7 of 10

Committee Chair James declared
the motion PASSED.
I.

Fiscal Sustainability Recommendations – Update (Howerter/MacLeod)
Terry Howerter explained that this update was addressing revenue and expense items
that have been carrying through the Board Retreat and Fiscal Sustainability
Committee.
He indicated that they wanted to ask the Board for direction on the next steps. Terry
Howerter requested to have a conversation about the Top Tier, Highest Priority item:
Self-collect and audit sales and use taxes. He explained that in order to do this, we
would need to create a bill and have it go through legislation. If the Board was
interested, they would begin moving forward.
Committee Chair James reiterated that this was not to take formal action, just
providing an informal consent for the direction.
Doug MacLeod provided a brief explanation of the pros and cons for each scenario.
Director James reiterated that Doug MacLeod was suggesting that a private
contractor would be a more cost effective way of sales tax collection and that in
order to do this, we need the permission of the legislature. The Finance Department
would like to initiate the preparation of getting ready to go to the legislature to get
that permission, not actually take the action.
Doug MacLeod indicated that yes, Director James was correct.. He also explained
that they have had discussions with the Department of Revenue about doing this
internally versus using a 3rd party. The Department of Revenue did not have any
objections to this. They supported the idea of having exemption parity with the
state, which we do not have right now. Their only concern was the additional filing
requirements for vendors, having to file with RTD separately from the state
Department of Revenue.
Director Bagley commented that in reviewing page 15 and looking at all the items
that are there, he recognizes on his part that these take time to review, implement,
process and work on. He recognizes that fiscal sustainability is a long term project
that will go on forever at RTD and it is prudent work. He is of the opinion that it is
better to be looking forward and to be thinking long term. If we work at it, 3 years
from now we might be there.
Director Tayer provided his support for Director Bagley’s comments. He informed the
Board that the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force will be reviewing this item as well.
Director Tayer asked that understanding the cost may be higher in house versus
using DOR or a 3rd party, what amount of additional revenue is anticipated? He
noted that with some of the contractors they get a 30% initial take for the first year.
Doug MacLeod explained that if we got the 10% increase we would see a
$42,000,000 bump in sales tax but that might be on the high end. We would get a

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2012
Page 8 of 10

onetime increase and not see it again. He informed the Board that in terms of cost,
when the City and County of Denver bought the software they needed it was a cost
of $5 million initially, $1 million annual maintenance and half a million if they wanted
the electronic module so vendors could file electronically. This is a significant initial
investment and ongoing maintenance that a 3rd party would pay. The 3rd party would
charge on a per piece or percentage of revenue basis. He explained that additionally,
the City and County has 98 employees that do the self collection. They think their
audit and follow-up collection counts for 8-10% of total tax revenue and feel that
just the policing ability creases an incentive for folks to make sure they are filling
correctly. RTD does not have that capability right now and we are not sure what the
State does when they audit.
Director Williams spoke about the exemption piece that also requires state legislation.
She felt that if we talk to legislature about the exemption piece it could be a single
title bill. She would like to see the Board make that a recommendation too.
Marla Lien explained that even if the self collect bill passes legislation, the Board will
still need to make a decision about administration. Right now the State collects all
the sales tax, the state does the audits, gets the protests, adjudicates any tax protest
and when we get named we usually dismiss and say it is up to the State. We would
need to start doing that ourselves even with a 3rd party. She explained that there will
still need to be some additional staff to handle what a tax collector deals with and
we can’t absolve ourselves of that.
Marla also explained we always ask for the maximum number of exemptions but a lot
of times we get shut down.
Director Williams further expressed that she believes RTD could get substantial
support to increase our revenues by this exemption piece and that at this point we do
not have anything to lose.
Terry Howerter expressed that he believes the exemptions have been to the
detriment of RTD and that we have lost $12 to $14 million per year on average. He
also supported Marla’s assessment that this will be a heavy lift to self collect and get
through the confidentiality agreement. He informed the Board that we tried to do
this with a 3rd party in 2008 and we could not get through the State’s confidentiality
agreement.
Director Anderson commented that while it sounds daunting and there are a lot of
issues we should go forward with this. She also expressed that having collected for
many cities, Denver is not the only model. Director Anderson provided support for
seeking exemptions as well.
Director Hoy questioned Terry’s comment about the confidentiality. Marla Lien
explained that the issue came to sharing information with non-government
employees. Terry went on to explain that when we tried to do this before it was
tough and we could not see a way to get around the confidentiality agreement.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2012
Page 9 of 10

Director Hoy commented that we should talk to the State to determine if today we
can get a different answer about working through the confidentiality agreement.
General Manager Washington explained that yes, we were essentially taking another
run at it.
Director Hoy asked for further clarification that the additional 10% may be for the
first year only. Terry Howerter explained that once the errors are corrected and
vendors start paying properly, it does not continue to increase.
Director O’Boyle expressed his support for moving forward but did question the cost.
He explained that he would hesitate to make a decision based on using the City and
County of Denver as a single source for cost estimates. He leans toward in-house as
collecting taxes is a government function and this is an easier sell with the
legislature. He also cautioned against a 3rd party and the potential for things you do
not want out in the public becoming public because of the actions of our agents.
Director Deadwyler asked for clarification on the cost. Terry Howerter explained that
we should be able to improve our revenues over time and with outsourcing there is
not different in cost compared with what we pay the State today. Director
Deadwyler also expressed her concerns about monitoring. Whether we moved
forward with a 3rd party or in-house we would need to monitor. Right now we do not
need to worry because the State does that. Terry explained that he does worry
because he does not know what the State is doing. He does not know why they are
auditing someone, who does the auditing, what sources their information comes from
and he has no input in the selection process.
Committee Chair James reiterated that this was just to provide staff with guidance in
investigating moving forward with the legislature. The Board provided its support.
II.

May 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report (Howerter/MacLeod)
Terry Howerter and Doug MacLeod provided a review of the report. Terry mentioned
that when the report was prepared we had not received information from the state
on the current sales tax and the report numbers were estimates. Doug explained that
about $1.8 million of the increase in revenue was from an increase in fares and the
remainder came from things like monthly passes and college passes and indicated
that this is a good sign, especially with the past month’s decrease in routes. He also
indicated that our vendor allowance this year was down from 3.3% to 1.1% and
how we were still up 9.9% in tax revenue over last year. Doug also informed the
Board that with the actual sales tax numbers we would be the budgeted amount. He
also explained that the first quarter receipts were much stronger than the 8.3% SBP
number. This is probably attributed to the strengths we’ve seen in restaurant, car
sales, car leasing.
Director Hoy commented that if we self collected we would know exactly where
these revenues were coming from. Director Tobiassen commented that it could be a
minefield as a question he frequently gets is how much does my city pay versus
another and how much am I getting back.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2012
Page 10 of 10

III.

Other Matters
There were no other matters presented.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – August 14, 2012

V.

Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 8:07 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

