2023-10-02
Operations and Safety Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to this Monday, October 2
Operations and Safety Committee, which will now come to order. For those of you who missed the
introduction, we are just now coming to order. This is the RTD Operations and Safety Committee meeting.
We are convened as of 5:30 straight up. I would respectfully ask that everyone attending the meeting
please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.

Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will continue to be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded as well as live
streamed.

The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings will be posted as soon as
possible on the Board's website. You can visit rtd-denver.com. Live stream of this meeting, as we
mentioned, is also available on RTD's YouTube page.

Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before proceeding to
speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate they would
like to speak by pressing Star 9. To toggle your mute settings on the phone, press Star 6. I would now like
to call the roll for the committee members. Director Bouquet?

JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom? I don't see Director Broom. OK. Director Ruscha?

JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Sloan?

MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore?

TROY WHITMORE: Present.

KATE WILLIAMS: And I am here as much as possible. For the record, I also see-- oh, there-- I saw
Director Catlin. I see Director Guissinger. That's all I see. Am I missing anyone?

DOUG TISDALE: Director Tisdale.

KATE WILLIAMS: Oh. Director Tisdale, my apologies. I'm just so used to seeing your face that I didn't pay
any attention. I would also now like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address this
committee regarding any topic listed in the public meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or
press Star 9 on your phone.

I'd like to note that during this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses.
However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Board staff, are there any hands raised to speak?

JACK KROLL: Hi, Chair Williams. At this time, while we have eight attendees, three of whom are calling in
by phone, it is not indicated right now that any of them have raised their hands to address the committee.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Well, we thank you all for listening in. If you want to speak, last call to raise your
hand. Please bear in mind that participating, you will be recorded. If you don't wish to be recorded, your
comments need to be submitted in writing. Comments can be submitted to the Board Office at that email
address that I gave earlier, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.

I'm hearing somebody not muted. See anybody who's not muted? OK. Having no speakers, I'm going to
ask the Board Office staff if there were any emailed comments received for today's meeting.

JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Williams. We received one emailed comment from a Mr. Jamie Lewis regarding
Q Ride, and that has been distributed to the full Board as of 5:25 PM.

KATE WILLIAMS: And will be included in the minutes of this meeting. OK. With no other participation in
the queue for speakers or emails, we will close the public comment period at this time. There are no
presentations from external entities this month, and there are no recommended actions for this month.

There are two discussion items on the agenda this evening, so we will go directly there. The first item is
for a human resources update, Quarter 2. And I would like to ask Charlene Polege, our Chief People
Officer, to present this item. Ma'am?

CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you, Chair Williamson. Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. And I will be
joined in this presentation-- I'll be introducing Don Ronyak. He will be joining to do a piece of this, our Q2
update for HR on talent acquisition.

I respectfully apologize. I did try to update Zoom, but I'm restricted from doing such a thing for some
reason on my laptop. So I'm coming to you off of my cell phone. So if you bear with me, I have asked the
Board Office to work the slides for us this evening. So if we could progress to the next slide, please.

So our presentation tonight, we're going to do our HR dashboard, or as we refer to it, our People Power.
And then as I mentioned, I'll have Don Ronyak join us. And he's going to give an overview of talent
acquisition at RTD, specifically from a high level, just give a high-level overview of our process. Next
slide, please.

So when we go to People Power-- you can advance again, thank you-- when we go to People Power, I
want to take a look here. And this slide is a little bit different than prior committees. This is our Q2 update.
Since we now have data from Q1 and Q2, we aren't just comparing to 2022 any longer. We will be
building out the remainder of the year.

So what you see before you are our metrics for Q2, which is April 1 to June 30. And I'm just going to go
off of my slides as well. My eyes aren't that-- they're not that great. It's hard to see these tiny slides on the
screen of my phone.

So what we'll see is in Q2, we had 133 hired. So that is nonrepresented and represented positions. It
excludes any contract positions that we may have.

When you're looking at Q1 and Q2 and you do the projections forward, as you saw in 2022 we hired 506
full and part-time employees, and we're projecting to be roughly about-- between 500 and 550 would be
our projections if Q3 and Q4 hold with similar numbers.

Our separated employees, unfortunately we're still tracking to-- we still are on pace. There's been a very
little change. So on one side, it's a positive because the number isn't growing, but we are still having on
average one employee turnover per day. So that would put us at roughly 365 throughout the year. So
that's certainly an area that we continue to be focused on. And I did talk at length on some strategies in
Q1 with respect to retention, and I'll be bringing retention focus in Q3. Overall, though-- yes?

KATE WILLIAMS: One second. There are people having issues with Zoom, who are having problems
seeing the slides. So I'm just letting you know that to make sure that you know that you need to explain
them a little more than you would otherwise.

CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. So I'll just give-- effectively, this slide is showing the
number of hired full time and part time and the number of separated full and part-time employees over
2022 and through each quarter. And I'll just step back just for that clarity.

In 2022, there were 506 new hires, again, excluding contractors, just full and part time. In Q1 of 2023,
sticking with number of new hires, there were 148. And in Q2, we had 133. So at present, we've got 281
new hires, up to June 30 again.

Separated in 2022, there were 390 separations. In Q1 of 2023, there were 82. And in Q2, we had a slight
uptick at 90. But as I said, we're tracking to be roughly 365, which is roughly one employee turning over
per day.

If we're looking at total vacancy rate, the vacancy rate based on budgeted positions, our number of
employees, active full-time and part-time employees as of June 30 is 2,717 against-- if you put that
against a budgeted number of 3,199, you get a 15% vacancy rate. That compared to 2022 is a 2%

reduction. So if we maintain-- hopefully, we can improve on that as we continue through the rest of the
year. But at present, we're sitting at a 15% vacancy rate.

Moving on to the next slide where we're talking about-- I want to drill a little bit deeper, as I've been
sharing in the prior Q1 update. Vacancy rates for primary areas of bus operations, rail operations, and
transit police.

For the purposes-- for those of you who can see the slide-- and I'll give more detail for those who cannot.
But the slide is tracking-- we've set a benchmark of 15% So if a particular area has a vacancy rate in
excess of 15% and we were trending in a negative trajectory, that would indicate a red arrow on the
slides.

If it is greater than 15% but we're projecting in a positive direction-- so that vacancy rate is coming down-it would be yellow. And if it's positive in that it's less than 15% and we're seeing a positive trend, we
identify that with a green arrow. If there's no arrow-- and I'll highlight this when I go through-- that means
there's no change from the previous quarter.

So moving on to bus operations. So if we're looking at our full-time bus operators, the vacancy rate for
full-time bus operators remains at 20%. There is no change from Q1. That number is flat. Certainly, it's
over the 15% threshold that we've established, so we're still continuing our efforts within bus operations
and trying to push that down into that 15% category or better. With our part-time bus operators, we did
see a slight increase, up 2% of 7%-- to 17% vacancy rate overall last quarter. It was at 15%.

Looking at our maintenance and general repair and body shop. So this number sits at 22%. So again, it's
above the threshold, but it's trending positively down the vacancy rate. And in fact, really strong gains.
That's an 11% turn. And that equated-- primarily it's in the general maintenance category, and that
resulted in-- that's the impact of having 10 new hires between Q1 and Q2.

Another positive trend we saw in bus operations overall, you'll see the service and cleaning and service
vault positions. That's a significant drop down to a 10% vacancy rate. And that's in the green. And there's
been tremendous work-- there's real partnership within the bus operations team, with the talent

acquisition team, and is really paying off some dividends with having that additional collaboration and
partnership.

Moving on to rail operations. Rail operations, similar to the part-time bus operators, we saw a slight uptick
in the vacancy rate for the rail operators. It sits at 19% at this point within Q2. However, that's still better
than it was at the end of 2022 by 3%, but it's still not where we need it to be, and it's a slight growth from
Q1.

Our part-time rail operators, there's no change there. We have just a few positions, and those positions
for part time are filled and remain filled. We have, again, seen-- similar to bus operations, we've seen
some improvement in our light rail vehicle maintenance. Still a high vacancy rate at 29%. And our
maintenance of way, again, still a high vacancy rate of 37%.

What's critical here that I want to just flag-- and we're really working hard here, and HR's partnering with
the AGM, Mr. Jensen, to try to figure out, how can we attract these very-- these really significant
positions, in particular like our track maintainers? They're sitting at a 50% vacancy rate.

And that is really impactful, but we're having little to no traction. With 50% in Q1, it was 50% at the end of
2022. So I have had even some preliminary conversations with the president of the ATU 1001, and we've
been discussing some strategies that we may be able to somehow partner together to get these positions
filled.

Moving on to transit police, you'll see here-- again, I appreciate some people can't see the slides. But
from a senior leadership perspective-- again, this ends at the end of Q2, which is June 30. Chief
Fitzgerald has been able to fill nearly all of the senior leadership positions as of June 30.

We've got-- our corporals are sitting at a 50% vacancy rate. I believe that's four of eight positions are
filled, so therefore, four vacant. But again, I know that there's been a lot of work in Q3, and I'm hopeful
that in Q3 that number will improve significantly.

And the same goes with our police officers. So we have a 74% vacancy rate for our police officers. That
certainly is trending down. Obviously, it's significant, 74% vacancy rate. But again, there's been some real
movement with the transit police department.

And with Chief Fitzgerald getting those leadership positions filled, I can positively say that when we come
back and do a Q3 reporting, you'll see a significant movement there. And I still believe there's well over 40
applicants in the queue at various stages in the recruitment process.

And we are close to a filling-- you've heard me talk about having a dedicated recruiter, solely dedicated to
the transit police. And we are close. Hopeful in the next couple weeks that we'll actually have that position
filled. I'm going to pause just to see if there's any general questions here, because there was a lot of
information that I provided in a short period of time. I can't see if there's questions, Chair, so--

KATE WILLIAMS: I don't see any. Let me look. Gallery. I don't see any hands raised.

CHARLENE POLEGE: Great. Wonderful. There's time at the end, but I thought just because of the
amount of information. So also, as we shared in Q1, as we introduced in Q1, we are tracking our
turnover. And so in Q2, what you see represented here is the breakdown of our turnover. Turnover-- the
majority, 80% of our turnover in Q2 is voluntary. The leading reason for separation is retirement. That was
the same in Q1, and we are projecting that trend to hold.

It should not be a surprise to us certainly that people are retiring. We want them to have a lengthy career
and then move on when they're ready to do so, so we're definitely seeing that steady pace. 12 of the total
number of individuals who voluntarily turned over in Q2 were retirees.

And then the same trend as we saw in Q1. The bulk of individuals who are choosing to leave aside from
retirement are quoting reasons such as family reasons, got another job, they've moved. So these are
things that we're looking at a little bit deeper.

Exit interviews is where we get this information, and/or when individuals are just sharing their intentions to
depart RTD. We're going to start looking at some of our stay interviews as well to see if we can start
catching a correlation, just to try to get more information and understanding so that we can develop more

purposeful strategies as to how we can, again, cut that turnover, overall turnover rate of one employee
per day.

So from a people power and our metrics perspective, that's our Q2 reporting. I would highlight that Q3 just
closed, as we're aware, on September 30. And so we will be bringing Q3 HR People Power metrics to the
November Operations and Safety Committee meeting.

So now I'd like to move on to the talent acquisition portion of our update today. And I'm going to ask Don
Ronyak to step in, and I'll certainly supplement as we go along if I have anything to add.

But what I do want to say as I introduce Don is that we wanted to bring this overview to the Operations
and Safety Committee because I appreciate that many of the directors, many of you get-- members of this
committee get questions from the community on the application process. So we thought it would be good
to share the unique and complex recruitment process and the specific reasons behind that to try to give
some context, and then also to explain some of the things that we're going to be doing moving forward.
So at this point, I'd like to ask and introduce Don Ronyak, who is our Manager of Talent Acquisition, to
jump in and walk us through the presentation from here.

DON RONYAK: Sure. Thank you, Charlene. Good evening, everybody. Again for the record, my name is
Don Ronyak, Manager of Talent Acquisition. Tonight, I want to take you through a few areas just to give
you a brief overview of the process, the people involved in the process, a little bit about the candidate or
applicant communication, and touch on some of the 2023 projected statistics moving forward.

So with that said, we can move on to the People Power slide. When we think about recruitment, most
folks think about the recruiter, the hiring manager, and the applicant, which all play a significant role in the
process. Beyond those three obvious positions or folks, there's additional support that's provided behind
the scenes that a lot of people may not see.

And so when we look at People Power in the talent acquisition process, again, we have the hiring
manager who will identify where those vacancies are, submit requisitions to fill positions. They will work

closely with the town acquisition specialist who operates as the recruiter to manage the full life cycle
recruitment of the candidate into the RTD system.

Then we have the job applicant, who also has some responsibilities in the process, which we'll talk about
a little bit later. And then beyond that, we have subject matter experts that you may see on interview or
assessment panels, that provide us with services in terms of evaluating applicants and their fit for
positions. Because they are subject matter experts, either in transit, in the industry, internally or
externally, they provide great value to the process.

We also have compensation specialists for our nonrepresented positions that once we identify a
candidate for hire, compensation specialists will review that candidate's resume relative to experience
and education and determine what an appropriate pay would look like. So they essentially make salary
determinations for us in compliance with the Colorado Equal Pay Act. So I mean, imagine almost 3,000
employees and trying to keep that straight from external equity and managing what those salary offers
look like.

Beyond compensation, we have Equal Employment Opportunity specialists that are involved, involved
heavily, 100% in the nonrepresented positions in determining how that process went. They audit the
process, the hiring process, from applicant flow all the way to hire. And so what they look at very closely
and scrutinize is the applicant pool in general. Did recruitment get a good pool of applicants? Do we have
a diverse panel? Are questions adequate for the position that we're hiring for?

And they too have regulatory authority when it comes to the hiring process, and very involved. And under
the auspices of FTA as well. So they are subject to audits from external entities, and they do an excellent
job of keeping us in line with best practice from that perspective.

Our human resource management systems analyst plays a key role as well. So we do have a Workday
system, our Human Capital Management System, that I believe everybody on the call is familiar with. So
when something may not go as planned or we need to troubleshoot an issue with a candidate-- maybe
there's a duplicate name, maybe there's a duplicate record, something doesn't line up-- we call on our
HRMS to help us navigate that. So that's a critical piece of this team.

Our Labor Relations group does an outstanding job. As we get positions, represented positions, we want
to make sure that those are posted internally for a period of time. So we submit those to our Labor
Relations group and they facilitate that process for us.

We have a compliance group. So everybody that comes into the RTD system will be subject to a preemployment drug test. And depending on the position, some may go for additional testing for preemployment medical to determine their ability to work in a certain capacity. So that's a critical component
for us as well.

Once we get to a point in time where we can make a conditional offer, we will launch a background
check, verification information. RTD will verify academics, employment history, and provide a criminal
background check to the selected candidate as we move forward. Should a flag or anything occur in that
background check, that causes us to take a closer look.

We often share that with our legal counsel for additional guidance. As a second chance employer, our
legal counsel will look at the position, will look at previous history and make an assessment as to whether
or not a candidate should be allowed to move forward in the process. So a very valuable piece of this
process comes out of legal counsel.

And then at the end, myself, again, accountable for the entire process at the end of the day. There's a lot
of moving parts, and we want to make sure it goes well. There's huge opportunities for growth within that
process, but there's checks and balances along the way, as you can see.

The process itself will start with the initiation phase. And we broke this into a few-- several processes. But
the first phase we'll call initiation phase where we have a vacant position. And so from that vacant
position, if it's a backfill-type position such as a bus operator, those are quickly-- more quickly and easily
flowing through our system as opposed to a new position, which may have been created new to RTD's
system.

In those cases where we have a new position, it may go through a subprocess. So each one of these
boxes that you see, there may be several subprocesses underneath them, depending on which type of
position we're recruiting for.

In general, you'll see that high recruiter touch to low recruiter touch, as the requisition moves through the
process, a recruiter's assigned. Position's posted generally for two weeks, in some cases longer for hardto-fill positions or unique skill sets. Applications are received and candidates are notified.

And we can move on to the selection phase. The next phase of this process is the application review
where we screen applicants, interview and assess, and make a selection decision. So again, here there's
joint responsibilities between the recruiter or the town acquisition specialist and the hiring manager to get
us through to a selection decision where we actually move into the final phase, which we'll call conditional
hire.

At this point in time, a compensation assignment is made or determination. Again, these are for
nonrepresented positions. For represented positions, we rely obviously on the collective bargaining
agreement where those rates are already preset for us .

We go through the EEO review with our Civil Rights Division. We issue a conditional offer to the
candidate. And at that point, we launch the verification process, the criminal background check, and any
additional medical assessments that may be needed.

Again, position-dependent. Not every position in RTD will undergo a medical assessment. All positions at
the current time will go through a drug screen and DMV check for those folks that are driving or have
driving responsibilities in the RTD system. So again, high recruiter touch. Multiple people involved in this
process. Civil Rights, again, reviews every singular position of the nonrepresented side, looking for those
items that I mentioned earlier.

Our compliance process is in full tact, and there's heavy candidate touch. And what I mean by that is
some of the onus on the process that impacts our time to fill does rest with the candidate. If we have a

highly motivated applicant that is ready to join RTD right now, they're going to get that link from us to go
take their medical and drug screening assessments and get that taken care of immediately.

In some cases, we do have to prompt and remind candidates, hey, before we move forward, we need to
complete this, that, and the other step. And then once we get all that information back, we can move it
forward. So the average time kind of in this part of the process, the conditional hire phase, we're looking
at 15 to 30 days, again, depending on the position.

And as we get to the final hiring phase, applicant is clear to hire. At this point, we have all the information
back on the candidate. Everything lines up. It looks good.

The candidate then in most cases will give a two-week notice to an employer if they're currently
employed, and sometimes more. Sometimes it's 30 days, sometimes longer. Where candidates are not
currently employed, this phase can move a little bit quicker.

But from our experience, most of the folks that we hire do want to provide that courtesy to their current
employer to give that adequate notice that they're moving on to another position or another organization.
So that does add some time to the process, but it's important that we make sure we get here before we
have candidates leaving existing positions. We want to make sure that everything lines up appropriately.

From there, we do invite our selected candidate to new employee orientation, which we run every other
Monday. So depending on the cycle, we'll try and get a candidate scheduled for a new employee
orientation as soon as possible. Sometimes that could be within a week or two weeks or three weeks,
depending on all those steps that the candidate has to clear, all the hurdles that we have to clear to get
them to that point in time.

From there, we get into a new hire orientation where the recruitment staff kind of hands off to the HR
group to complete the hiring process with new employee onboarding documentation, et cetera. From that
point in time, the candidate is then introduced-- reintroduced to the hiring manager, and they're kind of off
and running within the hiring manager's training protocols. You can move to the next slide.

And this slide, we wanted to illustrate at the outset, every candidate that applies to RTD will receive an
automated message thanking them for applying to the organization and letting them know if they are
being considered, additional communication will follow. So some applicants will get additional information
as they progress into a shortlist or finalist or the final candidate.

So the finalists obviously will receive that conditional offer or regret. Say, you're in the top five. It is our
best practice to communicate with that top group at some point in time if they were not selected.
Obviously, the final candidate being selected will know their start date. They will have additional
communication, et cetera. Those that are not selected but are in that final tier of consideration will be
contacted at a point in time.

And so at that point in time-- again, it could be immediate. It could be after that candidate, the final
candidate is placed, or somewhere along that spectrum. And so some of the reasons for not sending
immediate communication, because we have had times in the past-- and true in all businesses where you
hire a final candidate, your chosen individual. And for some reason at the 12th hour, that doesn't work
out. We want to reevaluate all of our finalists to see if we can make a good fit.

Oftentimes, yeah, we absolutely can make a good fit from folks that were not initially selected, but were
extremely competitive and have great skill sets. So the timeliness of that communication is going to vary.

So for 2023, what we're looking at right now, we're projecting over 14,000 applications coming into the
RTD system. We're projecting over 500 hires for this year. Currently, we have six talent acquisition
specialists that are divided by department and work group, working exclusively with those groups to meet
their needs.

We are, as Charlene mentioned earlier, out recruiting for an additional dedicated police recruiter, which
we're excited to be able to have that position as the growth in transit police is impressive, and we really
want to support that in a good way. So we're excited to be able to have that.

And we have one other position that we're trying to recruit for that will assist us with our light rail and rail
operations. So we're excited about those two in progress.

Each talent acquisition specialist on average will work with approximately 10 to 15 different hiring
managers and their vacancies. So as you can tell, there's a lot of moving parts, again, going on. And their
ability to juggle the positions in a good way, pay attention to the detail that needs to be adhered to, stay
compliant with all the regulatory requirements of the day, it's a big ask. But we have a very talented group
that I'm excited about, and we're building, I feel, a very good team in this capacity.

With all that said, the average time to fill, again, 75 to 165 in terms of days for nonrepresented positions.
For represented positions, that number can be significantly lower. Bus operator, for example, a position
that's traditional backfilled, continually open on our job board. We can have a candidate apply one month
and actually make it through the process to be hired and orientation almost the following month.

So again, position-dependent. And depending on the candidates' drive to get in the organization, our
ability to manage the flow, and verify all the processes and all the regulatory compliance requirements are
being met, we can move on those items.

With that, I know I went fast on that, but just wanted to give you a general overview. And happy to answer
any general questions at this point.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. I see Director Rosenthal has his hand up.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. Ronyak. So during that process-- and I do
sense that you and your team are really trying to speed through the hiring process as fast as you can.
And it's not all up to you because the applicants actually have to get through the process, provide
documents, et cetera.

What is the attrition rate like? So the people who actually start off the hiring process and it looks like
they're going to be hired, is there a sense-- like, a lot of them drop out because it's either too long or they
find something else? Or what is that-- for lack of a better way to put it, the attrition rate of folks who are
starting the hiring process who don't end up actually starting work at RTD?

DON RONYAK: That's a great question. And again, there's a variety of reasons why that might happen.
This year, we're anticipating 14,000 applicants into the system with 500 hires. So you can imagine, there's

over 13,000 people that will not be hired for some reason or another. There are folks that drop out once
they realize different things are going to occur.

So it is a very structured, stringent process in terms of the regulations that we have to comply with. We've
had people tell us, I didn't really know we had to do a drug test. I though you just told people that. No,
that's not true. It is part of the process.

We've had people not provide full and accurate information along the way, so we've had to make some
determinations on why that was the way it was. We go through the background check process where we
verify academics. There are times when those things are not able to be verified. Employment histories
need to be verified. There's a variety of reasons.

And timing certainly is an issue. There are candidates in the market that are extremely talented, well
qualified. When they go out to look for a job, they're interviewing with multiple companies. And our ability
to compete with private sector and folks that can move quicker downstream, that is always a concern.

We will always do our due diligence. We will not skip a step. We do have heavy regulatory compliance
requirements, and we try to explain that to the candidate at the outset so they know, hey, all these things
have to happen before I can actually start my journey with RTD.

So in a lot of ways, it is an education process, knowing that there are so many hurdles that folks have to
go through. It's not a perfect system, but we're looking at every element in there. We're trying to tweak it
to make it work for us in a good way and do the due diligence that people expect from us.

CHARLENE POLEGE: Yeah. And if I could, I just-- if I could just add, so specifically, I don't believe we
are tracking that specific attrition rate. Without question, there are definitely candidates, as Don has
alluded to, who by the time they get through this whole-- we get through this whole process certainly have
moved on to another opportunity. So there's a variety of reasons.

What I would say, and why this process for us was important to go through, is we are focused on what
we're calling a recruitment tactic, a strategy to streamline and refine and revamp our recruitment process

so that we can shorten those windows of time so that we can keep-- maybe we need to do more
communication. If we do, how are we going to do that?

So we're really looking at it all holistically, and then rebuilding it and revamping it. So don't know the exact
number, but certainly it would not be prudent to say we haven't lost candidates because of the time. But I
would also say it's really important that we maintain the quality of our workforce, given the high focus on
safety.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then my second and last question-- thank you, Madam Chair-- is relating to the
process itself in terms of, how are we keeping in contact with folks who have applied and are going
through the hiring process in terms of saying, look, we know you're waiting. We're in the process. We're
processing now. Thank you so much. Maybe just a weekly touch base, a cool video from a bus driver or
something like that to just sort of let them know we haven't forgotten about them.

Because when people apply for jobs, there may be a recruiter involved or what have you who may be
their main contact person who can get back to them. But oftentimes, they don't hear anything. It's like, do
they even know I exist? You know, and that may take days or several weeks. I think just maybe once a
week, are we getting back to say hey, we know you're still here. We're processing this. Or you still need to
owe us something. What is the touch base sort of dynamic there?

DON RONYAK: Oh, that's a great question. I will tell you once we get to that phase, there is a regular
communication where we identify a finalist. I'm going through that process right now currently. There is a
weekly touchpoint where go back and explain, this is what it looks like moving forward.

We need the EEO review. We need our compensation review. We need for you, candidate, to complete
that drug test. We need to get the credential verifications back. Once everything lines up, we can move
forward. And so part of it is the candidate needs a little bit of patience and understanding of what this
looks like, and we need to do a good job of explaining what that roadmap looks like into that Day 1
orientation.

CHARLENE POLEGE: Also-- sorry-- the other thing is candidates at any time-- and correct me, Don, if my
statement isn't accurate. But candidates can, because it's through Workday, can go into Workday and
check on the status of their application. Whether they apply for one or 10 jobs with RTD, they can go in
and look at the status as well.

I appreciate it may not be the same as having a person reach out all the time. But at the same time,
respective of 14,000 applications, as Don said, once they've made it through the process to a particular
stage, there's very regular communication.

But the initial automatic email, not every person who applies is suitable for the position they're applying
for. And so they would see that update, but they're not going to be provided updates regularly if they're
screened out of the process. But there's definitely room for improvement.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?

KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, absolutely, Ms. Johnson.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, Chair Williams. And I just wanted to add on to what Mr.
Ronyak and Ms. Polege have talked about. One thing I think that is very important to recognize is that we
have vacancies within human resources as well. So that in-depth review that Mr. Ronyak did relative to all
the touchpoints are critically important as we go forward because quite naturally, we would love to reach
out to the myriad of applicants and guide them through the process. But I'd be the first to say that that's
not realistic, recognizing where we are.

And so what we are trying to do, as I've stated numerous occasions as it relates to where we are as an
organization, our three initiatives that have spawned from our strategic priorities are Back to Basics,
People Power, and a Welcoming Transit Environment. And so recognizing that we do have a laser
focused on People Power, what we are trying to do is ascertain how we can retain talent and how we can
be more competitive.

And with that as a backdrop as we go forward is basically honing in and managing expectations. So what
Ms. Polege and Mr. Ronyak and I talked about just about two weeks ago is managing the expectation so

when somebody applies for a position, we can qualify that by stating, expect to be-- if you're a qualified
candidate, expect to hear from us about an interview process that will take place within this time frame. If
you make it to the next phase, expect it from this time frame.

So people can make informed decisions. If they're actively seeking recruitment or actively seeking
employment from a multitude of employers, they have an understanding when they might hear something
back from us. So I just wanted to share that with all of you because I think that's a very important piece of
the puzzle because not only do we have human resources vacancies, also on the EEO side as well. And
so those go in tandem.

And for those of you that were a part of the Performance Committee this morning, that issue came up as
we related to our employee satisfaction survey because quite naturally, we have to ensure that we are
creating an environment where there is a level playing field for Equal Employment Opportunity, and we
have vacancies in those areas as well. So thank you very much, Madam Chair, for allowing me the
opportunity to share that information, which I think is critical to this discussion.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Anyone else? Director Ruscha, you had your hand up, took it
down. It's up, it's down, it's up. It's up. She's up. OK, you have the floor.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So the slide talks about 500 projected new hires. I wasn't
sure if that's positions open or folks that we expect to hire. And I was wondering if I can get clarification
because we always have some number of jobs open. And so if I could get that question answered first.

DON RONYAK: So our projection is to fill 500 requisitions. A requisition for a singular position, those are
full-time regular positions, not contract positions. Those are full-time, regular positions throughout the
organization.

KATE WILLIAMS: Ms. Johnson, I see-- did you want to add to that? No. Leftover hand. OK. Director
Ruscha, was that your answer? Your-- go ahead.

JOYANN RUSCHA: I'll just go ahead and-- I'll just keep going, if I may, Madam Chair. So we have a
shortage of bus operators. Can someone address even just ballpark, how many openings do we have
right now? How many bus operator openings do we have right now?

And even if it's just a ballpark. Or high level, how many applications are we getting right now? And then
back to that new hire question and the acquisition of new talent projection, how many of those are
expected to be operators, and how many of those will be RTD PD?

CHARLENE POLEGE: So if I may, Madam Chair, so Director Ruscha, as of June 30, 173 open bus
operator positions as of June 30. And so that's that number that you were looking for, what's the actual
number. And that continues to track in a-- as I said, it's flat. So we are recruiting every two weeks. There
are new bus operators in.

But we do have-- bus operators are our largest employee group. And so those retirees that we're seeing
where it's 11 in last quarter and 12 in this quarter, the majority of those are bus operators. So it is that 173
we also will be projecting to have more retirees in there, so that number becomes larger as we go. So it
kind of does this, right?

So that's that question. Your other question was of the-- what percentage, you said, would be-- what was
your other question? Because you had a few in there.

JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, Madam Chair?

KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Please go ahead.

JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thanks. And then I was asking just generally speaking, how many applications
are we getting, whether it's-- however we track that for operators?

CHARLENE POLEGE: I'm not sure if we have that at the ready in this meeting. Certainly, it's something
that we could look at. I don't think we have-- I mean, of that 14,000, what the breakdown is on operator
applications I'm not certain. But it's certainly something we can step away and look at and see if we can
pull that number.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I think that would be helpful. And then the other question I had-- yes, of
the projected hires, the 500, if you had an idea of how many of those would be operators and how many
would be RTD PD, understanding that those, to my understanding, are some key needs for the agency.

CHARLENE POLEGE: So of the total 500, again, I'd have to go back. We'd have to look-- to look at how
many-- because we're forecasting, right? So what percentage we're at. When it comes to-- for the bus
operators, we'd have to go back and look. The transit police department, if we're just looking at officers,
I'm hopeful that in that 500-- and I'm sure Chief Fitzgerald is hopeful that 50 of those are police officers of
both cadet and lateral officers.

KATE WILLIAMS: Ms. Johnson, do you have input on this one?

DEBRA JOHNSON: I do. I just wanted to add some context because I recall the last occasion in which we
had this update. It seems as if there were some confusions relative to the numbers. So for everybody
that's tuning in that may review this at a later date, it's important to state that we do have contracted
employees. And while Ms. Polege and Mr. Ronyak have stated numbers relative to positions and
vacancies, those are RTD directly hired positions.

Just at the Board meeting last week, we had public comments whereby we were provided some
astronomical number by a public commenter, and I believe that number was conflated as related to our
contracted services provider. So I just want to state for the record that this information is pertaining to
RTD directly hired employees because 50%-- approximately 50% of our services are contracted out, so
thank you very much.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. That's good information. I see-- Director Ruscha, are you good? Can I let
somebody else have the floor for a little bit?

JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you so much.

KATE WILLIAMS: If you have more, we can come back. We'll come back. Director Guissinger?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And thanks very much, Ms. Polege and Mr. Ronyak. It's always a good
presentation and helpful information. I'm just wondering about-- and I ask this with the awareness that you
have a lot of HR needs to fill in terms of staff as well.

But I think that there are workforce programs, which you probably know more about than I do, but with all
of our counties. I know the state has one. I'm sure some of the cities do. And with 15 directors, I'm
wondering if we can help with any of that. There's also second chance programs out of various different
state agencies and other groups.

And where are we on that? Do you feel like we're able to take advantage of those? I'm thinking that
maybe some of those help answer some of the questions for us in terms of weeding-- I shouldn't say that,
but in terms of going through the applications and whether they meet some of our requirements.

DON RONYAK: I'd say, no, I appreciate that comment. It's always good, and I probably get three, four,
five emails a week of different community-type events that are going on. Say, hey, we should participate
in this, and we should outreach here and connect with this organization.

We are making partnerships with the Denver Workforce Center and workforce centers throughout our
region to make sure that we are recognized as a pipeline for talent for our community. So what I mean by
that is a specific example, we've connected with Denver Workforce Center to provide information
sessions on a fairly regular basis.

We have a center in Montbello that we're working with now. We're working with our partners at DIA where
the other Denver Workforce Center is in downtown at the Webb Building. So between those three and
some external workforce centers in Arapahoe and Douglas County, we're able to get some visibility where
previously we may not have been visible.

How can Board members help? I mean, I would say continue to funnel information into us where you see
there could be an opportunity for connection. We will do our best. We have a great community outreach
program that represents not only RTD and other facets of the business, but they also can share
information on recruitment.

So we can expand our coverage outside of our six recruitment staff. We can expand that to other internal
staff within RTD to cover additional area for that community visibility, which I think is important. I think that
would be a good way to support that. Again, funnel that information in and we'll make our concerted effort
to reach out where we can.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.

DON RONYAK: Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you both. Director Guissinger, hand down.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I will.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Did I see any other hands? Anyone else? That was a great presentation. I
appreciate you both.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Oops sorry.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Seeing no other hands, we're going to move to the next item on our agenda, which
is the RTD Transit police department update. And I see Dr. Fitzgerald, our Chief of Police. And I'm
assuming he has some information for us. You have the floor, sir.

JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you, Madam Chair. With your permission, I'll continue. In January of 2021,
Ms. Johnson, our GM and CEO submitted a written request to APTA, the American Public Transportation
Agency, for peer review of our existing security model. APTA convened. And the peer review panel
consisted of fellow SMEs, Subject Matter Experts in transit policing.

So in 2022-- August of 2022, I should say-- upon my hire began implementing their recommendations.
That was provided in a Board report and is continued within this document. The PowerPoint presentation
that's associated with this, with the Board report itself, describes in a high level our strategies, operational
and strategic, that we use while delineating those we anticipate will affect us in the future and what we've
done to affect conditions now.

So as pretty much a quick recap of the document you have, the overarching strategy for RTD PD is
founded in the following areas. Proactive and positive community engagement and forming partnerships
like exercising full arrest processing powers in six of our eight counties and engaging in continuous
discussions with entities like Denver on the same.

We also focus on crime prevention, chronic offenders, intentional and a phased approach at internal
growth. That includes hiring our sworn officers that in effect greatly improves our chances of having high
performance and our interaction outcomes with folks on the street. Application of intelligent and evidencebased policing models to attack complex problems that we see in our communities today and the
promotion of organizational-wide CPTED. That's Crime Prevention Through Environmental Pres-- Design,
excuse me. So with your permission, Madam Chair, I'll pivot to the actual PowerPoint presentation.

KATE WILLIAMS: That would be fine, Chief. Thank you.

JOEL FITZGERALD: Share screen with you. All right. So as you see, there are four overview areas that
this PowerPoint will touch on. It's our strategic implementation, evidence-based policing, strategic
priorities alignment, and performance data outputs.

Under strategic implementation, what you see is Back to Basics. Ms. Johnson just spoke to Back to
Basics, People Power, and creating a welcoming transit environment as being fundamental to what we
provide in the transit environment and what we provide to our stakeholders. As such, leveraging signage
to educate customers on our Back to Basics approach, which includes fundamental changes to the
Respect the Ride program, our improved customer engagement, how we seek to educate folks and seek
to implement those changes, People Power, our sworn expansion model.

How we intend on recruiting and retaining the best in policing, our cadet program, the future of policing,
how we reach into the universities and engage with folks who want to work within a police department
and maybe decide whether or not they want this to be a career. And then ultimately, creating a Welcome
Transit Environment. One of the things we're doing is creating a paid fare area at Denver Union Station.
The architectural designs are at 100%, so further implementation and conversations have to occur, but
the architectural designs are in.

And some of our technological advancements. For example, our live look in on our vehicles. There was
mention made of operators, and in particular, operator assaults. So in our buses and light rail vehicles,
you'll see that we've made tremendous-- tremendous change, tremendous progress. Over 756 buses and
16 light rail vehicles at the time of this particular presentation, at the time that it was made, were installed
already.

Moving forward, under our deployment model, you see People Power again. The internal police
expansion, one of the questions that came up is the hiring of police officers. And what you'll see is a
tiered approach where we're strategically implementing a transition from sworn police officers to-correction, from security officers to a strong sworn police presence.

That includes creating employee buy-in. That's us meeting with members of RTD outside of policing to
ensure that operators, people inside, leadership, and other facets of RTD understand what it is we're
doing and why.

Our focus on diversity, equity, inclusiveness, and belonging. One indicator for that is visible, how visibly
diverse our department is. But in addition to that, we've sworn-- well, we took the Pledge for the 30 by 30.
30 by 30 is pledging to hire 30% female officers by 2030. We took that pledge and intend to meet that
aggressive timeline for hiring 30% female officers at very least.

And these things enhance our customer service. Having a professional police department, folks that can
walk things through from beginning to end is important to our customer and will be important to our transit
environment. In Back to Basics, we leverage data now to inform our decision making. What does that
mean? It is looking at changes in shifts, in deployment practices based upon time and spatial dynamics.

What things are happening, when they're happening, and who's committing them? That includes focusing
on chronic offenders and making sure that the chronic offenders are removed from the system.

We also, last but not least, cannot forget the emergency management emphasis we place upon the
entirety of the system. We hired a new emergency management specialist who's doing a phenomenal job.

And I'll describe some of the things in detail a little bit later in the presentation that have advanced upon
that person's hire.

As I spoke to, our emergency management changes have led to an Emergency Operations Plan,
Continuity of Operations Plan, Continuous improvement in the form of training and exercise. Exercises.
There was one question in a meeting at least a week ago, and it spoke to training exercises. And this is
something that's being coordinated through our Emergency Management Office and through the safety
department, which we hope to expand upon in 2024.

We have really aggressive timelines about meeting these necessary advancements and understanding
that by training, we create muscle memory, and muscle memory makes us a more professional and safe
environment. That includes our after action reporting processes, which have really taken off since the
implementation of all of the Emergency Operations Plans, the Continuity of Operations Plans that we've
put in place since my hire.

Evidence-based policing is an area that I spoke to earlier. It runs hand-in-hand with intelligence-led
policing. That's creating priorities for our department that are based on science, math, and actual
understanding of policing.

We've added sworn patrol officers to our patrol sectors. We have commanders in each sector, as I
described before, but we've redone our organizational chart and started placing officers under each
commander. And as we grow, those officers responding to the separate sectors within our organization
based upon, again, call volume and deployment strategies will grow.

That'll make it more tactical and precise in our deployment. It allows our commanders to continuously
assess and account for the tools they use and help me to keep them accountable for crime and other
things that happen on our RTD premises. And it helps us train and promote our career development for
folks within the organization part of--

I'm pledging to hire 30% more women or people who identify as visible women. And this department is
making sure they have a career development program in place, one that allows them to become leaders

within the organization. Our focus, again, on crime analysis, smart policing, and other Back to Basics
tools will help us modernize our CAD and RMS, which we hope to do in 2024, and to expand our
partnerships, as I previously spoke to, with all eight of our counties.

We've worked diligently with Denver to create an atmosphere where officers are able to actually execute
the paperwork end of arrest. We all make arrests. We can make arrests in all eight different counties that
we serve in, but processing arrests is the key differentiator. And in six of our eight counties, excluding
Denver and Weld at this time, we're able to make arrests and actually process those arrests.

How does this align strategically for us? Well, it goes back to that unflattering picture of me to the right.
Please ignore it. But [LAUGHS] again, the 300 new cameras that we're placing in high-crime areas
throughout our system and our testing of new hardware.

And what does that mean? Well, there's new technology out there that increases our ability to interrupt
crime and to detect criminal activity upon our implements of transportation. That means contributing to the
way our buses, our rail and light rail feed us information, how our facilities are reorganized to promote
crime prevention through environmental design.

Feeding our information into what's called now the Real-Time Crime Center. That's our video
investigators who work 24 hours a day and are able to pull up video information when need be. The
milestone migration is an upgrade of CCTV and video management software platforms and surveillance
systems that gives us increased ability and gives our Real-Time crime folks actual ability to access
control, cameras, and better video analytics, which lead back to intelligence-led policing.

Our servers are being updated to maintain our existing recordings. You can only imagine with the
expansive number of cameras that we have in our system, the need to have expansive retention.

And last but not least, and what's show in that picture, is just us engaging with members of the
community. You see more of us out there attending sessions throughout the RTD service provision area.
And when we are attending these different events, we are also recruiting.

Mental health and unhoused outreach coordinators have been a struggle for us. We are planning to
expand our mental health outreach through all five sectors. In places like Jeffco and Denver it's easy
because we have partnerships with those agencies and are able to utilize their services to offset the fact
that we really need to concentrate on that hiring. And again, as you heard in the last presentation, we're
working diligently with HR to do that and to get the right people hired here, and to get the right recruiters
in place.

We've rebranded the way we do things. How's that, you may ask. Well, we have a commitment to
guardianship and service. That increase in community participation and visibility is part of rebranding and
educating our customers, working with our public relations folks to ensure that we educate people the
right way.

It's not without flaws, but I can tell you that we're doing a much better job on the ground of communicating
changes to the RTD environment, to your everyday customer. And we want to become the law
enforcement employer of choice. Ms. Polege spoke to the fact that the third quarter has been
phenomenal for us, and you'll be able to see evidence of that potentially in the next presentation that I put
forth.

We implemented facilities closures at night for late cleanings. That's all part of crime prevention through
environmental design, making sure our cleaning people can have access-- unencumbered access, that
is-- to our facilities to keep them clean.

And Colorado Association of Chiefs of Police Accreditation. That's setting the bar high for the folks both
within our department and those who are our stakeholders. The Colorado Association of Chiefs of Police
come in. They evaluate our police department pursuant to a set of standards-- statewide standards, I
should say-- to guide our practices internally.

As of now, we're on track to not only be accredited by the Colorado State Association of Chiefs of Police-they have to come in and do on-location assessments-- but also FBI LEEDA, a national organization
where I served as vice president-- first vice president. There's an agency award that you will achieve.

Once the majority of your command-level officers-- in this case, we include sergeants and above-- once
that agency has a predominant number of their sergeants and above trained, you receive an agency
award. It's a highly, highly sought after award throughout our country. And most, if not all of our sergeants
have taken FBI LEEDA. It's a trilogy of classes, and we're set to receive that award.

In terms of customer excellence, again, theft from motor vehicles. And the way we've used information
and the way we've proactively gone out and provided information to our stakeholders has made a
difference. You'll see that we've issued thousands of theft report cards.

I described that in the last presentation I did before you where we proactively go into areas where we
have seen high numbers of thefts from automobiles, and proactively going into those areas and graded
people on whether they've left materials inside that may make them a target for crime. So we've had
success in that regard, up to 3,003 report cards disseminated at the point of this presentation, this
preparation.

And we've now tied it in the future to officer goals in those areas. So as we have five sectors, as we have
five commanders in each one of those sectors, officers in those sectors will be responsible for
disseminating this information and reducing the number of thefts from autos in their respective areas.

A pretty cool aspect of what we've done lately is ArcGIS mapping. That means that-- and forgive me if this
doesn't work as I intended, but I will try it from here. We're able to go online-- I should say all stakeholders
are able to go online to go in-- and I'll use 1600, or 1660 Blake Street as the example-- and see who
actually is responsible for that particular service area, and to pick a location within that particular area in
which they've had either a concern, complaint, problem, or question.

This will go-- once you click on the image, the contact, the respective commander in that area-- goes to
that form that you saw on the slide, on the PowerPoint slide. This enables the customer, the operator, any
person that wants to commend, complain, or discuss any problems, concerns, or complaints easy access.
And it'll geolocate where that came from so we can determine who's making the complaint, where it's
coming from, what particular sector commander is responsible for it.

And then there's follow-up and checks and balances. It goes to not only our deputy chief-- I should say
both deputy chiefs, but also it goes to me. So we're able to create a real robust follow-up for the
customer, whether they leave their telephone number, whether they leave their-- we're hoping that they
leave their telephone number and email address. The purpose of this is to create a circumstance where
our citizens or our customers feel as if they've been heard.

It informs our decisions. And as I spoke to, it's a checks and balances to ensure that the police
department gets direct information from our stakeholders.

In terms of hiring, again, we're utilizing historical contractual savings from our security contracts to offset
sworn police hires. I spoke to the CPTED planning. We're doing some facility planning of our own. We
anticipate within two to three years needing a facility because we would outgrow district shops.

And it's just a measurement tool for us overall. How what we do equates to financial success and
promotes efficiency goes to even our software process and how we retain information, how we
disseminate information, how easily we can retrieve it to meet even your needs. Again, that will require a
CAD and RMS software upgrade. It leads to the things you see below, evidence-based policing and
intelligence-led policing.

But also, it ties together our dispatch, our training, our policy, 911, and other modules that we lack at this
time. We don't have a respective internal affair modules that is just through our normal records
management system. Most departments have access to these things, investigative and administrative
software. Those are all things that a newer product will give us to take us really into this 21st century
policing.

So some of the data that demonstrates some of the success that we have-- and people would say, well,
you're seeing historical costs for service up. That's a good thing. It's a good thing that people want to call
us and discuss with us what's going on, and will share and have the confidence in the fact that their
problems will be addressed.

As I mentioned in the last slide or the last two slides, I talked about having checks and balances. This
means that our checks and balances are working. We do have customers that say they've never heard
anything back from RTD that have changed their tune when calling us and investing in us again. That's
the key to bringing people back to the transit environment.

Our criminal incidents are trending downward. You'll see that slightly up in August as we could probably
anticipate with some incidents happening with having more riders who don't traditionally ride as
customers. That's OK. We can prepare ourselves and are preparing ourselves to deal with crime within
the RTD transit environment. Our hiring is one way of us doing it, but our education and our on-theground work as far as going into sectors and attacking crime where it happens, when it happens has led
to this trend downward.

One really positive is something that I mentioned before, but it was worthwhile inter-- or co-mingling or
'21, '22, and '23 numbers and looking at Union Station and the precipitous decline in incidents. And
criminal incidents, calls for service, I should say, in this slide has been incredible. Things are sometimes
visual, but other things you need to see in terms of the physical environment, taking a walk through the
station and understanding that it's now more clean.

Now we receive less calls for Denver Union Station than we do in many other areas in our environment.
And that means that a focused approach to dealing with problems actually works. So as a subject matter
expert in this area, we hyperfocused on Union Station, and the results are clear.

Police-issued suspensions. Many anticipated that police-issued suspensions would rise. That has not
been the case. We've really been judicious about the way we apply the revised code of conduct. This
slide just encompasses police-issued suspensions.

We have had to remind our security providers and our operator-- I should say our supervisors, our
operator supervisors out there that they have the ability to write suspensions as well. And in doing so, I
think we're seeing some more compliant behavior, and it's been evidenced in the other slides.

So just to go over, again, the key projects and initiatives, the increase in internal staffing with the
reduction in security stashing, our increase in CPTED to prompt infrastructure changes, how we've
addressed more serious crimes through higher visibility, vigilance, and evidence-based policing. And our
tradition-- I should say our transition, excuse me-- into our new facility has really helped us.

One of the questions that just came up about recruiting mentioned, well, how do we recruit better? What
are we doing at the ground level? And I can tell you, and HR will support this, from the police department
level we are entertaining those interested in becoming police officers in the facility that we have.

In the past, we had no facility. Our officers changed their clothes in the parking lot. Now we're able to
show them that we have a fixed facility and we have long-term plans within the next two to three years to
look and feel like another police department within the state of Colorado. So I thank you. That ends my
presentation. And I'll stand by for any questions that you may have. Please excuse my voice.

KATE WILLIAMS: It's fine, you know? Hey, we all enjoyed it, I think, very much. We'll see if we can take
the screen back, and then I can see hands. There we go. Director Rosenthal, I see you are up first.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: I don't know. On my screen, I've got Director Sloan. Maybe you want to go first.

KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, ladies first. OK, Director Sloan, you have the floor.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Well, thank you, Director Rosenthal, and Madam Chair. I actually have two
questions. Chief, I appreciate the presentation. And as you know, I have received complimentary letters
about the change, a very positive change on the W Line, so it shows your efforts are bearing fruit.

I do have a couple questions. How does the-- I don't know if you said Arcus software-- relate to Transit
Watch? In the past, we have pushed Transit Watch. A lot of people who connect with me are not
impressed with it. But can they talk to each other? Do you get data from both and make one response, or
how does that work?

JOEL FITZGERALD: I'm glad you asked that question. One of the things that Transit Watch does not do
is speak to other systems. It goes directly to dispatch, and dispatch will then disseminate that information

to our folks on the ground. We have taken a look at other software products used to-- in other transit
agencies across the country, some of which integrate into fare software, which makes it super easy for
someone using their fare software to just report a crime and not have to go out of that system to make a
report to the police, or even pick up the phone and actually physically call.

So it really doesn't tie into the Transit Watch complaints. I will tell you that, again, I do think there's value
in it because we're still engaging with our customers and responding to our customers' complaints and
needs. But we need to evolve, and I'm hoping that within the next few months, we will take a look at a few
other things that perhaps internally we see as being beneficial to all.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you.

JOEL FITZGERALD: You're welcome.

MARJORIE SLOAN: And may I go ahead with my second?

KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] Yes, go ahead.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Chief, you mentioned two things that kind of tie together in my mind. One you've
emphasized, education, and you also talked about July passengers who don't traditionally take transit.

I can't say I've had a flood of calls, but I've had a couple calls about young people on the trains and buses
who are not engaging in criminal behavior as far as I can tell, but they're annoying people. I was
wondering if you have plans to go out to the schools and educate the young people about how important
it is that they learn to take transit. And part of that is the culture of transit.

JOEL FITZGERALD: That's a huge part of what we intend to achieve even with the Cadet program, trying
to get into the universities and in the high schools and say, hey, this is what we do. This is what
acceptable behavior looks like. And you know, hey, come join us, right? So it's a key part everywhere that
I've been to try to make sure that we engage with kids, especially at the earliest levels.

And let me be frank. Most of what we see in the transit environment at this time is really not the kids going
to and from school and not the ones that are-- they're adults. I mean, these aren't-- we have very few

incidents. I recall one last year that was pretty bad involving kids. But since I've been here for the most
part, most of our incidents, our serious incidents don't involve children, and I'd love to tell them that. So
I'm glad you mentioned it, and I think that that's very important for us to execute on.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. And that's all I have. Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] Thank you, Director Sloan. Thank you, Chief. Director Rosenthal, you ready
now?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may, I just wanted to add on to that, because I think this is critically
important for all of you to hear. So recognizing we do have our Zero Fare for Youth program that's in a
pilot phase. And just this morning, our chief communications and I-- chief communications officer and I
were talking about the surveys that will be done.

One thing that's critically important is we talk about those that are utilizing the services. It's educating and
informing them and then working in tandem with the school districts. In my past experience-- I use the I
statement because I want to leverage this experience-- is working with the school districts because when
they're actually on property, the same rule should be in place relative to how they would behave on a
school campus.

So this is something in and of itself, getting back to Director Sloan's question more pointedly, as it relates
to creating that transit customer and understanding the rules of engagement when you're utilizing the
service because Chief Fitzgerald makes a great point.

We're not talking about individuals that are necessarily creating havoc, but oftentimes individuals at an
impressionable age will get into groups. And they can be their nice, jovial selves that could cause
disruptions to others that are not in that demographic. So this is something we're exploring as we go full
steam ahead, thinking about a permanent Zero Fare for Youth program. So I just wanted to share that
that is something that we're working on as we garner survey data.

And it actually was Carl Green was speaking with about the surveys, not our chief communications
officer. But yes, this is something that we're leveraging as we go forward so we can be intentional. And

that was the point of doing a pilot program for a year, so we could basically get the necessary data to
inform our programs from an engagement vantage point. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, always. OK, Director Rosenthal, you let all these women go.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: [LAUGHS] All right. Well, everybody's had great questions. So question for-- first of
all, thank you, Dr. Fitzgerald, and thank you to your team and to the entire leadership, and General
Manager CEO as well. Clearly, you put in a lot of work, a lot of thought, putting in a lot of new processes.
And I really appreciate what you're doing. And as folks have also indicated that it is being noticed in the
community, that you are really making a difference. And thank you.

So one of the things that people are starting to notice is when they do call or report something through
Transit Watch, that the folks-- that your security does come. But by that time, somebody has already left
the train or they've already left the platform, or something like that.

Now, I tell them, well, you know, that just shows that on the other hand, the folks who are causing trouble,
they probably know that somebody's on their way, and that's one of the reasons they leave. So what is
maybe a-- do you agree with that sort of assessment, or what is your take on that? I mean, obviously, we
have a huge system and you can't have security materialize immediately. We just don't have that number.
But what is maybe sort of your response to that assertion that some people have?

JOEL FITZGERALD: I certainly do think that a vast majority of things may happen out of the view of an
officer or even a security guard, quite frankly. You know, how many people actually act out in front of
those folks? And when and if they do, it may be due to a mental illness or other type of situation.

So there have been instances obviously where we've interrupted crimes and done so more proactively
over the last year. And I think that's a result of us expanding outward.

I hit the street every day. Each one of the commanders and deputy chiefs are out. And part of being more
visible is being proactive in prevention. And part of being proactive in prevention I think is knowing not
only-- and we talked about this during other conversations, but knowing there may be consequences.

So our transition from a security approach to that of sworn officers assures that if there is illegal activity
that is outside of our code of conduct, that we're going to take action on it. So you'll see more compliance
as we grow more and more and as more attention especially focuses on hotspots and more precise time
and spatially driven areas where we're seeing problems.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And sort of those hotspots that I think you've spoken now and before,
for example, about the W Line, Decatur Station, Wadsworth, places where you've said, look. We're trying
to station folks more. We're trying to do CPTED, more cameras, things like that, and to try to forestall
things from happening.

I do get some feedback that there's occasional issues. But at the same time, I hear what you're saying, is
you're also trying to stop things from happening. Now, is it realistic, though, to have either a sworn officer
always at that station, just doing the beat at the station, and just having somebody there in a police
booth? Sort of like Doctor Who. I'm a big fan. [LAUGHS] How do we-- can we station someone there?
Can we do that?

JOEL FITZGERALD: I don't know that there are many that we get that reference but me.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: [LAUGHS]

JOEL FITZGERALD: But yes, I do think it's possible. One of the benefits to drawing down upon our
security contract and ensuring that we have officers there is the reinforcement of the need for better
behavior, and us being able to go out into the community and to go to meetings and actually speak to
some of the changes that folks want to see. And we can't do that with security. Security officers can't go
to community meetings and present things like police officers.

So in certain areas like in your Doctor Who booth example, it may be appropriate to have a security guard
standing on a platform. But in many ways, we've seen a better result in having police out on certain
platforms and police being seen during the times that we've had activity.

We can never be everywhere, as I tell our operators and our customers. But we can plan better, and we
can act upon what's in front of us and what our trends look like. And that seemingly has helped us
address some of the long-standing problems here in the transit environment at RTD.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then finally-- sorry, Madam Chair-- so on that note, how would you characterize
where-- for example, let's just say your sworn officers. Where are they at any given moment, in a sense?
Are they in transit? Are they moving? Are they in a vehicle going from place to place? Are they stationary,
waiting for a report to respond to?

Or are they walking around, and then they get a report, and then they move somewhere else? How would
you characterize in any-- and you may not be able to answer that based on they are always moving. I
don't know. So I was just kind of curious. Where are they at any given moment?

JOEL FITZGERALD: Well, given the fact that we've expanded-- and as I spoke to, myself and the
commanders are in the five sectors. They could be anywhere. You see the majority of people are just on
foot at Union Station more frequently, but they do go out and handle other problems in other problematic
areas, or else we wouldn't be able to show you a stat where we handed out thousands of report cards.

So we're making an impact. We're slowly growing. There's going to be bumps along the road and pain
along the way, but that impact will be sustainable. And that's what we're trying to do, create an
environment that's sustainable and livable for all of our customers and all of our operators.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: So there are always moving around. Oh, can I ask one more, Madam Chair? I'm
sorry. So on the appeals process-- so you talked about suspensions. Do you have any numbers, any
statistics on how many folks apply for an appeal of their suspension and how many are successful? And I
don't expect you to have that tonight, but if you would just perhaps for the next report be able to let us
know. Thank you.

JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you, sir. I will have that.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK, good discussion. Director Whitmore, I think you are up.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Chief, appreciate the presentation. Very good. One short
question, kind of getting into the weeds, and then one story to tell. You mentioned the sectors, and I
thought earlier you mentioned six, but then you've referenced five.

So which is it? Which is not really very important, but I'm just curious. How are those sectors formulated?
Is it population? Is it hotspots? Is a geography? And I would assume that they are subject to change
based upon the need. So that's my only question at this point.

JOEL FITZGERALD: So I mentioned six commanders. We do have six commanders. One is in
administration and they coordinate our background investigations and recruiting efforts and such under
Deputy Martingano. But the other five are under Deputy Horn and work in patrol.

And to your other question, yes, we can when-- we should always as just a best case scenario for the
agency and in policing adjust our parameters and borders. As of now, they don't exactly mirror, let's say,
each one of your particular areas. But the five large spatial geographic areas where-- our one area, for
example, Sector 5, is most of our downtown environment, is one of our smaller areas, per se. However,
it's our busiest. So that's where we'll ultimately deploy more people.

In the larger scheme, our other areas, our outlying areas are having problems like those juveniles riding
on a train, being rambunctious as opposed to necessarily breaking the law. So our focus has to be able to
shift, and we have to be able to know that we can address whatever problem arises.

And that means looking at those concentrated areas, deciding upon when we need to make adjustments,
and which command sector might be too large or too small. So I reserve the right to change that, as
would any police chief, ultimately based upon just staffing study and other numbers that we would put
together based upon call volume and actual criminal reports.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Chief. Madam Chair, if I can share my story now. And I'll try and be as
brief as possible, but that's difficult for me because it's a good news story.

So last Tuesday after the Board meeting, walked over to Union Station to catch my inline train, and I just
missed a train, but that was OK. A huge crowd in Union Station. It was an event from a food service

provider. And the place was packed, and it was hopping. It was really kind of a jovial environment. A
number of our officers and trainees there and others because of such a huge crowd.

But I sit down on the bench by the door, and was just kind of observing. And I watched a young family go
to the ice cream stand. Two little girls. One maybe-- well, I'm a bad judge of age. But two little girls. Leave
it at that. The youngest girl got her ice cream cone, and predictably after about five steps, the ice cream
fell off the cone, onto the floor.

And as I'm sitting there, I'm thinking, maybe I should go find some paper towels or whatever. And before I
could even think twice about it, one of our officers ran right over to the mom and the daughter and
instinctively made sure that the young girl didn't pick up the ice cream and try and consume it. It was very
cute.

But she jumped in instinctually, was assistant to the mom. Helped clean up the mess. Took the young
family back over to the stand. And I don't know if she paid for it or if it was given by the vendor, but got
another ice cream cone for the little girl. And she got there just in time because the lip came out and the
tears were about to flow.

But I watched the whole activity there. And I've got to tell you, I was so proud of her and the other folks
that were there just assisting this young family. So I went over and introduced myself. And I don't know if
she's an officer. Evidently, a trainee. Her name's Heidi Hansen. Instinctually did the right thing as a
person, not as a police officer. And I was quite impressed.

So I visited with her very briefly. She introduced me to her trainer. I didn't get his name. But her name was
Heidi Hansen. Her third week on the job. Didn't even have business cards yet. Gave me her card.

And I was so proud of her. And that engaging in community activities the guardianship and just common
sense being a darn nice human being. So please pass along to her and the folks that were with her that
evening last Tuesday at Union Station. That's all I'm going to share.

JOEL FITZGERALD: I'll make sure we do that, and thank you for conveying that story. I really appreciate
it. I'll make sure she gets her kudos.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. That's a nice thing to have as part of the meeting. OK,
Director Ruscha, your hand is up.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Here?

KATE WILLIAMS: There you go.

JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. So I have a comment. So in looking at the presentation in the monthly criminal
incidents, which I think is packet page 43, it looks like in February, we had 299 captured incidents. And it
was a pretty cold month in February.

In July, which a fellow director referenced, and I think the chief also referenced, we had 133. So that is a
significant decrease, actually. I think that's like 56% decrease. And I would expect that as the winter
months come in that we'll have an increase again because that tends to be the trend.

And so I just want to caution that we be careful in our language and not put a very small increase on
captured incidents on the Free Fares for Better Air, which I think was a very successful program. So I just
wanted to put that out there. And also to manage our expectations that, again, as it gets colder, we might
have an increase in security incidents because I think that has been the case year over year and is
something that we just expect to trend. That's how it goes.

But I had a specific question, if I could. And this is about mental health staff, which we've talked about a
lot this year. Could I get a-- could we get a more specific update as to our targeted contracted hires?

Earlier, some of us had asked about this. And we had one contracted unhoused outreach staff in
Jefferson County, but the other planned or contracted outreach staff through community partners, those
positions hadn't been filled yet. Have any of those been filled? Is there a more specific update to that
effect or anything that either the chief or our GM CEO would like to speak to?

JOEL FITZGERALD: So I did speak to-- I said that we've had tremendous difficulty hiring, and I said that
we were attempting to hire five, one for each sector.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. General Manager?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so we're in the midst of a budget development process. And tomorrow night
coming before the Finance and Planning Committee is a proposed budget for you all's review,
recognizing the three initiatives that I've spoken to, Back to Basics, People Power, and Welcoming Transit
Environment. Included in said proposed budget are monies relative to increasing those positions through
a contracted engagement. So I just wanted to qualify that because as we had to make difficult decisions,
we're utilizing those three initiatives as paramount to creating a welcoming transit environment. So I just
wanted to put that forward to further iterate what we're doing from a budget planning vantage point. So
thank you very kindly for the opportunity to provide that input.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Ruscha, are you good?

JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, Madam--

KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely. Everybody's having multiple bites of the apple. You get right in there.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I'm trying very hard to be patient. My 5th grade teacher always told me it
was a virtue. I'm working on it. So-- and I very much apologize if I wasn't more direct or clear. I just
wanted to make sure I understood, we have contracted positions that just haven't been filled as it relates
to mental health staff. OK.

And if I understood what was just said, we do not have a plan to hire mental health staff or unhoused
outreach staff internally, or might that change with the next fiscal year? Could I get a clarification?

DEBRA JOHNSON: So Chief, if I could just really quickly, I want to be very forthright in my comments.
Our core business is delivering transit services. We are not proficient as it relates to those elements
relative to providing health and human services. So it's in our best interest as we partner with those SMEs
that are.

And so recognizing our engagement, leveraging partnership and grant opportunities, what we are trying
to do is work in partnership with those entities, recognizing that Deputy Chief Martingano leveraged this
program that has been a model for other transit properties relative to basically going forward and

leveraging those partnerships because those individuals are managed by people that have the subject
matter expertise.

And so what we are endeavoring to do is leverage those partnerships going full steam ahead and
basically providing funding relative to those entities in which we can go forward. So we intentionally-- to
expand where we are so we can have coverage across the sectors as our chief of police just qualified.
That is what we've included in the budget, recognizing that there was a position previously that we had.
They're trying to hire for that.

But I was being intentional as we look to increase that because that is actually a SMART goal. And I'm
speaking a little bit out of school, but those are-- a SMART goal, for those that may not be clear, Specific,
Measurable, Attainable and Realistic, Time-bound goal as it relates to one's performance. And so the
chief has established those goals for some individuals on his command staff. So Chief, I just wanted to
give that context, but feel free to elaborate if you need to do so.

JOEL FITZGERALD: You said it all, ma'am.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. That was good teamwork there. Director Ruscha, you good?

JOYANN RUSCHA: I think so. And as a former teacher, I know what a SMART goal is, so I'm looking
forward to tomorrow's finance meeting. Thank you, Madam Chair, for entertaining me. I appreciate it.

KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. Do I see any other hands raised at this time? Nope? OK. I would
very much like to thank you, Chief Fitzgerald. That was great. That was good information, and stuff that
we are all concerned about and happy to hear. So I think that's the end of that, of our second
presentation. And do we have any other matters that anyone wants to discuss this evening?

OK. Look at that. Very quiet. If that is the case, let me go to where it tells me the date. I think that the next
meeting of this committee is scheduled for Wednesday, October 15, at the same location, at the same
time. And seeing no other discussion, I'm going to call this meeting adjourned at 7:19. Thank you all for--

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Chair Williams, did you mean November?

KATE WILLIAMS: Did I say--

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Not October, November 15.

KATE WILLIAMS: November-- Wednesday, November 15. Sorry. I'm-- I don't know what--

MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: It's OK. Good night, ladies and gentlemen.

