2024-07-22
Performance Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: Now come to-- let me start again. The Monday, July 22 Performance Committee will
now come to order. We are convened as of 4 o'clock PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully
ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you
all for joining us this afternoon. Please note that Committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will
be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. During today's meeting we are also providing Communication
Access Realtime Translation, also known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should
send an email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
A livestream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to call the roll
for the Committee members. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger-- or Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I am Chair Peggy Catlin and I am here. So for the record, I see that we have six
Directors present and one absence. I believe we also have Director Lewis in attendance. Are there any
Directors I've missed?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Bouquet.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, I'm sorry, Director Bouquet. I did miss you. And Director Bouquet. So there are
two Directors who are also present. I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to
address the Committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the occurrence
and available preceding month or immediately preceding month.

If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your hand virtually or press star
9 on your phone. During this time, the Committee will not offer any direct comments or responses,
however, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised for the public
participation section?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Committee Chair Catlin. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office.
We have one individual here who is present and raised their hand, and that is Richard Bamber.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press
star six to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are
being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in
writing. Comments can be submitted to the Board Office at the following email address
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and each
speaker will have three minutes to speak. Our first speaker is Richard Bamber. If you repeat your name
and begin speaking. Thank you. Mr. Bamber?
JACK KROLL: Yes, it appears he is off mute, but we are not able to hear him at this time.
PEGGY CATLIN: We'll give you a few more minutes.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. Yeah. Mr. Bamber, we cannot hear you at all. Still nothing here. That's the only
person in the queue, Director Catlin, and furthermore, we did not receive any written public comment in
advance of this meeting either. Given that Mr. Bamber is not audible at this juncture, you have a couple
options. You could simply move on to the next agenda item and return to Mr. Bamber's comment in
between the two discussion items you have to see if his audio issues have been resolved, or you could
simply request Mr. Bamber submit his public comment in writing, and we would distribute that to the
Board post-haste.
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. [INAUDIBLE], would you kindly reach out to Mr. Bamber to see if we can resolve
his technical issues? If we can, then I think the first option would be our best bet. But if not, we may ask
Mr. Bamber to present his comments in writing. So for now, I will temporarily close the public comment
period and we will move on in the agenda.
There are no recommended actions for today's meetings, but we do have two discussion items this
afternoon. The first item is for the proposed 2024 GM CEO performance appraisal and 2025 goal setting
timeline. Board Office Executive Manager Jack Kroll, would you please present this item to the
Committee?
JACK KROLL: Yes, I would be happy to. Let me share my screen here. Can you all see my screen
here?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.

JACK KROLL: OK, great. So this will be a very brief conversation. But at the beginning of the year, you
all approved a-RICHARD BAMBER: Hello?
JACK KROLL: Yes? Mr. Bamber, is that you?
RICHARD BAMBER: If you can hear me. Thank you. Sorry. It looks like I hit a button and it seems to
have worked. I do apologize for all of this.
JACK KROLL: Director Catlin, would you like me to yield the floor so we can take Mr. Bamber's public
comments?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, let's do that.
JACK KROLL: I'll stop my share and you can come back to me upon his completion.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sounds good.
RICHARD BAMBER: OK. Thank you very much, Chair Catlin. I much appreciate your consideration
here. And good afternoon, everybody else. I'd like to start by thanking our GM and CEO Johnson for her
comprehensive response to a lot of questions we sent in about the slow zones on the light rail. Very
clearly and genuinely an attempt to answer all our questions, and it is appreciated. It's very much
applauded.
And also the agency's apparent new strategy of basically putting a big website up and trying to answer
as many questions on those websites, it really has been noticed and we feel like we're in a better
position, certainly, from a few months ago. That said, in the replies, two familiar very old themes did
come out again. The labor shortage and the CBA's inflexibility came out, and these are obviously very
familiar things. And I think it's time we've got to get really, really serious in fixing them, because it is
crippling RTD in so many ways.
So for example, the inflexibility, when I talk about that, it's this idea that we can only change our
schedules three times a year. So we had a situation last year when the Coping Panels wrapped up its
first phase in mid-November. And yet, we had reduced light rail service until the service change. So
riders had to endure a reduced service for six weeks longer than really they should have, despite the
infrastructure being all available. I appreciate goal setting for CEO is going to probably be under the
next Board in 2025.
But I'm talking about it now because I understand negotiations with the CBA are on the way. We have
to get a more flexible arrangement with short-term scheduling, and we have to possibly bake in things
into that CBA that make RTD a much more attractive place to work for representative employees. It's a
huge opportunity and we shouldn't let it slide for another three years. I'm glad to see Mr. Kroll's name
on the performance presentation today.

The Board Chair really should be signing it. It wasn't really a good look last year to have the GM and
CEO presenting their own performance metrics. It sort of made the Board not look very effective in the
public's eyes. The tail was wagging the dog. The GM and CEO has had input, I hope, in the process.
There's a self-evaluation, and multiple two-way conversations with the Board appear to have been
scheduled. What we need to do is support the GM and CEO in fixing this operator shortage and the
CBA inflexibilities.
She needs a consultant to come in, if she needs assistance, we need to work with her and see it as a
almost a shared goal, because it's on all of us to help get this agency out of its current issues. Yeah.
But I am going to finish in saying the Board needs to fully own the performance assessment process of
any employee who has delegated authority in accordance with the RTD act. Thank you very much. And
once again, thanks very much for accommodating my technical issues this afternoon.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Bamber. Mr. Kroll, are there any other hands raised?
JACK KROLL: At this time, Committee Chair Catlin, I do not see that there is anyone else present who
has raised their hand in desire of providing public comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: And you mentioned earlier that there were no email comments. So with that said, I
would like to close-- not temporarily, but close the public comment period at this time. So proceeding
on, then, the first discussion item that Mr. Kroll would present is the performance appraisal and 2025
goal setting timeline. Mr. Kroll, the floor is yours.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. Let me share my screen again. OK. And can I get a
thumbs up that you all can see my screen? Great. Thank you very much. So as I was mentioning earlier,
in the approval of the Committee's work plan for this year, you all had slated for June, actually, a
discussion on the performance appraisal timeline and goal setting timeline-- 2024 performance appraisal
timeline and 2025 goal setting timeline.
That conversation, just with everything got going on, is pushed to July. We had a similar conversation,
you all did as a Committee, last September that outlined, here's everything that needs to happen with
respect to the GM and CEOs performance assessment and goal setting for the subsequent year. So
this is really just a carry forward of the conversation you all initially had in September of last year, and
it's very quick. It's just one slide here, and I want to walk everyone quickly through it.
So there are a number of things that are going on, so it's important to keep everyone's attention on all
of the moving pieces between when you all initially saw this timeline in September of 2023 and now,
there have been two things that have changed.
One is that in a subsequent amendment to the employment agreement, the Board committed to conduct
a total compensation analysis. That is what you will spend some time talking on after my presentation,
but the total compensation analysis that you all agreed to, you set a deadline to receive the results of
that assessment-- or excuse me, the total compensation.

You set a deadline to receive the results of that analysis and take any appropriate action. The Board is
not required to act, but you agreed to accept the results of the analysis and take any appropriate action
no later than October 31. So as we have engaged with RKL Virtual Management, who is here today and
will carry the next item on your agenda, they have committed to completing the results of that total
compensation analysis no later than August 31.
You all would then discuss the results of that analysis initially at your September 9 meeting, and then
take any formal action as a Committee to recommend to the full Board for approval at your October 7
Committee meeting. So again, our August 31, the results of the compensation analysis are completed.
September 9, those results are presented to the Committee as a discussion item.
If action is to be taken, that comes forward the subsequent month on October 7. And if the Committee
recommends it, it goes to the full Board for approval at your October Board meeting, which will allow
you to meet the timeline stipulated in the amendment to the employment agreement.
So separate and apart from the compensation analysis, you do have an assessment obligation that you
must fulfill by the end of the calendar year. What was also stipulated last year in the development of this
timeline was completing a 360 assessment as well. And so RTK, who you'll hear from subsequently,
has been engaged to also assist, in addition to the compensation analysis, with the development of a
360 assessment tool.
So that development will occur in July through September, and then by October 31, the assessment will
be completed and the results will be shared at the November 11 meeting. Concurrently, the GM and
CEO will present and complete a self-evaluation. Those two items, the 360 and the GM and CEO selfevaluation, it is contemplated, would be sent to the Board and form the basis of a dialogue that you all
would conduct with the GM and CEO during an executive session in November.
Subsequent to that, the final assessment will be made by the Board in November, and the GM and CEO
annual evaluation report will be compiled by the Board Office, and a final score approval by the Board
in December. Finally, and this is somewhat different than what you all saw last year, you have the
obligation to agree to goals for next year.
Previously, this deadline was January-- excuse me, December 31. Subsequent to another amendment
to the employment agreement, you all pushed that deadline back to January 31. Part of the rationale for
this is that the new Board coming in might have the opportunity to provide input on what the GM and
CEO's goals would be for the subsequent assessment cycle.
So while in previous years you all had to not only complete the GM and CEO's assessment for the
current calendar year and agree to goals by December 31, your only obligation now is to complete the
assessment for this year, and then the goals and the assessment framework for the subsequent year
need to be completed by January 31, 2025. And with that, I've walked everyone through the timeline
and I'm happy to take any questions about this process at this time.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So are there any questions of Mr. Kroll and/or GM CEO Johnson at this time?
Committee members, I'll call on you first. I do not see any hands raised. OK. I guess if there are any
questions, please forward them to Mr. Kroll with a copy to us, and we can address them at the
subsequent meeting.
The second item is for General Manager and CEO total compensation analysis and 360 assessment
tool project check-in. So once again, Jack Kroll, Executive Manager, Board Office, and Charlene Polege,
Chief People Officer, would you kick this discussion off? We are also joined by the team, as Jack
mentioned, at RKL Virtual Management, who will be presenting the bulk of this item. But to kick it off,
Mr. Kroll, the floor is yours.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Commissioner Catlin. I'll be brief here. We, as you all are aware, endeavored,
based off of the Board and GM's input and the subsequent employment agreement, modifications to
hire a firm. We completed the RFQ, request for quotes, process in late June and into early July, and
RKL was selected through a competitive process to assist in both projects. We were not necessarily
looking for one firm to do both, but that is where we landed and we're very excited to have RKL onboard.
I don't have much further to add other than that little bit of background on how we all got here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Ms. Polege, do you have anything to add at this point, or? I see
a-CHARLENE POLEGE: No. No, I do not. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Mr. Kroll, would you please introduce the consultant team? But I have
been informed that Director Guzman has joined us.
JACK KROLL: OK. I'm going to hand things over to Lauren. Lauren's been our primary point of contact
since we started the engagement with RKL. But I also see that she's joined here by Adley and Stephanie,
who are both part of the RKL team. And with that, Lauren, I'll kick it over to you.
LAUREN STRICKER: Great. Thank you, Jack. I'm going to share my screen to bring up the presentation.
OK. Can everyone see my screen? Great. Well, thank you, Performance Committee, for inviting us to
your meeting this afternoon. Our RKL team is honored to have been selected to perform the GM/CEO
total compensation review and 360 degree assessment. We do have quite a few things that we are
hoping to cover in today's presentation, starting with a few introductions to RKL and our team.
We will also review the scope of work for the two projects, the total compensation review and the 360
assessment, and then we will dive into some of the details of each one separately, beginning with the
total compensation review and then moving on to the 360. While we hope to have time for questions at
the end, we ask that you please feel free to interrupt us if you have questions as we go through the
presentation, if you do have some questions to pose to the group as we go through the presentation.

So feel free to jump in unless we ask you otherwise. But really, ensuring that we hear and understand
your feedback and expectations of the Committee are our highest priority today. As Jack mentioned on
the call today, we have Stephanie Smith, myself, and Adley from the RKL team. I will let Stephanie
introduce herself and then I can give a little introduction on myself, and Adley will round out the
introductions today. So, Stephanie, take us away.
STEPHANIE SMITH: Thank you, Lauren. Hello, everybody. Thank you for your time. My name is
Stephanie Smith. I'm a Partner and Vice President at RKL Virtual, leading our Workforce Strategies
service line, which is our outsourced HR consulting. I've been in HR for over 20 years and looking
forward to working with this group. Thank you.
LAUREN STRICKER: Thanks, Stephanie. Hi, everyone. My name is Lauren Stricker. I am a Senior
Analyst with the Workforce Strategies team at RKL Virtual Management Solutions. I've been with RKL
going on six years now. And my background is in industrial organizational psychology, so as such, I like
what Adley says about it, but we handle the nerdy side of HR. We do a lot of the project work in HR
space related to compensation studies, performance evaluations, compliance assessments, structural
assessments, and the like. Very much looking forward to working with all of you.
ADLEY SATTESON: My name is Adley Satteson. I'm a Workforce Strategies Analyst. I've been with
RKL for a little over two years, and my educational and professional background is in management as
well as industrial and organizational psychology, just like Lauren said. And really looking forward to
working with you all on these two projects.
LAUREN STRICKER: Our team will also include Stephanie Deiter-Printz, who could not be on today's
call. She is a Senior Consultant with the Workforce Strategies team. She does bring over 15 years of
experience, and you'll likely meet her as part of the project, especially during the 360 degree
development process.
STEPHANIE SMITH: And-- oh, go ahead. Sorry, Lauren.
LAUREN STRICKER: I was just going to mention that I will be the main point of contact as far as
scheduling, sending deliverables, coordinating communications between RTD and the team, Adley as
my back up, as well as Stephanie. In addition to the four individuals-- the three that you see here and
Stephanie, which we introduced-- we also have an external consultant, Rodney, who will be providing
quality assurance processes for our team. And then, Stephanie, I don't know if you want to give a little
bit of background about RKL and RKL Virtual.
STEPHANIE SMITH: Sure. I won't be too long since we have other things to get through, but RKL Virtual
is a wholly owned subsidiary of RKL LLP, which is a professional services firm providing a range of
services primarily in the accounting field. RKL Virtual consists of back office accounting support, as well
as HR and payroll support. And a part of RKL in general is our wholly owned subsidiary and Virtual. Our

core values are bold, caring, and collaborative, which we live each day and execute our deliverables to
our clients following those as our guiding principles as well.
LAUREN STRICKER: Thank you, Stephanie. I will say it is our primary goal with all of our clients, but
especially with Regional Transportation District, that we provide data driven information to help you
make decisions that are best for your organization. And we do want to offer transparency regarding all
of our methodologies and the results of our analyses and recommendations.
As you're all aware, our team will be performing both projects, the total comp review and the 360
assessment. The main objectives of the total compensation review are the following. Conduct an
external market competitiveness assessment to ensure the GM/CEO's compensation package is
competitive and aligned with the 50th percentile of comparable organizations. In doing so, our goals
include identifying and documenting at least 10 comparator organizations, private and/or public, creating
and conducting a custom total compensation survey, and evaluating the internal equity of the GM/CEO's
compensation package as compared to other non-represented positions.
We will be providing a report of the methodology that we use, the results, and the recommendations. As
Jack mentioned, in the timeline, we do have a scheduled completion date of August 31 of this year,
where the results would be presented to this Committee on September 9, 2024. Our team has provided
a more detailed project plan of our recommended steps and timeline in order to complete this project
basically within a month.
I won't be reviewing the project plan during this presentation in detail to ensure that we have time for
the more important discussion items, however, it has been submitted to the Committee for reference.
While some of those deadlines are current or have come and gone, it is a flexible project plan that we
intend to share with the Committee to ensure that you're updated on our status and the status of the
project.
PEGGY CATLIN: Lauren, if I might point out that those supplemental information sheets begin on packet
page 65.
LAUREN STRICKER: Thank you. Appreciate that. Today we hope to discuss the following items related
to the total compensation review. We hope to define it and gain consensus around the comparator
organizations used in this analysis, review and gain consensus around the compensation survey
questions, and review and gain consensus on some of the key logistic items related to the distribution
of the survey.
Additionally, we will be developing a performance assessment tool to be used in the GM/CEO's
performance appraisal process. In doing so, we will collaborate with this Committee, the Chief People
Officer, and GM Johnson, to identify potential raters, identify key assessment components aligning with
existing job description of the GM/CEO, the evaluation framework, goals of the GM/CEO, and the

organization's values. We will also develop a list of questions to measure these key components and
distribute the custom 360 degree assessment through our secure online platform and collect responses.
We will analyze the response data and complete a report summarizing the feedback by October 31 of
this year, the results of which will be presented to the Committee on November 11 of this year. Again, a
detailed project plan and timeline has been submitted to the Committee along with this presentation.
And today, we would like to begin discussions around the purpose of the 360, how it will be used, and
the best practices related to selecting raters. I'm going to turn it over to Adley, and he will be leading
today's discussion on the total compensation review.
ADLEY SATTESON: Thank you, Lauren. So specifically, due to the expedited timeline for this analysis,
we'll be reviewing the most immediate phase of this process, which is going to be identifying and
reaching out to comparators. So upon winning the contracts for these two projects, one of the first things
that we started to do was create a list of comparators. To do this, we use the Federal Transit Agency
profiles in the National Transit Database. This information is from 2022.
And using these sources, we identified several metrics with which to narrow down potential comparators.
Specifically, we looked for public and private organizations with an emphasis on public organizations
similar to RTD. We also looked for comparators which offered bus services and at least one other mode
of transit that RTD offers.
Two additional metrics we used are population per square mile of surface area, as well as operating
expenses per vehicle operated at maximum service or VOMs. And the reason we use these, we wanted
to have comparators that were similar in metropolitan makeup, and we also wanted to capture
comparators that have similar efficiencies.
Go to the next slide. So we came up with a list of 26 potential competitors, 25 of which are public and
one is private. Of the 16 comparators-- or of these 26 comparators, 16 were used in the 2022 study and
9 of those 16 were potential survey respondents. 22 of the 26 organizations provide bus as a mode of
transport and at least one other mode that RTD offers. The population served per square mile ranged
between 906 and 17,199 per square mile, and operating expenses per VOM ranged between 84,000
and 1,273,841.
This past Friday, we had the pleasure of meeting with GM/CEO Johnson and a few members of your
Committee. During this meeting, GM/CEO Johnson also mentioned three other potential private
competitors. These are RATP Dev USA, MV Transportation, and Herzog Transit Services. So these are
ones that we're also considering in this analysis.
This slide contains a few of the potential outliers which we want to quickly review with the Performance
Committee. These organizations tend to have higher populations per square mile. The ones that have
that are specifically located in Phoenix, San Francisco, Chicago, and Miami-Dade. Of the remaining two

of these six, Metro Transit in Minneapolis has potentially significantly lower vehicles operated at
maximum service as compared to RTD.
And then Transdev is a private organization which operates at the national level. While we recognize
that these organizations may be considered outliers, if there are no objections, we would like to include
them in our survey. And I want to point out that several of them, specifically Valley Metro, San Francisco
Municipal Transit Agency, Chicago were used in the 2022 study.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'd like to stop here-ADLEY SATTESON: Any questions?
PEGGY CATLIN: --and see, Adley, if there are any Committee members who have questions regarding
this approach. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Adley. So I noticed from the Gallagher
Report that they had submitted 20 requests for information from different comparators, and 13
responded. So that was a 65% response rate. What would you consider a success in terms of your
response rate? Are you looking to exceed that? Are you going for 100%, or what is your metric for
accuracy purposes?
ADLEY SATTESON: So we would like to have not so much by percent because we're trying to use more
competitors than Gallagher did. So if we could have the same or more respondents, that would be ideal.
I mean, actually ideal would be 100%, but we're shooting for over 10, over what Gallagher was able to
provide.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. That's all I have.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. And apologies for being late, but I was watching the YouTube
recording on my way back to get my RTD phone, so I've been paying attention the whole time. I just
want to make sure I understand this. This list that is submitted here plus the three options that CEO
Johnson gave you, that's the complete scope of who you'll be asking? Because there's highlights on
here and I want to make sure that I'm not misreading it. You're not just going for these few. It's the whole
list, the 26?
ADLEY SATTESON: Yes. It is the whole list. The ones that are highlighted are the ones that were
potential outliers.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Perfect.
ADLEY SATTESON: So they would line up with the six on this slide. Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Any other questions, Directors? Director Tisdale, please.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I wasn't taking as good notes as I should have. The three
additional entities that CEO Johnson has suggested are what, again? I heard Herzog, but I didn't hear
the others. I'm sorry.
ADLEY SATTESON: Yes, absolutely. So it's RATP Dev USA and then MV Transportation.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And have you had an opportunity to determine whether, in fact, you think those
would be potential outliers, or would they fit within the scope of what you had identified as targets for
comparators?
ADLEY SATTESON: So I think they very well will fall within the scope. We are still looking into it since
we just added them as potential comparators to the list, so it's something that we're considering moving
forward.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. Appreciate that.
PEGGY CATLIN: GM/CEO Johnson has her hand raised. Would you like to comment on this?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Debra Johnson, General Manager and
CEO. Thank you, Director Tisdale, for your question. For our consultants that are assembled, I did want
to further expound and share that I was coordinating with CPO Polege today and that there is additional
private sector entities that she will be providing to you, including Keolis as well. And the other escapes
me, but I just wanted you to be cognizant of the fact, that there's a few others that could be assessed.
And all of these entities are doing business in the United States and cover dual modalities. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chief People Officer Polege, would you like to add to that?
CHARLENE POLEGE: I'm Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. Excuse me. Other than I was going
to-- I'm going to be providing the names from the GM and CEO Johnson to the consultants to consider.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you. So it sounds like you will have quite a list of comparators. OK.
Proceed, Adley.
ADLEY SATTESON: Well, thank you. Thank you for providing those additional potential comparators,
and we will review the list thoroughly once it's provided to us. Going on to the open discussion portion
of this part of the project in this presentation. There's a few questions I'd like to review with the
Performance Committee before we move forward with contacting our recommended survey participants.
First, are the factors used to identify the comparators acceptable to the Committee?
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any questions of Directors regarding this? I would say that the acronym that
most of us are not familiar with is the VOM acronym. So I would make sure that that was defined pretty
clearly so that Directors understand in what context they're used. I see GM/CEO Johnson has her hand
raised and then also Director Guzman. So proceed, Ms. Johnson.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. For the benefit of the Committee, I just wanted
to qualify, as they're using VOM, we would talk about the peak deployment of buses we use during AM
and PM pull out. So it's the highest number of vehicles we would use to complete our complement of
service within our transit network. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that context. Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: The specific question about are the factors used to identify comparators
acceptable to the Committee, I think this is a good start. I am curious to know about these other
additions, because I'd like to see how they compare. And there is always the concern-- even though I
do want to bring this point up, going to look at private entities, it is within the scope of the compensation
philosophy that this Board has approved.
I'd still like to see what those are when they come back up just to keep an eye on it. So I'm putting that
forward as an answer to the second question, but this list looks really good to me and I appreciate that
you have broken it out in the way that you did. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank You, Director Guzman. Are there any other comments from Directors regarding
these three questions? Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah. One of my concerns is that the RTD district is very unique in that we have
passenger rail, we have light rail, and bus. I'm just curious, out of all these comparators, how many
actually match up with all three of those disciplines that our CEO has to address?
PEGGY CATLIN: Adley, would you like to respond? And then I see GM/CEO Johnson has her hand
raised as well.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I could, just prior to Adley responding. I just wanted to qualify that
this agency does not have passenger rail. We have light rail and commuter rail. Passenger rail is very
different. And so I just wanted to ensure that I provided that context before the consultant addressed the
inquiry posed by Director Lewis. Thank you very much for allowing me to jump in front.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for clarifying that. Appreciate it. Adley, did you want to respond?
ADLEY SATTESON: Yeah. So if we would narrow it down to only those comparators that have the exact
same modes of transit as RTD, our list would be too small to be meaningful. So we have to expand it.
And we did narrow it down. We focused on buses, since that's such a key mode of travel for RTD, and
we also focused on the other aspects as GM/CEO Johnson mentioned.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I did want to echo, since Director Guzman kind
of anticipated the second and third questions there by asking about the private comparators, to echo his
sentiment that I recognize that the compensation philosophy includes that reference. I've previously
stated that I have hesitation about that, but not suggesting a prohibition, just hesitation. And for that

reason, I'd like to make sure that as we are looking at additional comparators, that we would have a
pretty good explication to us of why various private agencies would be appropriate to be looked at for
comparators. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I do have a question. Do any of the comparators that
you've listed also provide paratransit services as RTD does? That being our Access-A-Ride and our
FlexRide services and Access-A-Cab or whatever. I mean, we offer some other services and I just was
wondering how many of the comparators also provide those services. I see Director GM/CEO Johnson
has her hand raised, but. Go ahead, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Are you speaking to me, Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Just for your edification, any public entity that is providing a public service has
to comply with the ADA of the American Disabilities Act of 1990. Thus, all of those entities are providing
paratransit services as it relates to the complimentary paratransit services within three quarters of a
mile.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And maybe if we could look at the slide again for the factors used to
identify the comparators. My question, I guess, is maybe a little harder to quantify, but are there agencies
listed-- I just went to the APTA Conference and I spoke with a number of folks from different agencies,
and some of them were kind of similar experiences to ours over the last four years that I've been on the
Board and some of them a little bit different. And I don't mean just the size of the agency, large, medium,
small.
But some of them seemed a little bit more like, wow, that's kind of what we're going through or have
been through or issues we are also facing. So I guess my question is relating to, are there agencies that
more or less are basically just like us? In terms of our debt levels, our obligations, there are light rail
lines or commuter lines that we need to still complete, considerations like our financial status, things like
that that we experience and are going through and face as an agency that maybe a similar agency
faces.
PEGGY CATLIN: Adley, would you like to respond to that, or Lauren?
ADLEY SATTESON: Yeah. I can provide the initial response. So due to the time frame that we had to
try to compile this information, we did not look into all of that information. However, if anyone is aware
of a competitor-- or a sorry, a comparator that is not on this list, that aligns with the factors you're
mentioning with RTD, we absolutely want to hear about it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Does that address your concern, Director Rosenthal? Yes. Director
Guissinger, please.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, and thank you for this presentation. I think I got this answer in our premeeting, but one of my problems-- and I need to go back and look at it-- with the compensation study
that was done last year was that in addition to doing the comparators, they did an anonymous literature
search and it came out with different numbers and they kind of combined them. I wasn't as fond of that.
You're not doing anything like that, is that right?
ADLEY SATTESON: No. That's one of the reasons why we're stating the private comparators that we're
considering right now. We aren't looking to do anything that we would not be able to provide you with
the origin of the data. Now, I will say, getting responses from private comparators is not going to be
easy, necessarily. They don't necessarily have an incentive to provide us with that information. We will
do our best, our due diligence to get that information. However, it is not guaranteed. And whatever we
do get, we will be transparent about.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. And I know that you're asking a number of things around both
salary and benefits and things like that. How do you handle partial answers?
ADLEY SATTESON: Yes. So I can actually go to the next slide, if that's all right, because we'll be talking
about some of the topics that will be discussed in the survey. OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
ADLEY SATTESON: So we have multiple topics that are included in the survey, and the survey, a copy
of it should be in the packet that was provided to you all. It's fairly thorough. We're looking for information
on organizations, base salary, variable pay, among other things. Now, if we do not get responses, the
question is going to be, how many responses did we get?
And we've tried to set up this survey and we'll try to communicate it to participants in such a way that
they provide us that information. So it is our full intent to get all of this information from any organization
that completes the survey. And then if we don't, we'll have to assess how many examples we've been
provided. Now, I also want to mention that there are two topics on this slide that I want to talk about in
particular.
The first is the base salary of other executive level positions. And the reason we're including this is
because we want to use this to help determine internal equity benchmarks. Additionally, we have an
additional considerations section, and this section is to help us prepare for the performance assessment.
All the other things are fairly standard within this kind of survey.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there-LAUREN STRICKER: I just want to drop in and add additional context as well. We are hoping to receive
five responses for each question in order to be able to report and utilize the response data from those
questions.

PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any questions of Directors? Actually, GM/CEO Johnson, do you have any
comments on this?
DEBRA JOHNSON: As relates to comments and when we look holistically, I appreciate what Adley has
outlined, and I think it's the overarching total compensation, of course, which we have discussed. It's
not just about base salary, but it's about the other elements that are conducive for the retention of any
CEO sitting in the seat. So as we look at this holistically, I do think it's in the agency's best interest,
especially the Board, whether it's me or somebody that succeeds me, that you all will have enough
elements to entice someone to want to lead the agency. So thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I appreciate your perspective on that. Should we proceed
to the next slide, if I don't see any others?
ADLEY SATTESON: OK. So during our meeting on Friday, GM/CEO Johnson agreed to provide us with
contact information for each of these comparators, which is a great help for us and will help us facilitate
survey participation and the communication process. So thank you very much, GM/CEO Johnson, for
that. That takes care of the first bullet point.
Additionally, two other points. We strongly recommend that we provide transparency in our
communications with any comparators. So we want to ensure that you're comfortable with us sharing
that we're performing the survey on behalf of RTD when we introduce ourselves. Additionally, we
strongly recommend providing aggregated survey results to participating organizations. This provides
them with an incentive to participate, and we want to ensure that there is a consensus that this is
acceptable.
PEGGY CATLIN: Directors, do you have any thoughts? I actually was going to put Director Tisdale on
the spot, but I see he has his hands raised-- his hand raised. And what I was going to invite you to do,
Director Tisdale, was to augment the list of contacts through your role as the Committee Chair for APTA
Boards and Commissions group to see if you wanted to tap in for additional information for these
comparators.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate that. Yes, I was thinking about that, in fact, because we do
have some of this information that is available at APTA. Some of it's actually available on the website
and then other sources. And I will be at APTA headquarters in DC on Friday, I believe with GM/CEO
Johnson, for the APTF meeting.
And that's something that I think we can definitely do in looking at the compilation of all of this information
and sharing it and so forth. I guess my first question is this is not your first rodeo, so you say it's your
suggestion. I guess my question to you would be, is it your practice that when you do this for other
companies or other public entities and agencies, do you, A, disclose who they are and, B, offer to share
the survey results with the comparators?
PEGGY CATLIN: Adley, do you have--

ADLEY SATTESON: Yes. Yes. It is our strong recommendation. It provides transparency. And it also,
as I said before, it incentivizes participation.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there any other questions of Directors? OK, please proceed. Oh, I see
Debra has her hand raised.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Madam Chair. If I just could clarify. I know Director Tisdale mentioned that
information is available on APTA's website, but you have to be a member and have special credentials
to log in to basically be able to get the information in which I was sharing. Hence that's why I was going
to provide those contacts directly to RKL. So I just wanted to qualify that. Then lastly, Director Tisdale,
I will not be seeing you on Friday. I will be doing that virtually, as I have other obligations here with RTD.
Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for both of those comments, Ms. Johnson, and we appreciate your
assistance to our consultants in accessing that information. Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry. I'll be quick. I just want to make sure, Adley, you asked for-- are you asking
in this moment for us to give you an answer on these? Recommend providing aggregated survey results,
do you need a yes or no answer, an up or down answer on that? Or are you asking us to take this to the
Board and have everybody talk about it? Because this is really this Committee's work, and I'm just a
little confused, before we change the slide. OK.
ADLEY SATTESON: Yes. So this is our planned approach. So we are looking to do this, and if there
are any objections, we would like to hear them now, especially due to the expedited timeline of the
survey. We fully plan to reach out to comparators this week. WE kind of have to. So nailing down all
these details is something that we're trying to do right now in this moment.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam Chair, if I may.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So to the rest of the folks on the Committee, I would just say this kind of
conversation seems to be one that's really steeped in relationship building because it is kind of personal- not personal, but highly guarded information, and I think we would be more apt on our end, if we receive
this type of survey, to respond if we knew who it was for. So providing that transparency might be to our
benefit.
And if we are providing directly contact information for comparators to our contractor here, then I think
there would be nothing wrong with saying that we're doing this on behalf of RTD Denver. Does anybody
else have a different opinion on that? Because I'm inclined to say I'm OK with this, and to the point of
providing aggregated information, I think that that word aggregated is really important. So we're paying
for the work, but there's no reason to not share some of the result that we get back from it while we dig
into the more detailed information here that we need to make a decision.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guzman. Does anyone else have any concerns about these
logistics? I, for one, am supportive of this, particularly in that it might incite people to participate at a
broader level if they can see some of the benefits of getting the results. Anybody else?
DOUG TISDALE: Amen.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. OK. I think we're ready now to-- we wrapped up the
compensation discussion. I think we're ready to move on to the 360 performance assessment.
LAUREN STRICKER: All right. Thank you, Chair Catlin. As you are all likely aware, the purpose of 360
degree feedback is to allow you to collect performance data from a variety of sources to assist an
employee in applying their strengths and weaknesses from multiple perspectives. As I understand it, the
Committee has had a great deal of discussion around the implementation of a 360 degree assessment
leading up to today's discussion and discussion around its place in the GM and CEO's performance
appraisal process.
From our perspective, the first and most important thing when developing a 360 is to ensure there is a
clear understanding of purpose at the outset of its development. Our goal is to share best practices
based on literature and our experience, provide recommendations, and ensure we are in alignment with
the Committee's expectations on purpose. For this slide only, I ask that you hold your questions and
comments until I've covered our recommendations.
When it comes to the purpose, both the literature and our experience have found that it's best practice
to communicate the purpose of the 360 to all participants before the 360 is developed and distributed.
And by participants, I do mean administrators of the 360, the employee being evaluated, raters who
would be providing performance feedback, and those interpreting the results.
When I say purpose, I mean, are the results going to be used more for developmental purposes, such
as providing the GM/CEO feedback to create goals for the future and shift behaviors, or will it be used
for administrative purposes, such as including or deriving a formula to find a merit increase or bonus?
The reason why this is important, it's important to set the purpose at the outset is because purpose does
have a potentially significant effect on outcome and the questions being asked in the 360 degree
assessment.
Research has shown-- on the left side I have some best practices just to summarize there. Research
has shown that raters are more likely to provide honest feedback and employees being evaluated are
more receptive to that feedback when they are aware it's for developmental purposes rather than
administrative purposes. As such, we typically recommend that the 360 degree evaluation be used for
developmental purposes.
Now, it is our understanding that the Committee has approved a framework to evaluate the GM/CEO
performance that includes an evaluation based on job description, job responsibilities, and
organizational values, and those items represent about 64 points of the framework. Of course, we

understand that there should be an objective evaluation or method to evaluate the job responsibilities
and the organizational value to ensure that you can objectively stand behind the use and assessment
of the 64 points.
The feedback from the 360 can certainly be used to inform the use of the 64 points, so the evaluation
of job responsibilities and organizational value. Ideally, our recommendation would be that the Board
has its own evaluation that evaluates the GM's performance along job responsibilities and organizational
values. And that's an objective that has questions that Board members can respond to that evaluates
the performance along those lines, and that the 360 degree feedback is used to inform that evaluation.
We don't necessarily recommend that the 360 degree feedback is the sole source and only evaluation
of that job responsibility and organizational value piece. At least not for the first year. We make this
recommendation because, again, this is the first year the Committee is adopting this type of assessment,
and we do recommend that any custom assessment, 360 or not, is evaluated as far as its success
before installing it permanently as part of an administrative formula to determine merit or bonus.
We would also like to ensure that this process remains fair to the GM/CEO. So to install an assessment
that asks for feedback along newly defined questions with underlying expectations of performance that
have not been articulated to the GM/CEO at the beginning of the assessment period may place GM
Johnson at a natural disadvantage. I will open up the floor to questions. It looks like we might have a
few.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. So not to put too fine a point on it, the 360 does
not replace or supplant the Board review of the General Manager/CEO. It is an adjunct. It is, as you
have said, a process to inform part of what we are doing in this process. And I just wanted to articulate
that again. You did a very fine job of it, but I wanted to articulate it again to emphasize that particular
point.
There is a question that I do have regarding it, however, and that is, is the 360 a process that would
ensure anonymity, or will all comments be attributed to individuals? I ask the question because I think
people, when they know their name is going to be disclosed, might not be as candid as they would be if
they had protection of anonymity.
I'm also aware that there are concerns about people who have the protection, the umbrella of anonymity
might choose to say things that they wouldn't feel comfortable saying out loud otherwise. I just want to
know again, you're the experts. You do this a lot. What is your experience?
PEGGY CATLIN: Lauren?
LAUREN STRICKER: That's an excellent question. We do recommend that we keep anonymity as much
as possible. We do like to report feedback by rater group, so that I mean peer, supervisor, direct report.

So to that extent, we would like to report the data, which may not mean completely anonymous, although
we hope to have two to three raters in each group in order to protect identity. And we wouldn't report
the feedback by individual. Does that answer your question, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: It does very well. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you Director Tisdale. I wanted to comment that I really liked the way you
phrased that the 360 does not supplant the Board's responsibility for evaluating the performance. And I
wanted to emphasize that that is, indeed, a step in our process, but that the 360 would serve to inform
the Board as they do its assessment. Director Guissinger, I see your hand raised. Director Guissinger
and I have had considerable discussions about this. Please go ahead, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I certainly don't mean to interrupt, but yeah, I'm glad to hear that too. And I
just wanted to make clear to the Board that your point, the other day, which I understood you to say that
this is a better tool for developmental purposes than performance. And I believe your comment was that
the literature shows that if you use this for performance, the raters tend to give their numbers higher. So
there's kind of a caveat in doing that, right?
LAUREN STRICKER: That is what the research shows, that it's potential for inflation of responses. And
one other point as well is that 360 degree feedback does collect data from different perspectives, which
is great. The perspectives, although each different type of rater may have more ability or a better
perspective over a certain aspect or performance dimension than another group.
And that's why we like to report the data by rater group, so that you have a perspective of where that
feedback is coming from and that can be filtered through as well. And just-- sorry. Actually, I know that
GM Johnson has her hand raised, so I can come back to me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK
PEGGY CATLIN: Guissinger, does that address your concern?
LYNN GUISSINGER: For now. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. GM/CEO Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Committee Chair Catlin. I just wanted to get
clarification. I can't recall what Committee member said this, but a comment was just made that the 360
feedback would be used prior to doing one's own evaluation of me. And for all intents and purposes,
relative to a 360 review, having participated in these on both sides of the fence, and I would concur,
from a developmental purpose, I have done these for folks that were in my chain of command when
they were going into leadership program so there was an understanding of what should be targeted.
I would disagree that one should look at that prior to then assessing me, using that as a data point,
whereas the intent behind this is to ensure that I'm showing up relative to the values and the ideals and
beliefs that this Board collectively adopted as it relates to behavioral characteristics and what it means

when we are coordinating with different individuals. So I just wanted to see clarification on that because
that was not my understanding when I put this forward as a suggestion. So if anybody could further
clarify that, I would greatly appreciate it. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Lauren?
DEBRA JOHNSON: It wasn't Lauren, Madam Chair. It was for the Board. I believe somebody said that
this would inform their assessment of me, and I'm saying that that's not the intent of the 360 to have
somebody else provide that and then you evaluate me. It should be done independently and then
basically cumulative, you could look at that as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: I believe Director Tisdale had made the initial comment about it would serve to inform
the Board's evaluation. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I would love to take credit for the words, but I was simply
reading the screen that is before me now, that it said the results of the 360 assessment should inform
RTD's current process for merit increase slash bonus allocations. That's how I was reading it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I believe that that's-- maybe Mr. Kroll can help, but I believe that was the
conversation back in September and maybe again in January, that this is, I would call a data point. We
have a lot of information this year coming in. I guess I'm not clear. Ms. Johnson, are you saying that it
would be a separate data point from what the Board that we don't look at it when we're doing our
performance assessment?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, that's not what I'm indicating. Madam Chair, if I may clarify my comments,
please, I'd appreciate it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly. So, Director Guissinger, what I had heard was that you
all would use this data point when you were assessing me. There could be a population of this group
that is doing the 360 in addition to evaluating me. And so there are data points, but collectively providing
the feedback because you guys are a collective body. And so what I'm saying is what I heard was that
you would take this data and utilize it to assess my performance, whereby there could be different
entities that are evaluating me.
There could be a cross-section of peer associates, folks that I engage with in my day-to-day interactions
that are external to the organization. There could be a subset of this group here being of the Board of
Directors, there could be a subset of direct reports. And so when you look at that holistically, recognizing
that that would be used to inform your decision, I'm saying that's an additional data point. And so that's
what I was seeking to clarify because I heard something different.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I guess I'm not still quite sure, but I think the intent all along was that we
would do this 360. I'm a little concerned about it when I hear our experts saying this is a better
developmental tool than a performance tool, but we can customize it to hopefully take into account the
weaknesses of using it as a performance tool. But that that's just a piece of-- that's a matter to consider
as the Board does its performance review, which is, of course, our job.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Understood, and I'm not disputing that, recognizing that we do have short-term
goals in my overall job performance that equates to 64 points, and the other piece is 36 points. That
totals 100. So to the point that's listed on the slide, it would inform the overarching performance but
shouldn't be used as the foundation on which to assess my skill, knowledge, abilities, and how best I
perform my job. So that's what I was clarifying. But I'm amenable to having an additional discussion
about what might be, because it seems as if there is some confusion about what this tool is seeking to
provide.
When I offered this up, it basically was an option, recognizing that there seemed to be some trepidation
and angst relative to utilizing external sources, i.e. be it a net promoter score or community input talking
about the aspect of my ability to lead the organization. So I am amenable to having a closed session. I
can confer with the Chair if that's in everyone's best interest. But recognizing that this is a two party path
forward, I would appreciate the opportunity if, in fact, there are concerns. Thank you very much, Madam
Chair, for the opportunity to opine.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Guissinger, does that address, to some extent, your comments?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I'm not completely clear, so I think the idea of having a separate discussion
makes sense, if that does to other people.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree. Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm amenable to having another meeting to make sure that we have this completely
clarified, but I would bring this up. It is the Board's responsibility to review the GM/CEO. Seeking
information from other people is helpful in terms of providing feedback, so I do appreciate that that is
the best practice with this particular thing. Doesn't quite align, I don't think, with what our intended
purpose was, but it actually makes a lot more sense when we do our reviews.
I remember last year, without getting into too much detail, that there was a lot of concern about what
kind of feedback are we giving and how often are we giving it to our employee. Right? And we went
rounds and rounds about different conversations on what that looks like, what feedback is necessary.
But I think-- and please correct me if I'm wrong, General Manager Johnson, performers want to get that
feedback. We want to know what it is we can do to improve.
And we see our relationship with you and the work that you're doing within the agency at one specific
angle, which is Board to General Manager/CEO. What we don't always see is what's going on around
you in the other directions, as you have suggested, internal and external to the agency, both with your

direct reports and with other community contact points. Now, I think some of us hear about those
interactions, either because we are adjacent to those people or we're at the same meeting with you and
we see how you're interacting with them.
But also having the opportunity to look at feedback from a larger contingency beyond the Board is helpful
to us understanding how it is that you are showing up and where it is we might need to do some
concerted work on improvement. We can all improve. Not that you're not doing the work, but we have
blind spots, every one of us.
And so I think that the purpose of doing the 360, as I understood it when we brought this up the first
time, was really to figure out what it is that we may not be seeing as a Board of Directors and solicit that
information so we can have a better understanding, and then enter into a more developmental
conversation with you about what we can work on going forward together collectively, so that we have
your back, we continue to support you, but also you're receiving critical feedback to improve, both as
the General Manager and CEO, but also as a professional.
I would never-- just personally, I will take the privilege to say I would never use the 360 to do my own
personal review of you in my role as a Director. I would exercise the leadership that I've been authorized
by being put in this Committee and on the Board to do your review in a more thoughtful manner so that
I can provide you with that feedback directly, and I think we all can agree on that.
But it's another tool in the tool kit of how we look at doing the review here. And so I guess I'm not
understanding what the confusion is because the way it was presented, without taking sides, I am under
the same understanding that the General Manager/CEO has presented here and I don't think that we're
unaligned in what these recommendations are. So I'm not quite sure why there's confusion around why
we would do a 360. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. If I might, I think that there is some confusion. We did embark upon this
360 effort last September and then subsequently in January, and perhaps Mr. Kroll would like to
elaborate on that. That being said, the 360 review is not used solely for performance appraisal process.
I mean, I just think it needs to be, as Director Guissinger suggests, it's a data point. It just serves to
inform. It's not a decision tool as much as it is a context tool, and it provides context for some of these
items. GM/CEO Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you for that, and thanks to Director Guzman for stating.
I think basically what's tripping us up, to use that word, is that I heard Board members saying that they
wanted to use this to do a review. However, it's a data point, as you stated.
But I think, if anything, I'm coming from the vantage point of saying that when one is doing their review
of me, they shouldn't have prior knowledge of the 360 reviewer's responses prior to finishing their own
individual reviews. That's what I was saying. And so it's collective, and I think that's where the confusion
rests, in my humble opinion. So that's what I just wanted to clarify and qualify. Thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I'm sure we'll take that under consideration. But also to provide context,
we have not worked with the consultant yet to develop the tools, to develop the questions that will be
posed of the reviewers in this 360 assessment. And a lot of that will shape what information we're trying
to garner from this 360 review. I saw Director Tisdale nodding. I didn't know if you had a comment.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Thank you. Had to get the cursor over from the other screen. I think I'm better
understanding GM/CEO's comment now and can agree with it. As it's written here, again, to go back to
what RKL has offered us, the results of the 360 assessment should inform RTD's current process for
merit increased slash bonus allocations.
That's not to say that the 360 should be used by a Director as essentially somebody else doing their
homework for the evaluation. So it's something that we shouldn't get the 360 and then sit down and say,
well, this is what they said. OK, yeah, that's my evaluation. No, you do your evaluation based upon your
knowledge. But then when we get to the next question, what are we going to do about merit increase,
bonus allocations, et cetera?
Then we say, well, no, let's look at this 360 and let's see what we learned there. We have all 15 of us
have expressed ourselves in our evaluation and we have the other data point of the 360, and we take
all of that information plus whatever else may be available, and based upon that, arrive at a conclusion
as to merit increase, bonus allocations, et cetera. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm going to ask Lauren if she has any comments regarding this dialogue that we've
just had, because I think we've heard a couple of different approaches.
LAUREN STRICKER: Thank you. Thank you, Chair Catlin. I really appreciate this discussion and I think
they're all excellent points. One thing that I will pose for food for thought of consideration if you do take
this into another discussion is that one of my main concerns about using the 360 assessment this year
as the sole source of defining the 64 points, again, is that this is a custom assessment and it has not
been evaluated. And the success of it, as far as is it aligning to the Committee's expectations, is it
perceived as fair, is the feedback valuable, has yet to been to be evaluated.
And so to hang our hats on just this could be-- not detrimental. I know we always get good feedback.
But it may not serve in its best purpose, which is why I think it's an excellent opportunity to have the 360
in tandem to a Board evaluation that does evaluate similar qualities in order to perform a validation
assessment and to ensure that it is providing quality feedback.
Should the Committee decided that the 360 is valid, there is an opportunity to change the way it's used
in the consequent years should the Committee find that that is the best opportunity there. 360 degree
feedback is great for developmental purposes for developing goals that could certainly be included in
an evaluation that's used towards defining merit increase or bonus and as far as evaluating the progress
towards those goals.

Now, I will say when using the 360 degree feedback, one benefit is that it does provide, to the Board in
its informational state when the Board is doing their own assessment, is that as-- I believe it was Director
Guzman that may have astutely mentioned that, is that Board members and Performance Committee
members have one perspective of GM Johnson's performance, and the 360 is providing evaluation in
areas that the Board and the Performance Committee may not be observing on a regular basis. And so
that's definitely where I could see the 360 providing value when the Board is conducting its evaluation
of the performance.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Lauren. And just, for my understanding, I don't think any of us on the
Committee were suggesting that this be the sole tool to inform, but rather it be one data point in the
overall evaluation. So I think we still have some dialogue to have about to what degree we would use
the 360 assessment. I do believe that the emphasis on developmental purpose of the 360 is very
important, and setting goals. I think those are very key.
And I think when we started out last September, it wasn't-- forgive me, I have a barking dog. We hadn't
thought that through. So I do believe that further discussion could be warranted. And I'll just leave it at
that. Any other comments? I see GM/CEO Johnson has her hand raised.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you, Committee Chair. And this will be my last comment because I
don't want to belabor the point, but one thing's for certain. As we look at the presentation materials and
recognizing that it has been agreed upon and approved by the overarching Board relative to my base
job and then my short-term goals and values of point system, then the question arises to what you just
put forward in the form of a question.
Then what is the weighting of the data point? What if you all don't agree with this 360? And so that's
where I think the confusion is, because it's used to inform. And so there's no point attributed to that
relative to what it is because we already came up with the 100 point system.
PEGGY CATLIN: Whoops. I think you are correct.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. OK. That's what I was just trying to ensure, so thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's not a weighted factor.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right.
PEGGY CATLIN: At least in my opinion. Other Directors?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, no, I'm saying that we have a score. We have something that the Board
approves. So that's what I mean. We need further discussion if that's going to deviate, and that's what I
meant in my previous comments by this is a two party engagement, i.e. the Board and me in my capacity
as the General Manager and CEO at any point in time-- no pun intended, with the point reference, but
there's nothing attributed to that. It's just collective in that sense. So that's why I think there's confusion

about something replacing this as we go forward. So anyway, I'll yield the floor. I've said enough as it
relates to this topic. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that. And I'm going to yield to Director Guissinger in a minute, but I think
that there was never, at least in my intent, to use that as a weighting factor. I don't think there's any
suggestion that we change that which we already agreed to. I think that what this 360, in my view, it just
is context for the overall evaluation. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Did you say that it's-- Director Catlin, did you say that it's not a weighted
factor? Did I understand that?
PEGGY CATLIN: That's what I understood.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I just wanted to be sure. I think we're getting to the same place, so. May
require a little additional conversation before our next meeting, but I think we're getting close. That
sounds good.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree. Any other comments from Directors before we move on? And I hope we've
provided our consultants with some food for thought as they proceed with their recommendations.
Director Guissinger, your hand is still up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's all right. We can proceed then.
LAUREN STRICKER: Thank you, Chair Catlin. We certainly want to work with this Committee and GM
Johnson to ensure that this is a meaningful survey tool for all parties. And appreciate the decisions that
the Committee does come to in regarding its use and would be happy to continue conversations as well
on the topic.
All right, so we're going to move on to the discussion of raters of the 360 degree assessment. Typical
raters include managers, supervisors, peers, direct reports, as well as a self evaluation. Again, I
mentioned this before, but the nice thing about the 360 is to get multiple perspectives, and as part of the
report or the analysis, it's nice to see how the data is trending amongst these groups. The nice thing
about having self-evaluation as part of the 360 is, again, from a developmental standpoint, just being
able to identify self-perspective of performance versus other and where any discrepancies may be
reflected.
It is best practice when identifying rater groups that you use a small but relevant rater group. Those
chosen to evaluate the GM/CEO's performance should have worked with the GM over the evaluation
period and be well-positioned to have observed behaviors that are being evaluated. Given this, we do
recommend that we keep the rate of group to between 8 to 10 raters if possible. We can certainly stress
stretch the maximum, maybe an additional two, but I really don't want to go too far from that, ensuring
that we've distributed this 8 to 10 between these participant groups to get various perspectives.

We also recommend that all raters receive a personal invitation from GM Johnson asking that they do
complete the 360 degree assessment. The reason being is that a personal invitation would speak
volumes about the purpose of the 360, that GM Johnson is supportive of the feedback that she may
receive through this process, and it also increases the likelihood of participation.
Now, to clarify this point, we as the third party would like to distribute the survey link, the assessment
tool link, as we feel like that would be the best way to show, again, that we would like to collect the data
confidentially, that it would be anonymous, and that we would be able to control that. But we do feel like
for us to reach out as a third party that they're not familiar with and not have any other context, we may
not get as much response. And again, we really want people to be in the mindset that this is approved,
that GM Johnson is standing behind this and wants their feedback.
PEGGY CATLIN: Directors, do you have any comments? Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah. And I know this might be bigger than a group of people that you'd like to
reach out to, but what about folks who have perhaps left the agency who may be retired, for example,
who may have been a direct report who worked at the agency a long time and maybe also intersected
with working for the General Manager/CEO?
LAUREN STRICKER: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Again, I would say my primary recommendation
there is that the individuals being evaluated have had been in the best position to observe behaviors
that we're evaluating and can provide the best feedback. So I would say it would likely depend on what
we end up evaluating and whether that would make sense.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I do have some thoughts, and this is maybe a minor detail. I do feel that
having the personal invitation from GM/CEO Johnson is important, because it shows that she's
supportive of getting this feedback. But I also think that this is a Board driven process, the evaluation
process is.
And so it would be my suggestion that we have an invitation that is sent out from both our Board Chair
and the GM/CEO to demonstrate that this is a collaborative effort among the Board and the GM/CEO
for the purpose of improving the agency and evaluating performance. So that would be my suggestion.
I don't know if other Directors have thoughts about that. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I would like to hear what the Chair might have to opine on that, but I would agree
with you. I think that this is collaborative and not one sided, and depending on who we're asking and
who we're talking to, receiving that invitation should serve as the introduction and the gateway,
especially if we're looking at other elected officials or other community members where we might have
a particular need to garner information from them. But I also think that it's a both/and, not an either/or.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guzman. I don't know if Chair Davidson is still on the call or not.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, I'm here, Madam Chair.

PEGGY CATLIN: Would you like to comment?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, I'm amenable to that. I'd like to consider what the approach and the framing is
to ensure that we maximize the response and well-frame it. But I do think that's a good idea and I'm
happy to work with you as well as our team from RKL to frame that up properly. So I'd like to give that a
little bit of thought, Madam Chair, but certainly amenable and open to the idea, assuming we can get
that framed in such a way that will ensure the responses are-- we get the responses that we need and
don't introduce any bias or concern. So thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that. Other Directors? Before I turn it back to Lauren, to see what her
thoughts might be on that. Seeing no other Directors in the queue, Lauren, do you think that would be
possible if, as Chair Davidson suggests, it's framed?
LAUREN STRICKER: Absolutely. Yeah. Absolutely. I don't see any concerns with that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And I see Director Tisdale nodding in affirmation, so I think maybe we
ought to go ahead and proceed along those lines.
LAUREN STRICKER: Great.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
LAUREN STRICKER: Sorry. I think we do have one more hand up.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I guess after this meeting, before August 8, we will be working with
RKL to put together the rater group and the questions and those things. Is that the next step? Am I
jumping ahead?
LAUREN STRICKER: Yes, so that's a great question, if you don't mind me jumping in, Chair Catlin. Yes.
So we would put together, in collaboration with the Committee, a list of potential readers. I would
recommend that we do get GM Johnson's feedback on the rater list as well, as she is well aware of who
she works with closely over the past year and can provide feedback as far as identifying a larger potential
list, and then we can work with the Committee to narrow in on the chosen raters.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I believe we have another slide to get to.
LAUREN STRICKER: Chair Catlin, it looked like there was one more question. Should we move on?
PEGGY CATLIN: I didn't see the question. I'm sorry. Oh. Director Rosenthal, please. Thank you, Lauren.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, just real quick. So the self-eval that is part of this review, is that going to
overlap or would that be a separate self-eval that the GM/CEO is going to do?

LAUREN STRICKER: Well, this likely, if the separate self-eval as part of the Board evaluation, is similar
to what was used last year. This would likely be measuring different questions, and so I see it as two
separate self evaluations. That's from my perspective.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I would tend to agree, Lauren. Does that answer your question, Director
Rosenthal? OK.
LAUREN STRICKER: One more point here that you may want to continue to discuss as well that I know
has been a point of discussion is the inclusion or the participation of the Board or the Performance
Committee as raters in the 360 evaluation. My recommendation is that we would have, again, one to
three-- or two to three evaluators that represent the Performance Committee and/or the Board as part
of the 360.
Again, having that perspective to compare on the same questions as other groups I think would be
valuable to all parties. But again, this is something that you ultimately have authority over and can
discuss. And this, again, if we're thinking long-term, it might be included this year. And if you find that
it's too redundant when you do your evaluation next year, because you do have a separate evaluation,
can be forgoed for the 360 next year.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Lauren. And I do think that that's a discussion that we still need to have.
Given that the Board will be doing a separate evaluation and that we're using the 360 perhaps to just
inform, then I'm kind of on the fence as to whether or not we should have Board participation on the 360
review. But I will yield to the opinions of other Directors, and not only this Committee, but I think the
Board as a whole. Other Directors, do you have thoughts about that? Chair Davidson? I see Director
Tisdale has his hand raised.
DOUG TISDALE: I'll happily yield to the Chair first, and then I'll come in.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Chair Davidson, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to ask a clarifying question, make sure I
understood correctly. Lauren, you are stating that your recommendation would be that the Board of
Directors do participate in the 360 in addition to any additional evaluations that would be done, and that
if we found that redundant this year, perhaps in the future we would abandon that practice, but the
recommendation would be to have a participant or two this year in 2024. Did I understand that correctly?
LAUREN STRICKER: Yes. I think it would serve as a valuable data point to evaluate the validity of the
360 and help you understand how you'd like to use it in the future.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I see. Understood. I think I would be-- I guess just while I have the floor-- thanks,
Madam Chair-- I'm open to that idea. I think that's beneficial with that being one of the stated objectives
that we are-- in almost informing our decisions about the tool in the future, I would want to make sure
that then we err on the side of a higher count of raters.

Because I think that, given that we have other evaluation tools that the Board will be using collectively
for its entire evaluation, I think this represents an opportunity that we don't want to dilute with the initial
intent being seeing those who have worked in different capacities with our General Manager and CEO
weighing in on the evaluation.
So I'm, like you, Madam Chair, a little bit on the fence on this. But I would say that using it to inform our
future use of the tool is beneficial. I would just err on the side of making sure we have more raters and
not fewer so that we're not diluting the responses. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I concur wholeheartedly with the way Chair
Davidson has summarized this. Let's do it now, let's see how it works, and then let's see if we want a
course correction next year. I agree also. Let's select 8 to 10 raters and then let's add two to three Board
members as additional raters to that process. I think that's what I heard from Chair Davidson, and I
would concur. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. That's actually a nice segue to the next slide, if you want
to go ahead, Lauren.
LAUREN STRICKER: Sure. Thank you, Director Catlin. So almost to the last slide here. I just wanted to
review the proposed approach to the development of the custom 360. In the development phase of the
360 degree assessment tool, we hope to interview-- oh, goodness. Sorry, everybody. There we go. Back
at it. We hope to interview each one of the Performance Committee Directors to understand their
perspective on what the most important performance components that should be evaluated in the 360
should be.
We also hope to discuss and interview the GM for the same purposes and also to understand her goals.
We will work in conjunction and speak with the Chief People Officer as well and review the job
description as it currently stands, as well as organizational values and goals in the development process.
Through this phase, we hope to compile a pretty comprehensive list of what the Committee, the GM job
description, et cetera, is stating are the most important performance dimensions or components that
should be evaluated in the 360.
We want to take it a step further and bring more participation to the Board by compiling a short survey
that has this comprehensive list, and allow the Board to rate what they feel is the most important
components to evaluate. Best practice is to keep this survey as succinct as possible, so between 45 to
55 questions, which doesn't leave us a lot of questions to evaluate a ton of-- or the most extensive list
that you probably may want to see from a 360 or from an assessment.
Just to ensure that we're using time wisely, we want to focus on the most important performance
dimensions. And so from the Board survey, we'll have identified the most important and we'll use that
information and start developing survey questions to evaluate the most important components.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Lauren. Are there any questions? I view this as the most critical point for
Directors to weigh in on shaping this custom 360 tool. I think it's really important that we provide input
so that the information that we will be garnering from the 360 is meeting our objectives as a Board.
Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. To that end, I wanted to know, when we talk, for
example, about reviewing organizational values and goals-- and this may be an overbroad question and
may go beyond the custom 360 and seep into other elements of the evaluation process. But the question
I have is, where are the KPIs? Do we use our key performance indicators that we have identified and
that we are developing a dashboard for as some of the process in the 360 to say, for example, we want
to see on time performance at a certain level.
You work with the GM/CEO. Do you think that's being addressed? I mean, and I'm very inartful in the
phrasing, but that's why I don't get paid the big bucks. So the question really is, do we use things like
the KPIs to inform this process? I have a series of other questions I want to ask too, but they're more
broad. This point, I think, is particularly focused on when we're developing the assessment components,
is that part of what we take into account? Not necessarily use, but take into account in developing the
assessment components. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I'm going to-- Chair Davidson, please. And then I know- Director Guissinger said she may have to drop off, but I know she has some thoughts about this as
well. Chair Davidson, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm happy to yield to Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You go ahead.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. I was just going to address Director Tisdale's question, given the
framework that we had worked on last year going into this year. It was my understanding that the 360
review would focus largely on folks who have-- the raters being those who have worked directly with the
General Manager and CEO for the purposes in aiding the evaluation of what I think we've lovingly started
to refer to, by colors that were in the framework, the blue boxes, if I'm not mistaken, of agency values
and core based job function.
With the agency values being those that we adopted in the strategic plan, the core based job being the
job description of the General Manager and CEO, and that we had had criteria specifically as it related
to general transit management, board interaction, and external relationships, and that that would be
where the 360 review would focus would be on those two blue boxes. Whereas in the short-term SMART
measurable goals for the annual would inform the objective side of the evaluation, if we can still call it
that. That was the red box for the year.
And that the KPIs that we have been working on and to which you're referring would eventually form a
multi-year strategy and the yellow box of agency performance metrics, which thus far we have largely

focused on the NPS-driven success outcomes, but of course, are expanding on those to the KPIs you're
describing. So that's my understanding of the framework that we had adopted.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Davidson, Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That probably needs some more conversation. I did not understand that we had
defined the 360 that carefully, and I think those questions still remain to be asked. And I would agree
with Director Tisdale. We feel like we have lots of surveys and not really much data. And I think it's time
to start getting the KPIs. I agree it's a longer term piece, but it's really information we need. I spent some
time with the dashboard. It's a good start, but it's information we need in the dashboard. And I think that
starting to look at our data, as Director Catlin says, put it into context, that could definitely help us put
questions into our 360.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Other Directors? Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just for the record, packet page 13 is what the diagram I believe the Chair was
referring to with the different colored boxes. I think it might be beneficial to continue a conversation about
this amongst ourselves with the General Manager/CEO to ensure we know what we're looking at. I will
say this. Given everything that was presented here, I still think it's really beneficial to have a 360 review,
and it is key to remember it's 360. So if we pull our 10% out of that circle, it's not complete.
So as we're developing this, you asked for our input and our-- this is a formative point. I think
understanding what this ends up being, to begin at the end, what's the bluff? What's the bottom line up
front that we're trying to get out of this? I think it's just a more well-rounded view of our CEO in all the
capacities we expect.
But it also seems to me that we are looking-- and where we had a bit of consternation last year was the
disconnect between hard numbers and data and the more subtle, subjective review where we believe
we have one opinion or we have varied opinions amongst the 15 of us, and it would be helpful then to
take into account how other people are viewing the work of the General Manager from the outside of
the agency or within the agency on parts that we don't understand. So I do see a lot of value doing this.
I don't want to poo-poo it.
I would also go back to the idea that this is the first year. It's a base setting. We have the opportunity to
review and consider whether it's an effective tool or not without committing to it long-term and to still be
able to make adjustments going forward into the future. Not to mention that we've already agreed that
this would be part of the review process, and so we can't throw out the baby with the bathwater. We do
need to move forward with it.
And so I'm OK to have more conversation about it, but I do see the value with it, and I think I'm kind of
excited to see what comes of it, being that it's not going to harm the General Manager/CEO in any way
to receive the feedback in terms of counting against a review process that's already been fairly clearly
defined. Those KPIs that you're talking about and that Director Tisdale has addressed, that's not what

we're after in looking at a 360 review. That's a piece of the whole review process, and these are all
pieces to build up the case about how we determine what to do with all of the information we have. So
as you all want to say, put it in context.
So this helps contextualize and draft the total review story that we're giving at the end of the year. And
it may also be a point where, in a position of leadership, you get a review, but a review should not be
one way. And this may provide wide context to have a conversation from the General Manager's seat
to the Board as well, and it's not a one way conversation. So I'm just going to say I think it's valuable
and I think we should move forward with it at this point. It's a bit of building the plane as we're flying it,
but I also think that that's what we agreed to and so we should keep our word.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I'm going to do a time check. We are approaching the two hour mark. I do think
this conversation regarding KPIs needs to be a dialogue that we are going to continue to have, and I
think it's because there's been an expectation among Directors that we have some of these measurable
outcomes. So I think we need to continue that discussion. I appreciate Director Guzman saying that
that's really not part of this 360 approach, and so I think we should separate those two. But thank you,
Director Tisdale, for bringing it up. I see GM/CEO Johnson has her hand raised.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to share for the Board's
edification, of course, RTD has key performance indicators because if we did not, we would not be
eligible for Section 5307, which is federal funding. We would not be in the National Transit Database,
because we have to provide our mean distance between failures, how many incidents we have per
100,000 miles, what our on-time performance is, what our ridership is.
So just for everybody's edification and for those listening in, I don't want anyone left with the
misunderstanding that this agency does not have key performance indicators. Those basically are
operational in nature and feed into what our core business is, which is service delivery.
And quite naturally, when you think about the dynamic organization in which I have the opportunity to
lead, I just wanted to qualify that's how we deduce what our schedule is. We have to ensure we get off
the lot. We have to ensure we meet our time points. That feeds into on-time performance. If we didn't
have that, then we'd have no understanding what we actually were producing. So thank you very much
for the opportunity to share that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Duly noted. And I think, again, to overuse my phrase, context, these data really serve
to provide context for some of these issues that we as Directors face. Director Guissinger, would you
like to add anything to that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great. I spent some time with the dashboard today. It's a good start. But I
think getting all of those KPIs that our GM/CEO was talking about into that dashboard would be a great
next step and would provide us a lot of information that I think we would like to see.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Is there any other business? Any other matters?

DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Just one very briefly that I meant to bring up during the comp
analysis, and that is the Gallagher report told us that the best practice was to have the CEO
compensation 20% more than the AGMs, but informed us that our differential was almost twice that
amount at 37%. And I just wanted to know if the total compensation analysis was going to include similar
data from RKL relative to that differential question. Thank you very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Adley or Lauren, would you like to address that?
LAUREN STRICKER: Happy to. Thank you. That's a great question, Director Tisdale. And as part of the
scope of work outlined by the Performance Committee, we will be conducting an internal equity
assessment as part of the total compensation review, and that would be a discussion that would be
included in that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent. Any other comments from Directors? The next Performance Committee
meeting, as mentioned previously, will be a little bit different from our normal meeting cadence. It is
scheduled for Thursday, August 8. And I know that the practice has been not to hold any meetings in
August, but I think we're making an exception for that.
It will be at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, and the primary purpose will be to continue our discussion that we
had today and work on the compensation analysis and the GM 360 assessment tool. And I would
encourage Directors to take a look at some of the supplemental data that are provided today and provide
any input into those tools prior to the August 8 packet being published. Director Tisdale, I see your hand
raised, and then I'll also yield the floor to Board Executive Manager Jack Kroll if he has anything to add.
DOUG TISDALE: He may have the same point. I have it on my calendar as an invite from the Board
staff for 2 o'clock on August 8 and you just said 3 o'clock, and I was asking for some clarity on that,
please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good question.
JACK KROLL: We will clarify as soon as we conclude here and update the meeting agenda accordingly.
Whatever we polled for is what we're going to work with, and that might either be 2:00 to 3:00 or 3:00 to
4:00. We'll have to double check.
PEGGY CATLIN: Or 2:00 to 4:00, given this discussion. OK. Well, with no other comments that I see,
we are adjourned at 6 o'clock PM Mountain Daylight Time. Thank you all for a very, very rich discussion.
I very much appreciate it.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, everybody.
ADLEY SATTESON: Thank you.

