Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 21 st, 2012
at 5:30 p.m.
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant

Date:

August 23, 2012

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, August 21,
2012 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Chair Pro Tem Cohen; Directors Anderson, Deadwyler, Gore,
James, Malpiede, McMullen, and Walker.
Director Tobiassen arrived late.

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Daly, Hoy, O’Boyle and Tayer.

Staff Present:

L. Skip Brown, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil,
Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus,
Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed,
Jannette Scarpino, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Phil
Washington, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Paul Solano

****
I. Call To Order
Chair Pro Tem Cohen called the Study Session meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
II. 2013 Requested Budget
Terry Howerter and Jannette Scarpino provided the Board with a Power Point
presentation on the 2013 Requested Budget. Jannette reiterated to the Board
that RTD is operating within a balanced budget and will continue to do so in
2013.
Director McMullen asked if a Board has ever not adopted a proposed budget.
Terry Howerter stated he has not experienced a budget not being adopted.
General Manager Washington stated that he does not think a Board has ever
not adopted a budget. Marla Lien explained to the Board that if the Board fails
to adopt a budget the State will adopt one for us at 80% of last year’s
expenditures.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 21 st, 2012
at 5:30 p.m.
General Manager Washington explained that one item not mentioned in the
presentation is that RTD is going to the table to negotiate a contract with our
union. He stated that we do not know what that impact will be but it is an
item that will be coming back to the Board. General Manager explained that
the current extension is set to expire at the end of February.
Chair Pro Tem Cohen asked if the outcome of the Union negotiations would be
embedded in the bus operations and rail operations budget. General Manager
Washington explained that the impact would not be specific to one
department but across the organization as a whole. Jannette Scarpino stated
that the 2.9% increase in operating expenses in 2013 will account for much
of the collective bargaining.
Director Anderson asked if we have any vendor contracts that are up for
negotiations this year. General Manager Washington stated that he did not
know the exact dates of all the private contract term but he would provide the
information to the Board. He explained that most private contracts are on
three-year terms.
III. Other Matters
General Manager Washington informed the Board that Denver International
Airport announced the selection of a station developer on the East corridor
line. He explained that DIA did notify RTD about the decision and that they
were going to make an announcement about the selection. They selected L.C.
Fulenwider. General Manager shared that this station is being called the
Aviation Station. He explained that staff would outline the project and
discuss the impact to RTD at a future Board meeting.
Director Deadwyler stated that she believed there were two firms that were
trying to bid on the project. She asked if someone from DIA could present to
the Board and explain the selection process. General Manager Washington
confirmed that there were two developers vying for the project. He explained
that as the Board may remember, RTD made a deal with the City and County
of Denver and DIA to double the tracks at one station. General Manager
stated that we would have DIA give us a presentation but he believes they are
in negotiations with L.C. Fulenwider so that may affect what they are able to
present.
Director James requested that L.C. Fulenwider provide the Board with a
presentation at the same time as the DIA presentation. General Manager
Washington stated that we would make the request but it may take time due
to the negotiations. He shares that staff has also asked DIA to brief the Board
on the status of the station and hotel. He believes that would probably be
after October.
Director McMullen asked for further details about the Building Denver’s Future
event that is being held on August 29 th. General Manager Washington stated

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 21 st, 2012
at 5:30 p.m.
that part of the presentation would be discussing the progress of the hotel and
station. He explained the other part is a ceremonial expansion of the canopy.
Director Gore shared that is was his understanding that they were
disconnecting the tension cables to move them to a different location during
construction.
Director Gore asked if DIA had exclusive decision making for the selection of
the firm and location of the Aviation Station. General Manager Washington
stated that was correct. He shared that he did not know the make-up of the
evaluation team but there was a panel in place to review the proposals and
award the project.
General Manager Washington informed the Board that staff was just notified
before the Study Session that there will be a story in the Denver Post relevant
to the Northwest rail/corridor mobility study. He stated that the Board should
have been copied on a letter that was sent to the Northwest stakeholders
discussing the study, scope of the study and requesting that they contribute
to the cost of the study. General Manager explained that his understanding is
this letter was sent to a reporter who is going to do a story on the study. He
shared that staff has reached out to the reporter to discuss our position on the
study. We explained to the reporter that we want this to be a partnership and
collaborative effort with the stakeholders. We also explained that this
particular study was unanticipated so it is not in the current FasTracks plan.
General Manager stated that we still stand by doing the study; we understand
that in order to realize additional revenues for FasTracks we need to determine
a solution for that quadrant. He explained that the study we are proposing is
more robust and will include all mobility options.
General Manager
Washington is hoping to get a consensus in the quadrants as to how we move
forward.
Director Anderson asked if the Northwest was planning an independent study.
General Manager stated that this was something they wanted us to take part
in. He explained that we received a proposed scope from the stakeholders
and RTD added to it because we thought it was not robust enough. General
Manager stated that we came up with a cost range for the project and
provided it to the Northwest. He reiterated that we recommend this be a
collaborative study.
Director Walker asked what organizations had to agree for the study in order
for it to move forward. He also asked what would happen if RTD decided not
to participate.
General Manager Washington stated that we want to
participate and we want the stakeholders to participate. He explained that it
is our goals to find a way to conduct the study while making sure it is very
comprehensive. General Manager stated that we are going to sit down with
the stakeholders to discuss the study to make sure it happens. He explained
that the letter he sent the stakeholders was just a proposed path forward.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 21 st, 2012
at 5:30 p.m.
Director Walked asked if we had spoken with the reporter. General Manager
stated that staff has talked to him.
General Manager Washington informed the Board that staff wanted to keep
them updated about the NATA resolution that was presented to DRCOG. He
explained that staff is still studying the resolution to determine the impact.
Bill Van Meter shared that on Wednesday, August 15, DRCOG had a Board of
Directors meeting. NATA had submitted a request that the DRCOG board
consider a resolution in regards to FasTracks, SB 208 and the RTP
Amendment. He stated that when staff became aware that the resolution
was being added, they did inform our DRCOG RTC members. He also stated
that the amendment was not on the agenda for the RTC meeting. Bill
explained that the DRCOG Board considered the resolution, debated it, made
amendments to it and passed the amended resolution 27 to 13. He reiterated
that as General Manager said, we are still analyzing the impact. Bill wanted to
make sure the Board was aware that any transportation action that is passed
by the DRCOG Board also needs to be passed by the DRCOG RTC and the
RTD Board of Directors.
Director Anderson asked who the independent business representatives were
on the DRCOG RTC. She stated that in her experience it was pretty hard to
beat what the DRCOG Board wants. She believes that the RTD Board should
have some autonomy in its decision through state law. Bill Van Meter
explained that there are 5 DRCOG representatives, 4 RTD representatives, 4
CDOT representatives and 4 independent business representatives. General
Manager Washington stated that we are analyzing our position and will be
ready to present at the DRCOG RTC. He shared that one of the reasons we
are submitting an RTP Amendment is to provide us time to work with our
stakeholders to determine the direction of our full SB208 report. He feels that
this resolution bypasses the very reason we are submitting the RTP
Amendment which is to collaborate with our stakeholders.
Marla Lien
expressed that she believes this resolution creates a conundrum for the
DRCOG Board.
She explained that what RTD submitted for the RTP
Amendment is something that DRCOG has to submit to the Feds. Marla
shared that we do not owe the SB 208 report under federal law but under
state law. She explained that as General Manager said, DRCOG needs to
submit an RTP so the region can stay eligible for federal funding. Marla
informed the Board that if DRCOG chose to submit an RTP that does not
compute with what RTD submitted to DRCOG, they may be in a position
where their RTP does not meet federal criteria for being fiscally constrained or
implementable because the RTD Board has not agreed to certain items. She
believes that both parties have some things to work out between now and
September.
Director Anderson asked staff for some information on how much each
community works collaboratively with RTD. She stated that she would like

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 21 st, 2012
at 5:30 p.m.
some information on how much each community helps us in things like getting
our permits and other items required in getting the rail lines built. Director
Anderson stated that she believes we will be able to work more collaboratively
with the communities if we can establish some best practices.
IV. Adjourn
Chair Pro Tem Cohen adjourned the Study Session at 6:08 p.m.

