Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, May 16, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 7:18 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Absent
Bob Broom
Director, District F
Present

Arrived
7:16 PM
7:15 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present

7:20 PM
7:17 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:17 PM
7:15 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:15 PM

Ken Mihalik

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:12 PM

Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Committee Chair
Director, District H
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present
Absent

7:16 PM
7:11 PM
7:17 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Director, District A

Absent
Absent

Directors Archuleta, Solano, Walker, and Williams were absent. Director Deadwyler left
the meeting early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rofl Asphaug, Jeff Becker, Lacy Bell,
Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Lou Cripps, Paul
DesRocher, Eric Dunham, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Doug Gragg,
Kim Kinnison, Russ Larson, Adrian Mabry, Michelle Madrid, Doug
MacLeod, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Eric
Miller, Brenden Morgan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Jenifer RossAmato, Jannette Scarpino, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Monika
Treipl-Harnke, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Megan Arellano, Matt Marino, Mike Newman, John Thompson,
Cheryl Wallace

B. Recommended Actions

• 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited
financial reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2016 as prepared
by staff and audited by RTD's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 23, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Doug MacLeod, Controller, thanked RubinBrown for their
efforts that they put into the audit and added that
representatives from RubinBrown were present to make
certain disclosures.
Matthew Marino, RubinBrown, indicated that they will issue a
cleaner unmodified opinion that will state RubinBrown has read
the document prepared by management and they agree with
the opinion. He added that since RTD spent more than
$750,000 in federal grant funds, RTD will receive a secondary
audit for which RubinBrown will be issuing a clean opinion as
well. He noted that there were no major disagreements, and
the RTD team was great to work with.

Cheryl Wallace, RubinBrown, added that no audit adjustments
were made. She noted that the interim financials that the
Board receives are complete and accurate.
Director Anderson congratulated and complimented staff and
said that they always do a good job and win awards for their
financial reporting. She thanked staff for their hard work in
managing RTD’s finances.
Director Broom asked if RubinBrown had an opportunity to
review the findings of RTD’s internal audit staff, and if so,
were there any comments or recommendations.
Mr. Marino stated yes, that their reports are reviewed but
RubinBrown did not have any specific recommendations.
Ms. Wallace added that RTD’s internal audits are reviewed and
RubinBrown encourages them to keep reviewing internal
controls. She said that, as RTD continues to grow, the
internal audit department needs to keep the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) monitoring and oversight controls in place.
Mr. Marino remarked that RTD has several audits a year from
other entities as well. He noted the Federal Railroad
Administration (FRA) and the Federal Transportation
Administration (FTA) visit the district several times a year to
provide commentary and recommendations.
Director Broom inquired about the amount of time RTD’s
internal audit department spends on financial audits in
comparison to operational audits and asked if those efforts
balanced.
Ms. Wallace stated that there was a good balance.
Director Sisk thanked staff for their efforts and stated that this
was a herculean effort that does not get recognized
appropriately. He noted that RTD is in good hands.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale, Sisk
Ernest Archuleta, Paul Solano, Jeff Walker, Kate Williams

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Timekeeping System Contract
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to award a contract for the new time and
attendance system to KRONOS Incorporated, in an amount not to exceed
$750,000.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 23, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, stated that this is the
fourth time this item has been presented to the Board. She
indicated that RTD had an old timekeeping system and staff
terminated the contract when the vendor was bought out.
She said that staff went out with a cooperative agreement in
order approach two credible vendors: ADP and KRONOS. She
stated that after staff reviewed the two vendors, KRONOS
was identified as the optimal vendor and staff is looking for
concurrence in that selection. She noted that the funds are
available for both the implementation and the ongoing
maintenance.
Director Deadwyler inquired if the $750,000 was per year or if
it was a total, and how the funds were broken down.
Ms. McKillop stated that the $750,000 included
implementation costs, annual operation maintenance and
licensing for five years, and contingency to cover unforeseen
expenses. She added that if RTD wanted to expand this to all
employees across the organization, this contract will allow
RTD to do that as it is a per person license.

Director Deadwyler asked how many employees would be
covered in this program.
Eric Dunham, Senior Project Manager, remarked that the
license is for 900 represented non-operators.
Director Deadwyler asked what the license would cost per
person.
Ms. McKillop indicated that the service would cost $10 per
person per month.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 1]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Broom, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Tisdale, Sisk
Barbara Deadwyler
Ernest Archuleta, Paul Solano, Jeff Walker, Kate Williams

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED.

• Non-Profit Program 2017
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Non-Profit program continue to maintain a $6,800,000 face value
amount for 2017.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 23, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Ms. McKillop stated that the action item before the Board
outlines how the new participants would be affected in the
program. She added that staff is grateful that the program is
so popular, but RTD will need to restructure the program in the
future so that it is financially feasible.
Director Deadwyler indicated that when this item was first
brought to the Executive Committee she was in agreement,
but she has since changed her mind. She said that the Board
pushed the community to the non-profits, and what the Board
is doing now is unfair to the constituents.

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications,
stated that staff surveyed all of the participants in the nonprofit program and, per their request, RTD eliminated the
reporting requirements and allowed them to recoup their funds
by selling the fare media equal to what they paid. He stated
that, staff cannot continue this program as planned because
the budget would be exceeded by mid-2017 at the current
rate.
General Manager Genova commented that this item was
brought to the Executive Committee in March when staff
identified that the program budget would be exceeded at the
current trend. He noted that the message that staff received
from the Board was that there was no desire to increase the
face value amount of the program, however, if the Board
wants to change the face value amount, staff will do as they
are directed.
Director Deadwyler remarked that it is unfair for the Board to
tell people to seek out tickets from the non-profits and now
the Board is taking that away.
Director Francone indicated that there are only so many dollars
to go around and asked how staff reached the $6.8 million
figure.
Ms. McKillop stated that the current figure was a $1 milliondollar increase from what was previously budgeted in 2015.
Director Francone asked how many participants in the nonprofit program already receive a discount from RTD.
Ms. McKillop said that 30 to 40 organizations already qualify
for a discount.
Director Francone inquired if staff considered restricting
agencies that already benefit from a discount from
participating in the non-profit program.
Ms. McKillop commented that staff did consider that option
but felt it would be difficult to implement mid-year. She said
that double discounts are a large part of the current problem
and that would be something for the Board to consider for
next year’s program.

Mr. Reed noted that RTD is not required to offer this program.
He said that RTD is being a good steward of the community
and has done the best as it can. He added that some local
groups act like RTD is doing nothing, but the facts do not back
their arguments. He reminded the Board that RTD is getting
overwhelmed with requests for more and more, and the
budget will not allow for that.
Director Folska said that this program allows people to get to
the major serveries that they need and this program should be
limitless.
Director Tisdale asked if the Board was supposed to feel guilty
because RTD has been charitable and philanthropic. He noted
that RTD has helped many but it cannot help everyone and
said that RTD is doing as much as it can. He said the Board
should support the current proposal.
Chair Hoy stated that RTD only has so much money, and free
for one person comes at a cost to someone else. He asked for
clarification about the non-profits recouping their costs.
Mr. Reed noted that previously, the participants could either
give the fare media away or sell it at 25% of their purchase
price.
Chair Hoy remarked that, prior to the changes in 2016, nonprofits were putting their own money into the process and
today they are putting in and losing nothing. He said that they
have passed the burden onto their clients by selling the fare
media for 100% of the price they paid.
Director Deadwyler asked why staff reduced the restrictions
so that the non-profits could get the fare media at no cost.
She further inquired if people still had to quality to get tickets
through the non-profits.
Mr. Reed stated that recipients still have to qualify and
participate in whatever non-profit or social service agency is
providing the media. He said that the only thing that changed
was that the non-profit restrictions were removed per Board
approval in 2016.
Motion to
Call the
Question:

Director Sisk made the motion to call for the question.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Call for the
Question:

The motion to call for the question failed with 5 in favor
(Anderson, Broom, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk) and 6 against
(Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Menten, Tisdale) Directors
Archuleta, Solano, Walker and Williams were absent.

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion FAILED.
Chair Hoy asked how the program would be effected if the
Board voted no on this item.
Ms. McKillop stated that the amount budgeted for the program
would still be $6.8 million. She added that, if the Board voted
this motion down, the 2016 program will continue to run as is.
General Manager Genova explained that the intent of this
action item was to keep the program at the same face value
and solidify the temporary measures put into place this past
March. He said that the program will have caps and will keep
program users at their historical numbers. He stated that staff
could come back to the Board with this item at a later time or
approach this topic during the 2018 budget discussion.
Committee Chair Menten said that, if it were up to her, she
would reduce the value of this program. She noted that if you
give someone an inch, they will take a mile and said that the
intent of removing the restrictions was because RTD was over
managing the non-profits, but she was still in favor of reducing
the face value to previous levels.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [8 TO 3]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Broom, Francone, Hoy, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale,
Sisk
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Judy Lubow
Ernest Archuleta, Paul Solano, Jeff Walker, Kate Williams

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED.

• Citibank Call Modification
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the
“Resolution”), authorizing the execution and delivery of a second

modification and exchange agreement and a third supplemental indenture of
trust relating to a portion of a portion of the District’s sales tax revenue
refunding bonds (FasTracks Project) Series 2007A, and other matters related
thereto.
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 23, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments,
remarked that this resolution discusses the modification of the
call provisions of the portion of the Series 2007A Bonds that
are subject to optional redemption on or after November 1,
2024. He noted that CitiBank approached RTD with a
proposal to provide a lump sum of $16 million to make the
bonds non-callable.
Director Broom asked what staff would do with the $16
million.
Mr. Morgan explained that the $16 million would be marked as
FasTracks funds and would have to be set aside and invested
separately.
Ms. McKillop noted that RTD would not be able to use the
funds for operating costs.
Director Folska inquired if any fees would be paid to CitiBank.
Mr. Morgan stated that CitiBank would not be paid, but added
that the approximate fees to modify the bonds would be
$300,000.
Director Lubow commented that the funds should be placed in
the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA).

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 0]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Anderson, Broom, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Tisdale, Sisk
Ernest Archuleta, Paul Solano, Jeff Walker, Kate Williams
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates
Ms. McKillop stated that she wanted to focus on the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
therefore she would entertain any questions from the Board concerning the Monthly
Financial Status Report, the First Quarter Investment Report, and the Financing
Update. Seeing no questions, she moved to the SBP First Draft update.

• March 2017 Monthly Financial Status Report
• First Quarter 2017 Investment Report
• 2017 Financing Update
• SBP First Draft
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis, stated
that the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) is a six-year plan for the base system
and staff presented a high level overview in April and the update is a first
draft of RTD’s cash flow. She noted that the FasTracks program, both
expense and project, are shown separately in the Annual Program Evaluation
(APE). The SBP parameters include fiscal management, continued building
of reserves, and maintaining service levels for bus and light rail systems.
She said that the parameters also include:
•
•
•

•
•

Baseline is 2017 Amended Budget
First draft cash flow will change from Adopted to Amended
Diesel fuel lock for budget certainty in 2018
• Staff continues to monitor futures for opportunity, current
2017 lock price of $1.69/gallon is estimated and escalated
by national CPI over SBP term
• Forecasted price may change based on market conditions
State of Good Repair (SOGR) of facilities and equipment
Prioritization of capital and expense projects

First draft SBP is very rough and fully-loaded with all
capital and expense project requests
• To balance first draft SBP, it will require elimination,
reduction, or deferral to outlying years of over $400 million
in project requests if no other funding sources identified
Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) negotiated costs through
2017, then escalated at area CPI, to be updated for final
agreement
Planned fleet expansion/replacement funded by previously issued
Certificates of Participation (COPs) (associated debt service),
grant funds and local funds
•

•

•

SBP Variables are:
Uncontrollable factors
• Sales/use tax revenue
• Fuel price volatility
• Inflation rate
• Continued nature of economic growth
• Interest rates on debt
• Ridership
• Grant revenue/Federal appropriations
Controllable decision areas
• Fare rate increases/decreases
• Service levels
• Operating costs/expense projects
• Capital investment in projects
• Fund balance development
2018-2023 SPB Revenue Assumptions are:
Passenger Fares
• Per RTD Board policy, a 10% fare rate increase is considered by
Board every 3 years
• Next scheduled for 2019 and 2022
• Fare revenue assumed flat in 2017 for Base
• Ridership assumed flat in 2017 for Base
• No escalation other than rate increases
Federal Grants
• Based on actual 2017 appropriations
• Recognized as awarded
• Assumed to increase at rate of inflation or as identified
2018-2023 SBP Expenditures Assumptions are:
Operating and Maintenance Costs

Inflated at Moody’s Denver-Boulder CPI rates (2.8% in 2018)
National Moody’s CPI rate applied to fuel costs (2.5% in 2018)
Includes one-time expense projects
Includes CBA, fixed through 2017 then escalated at CPI, to be
updated to actual negotiated contract
Fuel Costs
• Diesel budgeted at $1.69 gallon (2017 lock price) and escalated
at national CPI
• Gasoline budgeted at $2.65/gallon (2017 budget) and escalated
at national CPI
• Debt Service
• Interest and debt payments on existing debt based on debt
amortization schedules
• Proposed interest payments on possible future debt issues would
be based on treasuries rate forward curves
• Future debt issuance based on rolling stock COPs, both bus and
rail, and potential facilities construction
Capital Expenditures
• Over $400 million of project requests (capital and expense) will
need to be eliminated, reduced or deferred in SBP first draft
absent other funding sources
•
•
•
•

SBP Opportunities and Challenges are:
Opportunities
• Board strategic priorities and GM tactical plans
• Fuel lock for favorable outcome
Challenges
• Sales/use tax volatility
• Fuel price uncertainty
• State of Good Repair commitments and needs
• Project prioritization and project deferral
• Financing capacity, funding constraints
• Continued refunding of fund balances
• Increased O&M costs, CBA negotiations
Next Steps are:
•
•
•
•
•

June 20th – Presentation of 2017 Amended Budget for Board
adoption, SBP Update, and APE update
July 18th – Presentation of SBP update and APE update to
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
August 8th – Presentation of final SBP and APE for
recommendation to full Board
August 15th – Board adoption of 2018-2023 SBP and APE
August 22nd – Board Study Session on 2018 Budget

Ms. McKillop added that debt will not be issued until 2023 and that
information was not included in this draft because staff does not know if
that is attainable or if that would be something RTD would want to do based
on current forecasting. She added that money will be transferred from the
base system into FasTracks beginning in 2024 and there might be a need to
begin that transfer in 2022/2023, which is not reflected in the current draft.
She stated that staff is unsure if the FISA is going to be sufficient to cover
FasTracks’ needs. She added that, once the APE is completed, staff will
have a better picture of RTD’s financial position.
Ms. McKillop added that staff is recommending the baseline forecast since
CU Leeds School of Business changed their model to a composite model,
which includes information from Moody’s, a much more conservative
forecast than in years past. She said that staff is much more comfortable
with the baseline forecast because the conservative forecast is too low.
She added that, if the Board wanted to be more conservative, she would
recommend adding funds to the reserve instead of using the low forecast.
Director Lubow asked if staff had any suggestions as to how much the
Board should put into reserves.
Ms. McKillop stated that the forecasts seem to be correct and RTD is on
track for 2017. She noted that there will most likely be a downturn in 2018
and RTD should put more money in the reserve account.
Director Mihalik said his position would be to increase reserves and go with
the more conservative forecast.
Director Francone asked if the baseline projection is less conservative than
the lower forecast.
Ms. McKillop indicated that the lower projection is -2.1%. The baseline is
4% and RTD is currently trending at 6%.
Director Francone said she would support a baseline projection and would
like staff to put more money into the reserves.
Director Broom stated that staff seems to anticipate a hiccup in the
economy while increasing fares by 10%. He said there is a point in which
the reserves become meaningless.
Ms. Scarpino explained that staff forecasts a fare increase every three years
for Board consideration but noted that it does not have to be implemented.

Chair Hoy said when he was first elected in 2011 $11 million dollars of fare
cuts were implemented. He said that it was ugly but doable. He said a
recession can be counted on every ten years, and the region is due. He
added that he would choose the baseline projection since it reflects reality
better and he feels that is the best option.
Director Folska indicated that the baseline projection is reasonable but she
likes reserves, too. She added that it would be useful to look at RTD’s
consulting fees very carefully to determine what is really important at this
point in time.

• FTA Triennial Review Update
Ms. McKillop stated that staff is waiting on the draft report and will respond
to the findings as soon as it is received.
General Manager Genova added that ADA, maintenance, and technical
capacity were three areas in which RTD had extensive reviews and staff
was very happy with the exit interview.

• SmartCard Project Update
Ms. McKillop noted that the pilot participant go live date was scheduled for
May 10th but it was pushed back to May 17th, and the public go live date
will be May 24th. She said that staff has made significant process to go live,
and while there are a few remaining items in order for RTD to be Payment
Card Industry (PCI) complaint, RTD’s vendors are fully PCI compliant. She
noted that it is a continuous process and staff will continue to monitor the
web portal to ensure RTD’s customers are protected. She added that
Safeway will be ready to serve customers as soon as June 1st and King
Soopers is on target to go live on July 1st.
Director Folska congratulated staff for working through what she called a
nightmare. She said that there are so many different moving pieces and this
is really thrilling. She inquired if this meant that RTD’s work with Xerox was
finished.
Ms. McKillop stated that RTD has been working with Conduent, Inc., as of
January 1, 2017, which split from Xerox in late 2016.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone thanked Gina Callahan for successfully taking care of a service
issue that a constituent was having and thanked Barbara McManus for putting all of
the pieces together. She also congratulated Director Tisdale for a successful
stakeholder meeting on May 5th with the Southwest Rail Extension stakeholders and
asked Director Tisdale what was next.
Director Tisdale stated that the Board should stay tuned, and stay near.

Committee Chair Menten asked when the Board would see the service performance
report for 2016.
Ms. McKillop indicated that the report should have already been made available but
she would double check.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 20, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 8:59 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

