2022-11-15
Board Meeting (1)
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. I will now call the Tuesday, November 15, 2022 RTD Board meeting to order.
We're convened as of 5:32 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted, unless you're
recognize to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that, until further notice, the official meetings of the
RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The
meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. Visit RTD-Denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also
available via RTD's YouTube page.
I'm not going to read disability statements, just be nice. Pledge of Allegiance is first. I will lead the Pledge
of Allegiance.
I Pledge Allegiance-PAUL ROSENTHAL: To the flag-ALL: --of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you and I'm going to ask Director Rivera-Malpiedi to read the land
acknowledgment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDI: Thank you. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on
which our buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other
contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our indigenous leaders and
elders who have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout. May
this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacy [AUDIO
OUT] of the native and all historically [AUDIO OUT] and recognize their current and future contributions in
the district as we move forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Rivera-Malpiedi. Next is roll call. Mr. McManus, could you please call
the roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.

VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIC DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis, Director Rivera-Malpiedi.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDI: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening, I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And one more time, Director Lewis. 14 present one absent.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Ms. McManus. Next is retiree awards. One of the many truly rewarding duties
of serving on the Board is the recognition of RTD retirees.

As we reach the end of the year, the time has come for us to recognize the employees who have moved
on to their-- enjoy their retirement. Being able to acknowledge the incredible individuals who work here for
a significant portion of their professional careers is both an honor and a privilege. It's becoming
increasingly rare for agencies and companies to be fortunate enough to have such long tenured
employees. And RTD is privileged to have such amazing and dedicated people as a part of our family.
At this time, I'd like to read the names of employees who have retired since September, including
recognizing the RTD Snowplow winners and National Snowplow participants. Our retiree is Douglas
Sleevy, bus operator, 23 years. I'm going to recognize the snowplow winners and participants in the-- this
is from the RTD Snowplow Rodeo, not rodeo, Rodeo.
In the Single Axle Snowplow category, first place, Shane Rapoza and David Waite, second place, Alex
Martinez Cassius and David Johnson, third place, Nathaniel Barella and John Oldham. In the Tandem
Axle Snowplow category, in first place, we had Robert Gray and Reed Sorensen, in second place, Daniel
Guerrero and Chip Seedorf, third place, Manuel Padilla and Zach lamarre. Congratulations to the RTD
Snowplow Rodeo winners. Now, in the 2022 National Snow Plow Rodeo in the Single Axle Snowplow
category in 10th place, we had Daniel Guerrero and Chip Seedorf, and in 29th place, Shane Rapoza and
David Waite.
In the Tandem Axle Snowplow category at the National Rodeo, 14th place went to Daniel Guerrero and
Chip Seedorf, and 33rd place, Shane Rapoza and David Waite. Unfortunate, Mr. Sleevy and the snow
plow teams have been unable to attend the meeting tonight. But I'd like to thank them again for their hard
work, commitment, and dedication to RTD and representing RTD in all these great areas. Thanks.
Very good, next is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the
Board. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press star
nine on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star six
to toggle your mute settings.
Please, bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please, email those materials to the Board Office at RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments, if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names. And they will have up to three minutes to provide their comments.
Ms. McManus, has anybody raised their hand to speak?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have 17 attendees. And we have one speaker, Richard Bamber.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Bamber, please, state your name and give us your comments.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi, that's-- it's Richard Bamber, [INAUDIBLE] for transit. So I'd like to talk about the
mobility plan for the future, which we've seen in draft form. I note with interest, you're being asked to
endorse rather than prove the documents.
Initial comments are, if you imagine you are Governor Polis, and you have on your desk a stack of letters
written by transit advocates, and all of them are calling for RTD to be funded 20%-- let's get that funding
that other states give their transit agencies. We want-- I think we all want that, OK? And on the other side

of his desk, he's got this mobility plan for the future, which I understand it gives the issues facing the
agency.
But we're going to say straight now, it doesn't go anywhere near far enough. If we are going to achieve, in
the Denver Metro region, a large scale mobility shift from-- sorry, a modal shift from the private car. Your
two stakeholders, the main ones, which is your workforce and your riders, have been very, very honest
with RTD. I always [INAUDIBLE] that.
With the workforce, one thing that's very interesting in the documentation is, 38%, the top reason
operators are leaving RTD is because of scheduling. We hear things have been done about pay. We hear
things have been done about training. But to yet, we've not seen anything done about which is by far and
away the biggest complaint the operators have, because that's one thing.
The riders, we're quite simple, most of us. Fast, frequent, and more transit is what we want. RTD, in this
plan, is starting to make noises that you want to cherry pick the good routes, things like the Flatiron
Flyers, some of these nice, new BRTs that hopefully come online, the big ones and leave the humble,
local bus.
Well, that raises huge questions, if we're going to-- you're going to put that into the cities. Will they accept
a deal where RTD is taking all the sales tax and then doling it out? It's got to start to be considered that,
why shouldn't, say, CDOT-- why shouldn't the city of Denver start to go, let's completely go it alone? And
really bring up-- we're at risk of these cities really putting withdrawing from these districts on the agenda.
So what I would call on the whole Board, and the new Board as well that's coming in or the changed
Board, is that we take some time over the break that's coming up to really, really consider what is RTD
going to be? What really do we want to be? And is RTD going to be the lead agency for spearheading
what I think a lot of people see as a sustainable, and healthier, and happier future for transportation in the
Denver Metro area?
I'd like to finish. So thank you very much for-- two Directors Lewis, Rivera-Malpiedi, and Cook for your
service, so much appreciated. I wish you every success for your future endeavors.
Congratulations, Chair Buzek, Erik Davidson, and, in particular, Directors Guissinger, Catlin, and
Whitmore for who actually had challenges to fend off. I'd also like to wish you a happy inaugural e-bikes
on RTD Day. That's a really good win for this year. A lot of people are very excited about that.
Happy Thanksgiving. And if I don't see you individually before then, a happy holiday period. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Mr. Bamber and well wishes right back to you. Any other speakers in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: There are no other speakers, Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, with no other participants in the queue, we will close the public participation period
at this time. Next, we'll have external entities report. The Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities
ACPD report will be presented by Earl Lee. Mr. Lee, the floor is yours.
EARL LEE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The first thing that I need to announce is that I am the new Chair for
the ACPD committee. A little awkward to say that, my predecessor, Jamie Lewis, served in the role for
about five years. And I have been on the committee since its inception. But I look forward to working with
the Board and with RTD moving forward with the ACPD committee.

One of the things that we have been discussing for quite some time is the elevator at the Inglewood
Station. We received a report from Sean Moran, the Manager of Public Contracted Facilities, that the
elevator has finally been repaired and is operational. That has been about a two year process to try to get
that resolved.
In our meeting, in our last meeting, a question was brought up through a comment from a rider about an
elevator for the Yale Station. That particular station, I believe, is the only one that doesn't have an
elevator along that line. And it's a very long ramp. Mr. Stopplecamp informed us that there are no
requests for an elevator at this station and that nothing has been done.
It was mentioned in the meeting that, when the T Rex project was done, they looked at doing an elevator.
And there were some issues with right of way and some other problems. So that's just on hold. But it was
brought up to us. Excuse me.
The bike rack access, there was some question from several of the members regarding the e-bike policy.
The way the original announcement was worded, it appeared as though those electric bikes were going to
be allowed inside of the bus. We got some clarification on that, that that is not the case, that they do need
to fit into the bike racks on the front of the buses.
We also had some questions regarding scooters, if scooters were going to be allowed. And that was also
clarified for us that scooters will not be allowed to ride on any of the services. And again, to our
happiness, to our favor. It was, again, brought up that none of these devices will be allowed to use the
high block to enter any vehicles.
Finally, the ACPD members were informed that the committee will be adding three ex-officio members to
the roster. These ex-officio members would represent leading advocacy organizations in the district. We
look to them to start in January.
Some preliminary work has been done. And we will follow up with that as we have more to offer. And that
is all that I have. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you Mr. Lee. And congratulations on your selection as Chair of the ACPD. Good
luck to you in that role.
EARL LEE: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Next, the Accessoried Paratransit Advisory Committee, the APAC, and the Citizens
Advisory Committee, and CAC reports are anticipated to be presented in January. We have no
presentations tonight. Moving on, we've got the ad-- the Audit Ad Hoc Committee report. And there's an
agenda item for the Audit Ad Hoc Committee. But Director Catlin, do you have a presentation or a report?
PEGGY CATLIN: Just briefly that the Audit Ad Hoc Committee did complete its efforts to identify
candidates for the Audit Committee. And that was brought forth by virtue of a three-member initiated
action through the Executive Committee. And that will be on the agenda later tonight.
And I would like to add that our internal audit function consultant, Rubin Brown, has-- even though they've
been assisting us with that effort, they are also embarking on a refreshed risk universe assessment. And
that will be forthcoming. So I suspect that most of you will be contacted by Rubin Brown to begin that
process so that we can develop an audit plan for 2023. And that concludes my report. Thank you.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Catlin. And thanks again for the Audit Ad Hoc Committee
members for your hard work. You're really hitting it out of the park.
Next is a Zero Emission Vehicle Ad Hoc Committee report. Director Dishell, do you have anything to
report at this time?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Chair. The Zero Emission Group net, a number of times since its inception
and was scheduled to bring forward an action for RTD's commitment to being a net zero transit system as
measured by Scope One and Scope Two. After, we had a around table on Election Day where we
brought in outside resources and folks from transit industry to talk about electrification and asset-- excuse
me, the fleet transition planning. And there's a question out there which is, do you put-- do you do the
fleet transition plan first and manage towards that goal? Or do you set the goal and manage the plan
towards that to achieve it?
Ultimately, the committee decided that they wanted to have a fleet transition plan in place, even though
the policy as proposed would have allowed for that policy to be amended after the fleet transition plan
was available. There was discussion by committee members to create a binding commitment to have a
fleet transition plan presented by June. That also was determined by other committee members to not be
brought forward.
So the committee should be meeting in January in order to have another roundtable. And then we'll
hopefully be able to produce a recommended action for a new Board. Directors Guissinger, and Williams,
and Bouquet, please feel free to add, if there was anything that I missed.
VINCE BUZEK: You guys good with that report? Good, thanks, Director Dishell. And again, thanks again
to this ad hoc committee.
Now, we haven't heard from the ad hoc committee-- the Tabor Ad Hoc Committee. You're not on our
agenda. You guys have any updates or anything to report?
SHELLEY COOK: Sure, this is Shelley. I think the conclusion was that, with a new Board coming on in
January, that that effort be delayed for a bit until a new Board could be brought up to speed and a better
timeline identified. Director Broom, anything to add there?
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I would agree with that. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, that makes perfect sense. Thanks for that quick update. I appreciate it.
Next is the Finance and Planning Committee report. Committee Chair Davidson, do you have anything
you'd like to report?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair. The Finance and Planning Committee met on Tuesday,
November 1. We had four recommended actions that evening. Two of those are on the unanimous
consent this evening. And then, one is the budget, which we have our hearing. And the other will be on
the recommended actions.
The first recommended action was the proposed budget. We did have some discussion. This was our
second look, after this having been a discussion item in October. Ultimately, this budget did pass
unanimously with all seven committee members voting for.

The 38th Blake development negotiation was our second recommended action. We heard an exciting
presentation about our progress on that project and calling for moving forward to open up negotiations.
This motion also passed unanimously, with one abstention from the committee.
We did also hear about the Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan for the Future. We had some discussion around
the plan. And the committee was asked to endorse the plan, which we will be speaking more about this
evening, given that this is a recommended action. So I believe that we'll have some discussion around
this that we can save for that moment.
Ultimately, that endorsement recommended action did pass with a six to one vote after an Amendment,
which passed unanimously, that Director Cook put forward, adding some clarifying language to ensure
that we are serving equity populations. And finally, we did have a presentation about an IT work order
contract. That motion passed unanimously.
We went on to have one discussion item, which was with regards to the System-wide Fare Study and
Equity Analysis, in addition to hearing about the current concepts and the work there. We also did get to
hear about potential future concepts unrelated to this particular study but representing possible
opportunities, which actually did have some intersection with that mobility plan to the future. So as I've
done before, if there's anything worth listening to for those that weren't there, it might be worth going
through and looking at the System-wide Fare Study and Equity Analysis. It was a very helpful and
thorough presentation.
We did have several comments come up during other matters, several of which, I believe, will be coming
up next year in the new year. We concluded our years worth of Finance and Planning Committee
meetings. And we won't be meeting again as a committee until January 2022. And that is all, Chair.
Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that report. Next, the Operations and Safety Committee report, committee
Chair Rosenthal, do you have anything you'd like to report?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure, Mr. Chair, thank you. And so, we met on November 2. And we had three
recommended actions. And they are all actually going to be on our consent agenda tonight. And they
were all passed unanimously out of committee. That's all I got.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thanks for that report. Next is the Performance Committee report. I don't believe
Committee Chair Lewis is here yet. So Director Dishell, Vice Chair of the committee, do you have
anything you'd like to report?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you so much, Chair Buzek. As a brief reminder, at the end of the year
from the Performance Committee side, as well as Board Director, this is a busy time to make sure that we
are complying with our end of the bargain as Board members. So just a quick timeline, on November 8,
GM/CEO Johnson delivered herself performance and appraisal. The Board-- each Board member has
received that and then separately, the following day, received an independent link to complete their
evaluation of the General Manager and CEO.
As of yesterday afternoon, no Directors have completed their survey. That includes me. I'm doing it
tomorrow. But those close on Friday.
And so, GM/CEO took the time, and the energy, and the effort to go through that appraisal and various
discussions with Board members. The ability for the Board to have input was also mentioned many times

as being important. And it's now time for the Board to walk the talk and make sure that we do get those
surveys and those evaluations in.
As we look towards the end of the year, tomorrow at 1:30 PM, the Performance Committee will be
meeting where we will be reviewing a item regarding adjusting GM/CEO's compensation. And we will also
be receiving a compensation analysis. A benchmarking analysis will be presented by a third party
consultant.
The committee will then again be meeting on November 22, at a time to be determined. But it was
originally scheduled for noon. But we're having some scheduling conflicts that should be rescheduled
here pretty shortly. We should pull up rest of the year, as this is the last official Board meeting.
And then, Wednesday, November 30 at 1:30 PM, there is another committee meeting, which, this should
then be finalized towards the end of the year. Council or other members of the committees, is there
anything I missed as far as the rest of this [INAUDIBLE]?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Dishell, I've completed my survey. So perhaps, we need to check and see if
those are not going someplace.
BOBBY DISHELL: That is good to know. Did you do it before yesterday afternoon?
KATE WILLIAMS: I think I did it yesterday afternoon.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK so that was yesterday at about 4 o'clock when I got that update.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: So if you did it today, thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I'm sorry, Director Dishell. You said these are due by Friday, as you said?
BOBBY DISHELL: Friday at 5:00 PM, yeah, so everyone got-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Friday at 5:00 PM.
BOBBY DISHELL: --the link on I believe the 9. And then you got to follow up on the 14. Then this is a
verbal follow up.
I will not be calling you all independently. Make sure these get in. So that's where we are on that.
Committee members, other questions, anything I left out?
VINCE BUZEK: Any questions for Director Dishell on the timeline? I got mine in today Friday the 18 at
5:00. Late submissions will not be accepted. So make sure you get these in. Any questions? Seeing
none, Director Dishell, thank you for-BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Chair, Mr. Chair, I just-- I want to reiterate how important it is that we get it in on
time, because we don't want any Director to not have their voice heard by being late. I did complete mine
this morning as well. So I just think that it's such an important piece that we need to do. Thank you.

VINCE BUZEK: Great, thanks for that. Everybody has been warned. All right, get it done. Great, thanks
so much. Thanks Director Dishell for the update.
I'm going to move on to the approval of Board meeting minutes and Committee reports. The Board and
Committee minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from any Director?
Well, seeing none, unless there's an objection to considering these minutes all at the same time, may I
please have a motion to approve the minutes for the following meetings, October 25, 2022, regular Board
meeting, November 1, 2022, Finance and Planning Committee, November 2, 2022, Performance
Committee, November 2, 2022, Operations and Safety Committee, and November 10, 2022, Executive
Committee? Is there a motion to approve?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved, Tisdale.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Any second, Williams? I have Tisdale and Williams moved and seconded. Any further
discussion on this motion, are there any "no" votes on the motion? Seeing none, that passes unanimously
14 to 0 with one absent.
Next is the Chair's report, not a lot to report. Executive Committee met last Thursday, November 10,
Marine Corps birthday and my daughter's birthday. We discussed a number of things that are appearing
on the recommended action agenda. So you'll get a full brief on those as they come up.
And we also talked about the timeline for recruitment on the Board Office Manager candidate. Just so you
know, I talked about this at the Executive Committee. We've got a panel of people that are going to be
sorting through and interviewing, preliminarily interviewing qualified candidates. They will then winnow the
universe of those candidates down to a manageable level for the Executive Committee to conduct
interviews.
Executive Committee, those interviews will take place December 8, 2022 from noon until 5:00 PM. It's
been on the calendar. Make sure you put it on yours.
Then on December 13, 2022 at 5:30 PM, we will have a special Board meeting, at which time, Executive
Committee will present to the full Board the recommended candidate or candidates for the Board to
discuss and select. So that's the recruitment timeline there. If there's any questions, I'm happy to take
those.
Otherwise, seeing none, we'll move on to the General Manager's report. General Manager Johnson,
would you please share with-- oh, I'm sorry, Director Dishell, you something for me?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes I do. will the recommended action coming out of Performance Committee be on
that December 13 meeting as well?
VINCE BUZEK: That's a good question. I'm not sure of the answer to that. Ms. Johnson, do you have an
answer to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I do, Mr. Chair. That will be on the calendar for December 6.

BOBBY DISHELL: So we have meetings on the 6 and the 13. So I don't know that our two week calendar
reflects that. Or I could be wrong.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm not aware of December 13. But I'll yield the floor to the Board staff.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, that's our special Board meeting for the Board Office Manager selection. So it
should be on the two week calendar. If it's not, we'll make sure it gets there ASAP. But you've all been
told. So be there. OK, thank you, Director Dishell. Anybody else?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDI: Mr. Chair, I would just say that I did see both those dates on the two week
calendar.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for confirming that. And Director Dishell, are you done? You have your hands still
up. OK, hand is down. General Manager and CEO Johnson, would you please share with us your report?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you Mr. Chair. And good evening to all Board members. Debra Johnson,
General Manager and CEO, this evening I will share with you the following information centered around
our strategic priorities regarding community value.
I will share information regarding the agency's participation in a light rail tour that took place in Lone Tree
last Wednesday, November 9, as well as the agency's recent efforts to support those impacted by an
apartment fire in Lakewood, a media event to promote the recent fair transit days in the interest of
enhancing access to polling places. Speaking to both community value and customer excellence, I will
discuss service restoration on the segment of the R line impacted by the September 21 derailment
incident. And I also discuss RTD's formalized e-bike policy, as well as the agency's collaboration with
governmental entities in support of a safer, cleaner Denver.
And regarding customer excellence, I will share an update regarding the ongoing My Ride account-based
ticketing implementation-- not implication, implementation. And in relation to both customer excellence
and employee ownership, I will touch on the operating hours of the Customer Care Telephone Information
Center and the agency's ongoing COVID-19 pandemic responses.
So speak to community value, last Wednesday, November 9th our planning staff participated in a tour
hosted by the city of Lone Tree that was intended to help regional leaders develop an actionable
understanding of the connection between land use and transportation in a suburban setting through the
lenses of economic vibrancy and car-light residential lifestyles. Participants in this event included
representatives and elected officials from several municipalities and counties within RTD service area, as
well as CDOT and non-governmental organizations with an interest in sustainability and environmental
stewardship.
Further related to the value that RTD brings to the communities it serves, I wanted to highlight a recent
collaboration between the agency and the regional American Red Cross chapter, to provide assistance
during our emergency situation that occurred in Lakewood just two weeks ago on October 31. A fire broke
out in apartment complex in Lakewood on that cold morning. And Red Cross and Jefferson County
representatives reached out to RTD's Bus Operations personnel to coordinate for a bus to be provided to
the apartment complex, in order to secure a warm shelter for impacted residents.
RTD has had a long history of providing community aid and transportation services within the community
and response to emergencies, such as the tragic Marshall fire that occurred earlier this year, as well as
the recent 100-plus car pileup near downtown Denver that occurred on Friday, November 4. I, along with

Chair Buzek, participated in a media event in collaboration with the Colorado Secretary of State's Office
and County Clerks from within RTD's service area to promote the Zero Fare Days intended to enhance
access to polling places on early vote day, Friday, October 28 and on Election Day Tuesday, November
8.
Now, regarding the R line, as the Board is aware, following a thorough investigation of the derailment
incident that occurred on Wednesday, September 21, 2022, the agency submitted a formal report and
proposed corrective action plan to the Colorado Public Utilities Commission on Friday, November 4.
Agency crews and contractors have completed infrastructural repairs at the derailment site. And staff will
continue to work with the PUC and city of Aurora officials, as plans to restore service to the impacted four
mile segment of the R line corridor from Aurora Metro Center to the 13th Avenue Station.
Pending regulatory approval-- and I am optimistic that full service will be restored within the coming
weeks. And I want to extend my appreciation to customers and stakeholders for their patience at this
time. Moreover, I and agency leaders will be participating in our Aurora City Council study session next
week. And on November 29, staff and I will tour the site with Mayor Mike Coffman and city of Aurora
representatives.
As we heard during the course of public comments and as previously announced in October, today began
the allowance of e-bikes aboard certain RTD vehicles. And a formal internal policy has been created. The
policy states that customers may transport motorized bikes and stand up scooters on revenue vehicles,
including buses, light rail vehicles, and commuter rail vehicles without a permit, so long as space is
available, the devices are not blocked doors and aisles or emergency exits that would be on the rail-side
of the house, and that devices comply with reasonable requirements.
Gasoline-powered vehicles, such as mopeds and those powered by lead acid batteries will not be
permitted aboard vehicles. Recognizing that the bikes belong in the bike rack, that's where those will be
contained in the midst of transport. So information regarding the specifics of this policy is available to the
public via the Bike and Ride web page on the agency's main website. Those interested in more details
can visit RTD-Denver.com and search for "bike and ride."
In order to help mitigate the higher crime rates experienced throughout the Denver Metro area, as well as
significant mental health and drug abuse issues and challenges facing persons who are unhoused in the
Denver area, RTD is partnering with a coalition of organizers led by the Downtown Denver Partnership,
and including the city and County of Denver, Denver Police Department, and the US Attorney's office for
the District of Colorado. Working in partnership, the purpose of this effort is to engage in multifaceted,
collaborative strategies intended to address both immediate health and safety concerns and facilitate
long-term solutions for the betterment of downtown, the city, and its residents. RTD's police Chief, Joel
Fitzgerald, has been directly engaged with this effort, as has Denver Mayor, Michael Hancock, the
Downtown Denver Partnership President and CEO, Courtney Garrett, Denver Police Chief, Ron Thomas,
and US Attorney for the District of Colorado, Colt Finnegan. I will keep the Board apprised as this initiative
unfolds.
Regarding the ongoing implementation of My Ride account-based ticketing system, as of the morning of
November 14, which was yesterday, 9,257 transition requests have been received. 9,244 have been
completed. 11,421 of the previous generation My Ride cards have been converted.
6,750 My Ride app QR codes have been created, which equates to 73% of requests. And 5,112 new
physical My Ride cards have been mailed. The number of My Ride cards converted, 11,421, is the

important figure in this update. Between January of 2021 and mid-July of 2022, approximately, 14,000
previously issued My Ride cards have been used at least once. Hence, the agency has potentially
converted 81% of cars that were regularly in use.
The daily transition request volume is down to a very small number of approximately 10 to 20 each day.
So let's say the average is 15. On November 28, customers will receive one final email blast to register
cardholders that have not yet transitioned. In addition, the former My Ride account Access Portal will be
taken offline on December 1, 2022.
As has been reported previously, the new validators are experiencing technological glitches. And the
vendor has committed to fully resolving them by December 16 of this year. Even with a substantial
number of validators not in service at any one time, the agency still recorded nearly 6,000 unique, new
My Ride users in the month of October of 2022. Staff is confident that, once all the validators are working
correctly, a significant percentage of customers will continue to transition toward electronic fare payment
and away from cash and paper.
As the Board may recall, earlier this year on March 27, 2022, the agency reduced the hours of the
Telephone Information Center due to staff shortage, caused by smaller than expected new hiring, training
class sizes, and our typical people power issues that we have been seeing. To accommodate this
shortage, the Telephone Information Center was closed on Sundays. And weekday operating hours were
reduced to 6:00 AM to 6:00 PM. Whereas, previously, representatives were available until 8:00 PM.
Since that time, staff has made significant progress in hiring and retaining employees to reach necessary
staffing levels. I am pleased to share that, effective December 4, the Telephone Information Center will
resume a typical weekday schedule of 6:00 AM to 8:00 PM. Further, should hiring continue at its current
pace, staff intends to re-implement Sunday hours of 9:00 AM to 6:00 PM, which reinstatement will
coincide with the March 2023 service change.
And then, really quickly, as we talk about the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic responses, nationwide,
COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations are both rising for the first time in several months, though, at
modest levels. Colorado, overall, has experienced a 37% increase in cases over the two week period
ending November 11. And every County within RTD service area has reported an uptick in cases in that
time frame. As we collectively approach the winter season, I, along with agency leaders, will continue to
monitor health data, state and federal guidance, and employee absenteeism rates to determine whether
any restrictions or health precautions are warranted.
So Mr. Chair, before I yield the floor, considering this is the last regularly scheduled Board meeting for
2022 and in this season of Thanksgiving, I extend my thanks and gratitude to Director Cook representing
District L, Director Lewis representing District B, and Director Rivera-Malpiedi representing District C for
their commitment to the agency over the course of their tenure for the betterment of the Metro region.
Secondly, congratulations to the re-elected Board members, including you Mr. Chair, Directors Davidson,
Catlin, Guissinger, and Whitmore, as well as the members elect [INAUDIBLE] from District B, Michael
Guzman from District C, and Ian Hardwick from District L. I look forward to engaging with the new
members and to continue collaborating with those current Directors returning to the Board in 2023. So
with that, Mr. Chair, I conclude my remarks. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that report. And I think we all concur with our farewell wishes for Directors
Cook, Rivera-Malpiedi, and Lewis. And I see, Director Cook has her hand raised one more time.

SHELLEY COOK: That's right. OK, so thank you for those well wishes to all of you. But I wanted to talk
about the My Ride conversion right quick. I am managing a card for a friend and did the transition piece.
And it was easy. It was easy and quick. So I wanted to let you know that.
I had a question about the problems we're having with the validators. And finally, wanted to know, is there
a way to turn down the volume on those?
I've seen several posts. And I've experienced it myself. It's piercing. It hurts your ears, sometimes. Can
they be adjusted?
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may-- Yes, so we will have the vendor on site. And so, we most definitely will
explore that. And I appreciate that feedback because, oftentimes, we're so into it, we don't know. So I
appreciate you broaching that. And I'm confident that we will look at that with the vendor, so thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: And then, are they having to replace the? Validators what's going on that they've
pledged to fix by December.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so basically, we have had some glitches. And recognizing that we are in the
midst of a partnership through a contractual agreement, we wanted them to be replaced and minimize the
impact because this transition has been going on. So they are coming to replace all of those validators.
And we have a plan in which to do that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Any other questions for GM/CEO Johnson? Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Mr. Chair, I'll lower my hand first so I don't forget. Thank you so much, Ms.
Johnson, for the report and for the Board briefing documents.
I apologize. This may have been addressed at last month's meeting. But I recognize that we-- given the
Zero Fare for Better Air campaign in August, we recognize the very, very low fare revenue.
However, my understanding is that it's a 20% match. So 80% of that funding should be coming from the
state. Is that-- where do we see that in our budget? And when do we anticipate receiving the response
from the state's Department of Energy, if that's where the funds are coming from for the Fare Free?
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. So thank you very much for the question, Director
Dishell. Recognizing, as part of the grant application process, we committed, as part of the terms of said
grant, to submit a report that is due on December 1.
In reference to submitting that report, complying with all of the-- what am I trying to say-- the eligibility
requirements for said grant, we should then be able to recoup those funds. And so, with that, I will ensure
that I share that information with this body. And as we work towards working on that draft for that report,
we'll apprise you accordingly as well.

BOBBY DISHELL: Great, thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, anybody else with any questions for GM/CEO Johnson? OK, seeing none, we're
going to move on to the public hearing for the 2023 budget. At this time, I'm going to call to order the
public hearing on the Regional Transportation District's proposed budget for the year 2023.
In accordance with both RTD's requirements and local government statutes, notice of the public hearing
was duly posted in the Office of the Executive Manager to the Board of Directors. The notice was
published in two major daily newspapers of the district prior to this meeting and on the RTD website. The
public hearing will be conducted under the rules and regulations for public hearings adopted by the Board
of Directors of the Regional Transportation District.
The Chair would like to point out that the testimony will be limited to the subject of the public hearing. And
presentations of testimony should be no longer than three minutes. Written testimony should be emailed
to the Board Office at RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com for distribution to the Board.
The 2023 proposed budget was included in the electronic packet for the Board and public to review.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names. And they will have up to three minutes to
provide their comments. Ms. McManus, has anybody raised their hands to speak?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, with no participants in the queue, we will close the public hearing for the 2023
budget at this time. And now I am going to look for a motion for the Board of Directors to adopt resolution
number blank, series of 2022 for the adoption of the 2023 budget, resolution number blank, series of
2022 for the 2023 budget appropriation, and resolution number blank, series of 2022 for the appropriation
of the 2023 previously appropriated capital. Is there a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDI: So moved, Rivera-Malpiedi.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: And Director Whitmore I have as the second. Do we have a discussion or presentation
from staff on this, no? Any discussion from the Board? OK, seeing no discussion, do we have any no
votes, the adoption of the 2023 proposed budget? Seeing none, that passes 14 to 0 with one absence.
Fantastic, next, we'll move on to our Unanimous Consent Agenda. There are five items on the Unanimous
Consent Agenda, listed under items Roman 16 as actions B through F. Those items-- oh, I'm sorry,
Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, would you mind pulling the 38th and Blake I recused to committee. I need to do
here again.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good.
JULIEN BOUQUET: You're on mute, Chair.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, there are now four items on the Unanimous Consent Agenda. And they are IT
work order, contract access on-demand, accessoried FlexRide contract extensions, contract award for
Welton Safety Improvements. If anyone has a change to or questions about any of these other items,
please feel free to advise me at this time. And I'll be happy to pull it from Unanimous Consent Agenda for
consideration under Recommended Action. Anything else needs to come off, no? Do I have a motion for
approval?
BOB BROOM: Motion for approval.
VINCE BUZEK: I have Boom moving approval of the Consent Agenda. Do I have a second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: And are there any "no" votes for approval of the Consent Agenda? Seeing none, that
passes 14 to 0 with one Director absent.
We're going to move on to the Recommended Action Item Agenda. And there are now six recommended
actions on the agenda tonight. I will start with the 38th and Blake development negotiation. I will look for a
motion for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and/or her delegate to negotiate and
execute an exclusive negotiation agreement, ENA, with Portman Holdings for the future lease and
development of the real property located at 3,800 Wynkoop Street, Denver, Colorado, otherwise known
as the property. Do I have a motion for that approval?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDI: So moved, Rivera-Malpiedi.
VINCE BUZEK: Is there a second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second, Director Davidson.
VINCE BUZEK: Davidson, any discussion? And Director Dishell, are you going to be abstaining from
this? Is that what I understood?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I'll be recusing myself.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good, noted that Director Dishell is recusing himself. Are there any "no" votes on
this matter? Seeing none, that passes 13 to 0 with one absent and one recused.
We're going to move on to the other recommended action items. Next, are the Bylaw Amendment
Director Informal Meeting Process. I need a motion for the recommendation by the RTD Directors,
Dishell, Guissinger, Sloan that the Board of Directors amend Article IV of the bylaws of the Regional
Transportation District to establish a procedure for informal meetings, to engage in discussions of public
business with three or more Board members, in addition to regular Board, special Board, standing
committee, and ad hoc committee meetings. Do I have a motion?
SHELLEY COOK: So moved, Shelley.
VINCE BUZEK: Cook, who's our a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second, Guissinger.

VINCE BUZEK: And Guissinger. And is there any discussion on this, or a presentation? Do any of the
presenters want to-- I see Directors Sloan with her hand. Go ahead, Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Chair and the rest of the entire Board. This will not be a surprise to
anyone because it's been kicking around for over a year now. But the proposal is a way to discuss issues
that are not yet ripe for a formal committee meeting or a full Board meeting. And yet, they are important.
The proposal allows for three or more members meeting. And it is-- the proposal is compliant with laws.
It's effective. And it's transparent, compliant, in that it aligns with the spirit and the letter of the Open
Meetings Act. It provides for statutory notice of the subject, time, and location of the meeting. It invites the
public and requires written and recorded minutes.
It's also consistent with the ADA access practices of RTD. The meeting organizers may arrange for
remote access and recording, if that is their wish. It is effective.
And this is where this proposal really shines. It promotes efficiency, goodwill, and depth in discussion of
issues, again, that are not ripe for full Board consideration. It permits meeting at a location convenient to
both the interested Board members and affected public members.
It-- Board members' participation is absolutely optional. And they're free to choose from a full range of
meeting locations and arrangements. All that is open to individual Board meetings.
Two examples about why this proposal will be effective and one that became apparent as a three
proposing Directors worked on this bylaw Amendment. Our bylaws require three Board members to agree
on a proposal for an agenda item. And this is, as I learned firsthand, is a very painstaking process.
And under our current provisions, three Directors are prohibited from holding in-person, online, or email
meetings of these three people, who are essential for the Amendment item. So this necessitates chain
phone calls or emails between one person to another. That's very inefficient. And it may lead to less than
full discussions, misunderstandings, and eventually less than best practices that could be obviated by a
three-person meeting of people digging into the issues.
Another example-- and this is the one-- I won't beat it again. But the three Jeffco Directors wanted to get
together to discuss ideas for better connections in communications with the Jeffco commissioners and
other elected officials. Plainly, this was a discussion of public business. But it was a very informal concept
that we wanted to flesh out.
But the absence of a provision in our bylaws led, in fact, to this very bylaw Amendment process. And,
hopefully in the near future, the two remaining Jeffco Directors and the third new Director will have their
informal meeting in a Jeffco location, inviting Jeffco constituents, and having it being close to both the
constituents and the Board members.
Third, it's the essence of transparency. And this flows directly from my previous discussion about
effectiveness. In place of one-on-one conversations, the public will know the concerns of the Directors
and will be invited to participate.
The proposed bylaw change will allow a flexible, nimble, and open way to communicate about important
issues concerning the Board. With that, I submit the proposal to the Board. Thank you very much for your
extensive time involved with this. I really appreciate it.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Secretary Sloan. Director Rivera-Malpiedi.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDI: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I feel like I need to speak in opposition of this bylaw
change for several reasons. First of all, I just want to commend the three Board Directors who have
worked so diligently on this. But I have had serious, serious concerns about this.
Number one is the Sunshine Law that we are mandated that there cannot be more than two Board
members. Or we have to go through the compliance component. And I understand the spirit of it, of
wanting to come together and have meetings.
My issue has to do with logistics and concerns of safety and security. I don't need to remind this Board
that we've had some atrocious, hideous things happen to elected officials and their family members. And
I'm worried that, if we decide to have meetings in the community, in our homes, or somewhere, that
somebody could come back and do harm. That's the first thing.
The second thing is, I'd like to know what the plan is for ADA compliance, number one, number two,
translation services for those who do not speak English as a first language and three, security. And then,
how are we going to make sure that the minutes are done in an efficient manner, in a timely manner? And
who in the Board Office will oversee that?
I'm just really concerned about the staff timing that it will take, the logistics of our security to make sure
everybody is safe, not just during the meetings but if we take them into our homes after the meetings.
And then, also, really, are we in-- are we going to be doing something that is not in compliance with the
Sunshine Law? So I do have several concerns about these bylaw changes. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Secretary Sloan, would you like to address them as they
come? Or would you like to hold off until the end and had hit everybody's comments or questions at
once?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Hard to say as a blanket manner but Director Malpiedi brought up so many issues, if
I could respond to that and, actually, call on General Counsel as well. I would appreciate that because I
understand these concerns.
And I know, as far as staff time goes, perhaps, Ms. McManus can tell us about that. But to me, it seems
like it will take less staff because the arrangements will be in the hands of the three Directors. And
they're-- because it's informal, it will not require the same amount of time going into organization.
As far as security goes, if there are concerns about a particular issue or particular location, the Directors
can take that into account as they choose the location. And translators and ADA compliance, it was my
expectation that that could be addressed the same way previous in-person meetings were addressed,
where there's just a line at the-- in the notice saying, if you need ADA-compliant accommodations, let us
know and the same thing with translations.
But Director Rivera-Malpiedi has brought up concerning comments. So I would like-- if Counsel Snyder is
there, if she could address compliance with the Open Meetings Act and the other legal requirements, I'd
really appreciate that. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Snyder, go ahead.

MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Director Sloan and Mr. Chair. So the proposed bylaw amendments
do say-- and the state that they're in, they are listed on packet page 99. They-- as drafted, they are
compliant with the Open Meetings Law. The challenge, I think, is just as Director Rivera-Malpiedi is
indicating, is in the details and the actual execution.
So my understanding of the intent is that these meetings would be noticed consistent with the Open
Meetings Law, that the agenda items would be identified consistent with the Open Meetings Law, and that
there would be written minutes recorded. Of course, again, the details matter with respect to both open
meetings and ADA accessibility issues. I will just note that this Board has set a really high bar for
transparency with the accessibility of its meetings. And so, it's not a legal concern.
But it is just something to consider that this would be a different approach to meetings. And so, it wouldn't
be posted on the YouTube channel and in the normal way. So it's not a legal consideration. those. Legal
requirements could be met. It's more of a logistical and operational concern.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thanks for those comments. I'm going to move on to Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair. And thank you to-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDI. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Chair. I'd like to hear from Ms. McManus and our Chief
on those components of safety, and security, and logistics of getting the minutes done, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. McManus, would you like to start with that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sure, in terms of the posting, we certain we would be able to, as Director Sloan
said, put the requirements and the offering of the need for ADA help, as well as translation services. That
would require longer than a 24-hour notice, just to note that time difference with, right now, the 24-hour
posting rule.
In terms of safety and security, being on the Board for almost 12 years now, we have had safety concerns
where there-- even though we have had security at most of the events that the Directors have attended,
this certainly will be new ground to cover as we move forward. I can't say that it's been smooth for 12
years and no need for security. But I think the Chief can speak to what his new plan is and how he feels
that-- what pointers he can give the Board in moving forward, in choosing their selection of the locations
of these such meetings.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Ms. McManus. Chief Fitzgerald, I guess, one of the concerns raised is
security at these potentially offsite, smaller meetings.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Dr. Joel Fitzgerald, Chief of Police, I, having just been hired and recently, have not
had the opportunity to have an agenda or have any information regarding when and where these
meetings take place. I've heard some speak about the meetings happening in their own homes. I would
definitely advise you against having meetings in your own homes because of any litany of potential
security issues.
However, one thing we can offer is some insight into the locations that are posed for having the meetings,
with our relationships with the other police departments. We can definitely look into where the proposed
meetings are being held, what type of security pre-existed those locations, if they've had any history of
problems there. And even if they haven't, potential logistical issues that we could advise you of and
caution you on.

So I guess, overall, my opinion would be that of running it by us, if you have any question about where
you're going or who you'll be with. We can't run people for you. But what we can do is give you the best
possible advice on personal safety. And if you were to take into consideration the things that I've said
about the preplanning of, when these locations come to your knowledge, when you've got some kind of
idea, when the location and where the location is, bringing it to our attention, we can give you the best
possible input.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thanks for that. And thanks for your input. It sounds like the police department
could be helpful in that regard. Director Rivera-Malpiedi, has that addressed the questions that you've
raised?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDI: Thank you, Mr. Chair, yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thank you so much. Thanks, Chief. Next, I see Director Cook.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Bouquet, did you-- you went down in the queue some how. Did you lower your
hand and raise it again?
JULIEN BOUQUET: No, I think it got cut off a little bit. But I don't think Rivera-Malpiedi had her point
finished. But if it'd be OK, if I could answer my questions-- or ask my questions, that'd be great.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I'm sorry, Director Cook. I'm going to go to Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. And I do want to thank the three Directors for putting
this work into it. I do appreciate the work that was placed into it.
I guess, I have several concerns as well. And I think it's going to be the overall lack of consistency when it
comes down to logistics.
We put the power into the three Directors who are meeting. We have three Directors that might be
following their own guidelines. I know they'll probably be General guidelines, when it comes down to it.
But the whole idea and thought, ultimately, of three, Directors could be meeting in a Board Office. Three
Directors could be meeting virtual. Although, it does look like, from the language, that meetings would not
be broadcast via Zoom. I'm happy for that to be-- and they would not be video recorded.
So if I'm wrong on that, feel free to correct me. That's a big concern. It's just a lack of consistency with the
logistics.
The other thing is-- the big question is transparency of these meetings. As an individual who, everyone
knows, I work for a school district that had a lot of transparency issues last year with their Board,
ultimately, when it came down to Open Meetings Law. So I am hesitant with it because I worry with public
transparency. I worry about public participation and public access to these said meetings.
And again, I feel, a lot of these conversations could ultimately happen in other matters, in our ad hoc
committees, or committees, or our Board meetings as total. That's kind of how I see the purpose of other
matters, when it comes down to bringing up said issues in a more public, more accessible forum. So

ultimately, I do think that the recommended action may be compliant with open Meetings Law. But I do
feel it is not in the spirit of Open Meetings Law. So thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thanks. Director Sloan, would you like to respond to any of that?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I would. And thank you for allowing me to pop back in. As far as-- and again,
Director Bouquet also raised several concerns. And I'm not sure I would have them all in mind by the end
of the discussion.
As far as videoing goes, that's not in our bylaws for any of our meetings. But certainly, I think Directors
are capable of learning how to video for FaceTime-- or not FaceTime, Facebook or the YouTube
somehow. We're capable of it. It's not required by the Open Meetings Law. We have adopted a practice of
that. And I think we're capable of doing that, if there are interested folks wanting to dial in. So one, no, it's
not in the provision. But YouTube is not in our bylaws either.
As far as consistency, that is a value judgment. And I would say, it's one of the strengths of the bylaw
proposal that it is nimble, and flexible, and not a one-size-fits-all format. But that's for each Director to
determine.
If there should be a cookie-cutter format, this is not the provision for that. If they want to adapt the
meeting to the concern and the location of the concerned public, that is that provision. And as far as the
spirit of the Open Meetings Act goes, the Douglas County School Board got in trouble for having daisychain emails or one-on-one meetings that then would be repeated. This is to provide a mechanism so that
that does not have to be the approach to get three Directors talking about one issue. So I think, it's clear
that it is consistent with, not just the letter of the Open Meetings Act but the intent of the Sunshine Laws in
general. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Director Cook, you're next.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, Thank you, Chair. And thank you, Director Sloan. And Guissinger, I think you
were the two who put most of the work into this.
That last point is the most compelling to me. If you've been involved in a Director-initiated item, you know
it-- somebody writes something. Or they talk with somebody.
They write something. And then it gets-- it's almost impossible to avoid that daisy-chain issue. And you
just have to do it in serial phone calls that, ultimately, lead to a proposed policy that had no eyes on it at
all.
And I think it would be better, from that standpoint, at least from my experience in doing that, to have that
meeting in public, have it noticed as a discussion about a potential initiated item, and allow people who
want to or are interested, to show up or request a recording or something like that. I really do think it adds
to transparency in that manner. And it also helps to avoid a potential skirting of the Open Meetings Law,
in my opinion. So thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Cook. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair, and Director Sloan, and Guissinger and-- had to be a third, right?
Thank you--

BARBARA MCMANUS: Bouquet.
VINCE BUZEK: Dishell.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Dishell, yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you for your work on this. I have two pretty simple-- I am not in favor of this,
for openers, as it stands. But I have a couple real simple questions.
Why does it have to be at somebody's house? We have a perfectly good building. We have, actually, two
perfectly good buildings, centrally located in Denver at 1660 Blake Street and also a Civic Center, where
we have all kinds of meeting rooms.
They are completely accessible. They have security that come along with them. And if there's some
objection to outside parties traveling to those locations, how about the local Rec Center, which is also
accessible and has meeting rooms, or the local library.
My primary objection is that these purported meetings would be held at locations, as Director RiveraMalpiedi pointed out, that are not necessarily accessible to people. And that we have to put extra effort in
to make them safe, secure, transparent, noticed. So I would be willing to support this to some degree, if it
was specified that more than one, or more than three, or whatever, more than five-- I don't care-Directors were able to talk to each other in a public place, if it were noticed.
I'm not in favor of it being at a private location. That's all. Thank you. And I don't need an answer right
now. I'm cool.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. I think Director Sloan wants to give you an answer because I didn't see anything
about anybody's house in the proposal. But go ahead.
MARJORIE SLOAN: No and I have to admit that the house was a leftover from my small town experience
in Golden. And that was a mistake.
When I first started talking about it, it was, oh, just come on over to my house. We'll have lunch. And we'll
discuss this. And we'll notice it.
I have been soundly criticized and rightfully criticized for that. And I do agree with Director Williams' listing
of places, such as rec centers, libraries, County Commissioners, cafeterias so that it is a public space. I'm
not sure that needs to be in the bylaws. And I'm not sure how a restaurant meeting room would fall,
public, private.
But I'm in full agreement with Director Williams' comments. And I, again, apologize for injecting houses
into this conversation. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair, I just-- in back and forth, since that's what we're doing. I just spend a lot of time
working in the community of people who require special access. And I think we need to be super aware.
But I'm more concerned about that than I am about security, just for the record. Thank you.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that point. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm really trying to get comfortable with this proposal, this
bylaw change. I've had conversations with two people I respect immensely on this topic, Director Sloan
and Guissinger.
I don't know that I'm there yet. I guess, I have a bit of a pause for concern regarding the lack of interaction
with our new Police Chief on this situation. It seems like we maybe caught him a little flat-footed tonight.
And that's not his fault.
I just-- I'm a little concerned about the situation with what I see as more added work and more steps for
our Board Office. We give them lots of challenges. And they rise to meet every one of our challenges. But
is it the right thing to do with their staff time, and so on, and so forth? I just fear there may be an uptick in
complexity, at least, with doing so.
That being said, I'm not a hard no yet because this daisy-chaining concept is problematic, as Director
Cook so eloquently made note of. It seems like there ought to be a better way. And it all boils down to
adequate public notice, appropriate facilities, and safety.
So I'm hesitant for a "yes" vote. But I will listen to the rest of the conversation tonight with both ears wide
open. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you to the members who drafted this. And I find it
very intriguing. And any way to engage the public more is a good thing.
As I look at another government entity that actually does quite a bit of public work and its legislators and
so, they regularly have town halls where they invite multiple members. They just notice it. And email goes
out, and tweet, and all that sort of thing, robocalls. And they do it at a library. They do it at rec centers.
People come, they have discussions. So they manage to do it.
They also have caucus meetings. So for example, the Republicans get together. The Democrats get
together. And they have their meetings.
Now, as I understood it from my recollection, if members of the public come, then they are allowed in to
those caucuses. So-- and then, in which case, legislators are like, OK, well, they can continue to talk
about those topics or not but-- that are of political nature, let's just say. So other entities, like legislators,
do make it work. And I think we could probably make it work as well.
Oh, finally, I'm wondering if this is a discussion-- while this is very helpful, and great. And I think it's
helping us flesh it out in giving feedback to those who are-- who put it together-- whether we should wait
for the next Board coming in in January to really adopt this, since they're the ones who implement it.
Some of the members who are leaving us, with all due respect, they're saying, hey, the next Board is
going to be utilizing or not utilizing this process or not, just a thought. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Rosenthal. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I've been involved with Sunshine Laws-- I just was telling it-- for 39
years in Illinois and Florida, as well as here in Colorado. You just learn to work with them.

The problem with doing something like this is perception. It just-- people perceive that things are going on
out of sight of the public. And it's just not worth it to go that direction, when you have plenty of time.
The one thing this Board doesn't do enough of is have study sessions and retreats during the year to
discuss issues like this, or whatever the issues are that they wanted to bring up with these small groups
of Board members. So I'm not going to be supporting this. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Broom. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, it's not sounding good. But I just want to reiterate that this is really an intent to
make sure we are complying with the Sunshine Law. And I think, the concern with the school Board down
in Douglas County was part of the issue.
And we have a provision that three Directors can bring an initiative forward. And so, we're trying to
provide a forum for making that happen in an open, and public, and transparent way. I feel like the issues
around security and some of those things can be-- if they're coming up, certainly, they can be addressed.
They-- the meetings could be at the RTD offices. But this does provide a way to really make sure we're
compliant. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, First Vice Chair, Guissinger. Second Vise Chair, Catlin, you're up.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Now, when this first started-- and thank you to the three Directors
who've worked so hard on this. But what we have talked about was, really, to try and engage some of our
stakeholders a little bit more effectively and our public a little bit more effectively. And it's particularly
problematic in Jefferson County, where a lot of our constituents are just at-large constituents. They do not
have other elected bodies with whom they can direct comments and engage with the RTD Board.
And I would cite the example of the NATO organization. That's a very, very organized organization. And it
provides a forum for at least three of our Directors to participate and engage. And it's within the-- meeting
the spirit of the Open Meetings Law.
What we had hoped to do was be able to sit down and have a dialogue about strategies for
communicating, and engaging, and reaching out to our, in this case, our Jefferson County commissioners
in a better way to work together. And that was why I was supporting this initially because it was a
planning tool, in a very transparent fashion. And
I'm supporting this. I understand some of the pitfalls associated with it. But I, for one, would, as a Board
member, would be very conscientious of the safety and security and the meeting location, as we move
forward. And I would hope to, in this planning effort, be-- take a little more time and a little more care up
front. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Second Vice Chair. Director Broom, your hand's still up. Do you have any
more comments?
BOB BROOM: No, I'll take it down, sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thanks so much. I just wanted to provide a little food for thought and also echo a
great sentiment of gratitude for Director Sloan and Guissinger who absolutely did the majority of the work

on this. I think, informal meetings occur with way fewer, much less transparency. And I know, a lot of folks
are looking at their phones. But we call those events.
So for folks who really raise concerns about transparency, and broadcasting, and accessibility, and
translation services, I would just encourage you to ask yourself before you vote, are you planning to
broadcast and have translators available for the dinner with the CDOT commissioners tomorrow [AUDIO
OUT] or at the Transportation Solutions Foundation event that occurred earlier this year where there were
more than three Directors, or the Community Solutions annual event where GM/CEO Johnson is
speaking. And I'm sure there will be more than three Directors.
If you're not planning to live broadcast your interactions with more than two other Directors, I would say,
you're probably being a little bit inconsistent. And I recognize that creating this avenue for a separate,
informal meeting brings that to the forefront. But the reality is, when we attend events, I would be hard
pressed to believe that we take minutes, record those out, record those, ensure they're ADA accessible,
and really dig in when we're having an informal meeting of more than two Directors where, really, we're
just noticing the fact that we're at an event.
And so, if you're not applying that same level of strict scrutiny to the events, I would encourage you to
think about why you're applying it here, which is to say, maybe, we should apply it to events as well, that
we attend. But just some food for thought for those who are on the fence and thinking about consistency
and whether it's about-- whether it's really about the transparency in all aspects. Or it's actually a
reticence to change and concern about transparency there. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Dishell. Director Rivera-Malpiedi.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDI: Thank you for the second bite at the apple. Director Dishell, I just have to
say, quite frankly, I find that to be very offensive, the response, in terms of, are you just doing this here?
And it's not being done there.
In my community, we do not have the ability to go to meetings during the day because we are transitdependent. And we work in shifts. And we don't get the luxury to time off to go have lunch, and sit down,
and talk about issues. So there-- for me, there's a real issue of inequity. So that's the first thing.
The second thing, translation is absolutely crucial for my monolingual community members who do not
understand a word of English and have no other option but to go to places where they don't understand
our language or our culture. But more than that-- and I understand the spirit of this. I really do. And I really
understand where you guys are coming from.
My issue has to do with logistics. And with all due respect, I will just say this to you, point tonight. How
many Board members have already completed their evaluation of our General Manager, which is due
Friday?
It just worries me that there is not going to be a timely response to minutes, and notes that need to be put
into the public record. And what kind of impact is that going to have on our Board staff who works
diligently and puts together literally hundreds and hundreds of meetings with logistics that just make me
cringe. Like tonight, the IT that is happening right now takes hours, and hours, and hours of logistics for
our experts to come to the table, our security, whatever it is.
So I'm just saying to you, I agree that this is a systemic change that you're looking at. I think that that's
great. I don't feel like I need to make that decision.

I think it's you and the new Board that needs to make that decision, with the new Board staff to make that
decision. We're in a transitional mode. And I think this is an opportunity to, maybe, present it forward.
I will not be supporting this. But I do think it is something to look at, maybe, next year and figure out how
you want to move forward in a different methodology. But for me, I'm not comfortable with it. Thank you,
Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for your comments. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I do appreciate and applaud the effort undertaken
by the three Directors in bringing this forward because, clearly, there needs to be some solution that is
workable. But I have to ask a background question. And, perhaps, just to give General Counsel a heads
up here, I will be asking a question of General Counsel associated with this process.
And that is, much of the analysis that we have engaged in has been motivated by the sense that, well,
there was a judge in Douglas County who said that serial communications violate the Sunshine Law. And
is that really the issue that has generated this because, I am not aware-- and I'm-- that's the question I
want to ask of General Counsel. I am not aware of any appellate court in Colorado or, for that matter, in
any other jurisdiction with a similar Sunshine Law that has come to the conclusion that serial
conversations that are fully compliant with the Sunshine Law, when viewed together, somehow create a
violation of the Sunshine Law.
It may be my lack of knowledge of the applicable case law. But if there is any, I would like it to be brought
to my attention. So General Counsel, the question for you is, is there just this one Douglas County court
that has said this? Are we aware of anybody else who has said that serial conversations are a violation of
the Sunshine Law?

