2021-01-12
RTD Customer Service and Operations Meeting
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. Welcome to RTD Board of Directors meeting. The
Customer Service and Operations Committee will now come to order. We are convened as of
5:30 PM Mountain Standard Time. I don't think we're on Mountain Daylight Time. I would
respectfully ask that everyone connected to the call please mute your phones and set your ringers
to silent.
Under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being
held remotely in the interests of public health, safety, and welfare. During this time, meetings
will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. You can visit rtddenver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please announce your name and wait for the
Chairperson to call on you before proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add to the
confusion and to the proceedings not being [AUDIO OUT].
Please note that at the appropriate time during the discussion and voting processes later on
during the evening, the Chairperson of the meeting will call on each Director in turn. So please
know that your time to speak will come and, if possible, hold your comments until that time.
At RTD, safety is our core value. I'd like to begin this evening's proceedings with a short safety
briefing. Although recently much has been said and published about the risk of COVID
transmission on public transportation, there has been very little contact tracing evidence that
points to a transmission on buses or trains. The discussion takes place because COVID
transmission is linked to close contact in large gatherings. That said, RTD's overall ridership is
down, so getting on a crowded vehicle is far less likely than in the past.
According to the Associated Press, there have been no significant outbreaks of COVID, defined
as two or more infected people from different households traced to the same event, which have
been linked to transit systems. In fact, Japan has not had a single outbreak to their crowded
commuter rail system since the pandemic began.
So please do not be afraid to ride public transportation. When you do, follow these guidelines to
ensure a safe trip for you and for others. Please wear a face covering while waiting for your bus
or train and while riding. Public health orders required that you do. Anecdotally, we are seeing
high face covering use by passengers on most trips here at RTD. Other agencies are reporting
that upwards of 80% to 90% of passengers are wearing face coverings on the system, so the
message seems to be getting out.

Please maintain social distancing of at least six feet, as much as you can. The CDC says that if
you can avoid situations where you are in close contact, within six feet for more than 15 minutes,
with someone outside of your household, your chance of contracting COVID is very low. Please
remember that wearing a face covering does not replace the need for social distancing. You
should do both. And travel during non-peak hours or skip crowded buses, if that's possible.
And finally, if you are feeling sick or have any COVID symptoms, please stay home and seek
medical attention. There are a variety of testing sites in our area. Thank you.
I'm going to now take note of the Directors who have joined the meeting before it came called to
order. I will call your name. Please indicate your attendance.
Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Good evening.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening. I'm present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am Director Williams and I am also here. All Directors are present and
accounted for.
We did have one recommended action on the agenda this evening, but it has been removed for
further consideration. So we have no recommended actions. We will not need to take any
motions on that or have any staff present any information. I think that the next thing that will
happen is we will move to other matters.
I have one other matter that I would like to bring, and then I will open the floor to anyone else.
According to a memo that I got from the Mayor's office this morning, Girl Scout cookies will go
on sale January 31.
Are there any other matters to come before this committee?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: That is Chair Rivera-Malpiede, I believe.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Good evening, everyone. Well, you were all sworn
in, our new five Board members and our three incumbents, one week ago this evening. So
welcome. You guys are old pros by now, I am sure.
Listen, as we move forward, I would be remiss if I didn't just talk a few minutes about how
honored I am to be working with all of you and that we represent the 3 million constituents that

voted us into these seats. Tonight's a heavy heart in our country and I know that people are
feeling a lot of angst. But I have such tremendous hope in the creativity, the commitment, and
really the compassion that this Board is bringing forward for the good of the entire community.
And I just wanted to start by thanking you and just reading something. Somebody gave me a
little book a long time ago-- I'm not even sure who did it. But it is Life's Little Treasure Book on
Wisdom. And there's a quote in here that's unnamed that I think is really great. And it's called,
remember the three R's, respect for self, respect for others, and responsibility for all your actions.
And I think, for me, that's how I'm going to be moving forward this year. And I just wanted to
say that to all of you is that our community is strong, our transit agency is great, and I think we're
going to have a really, really successful year. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak during
other matters? I'm about to move on. Director Guissinger? Director Guissinger, are you able to
speak to us?
Roger, can you tell if she's still here?
SPEAKER 1: Who are you asking for? I'm sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm asking for Director Guissinger.
SPEAKER 1: It looks like she has dropped off.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I know that she had something that she wanted to say. So perhaps she'll
get back in a moment. We'll give her just a moment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here, if you're talking about me. I got cut off. So can you hear me
now?
KATE WILLIAMS: We can hear you now. Would you like to speak under the Other Matters
section?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, very quickly. Thank you. As I sent out in an email today, thank you
to the Board for helping me-- I mean, to the Board Office for helping. The Accountability
Committee approved the report that we sent out last week. It's very similar to the version that
went out, I think, in November, November and I think again in December that we've discussed,
but new to new people. Feel free to call me if you have questions.
The process is that has been transmitted to the legislators. And Senator Winter and
Representative Gray will be carrying this bill, will be co-sponsors. It's not-- well, back up. The
legislature is going to gavel in tomorrow for three days and then gavel out until February 16, is
what I've heard most recently. This will be a late bill, so it will go in in February for the second
session there, February 16.

Senator Winter has said that they will try to get the-- plan to get the proposed bill to us by next
Wednesday, the 19th, to go in the packet for the following week. And on the 26th, the
Accountability Committee co-chairs, Crystal Murillo and Elise Jones, will be joining us in the
meeting and we will be discussing the legislation.
So that's it, just wanted to give that update. Happy to answer questions or answer them separately
outside. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Do any of the other Directors have any
questions or comments for Director Guissinger?
OK. Hearing nothing, our next meeting of this committee will be February 9, 2021, at the same
time and the same channel. And seeing no other discussion, I'm going to adjourn this meeting
and hope that we can move directly to Finance, the Finance Committee meeting.
SHELLEY COOK: I agree, Madam Chair, and thank you.
Hi, everybody. I'll now call to order the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee. The
time is 5:42 PM. I would just reinforce that everybody connected to the call is asked to mute
your phones and set your ringers on silent. Just in case these meetings are posted separately to
the website, I'll repeat part, but not all of the preface for our meetings, that please note that under
the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held
remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare.
During this time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with
the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website. Visit rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of
Directors page. They've also added Board of Directors on the main page, which is a welcome
addition. And thanks for the suggestion on that last meeting.
So I would note, for the record, that we have currently all members present. And turning to the
agenda for FA&A, we have one recommended action. It's the FasTracks series 2012A bonds and
TIFIA loan refunding. Let me get to that.
Here's the recommended action, all. It's recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors adopts the attached resolution number, blank, the
bond resolution, authorizing the issuance of tax exempt and taxable refunding bonds series 2021,
parentheses, FasTracks project.
And I see we have Doug MacLeod, Brenden Morgan, and if you wish, introduce Mr. Newman,
as well. First of all, though, I'd need a motion to approve. Do I have that?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second, Catlin.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. So we have a motion to approve by Director Williams and a second by
Director Catlin.
All right. I'll turn it over to you, Mr. MacLeod. And I know you have some updated numbers too
that you can share with us in terms of the savings. Go ahead, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair, and good evening. This is Doug MacLeod,
Controller and Acting Chief Financial Officer. Joining me tonight is Brenden Morgan, who is
our Senior Manager of Debt and Investments, Aimee Beckwith, who's Associate General
Counsel from Melanie Snyder's department, who is helping out with this issuance, as well as
Mike Newman. Mike Newman is a principal with Hilltop Securities, who's our financial advisor.
They are all on the phone to help me answer any detailed questions.
So without further ado, this action seeks to refinance two of our debt issuances. RTD currently
has $3.3 billion, with a B, in outstanding debt. We constantly look for opportunities to realize
interest savings by refinancing debt. Much of this debt belongs to FasTracks in both of these
refinanced issuances, our finance debt instruments.
We're bringing this to the Board because it does meet the criteria that the Board has set that any
refinancings be at least a 3% net present value savings. But this particular refinancing exceeds
that significantly. And so it's very fortunate for us that we have this opportunity to do it on
FasTracks, especially due to their financial challenges.
I would note that all of our debt also, it's combination of bonds as well as certificates of
participation, and then this TIFIA loan. TIFIA stands for Transportation, Infrastructure, Finance,
and Innovation Act. It was a loan program administered by the FTA. And at the time we took
this loan, it offered very favorable interest rates as well as repayment terms. But now we have
the good opportunity to refinance that to generate additional interest savings.
For this refinancing, we will be issuing a combination of taxable and nontaxable debt. That
means that the bond holders would be subject, on the taxable debt, to pay income taxes on the
taxable income that they receive from those debt service payments. The reason why we have to
issue taxable debt in this instance is because the 2012A bonds that we are refinancing have not
met their call date. Those 2012 bonds were issued in 2012. They have a 10-year call provision.
The tax law requires that you cannot advance refund a debt issuance. So in this case, we cannot--

