Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to Board of Directors

Date:

February 22, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
February 22, 2011 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fourteen (14) Board members were present at roll call. Director Riley arrived after roll call.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retirees present to receive their awards. Chair Kemp asked Dean Shaklee to
provide some information on John Abeita who had planned to be in attendance. Dean shared
John has been married for 43 years, has two adult children and grandchildren. He plans to
spend his retirement time with his grand children. He loves to cycle, classic cars and trucks.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Bruce Johnson, Denver, expressed some frustration with the lack of information and bus access
to the temporary location where AMTRAK has relocated. Chair Kemp instructed staff to work
with Mr. Johnson on his concerns.
Ace King, Transit Research, provided his perspective around the financial challenge of
FasTracks, stating that he believes the initial cost estimates were flawed. What assurances are
there about the new projected costs for the future when the old projections were flawed?
Dwight Cunningham, Advanced IT Network Solutions, and Celina Benavidez, Celina Inc, thanked
the Board for the SBE/DBE opportunity provided to their small businesses. Celina touted the
clarity of the SBE/DBE procurement process and commended the business group on their Eagle
P3 outreach meetings.
Chris Jarris indicated he is an installer for Smart card systems and the process is moving well.
He is another success story and he sees the opportunities as endless.
Richard Lewis, RTL Networks, indicated he was a small DBE firm that attended a town hall
meeting about five years ago and got hooked into the system with RTD. They have done work
with RTD on smart technologies (i.e. Cad/AVL technologies and working with Ciber). His
company has grown so that he is now one of the largest DBE firms doing business in Colorado
and other states. He appreciate the goals that have been set on these projects as it created
outreach to firms such as his and other members in COMTO.

Sergio Gutierrez, Linkmont Technologies, is also a small business who competed for the
CAD/AVL business. He has 20 years in the community and appreciates the opportunity
afforded him through the workforce development initiative.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Director James noted a correction in the Planning and Development minutes. The correct
statement should have referred to “mark-to-market” analysis which is a concept that is used to
make corrections in pricing when the lease has expired and the adjustment need to be made on
pricing to match the market conditions. This is a clause that could be used for the concerns
expressed around the contract term for the leasing of parking to Mile High Development at
University Station.
Director Bagley had requested a correction to the Executive Committee meeting to refer to the
CHAFA loan.

VI.

GM OVERSIGHT AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE—
In accordance with annual requirements through the State Auditors and in keeping with the
Board’s commitment to transparency, GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee
Chair Bagley read a prepared statement regarding the General Manager Compensation and
Performance for 2010. A copy of that statement is attached to these minute notes.
Additionally, Cheryl Wallace with Bondi and Co, delivered an independent financial review of
the General Manager’s compensation for 2010. A copy of that review is located in the
General Manager’s Personnel file.

VII.

FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY TASK FORCE UPDATE—
Director Tayer deferred his report to the Board and SLT staff retreat scheduled for March 5,
2011.

VIII.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE
Chair Kemp did not provide a report from the Metro Mayor’s Task Force.

IX.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF January 18, 2011
MOTION:

Director Tobiassen moved for the adoption of the January 18,
2011 regular Board Minutes.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:
Director Brohl indicated she would abstain since she missed the
meeting.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against. Directors Brohl and Malpiede abstained since they had
missed the previous meeting.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

X.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT


Sister Agency Partnership Agreement
General Manager Washington announced RTD is in discussion with his counterparts in
LAX and San Diego for a learning experience to exchange 6-8 promising employees
about three times a year to share best practices in areas such as planning, run
scheduling, capital project programs, bus and rail operations, marketing, financial and
other related areas. Participation will include represented and salaried employees. These
agencies were selected because they are all managing large capital expansion projects.
He has offered to host the first event in the summer of 2011.
State Audit Testimony Regarding Bus Allocation Model
The General Manager shared that he and the staff team participated in a state audit
testimony regarding the bus allocation model. This was an operational audit. Chair
Kemp and Director Tobiassen were in attendance.
Review/Update of RTD Denver’s 2010 Top Five Transit Initiatives
General Manager Washington provided a brief update on the top five initiatives that he
had identified earlier and indicated they were well on their way:
1. Email subscription service—phase 1 is about complete. They have created a
web based platform for this service
2. Yield-to-bus-Complete and rolled out. They will come back to the Board in a
few months on its impact on performance
3. Workforce Initiative—this program is well on its way and has generated a lot of
interest.
4. Priorities Program (formerly called customer bill of rights)—the concept here is
the customer will have ready access to “write to the top” on issues or things
they encounter. This program will publicly launch in March.
5. Eagle P3—this is a unique and innovative delivery using public-private
partnership and is the largest in the nation.



Milestones Leading to March 8, 2011 Board Decision on FasTracks
General Manager Washington shared some of the information that staff will be
providing to the Board leading up to the March 8 vote on the adoption of the 2011
FasTracks Plan:
 March 1—staff will do a review of all the tax scenarios, schedules for the major
corridors, projected sunset date estimates, pros and cons of scenarios, tabor
number estimate in ballot issue and the results from the recent public
opinion research.
Other Matters
General Manager Washington indicated they will be rolling out a “How to ride Transit”
campaign. Director Tobiassen had worked with members in the Aurora community to
pilot such a program with Senior citizens.
Questions/comments from Board members:
Director Daly expressed an interest in including the Board in the Sister Agency
Partnership Agreement plan of events.
Director Brohl thanked the staff for thinking outside the box and lauded the Sister
Agency Partnership as being a perfect example and epitome of embracing diverse

interest and ideas. The most important point from this is the inclusion of both
represented and salaried employees.
Director Tobiassen noted that Senator Trochtop had requested data on the cost
comparison on the cost model when it becomes available. He would also like to see this
data.
Director Cohen indicated he was OK if not receive the FasTracks information until
Tuesday. He asked a clarification on the CAD/AVL statement made. Eric Farrington
indicated they will present options in the next few months on capabilities of the
system.
Director Tayer commented on an article from the Daily Camera implying RTD is behind
the 8-ball when it comes to technologies, etc. He requested a 1 page document on real
time bus service and the status on when that service may be available.
XI.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to approve items C-G on the unanimous consent
agenda. Director Brohl had requested items A & B moved to recommended action
where they could be discussed.

MOTION:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda, items C-G.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15 votes in favor and
0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

C.

Recommendation for Planning Support Agreement with the BNSF Railway Company for
the Northwest Corridor Update
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into a contract with the BNSF Railway
Company (BNSF) for an estimated $650,000 for Planning Support including preliminary
engineering for the Northwest Rail (NWR) Corridor to provide a better cost estimate for
an RTD operating easement for NWR Corridor service.
It is further recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize a transfer of $650,000 from the FasTracks Contingency
Reserve to the Northwest Rail project to fund this work in 2011.

D.

Voice Radio Equipment Hardware and Optimization Support Contract Award
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for the Fixed Radio Equipment hardware and
Optimization Support (Request for Proposal (RFP) No. 50DH028) to Motorola, Inc.
(Motorola) in an amount not-to-exceed $3,050,000. This price includes equipment,

optimization support and warranty. The purchase is through the Western States
Contracting Alliance (WSCA) contract.
E. Execution of an Oracle eBusiness Suite ERP Services Work Order Contract with Cedar
Crestone
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to award Cedar Crestone a three (3) year Work Order based contract to
provide technical and functional Oracle eBusiness Suite ERP services (Contract
Number 10FH026) with an annual not to exceed contract limit of $2,000,000.

F. Proposed 2011 Fiscal Policy Statement
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors modify and update the Fiscal Policy Statement.
G.

XII.

Approval of May 2011 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 15, 2011 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annualized cost of approximately
$1,119,000, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
A. Resolution No ________, Series of 2011, Decrease in Director’s Local Expense
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion to approve the resolution
to decrease the Director’s Local Expense.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

Director Brohl noted that this was a voluntary measure
taken by the Board Members about two years ago to
reduce their local expenses in support of the budget
austerity program at RTD.
Director Daly provided the clarification that each year a
resolution is done to keep the expenses at the same level
and this does not further decrease the amount.

The motion passed by hand vote 15 in favor and 0
against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion passed Unanimously.

B. Resolution No ________, Series of 2011, Decrease in Director’s Travel Expense
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion to approve the resolution
to decrease the Director’s Travel Expense.

Director Cohen seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

Director Brohl noted that this was also a voluntary
measure taken by the Board Members about two years
ago to reduce their travel expenses in support of the
budget austerity program at RTD.

The motion passed by hand vote 15 in favor and 0
against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion passed Unanimously.

H.

Lease of Parking to Mile High Development, LLC at University Station Update
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to enter into negotiations
and execute all documents necessary to enter into a lease agreement with Mile High
Development, LLC for the use of up to 50 parking spaces in the University Station
parking structure.
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion to approve lease of
parking to Mile High Development LLC at University
Station.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director O’Boyle expressed disappointment that he had
not received any written response from staff concerning
his questions/issues prior to this coming to a vote.
Mike Turner, staff, provided an oral update on some of
the issues raised around the number of affordable housing
units, utilization rate and anticipated growth. However,
there has not been any study or modeling done on the
growth projections in the future and its impact on
parking. Director O’Boyle stated that just doing some
rough math using some high level assumptions, his
numbers come out to at least $75 month for space which
should be charged compared to the $30 charge to Mile
High. Mike Turner responded some of this is based on
market rates at the time. Director Anderson commented
about the projected 70% utilization rate and that this was
disturbing. She assumes RTD will be keeping a close eye
on this and report back in a timely manner. Director Tayer
asked if there were any escape clauses associated with
this informal analysis. Rick Clarke indicated there is no
escape clause language for this. Director Tayer restated
that what he is looking for is some assurance that if the

70% utilization rate changes, it will not crop up in the
long term and impact on the needs of our transit patrons.
Rick Clarke expressed confidence in the short term but
stated long term is more difficult to predict.
Director Tobiassen commended staff and the developer
for building affordable housing. He stated one of the
goals of TOD is to reduce the number of cars. We need
to find ways to de-couple cars from TOD and to think
about opportunities for units separate from parking. It is
believed that the residents of affordable housing will be
transit riders. General Manager Washington agreed and
commented this will be a kick start for TOD and
affordable housing.
Director Bagley stated that he and Director Hoy will be
meeting with Bill VanMeter and Bill Sirois to address
policy concerns about TOD that may help the Board to
address parking concerns (i.e. University Station, Lincoln
Station and County Line)
Director McMullen stated what a wonderful problem to
have. We have developers during this economy who are
willing to invest in affordable housing that is in support of
our revised TOD policy.
Director James stated this is consistent with our TOD
policy; however, because of his relationship and
interaction with the developer, he will abstain from
voting.
Director Tayer indicated he will vote against this for the
following reason. While he appreciates the staff effort to
put this packet together, this is a precedential opportunity
which we do not fully understand the impact. We are
offering up a long-term lease on building parking when we
really don’t fully understand what will be the future needs
of our transit patrons.
Director Hoy asked the question related to the terms of
the agreement. According to his understanding, the
rental amount is negotiated for the first 10 years. Years
11-40 are unknown. What if there is no resolution on
parking for those years?
Director James indicated this is why he had proposed a
“mark-to-market” analysis which when the term expires,
this is an option for renewal that matches to market rent
levels. It effectively corrects for the market condition at
the time. Rick Clarke indicated he would check this out.

Director Brohl reminded the Board that when we plan for
parking, we look at this for the corridor versus the
individual stops along the way. The question of utilization
is more appropriately addressed when we look at our
parking management structure along the SE corridor. The
corridor is designed and engineered to take traffic. The
TOC component is compatible with our affordable
housing along that corridor. Mike Turner added the
current utilization along the corridor is 68%.
Director O’Boyle reiterated his disappointment. He stated
he does not understand and had expected more due
diligence from the staff. He cannot support.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken for item H with 10 in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Brohl, Cohen, Daly, James, Hoy,
Kemp, McMullen, and Riley,) and 3 against (Deadwyler,
O’Boyle and Tayer). Director Riley did not vote and
Director James abstained.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

I.

Authorize an Inter-Governmental Agreement with Stakeholders for the Design/Build
Contract for the Union Avenue Bridge/Belleview Station Transit Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute an InterGovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the stakeholders that include City and County of
Denver (CCD), Madre Metropolitan District No. 1 (MADRE), Southeast Public
Improvement Metro District (SPIMD) and Goldsmith Metro District (GOLDSMITH) for
participating in the design, construction, funding and staff involvement for a
Design/Build Contract that will provide the improvements of the proposed Union
Avenue Bridge/Belleview Station Transit project. Funding for this IGA is included in
the 2011 Adopted capital budget for the FasTracks Southeast Corridor projects.
MOTION:

Chair Kemp made the motion to authorize an InterGovernmental Agreement with Stakeholder for the
Design/Build Contract for the Union Avenue
Bridge/Belleview Station Transit project.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director McMullen indicated how enlightening it was a
couple of months ago when this item had initially been
brought to the Board and the responses it received. This
has given him an epiphany on how he must work
extremely hard to get the FasTracks additional tax
passed. If the projects don’t get completed in a timely
manner, people seem to forget what had been committed
to such as this improvement of the proposed Union
Avenue bridge.

Director Tayer thanked Director McMullen for his
advocacy on this unfinished business matter.
VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken for Item I with 14 Directors
in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Brohl, Cohen, Daly, Hoy,
James, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Riley, Tayer
and Tobiassen) and 1 against (Deadwyler).

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED,
XIII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
There was no executive session.

XV.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no unfinished business.

XVI.

NEW BUSINESS
 Director Bagley wanted to know who planned to attend the Downtown Denver
Partnership Award Luncheon.
 Director Daly thanked Henry Stopplecamp for the tour of the North Metro Corridor that
he and Director Riley attended.
 Director Deadwyler announced her Town Hall meeting that she will be hosting at the
Holiday Inn East on Saturday, February 26, 2011.
 Director Cohen announced the APTA webinar on “Selecting a CEO” that he was
hosting along with participants General Manager Washington, Director Bagley and
Gregg Moser with Krauthamer recruiting firm.
 Director Riley stated that he had participated in the demonstration at the State Capitol
in support of the Wisconsin Union workers. Director McMullen indicated he was also
there.
 General Manager Washington indicated RTD will be receiving two awards at the WTS
event on 2/24/11. He also stated that the APTA membership committee had selected
Krauthamer as the recruitment firm for this effort.

XVII.

ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 7:08 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, February 22, 2011

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Lorraine Anderson
Barbara Brohl
Larry Hoy
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Kenneth Riley
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rolf Asphaug
Jeff Becker
Bill Bell
Jessie Carter
Rick Clarke
Sherry Ellebracht
Eric Farrington
David Genova

Mike Gill
Terry Howerter
Austin Jenkins
Pat McLaughlin
Barbara McManus
Doug MacLeod
Karen Morales
Paula Perdue
Scott Reed

District I
District O
District M
District H
District C
District L
District D
District J
District N
District B
District A
District E
District G
District K
District F

Daria Serna
Dean Shaklee
Walt Stringer
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Mike Turner
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington

OTHERS PRESENT:
Janne Bennick, C. Benavidez, Chris Cruz, Dwight Cunningham, Greg Fischer, Anna Flores, Celina
Garcia, Sergio Gutierrez, Chris Jarrett, Bruce Johnson, Roger Johnson, Ace King, Cleve Klansing,
Richard Lewis, Jeff Lieb, Tammy McHaren, Fenton Penna, Debra Perkins, Steven Romero, George
Thorn and Don Ulrich.

