Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 2, 2009
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

June 2, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on June 2, 2009 at
6:44 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair McMullen, Vice-Chair O’Boyle, Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck,
Chacon, Cohen, Daly, Kemp, James, Martinez, Pulliam, Tayer,
Tobiassen
Director Christopher

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Rick Clarke, Bill Van Meter, Stan Szabelak,
Greg Straight, Liz Telford, Bill Sirois, Bruce Abel, Dave Genova, Daria
Serna, Scott Reed, Julie Skeen, Pauletta Tonilas, John Tarbert, John
Shonsey, Cal Shankster, Susan Wood, Carol Duecker, Paula Perdue,
Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Larry Warner, Ed Romero, Bob Wilson, Maria Garcia Berry, Tom
Ashburn, Ann Hayes, Jeff Leib, Roger Sherman, Russ Larson, Ken
Schmidt, Peter Hynes, Stephen Vickerman, Steve Roescher, Larry
Warner, Dwight Schock, Mary Kay O’Malley, Mark Imhoff, Gina
Macafee, Bob Wilson, Paul Courtois, Bill Schockley, Steve Haffner,
Rick Pilgrim, David S. Cohen, Sharon Terranova (DRCOG), Craig
Lessards, Matthew Stearns, Paul Ryan, Ravi Swamy
****

Call to Order
I.

Director McMullen called the meeting to order at 6:44 p.m.

CAC Update – Chair McMullen moved this update to first on the agenda. Tom
Ashburn, co-chair of the CAC updated the committee on the latest events of the
CAC. The CAC last met on May 20, 2009 and they had a lot of good discussion
regarding the GM transition, election timing, Eagle P3, and public outreach meetings.
The CAC spent some time discussing what their priorities should be for 2009. The

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 2, 2009
Page 2
next meeting of the CAC is scheduled for June 17, 2009. They will have a Senate
Bill 208 presentation, further discussion on the GM selection criteria and will meet
with the interim GM.
Mr. Ashburn reported that the CAC feels like it needs to step back a bit and evaluate
its role and purpose and how it can provide value to the Board of Directors and RTD
Staff in the successful implementation of the FasTracks project.
Director Kemp spoke of how valuable the CAC is as an asset. The interaction that is
taking place with the CAC is very high level and very intense in terms of what the
Board can do to support the CAC. Director Kemp apologized for failing to recognize
the CAC at the West Corridor FFG signing. The CAC is a very valuable asset to the
Board and one that the Board will need to lean on as FasTracks progresses.
II. Recommended Actions – Cal Marsella asked that the first three recommended action
items be approved together.


Approval to Release the Gold Line Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors direct the General Manager to release the Gold Line Final Environmental
Impact Statement (FEIS) for public and agency review. This is the second of a
series of steps in the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process prior to
the Record of Decision, which will be issued by the Federal Transit Administration
(FTA).



Approval to Release the East Corridor Final Environmental Impact Statement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors direct the General Manager to release the East Corridor Final
Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for public and agency review. This is the
second of a series of steps in the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)
process prior to the Record of Decision, which will be issued by the Federal
Transit Administration (FTA).



Approval to Release the I-225 Corridor Draft Environmental Evaluation (EE)
Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors direct the General Manager to release the I-225 Corridor Draft
Environmental Evaluation (EE) document for agency and public review.
MOTION:

Director Martinez made a motion to
forward these three items to the full board
at the June 23, 2009 Board Meeting.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 2, 2009
Page 3
SECOND:

Director Chacon seconded the motion.

Discussion – Director Daly had several questions; his first question was regarding
the Old Towne park-n-Ride and wondering if the 200 parking spaces are already at
capacity. Liz Telford said that it was taken into account that these spaces are at
80% capacity. Director Daly also had a question about the East Corridor
alignment. Was asking about the Market Lead alignment and why it was dropped.
Carol Duecker said the Market Lead alignment did not minimize impacts to the
surrounding area and was a little bit slower than the current chosen alignment.
Director Daly asked about the alignment at DIA: one cut the corner and one
formed a 90 degree there is a runway protection zone off of the East/West
runway along 78th. There is a rectangular zone at the end of that runway called
the “Central portion of the runway protection zone”. The FAA does not want to
see anything built in this area so that is why that alignment was rejected.
VOTE ON
MOTION:


The motion passed unanimously.

Authorization to Execute Memorandum of Understanding for Property Acquisition
with the BNSF Railway – Cal Marsella gave an overview of this action. This is the
next step in the completion of negotiation of acquiring railroad right of way. This
was discussed with the board in Executive Session and staff is now asking for
Board approval to execute the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manger or his designee to enter into a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the BNSF Railway Company (BNSF)
regarding the acquisition of property interests from Denver Union Station to
approximately 72nd Street for the Northwest and Gold Rail Lines along BNSF’s
Front Range Subdivision, and for the Gold Line on BNSF’s Golden Subdivision.
The Memorandum of Understanding will set forth price for the segments but
actual contracts for the purchase and sale of interests and for construction and
use of the property interests will be entered into according to the parameters
described in the MOU.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the June 23,
2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Brohl seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 2, 2009
Page 4



Revised Eagle Stipend Agreement – This item was pulled from the agenda.



Request for Approval of RTD 2008 Annual Report to DRCOG on FasTracks – Bill
Van Meter spoke to this action item. This is part of the annual Senate Bill 208
process. Several comments were received from the Board. Director Tayer had
some questions regarding some of the US 36 wording in the tables – those were
clarified and adjustments made to the table. The Sustainability program was
missing a few items: reference to the Responsible Rail amendment and sustainable
measures the Board has approved in terms of the Eagle P3 contract, staff will
include these items in the final document.
Director O’Boyle asked with respect to pages four and five in the report will
DRCOG and the public understand that that $9.1 billion in 2009 forecast revenues
will not pay for a $6.1 billion project without a tax increase? Bill Van Meter said
that the audience at DRCOG is aware of this challenge and issue. Staff will clarify
that in the transmittal to DRCOG.
Director Bagley commented that the report is very
commended staff on the document.

comprehensive and

Director McMullen wanted to make sure that the CAC has received a copy. Ann
Hayes responded that they have.
There was a discussion about the value of the Board receiving the entire
document versus receiving a summary of the key points.
Cal Marsella spoke about this report being a safety net for the District as
FasTracks goes forward, everyone has a chance to comment on it and this is the
report that is validated by DRCOG. This gives the Board backup and support for
the assumptions that are made on the program. It becomes a community wide
initiative as everyone has a chance to comment. (Please see comments from
Maria Garcia Berry later in these minutes on the value of the full DRCOG report)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve submittal of the RTD 2008 Annual Report on
FasTracks to DRCOG. This report summarizes the changes to the FasTracks
Plan, including financing and alignment, that have been approved by the
Board in 2008 and early 2009. These changes are included and referenced in
the Annual Report.

MOTION:

Director O’Boyle made a motion to

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 2, 2009
Page 5
forward this item to the full board at the
June 23, 2009 Board Meeting.



SECOND:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Resolution Regarding Property Acquisition and Indemnification of Claims for Union
Pacific Railroad’s Boulder Industrial Lead – Cal Marsella spoke to this action.
There are required items that have to be done to accomplish the purchase of the
Boulder Industrial Lead. Marla Lien gave the details. There will be four
transactions with the Union Pacific Railroad and this is the first. This item covers
33 ½ miles of right of way. The District hopes to close June 25, 2009 on the
Boulder Industrial Lead. This goes from 2/10 of a mile outside of Union Station,
north roughly parallel to I-25 over the highway into Erie and then on into Boulder.
We will be executing a shared use agreement as Union Pacific will continue to run
trains on the first 8 ½ miles of that segment. For the first mile and a half, the
North Metro line will fly over the tracks when it is built.
Union Pacific has
required is that the District waive governmental immunity and that we indemnify
them to certain limits for incidents that may occur from which governmental
entities would normally be immune. The District must indemnify Union Pacific and
to buy insurance for any causes of action, claims that arise out of our ownership
or use of the property. If it arises out of their use of the property, then we are
not indemnifying them. We are not liable for punitive damages. The District will
purchase $50 million insurance now; during construction $200 million and when
we are running trains on the same line it will be $400 million. If we do not agree
to this, the transaction will not close.
Director Chacon asked for a clarification on the auto insurance component. Marla
responded that usually when you have general liability, autos are excluded. The
District has to have auto coverage and general liability in the case of auto/train
accidents.
Director Bagley asked a question with regards to the Littleton derailment if this
occurred while we had ownership but weren’t using it we would not have liability.
Marla responded that there were no injuries during the Littleton derailment and the
railroad had its own property damage so even if we owned it and were using it in
that particular circumstance, we would not have any liability because it was
strictly their use and their damage.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the attached resolution. The resolution authorizes the General
Manager or his designee to enter into a Purchase and Sale and related Agreements
for the Union Pacific Railroad’s (UPRR) Boulder Industrial Lead (BIL) and to waive

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 2, 2009
Page 6
sovereign immunity to the extent it may be applicable and indemnify the UPRR for
claims arising out of RTD’s ownership in an amount up to $200 million and to
purchase general liability insurance in that amount.
The resolution also
acknowledges that indemnity and insurance requirements will increase at the time
that RTD commences construction of its railroad improvements on the property
and that prior to commencement of construction RTD will be required to obtain
rights of entry and insurance for pre-construction activities.

MOTION:

II.

Director Busck made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the June 23,
2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Chacon seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Updates


Timing of FasTracks Vote – Chair Kemp introduced this update and said Maria
Garcia Berry would give the up and downsides of going to the ballot in
November 2009. The Metro Mayors were supportive of going in 2009 but
now that the General Manager is leaving and because of some other
circumstance, the Metro Mayors feel the vote should be delayed until 2010.
Maria Garcia Berry first spoke about the DRCOG report. The report is
incredibly important because the Denver Post editorial board will read the
report and quiz the Directors on it. The report becomes the foundation for
the decisions that the Board makes regarding the FasTracks program. It is
the Board’s “independent study” that reviews the project on an annual basis.
In the Denver metropolitan area there are 1.1 million registered voters. In
2004 the FasTracks vote had about a million voters on the issue. When you
talk about elections in even and odd years it is important to remember how
counties vote. In a General election (even years) there are three ways to vote
(mail, ballot, early); in an odd year it is quite different. Six counties vote by
mail only. This means that ballots are only required to be mailed to active
voters. This means that about 847,000 would get a ballot in an odd year.
Two significant counties do not vote by mail (Denver and Boulder). Suburban
counties vote by mail. This changes what the turn out looks like dramatically.
In Denver in an odd election year the usual turnout is about 10-15% of the
voters. This is significant because FasTracks won in Denver by over 65% of
the vote and Boulder by 64%. Jeffco is the highest voting county in the
metropolitan county; Denver/Arapahoe are about equal.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 2, 2009
Page 7
Seventy-two percent of the voters in odd year election are over the age of
55. This age group is very tax sensitive and is worried about retirement
issues, Seventy- nine to eighty percent still approve of FasTracks. People
over the age of 50 are feeling very threatened by their personal economic
situation. They are being very budget conscious. There are no major
comprehensive voting issues (tying together the counties). CRL’s
recommendation is that RTD not go to the ballot for a tax increase at this
time and wait until 2010.
Director McMullen asked if there was some wiggle room, could it be done
after 2010. Cal Marsella said there are programmatic issues with pushing it
past 2010.
Director O’Boyle asked about voter burn out by reaching the bottom of the
ballot. The FASTER bill changed the ballot placement, RTD issues will go
immediately below the State.
Director McMullen asked the feeling of the committee; does anyone feel they
need to go this year for a tax increase? Director Kemp asked for a straw
consensus that 2009 is not the appropriate year. The Committee agreed that
2009 is not the appropriate year to go for a tax increase for FasTracks.
Director Tayer would like to have gone in 2009 to get the feel of the voters.
Cal Marsella reported that the support is there, the issue is voter turnout.
Director Busck respects Maria’s numbers and talked about how difficult it is
to raise money right now. There is a new GM coming on and a need for
public education regarding FasTracks.


Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility – Cal Marsella gave this update.
Following up on the Board’s requests to look at alternative sites and operating
plans, there are very important issues affecting the Community that have
been communicated to the Board, Staff, Mayors, and County Commissioners.
Staff is looking to mitigate impacts. Properties have been referred to the
district and staff is looking for alternatives. Hoping to come back to the
Board by July 2009.
Chair McMullen spoke about his frustration that RTD is being painted as the
“bad” guy. We aren’t doing away with any jobs; we are adding jobs. There
are plenty of sites available for Owens Corning to relocate.
Director Kemp said that when the District invests in a commuter rail
maintenance facility there is a guarantee that they will be there for a 50-70
years. Likewise, with privately held companies, there are no guarantees.
Director Pulliam said that the public does not understand that if we do

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 2, 2009
Page 8
condemn the Owens Corning facility and they do not decide to rebuild, the
decision is on Owens Corning, not RTD.
Director Busck said this is not an easy process, someone is always upset. He
asked staff to do the best deal for RTD and to minimize the impact, give the
Board options, and get the best price.
Director Daly asked why Owens Corning Corporate wouldn’t help the District
and Cal felt this was a premature discussion at this point.


P3 RFP – Cal Marsella shared that the RFP for the Eagle P3 was not released
last week due to the following issues:
o Lawsuit filed regarding the Denver Union Station development plan
o Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility – need to have this finalized
because we cannot get a Record of Decision (ROD) on the PPP without
this issue resolved. Without the ROD we cannot guarantee the
schedule for the P3 proposers.
o Full Funding Grant Agreement – this requires the next authorization to
be approved. This process could be delayed significantly. We could
not award a contract if we do not have our financing in order.
When we make an award to the P3 proposers, three things need to happen:
o
o
o

Environmental process needs to be closed, FEIS approved and a ROD
All of the right of way acquired so that we hand it all over to the
proposer and the project is shovel ready.
Financial plan in place

The District is postponing release and award of the RFP contract until all of
these issues are answered.
When will the District release the P3 RFP? Cal said that we are “victims of
circumstances”, as we resolve these issues with DUS, the CRMF and the
financing, the Board will be informed.
Phone calls were made to the three concession teams and there is some
concern from the proposers. Rick Clarke is going to pull together a meeting
with the proposers and our contractors (Goldman Sachs). We are in a delay
mode and staff will come back and update the Board.
Director Pulliam expressed concern that the DUS lawsuit could drag on, if the
federal funding issue is resolved and the CRMF, can we go ahead with the
DUS issue outstanding?
Marla Lien said that DUS is a NEPA action. If a court finds that there was a
ROD issued that didn’t meet the NEPA standard, what’s required is further
study not a mandate to change anything. Right now, no preliminary

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 2, 2009
Page 9
injunction has been sought.
Nothing stops us from building; we can
continue with construction, the only issue is the legal cloud creates an
additional risk for the Contractor.
III.

Other Matters - Noel Busck thanked the committee members of the GM Transition
Team. They will be coming before the Board in Executive Session next week in
regards to the Interim General Manager. He thanked Bruce Abel, Dave Genova,
Scott Reed, and Phil Washington for their time. He thanked all the Board members,
especially Director Martinez for putting the interview questions together.

IV.

Next Meeting - The next FasTracks Monitoring Committee will be held on Tuesday,
July 7, 2009.

V.

Adjourn - Hearing no objection, Chair McMullen declared the meeting adjourned at
7:55 p.m.

