Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

August 21, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
August 21, 2007 at 5:30 p.m.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
14 members were present at roll call. Director Elfenbein was out of town.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were two retirees but none present to receive the award.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Tracy Rushing, Denver, spoke on behalf of the individuals with disability who have been
impacted by the Clear Creek route change from local service to express and no longer have
access to access-n-ride. Tracy shared how this affects their ability for gainful employment
with Steamers Coffee House who has hired at least 10 of these otherwise unemployable
individuals. She petitioned the Board to consider one of two options: Change the bus route
back to local or grandfather their access to access-n-ride.
Director Pulliam acknowledged this issue and stated the RTD staff was looking for options for
Clear Creek. A public hearing will be held on August 30th to discuss with the constituents.
Director Brohl queried if we knew there would be an impact when the changes were made.
Cal Marsella responded that RTD was aware of an impact but did not know the number that
would be impacted.
Director Kinton reminded the Board that he had warned them before it happened. He stated he
was very familiar with the issue and could sympathize with them on trying to use other access
methods such as call-n-ride or taxi. He asked Ms. Rushing to get in touch with him as he
wanted to do follow-up with her on this issue.
L.W. Morrow, Denver, stated he had 10 days to raise $35M in order to qualify for $3 billion in
funds. RTD portion of that $35M was $10M. He stated they intended to build a plant at 185
E. Colfax.
Kevin McCasky, JEFFCO Commissioner, spoke on behalf of item G, West Corridor Value
Engineering Proposal, Single track from Simms/Union to Jeffco Center. He provided an aspect
on why they were reluctant to sign an IGA, citing the reduction from dual to single track and
the 15 minute headway. Mr. McCasky offered different information that they have obtained
on ridership numbers based on a sensitivity study performed by an independent consultant that

they hired. Mr. McCasky compared a 25% increase in the West Corridor budget to a 45%
value engineering savings from West Corridor. Mr. McCasky emphasized the need to work
collaboratively to come to a mutually acceptable conclusion.
Director Ruchman asked about the availability of the report referenced by Mr. McCasky and if
it could be shared with the AGM, Liz Rao. Mr. McCasky indicated they would make the report
accessible.
Cal Marsella acknowledged the points of contention between the Jeffco Commissioners and
RTD, primarily the single track and the 15 minute headway, but complimented both parties on
working closely together and handling these issues with candor and productive negotiations.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Chair Martinez shared that in the Executive Committee meeting, a decision was made to
not review the minutes from the Committees that had been disseminated in their package
but to use this opportunity for new information highlighted or questions on items that were
not on the agenda. The time would best be served by allowing for more public
participation.
Director Chacon corrected the DBE Outreach minutes to change the date to August 16,
2007.

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF July 24, 2007
MOTION:
Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the July 24,
2007 regular board meeting minutes.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor (Brohl,
Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and
0 against. Director Elfenbein was absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. Meeting with Bob Briggs and Bernie Zimmer
Cal Marsella indicated that RTD will continue to maintain engagement with both the Front
Range Commuter Rail group and the Rocky Mountain Rail Association.
2. Meeting with DNC on Ongoing Transportation Planning
RTD is actively engaged in the Democratic National Committee planning especially as it
pertains to light rail, security, ADA access and other modes of transportation. The logistics
are intense but he will continue to brief the Board on progress.
3. Continued Meeting with PPP Advisors
Cal Marsella continues to have regular meetings with the PPP advisors who are recalibrating the financial model. He hopes to come back in September with more
information.
4. Presentation to DDP
Cal Marsella presented to Downtown Denver Partnership. The focus was on DUS. The
primary financial sources, RTD, Developers and the City of Denver continue to look at

opportunities.
5. Meeting with USAC
Cal Marsella met with the USAC to discuss the vision of DUS as an intermodal hub and the
possibility of Greyhound bringing its facilities into the site. This would require a major
financial challenge for Greyhound but they are continuing to explore possibilities.
6. West Corridor Elected Officials Briefing
The West Corridor Elected Official briefing had good attendance and open dialog. Major
theme is at 65% design level, there are still issues to be resolved and Cal committed to
doing follow-up with the citizens on some of their issues.
Director Ruchman indicated that the concern of the citizens was based on process and
not substantive matters.
Director McMullen requested Cal to give his readout of where we are after 3 years in
FasTracks. Cal Marsella responded that we are still within our general schedule and
scope as committed to the voters. Some changes have occurred but none of these
have been arbitrary but based on demand. RTD will continue to work with the
constituents and citizens to ensure the schedule will be met.
7. Other Matters
Director Kemp asked Cal to comment on a discussion that they may be having with
Congressman Udall’s office. Phil Washington indicated they had a conversation on green
solutions for the Democratic National Convention. Cal Marsella shared there is no Federal
funds or grants to purchase hybrid buses but they are preparing an analysis which they
will come back to the Board on environmental benefits for cleaner buses. Cal indicated
RTD will be aggressively looking for ways to increase sustainability and share our
concerns with Patton Boggs, the lobbyists, on the urgency of getting Federal support.
Director Kinton inquired about the Ski Train at DUS and if access for Greyhound could be
the front of the station versus going though the tunnel. Cal Marsella indicated that the ski
train will be fully accommodated in its current configuration. There may be an issue with
length but the decision is still under consideration.
VIII.

PUBLIC HEARING ON 2007 AMENDED BUDGET
Chair Martinez read aloud the statement on public hearing. A copy of this statement is
included with these minutes.

IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Unanimous Consent Agenda.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Kemp,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Quinlan, Pulliam, Ruchman,
Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against. Director Elfenbein
was absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

X.

A.

Extension of External Auditors’ Contract to BONDI & Co. LLC
The Financial Administration Committee Recommends that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to approve the extension of the district’s contract with
BONDI & Co. LLC for external audit purposes for two one-year option periods of
November 1, 2007 through October 31, 2009. The cost of the auditing services for
the fist year option is $90,000 and the cost for the second year option is $91,000.
Funding for the audit is included in the District’s 2007 Adopted Budget and funding for
the 2008 portion of the contract will be appropriated in the District’s 2008 Budget.

B.

Intergovernmental Agreement by and between The Colorado Department of
Transportation and The Regional Transportation District Related to US 36 and
Broomfield park-n-Ride and the 120th Avenue Connection Project
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to formalize an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between RTD
and the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) related to CDOT’s use of
RTD’s property (approximately 22 acres) for the SH121/SH128 Intersection Project,
the 120th Avenue Connection Project and RTD’s use of CDOT property (approximately
3 acres) for bus slip ramps and a pedestrian bridge at the r elocated park-n-Ride
facility at US 36 and 116th Avenue. The use of property by each agency will be
pursuant to an Occupancy and Use Agreement that will allow each agency to use the
property for highway and/or transit improvements and will only terminate should the
highway or transit use cease to exist. The IGA will also include the extension of leases
from CDOT to RTD of land accommodating certain park-n-Rides.

C.

Contract Award for Security Services
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a three-year contract with two, oneyear options to the most responsive, most qualified, best value proposer, the
Wackenhut Corporation to provide security services for RTD facilities and the light rail
system. The estimated not to exceed first year contract amount is $5,739,296 with
an estimated not to exceed three-year total of $17,559,478 including $325,000 per
year for special coverage if necessary.

D.

Recommendation for Contract Award for Management of RTD’s Small Tier
Subcontractor Bond Alternative Program
It is recommended by the DBE Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager to award to Marsh USA a five year contract to provide Professional
Services for RTD’s Small Tier Subcontracting Bond Alternative Program. Work is
anticipated for the West Corridor only and based on success of the program RTD will
determine whether to apply it to other FasTracks Corridors. Funds for the award will
be included in the FasTracks budget following budget transfers outlined herein. It is
further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize a transfer of $100,000
from the FasTracks program management capital budget, $200,000 from the selfinsured workers’ compensation budget, and $45,000 from legal services budget to the
fund the contract expenditures for the first year of the contract.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
E.

Recommendation for Legal Assistance – Denver Union Station Master Developer
Negotiations
It is recommended by the Executive Committee for Denver Union Station that RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to Hogan
Hartson to assist RTD along with the City and County of Denver (the City), the
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), and the Denver negotiations with
Union Station Neighborhood Company (USNC) for the development of public and

private infrastructure at Denver union Station (DUS) and to prepare necessary and
related agreements with USNC and among the parties. The contract will be for the not
to exceed amount of $750,000 (seven hundred fifty thousand dollars).

MOTION:

Director Ruchman made the motion for authorize the
General Manager to award a contract to Hogan Hartson.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Kemp,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman,
Tayer and Yamrick) and 0 against. Director Elfenbein was
absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

F.

Proposed 2007 Amended Budget
The Financial Administration Committee recommends that the Board of Directors adopt
Resolution No.___, Series of 2007 to amend and appropriate funds for the proposed
2007 Amended Budget, to increase the appropriation by $9,929,082 to $735,024,388
as detailed below in the overview of the 2007 Budget Amendment, and to decrease the
appropriation of Previously Approved Capital Funds by -$63,155,830 to
$269,675,811.
The 2007 Amended Appropriation includes the following amounts:
2007 Operating Expenditures
2007 Interest Expenditures
2007 New Capital
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
2007 Appropriation
MOTION:

$365,090,242
$ 68,379,053
$266,555,093
$ 30,000,000
$ 5,000,000
$735,024,388

Director Christopher made the motion to adopt the
resolution to amend and appropriate funds for the
proposed 2007 amended budget.
Director Kemp seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Kemp,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman,
Tayer and Yamrick) and 0 against. Director Elfenbein was
absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

G.

West Corridor Value Engineering Proposals, Single Track from Simms/Union to the
Jefferson County Government Center
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to incorporate single track from Simms/Union
to the Jefferson County Government Center as proposed in the 2007 Value Engineering
(VE) process, thereby saving the project an estimate $36 million and to accept the
“triggers” that will continue to increase capacity of the western end of the corridor

alignment based on ridership demand
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to authorize the General
Manager to incorporate single track from Simms/Union to the
Jefferson County Government Center.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION: Director Pulliam stated he had a problem with going forward and
supported the points made by the Jeffco County Commissioner.
Nevertheless, he would reluctantly support this action with a
caveat that RTD continue to work with Jeffco to negotiate as
much as possible.
Director Ruchman stated that for the record there are a number
of serious cuts such as the security cameras that are more than
cosmetic in nature.
Director Christopher echoed Director Pulliam’s comments and
voiced if other opportunities to work something out become
available, he is amendable to changes that are in the best interest
of all. He also requested a Board summary of the comparisons
of the findings from the independent Jeffco consultant with RTD
findings.
Director Busck stated he was very comfortable with the RTD
proposal and trusts that if there are any changes, Cal would
come back to the Board.
Director Daly stated the most important items on this proposal
are the triggers.
Director Kinton queried what is the highest signal frequency. Cal
Marsella responded fifteen minutes.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Kemp,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman,
Tayer and Yamrick) and 0 against. Director Elfenbein was
absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XII.

NEW BUSINESS
Director Yamrick shared two general comments. First, she thanked Dave Genova for his
expertise and the outstanding job he had done with the Wackenhut contract issues and
commented on how good all of the AGM’s are. She also commended Caitlin Magee, Board
Office Staff, for pulling the meeting and everything including the good food together.
Director Yamrick shared feedback from the APTA Conference in July and talked about how
well represented RTD was at that conference. Director Pulliam participated in a panel
discussion on Committee Structures, Director Daly and Lisa Trujillo, Board Analyst,
facilitated a joint Board-staff lunch session, George Kuzirian, Education Development

Specialist, presented a workshop on Crucial Conversations and Conflict Resolution, and
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board, presented a workshop on project
management to the Board staff. She especially wanted to recognize Lisa Trujillo for
successfully coordinating and project managing the Board Staff program for this
conference.
XIII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

Director Ruchman made the motion to move into Executive
Session for the purpose of discussing Contract Negotiation:
Alameda/Santa FE Development C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) and
Contract Negotiations: University TOD Negotiations C.R.S. 246-402(4)(e).
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 in favor and 0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion passed.

Y. ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned into Executive Session at 6:45 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, August 21, 2007

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Chris Martinez, Chair
Neill Quinlan, Second Vice Chair
Bill Christopher, First Vice Chair
Barbara Brohl, Secretary
Lee Kemp, Treasurer
Noel Busck
Juanita Chacon
Bruce Daly
Daryl Kinton
Bill McMullen
Wally Pulliam
Dave Ruchman
John Tayer
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Cal Marsella
Rick Clarke
Ron Dodsworth
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Marla Lien
Robert Merriman
Jerry Nery
Brian Iacono
Scott Reed
Daria Serna

District B
District G
District J
District D
District I
District K
District C
District N
District H
District E
District L
District M
District O
District F

Joe Smith
Bruce Abel
Susan Cohen
Phil Eberl
Bill Bell
Bob Medina
Caitlin Magee
John Dawson
Paula Perdue
Liz Rao
Lloyd Mack

OTHERS PRESENT:
Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)
Kevin Flynn (The Rocky Mountain News)
Linda Will (Parent)
Athan Miller (Steamers Coffeehouse)
Tony Sears (Steamers Coffeehouse)
Sharon Hendricks (Express Personal)
L.W. Morrow
John Hulse (Spectrum A/V)
Lee Roy (Arapahoe and Douglas)
Nanatte Nedan (Jefferson County)
Kevin McCasky (Jefferson County Commissioner)
Truel West (East West Holdings)
Phunglan Nguyen (FRESC)
Tane Abbott (Marsh)
Kevin Shane (Marsh)
Greg Ball (Marsh)
Jon Esty (Colorado Rail)

Bill Sirois
Brian Matthews
Stan Szabelak
John Perry
Lisa Trujillo
John Shonsey
John Tarbert
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington
Linda Wells

Bon Sakayuchi (Stantec)
William James (James PE)
Ronald Noel (Developmental Pathways)
Ed Colby (WGI)
Gloria Holliday
Eric Biga (Veolia)
Bruce Behncke (Veolia)
Joe Racosky (URS)

