2023-12-04
Special Board Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good evening. Monday, December 4's, 2023 special Board meeting will now come
to order. We're convened as of 5:32 PM. I respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you for joining us this evening, as the Board has inperson meetings for our regular and special full Board meetings. Please note that committee meetings of
the RTD Board of Directors will still be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The
meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website.
At this evening's meetings, we are-- meeting, we are providing Communication Access Real-Time
Translation, also known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to
the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. And a link will be provided. A live stream of this
meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I'll now call the roll. Julien Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I am Lynn Guissinger. I am here. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.

IAN HARWICK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal. Not yet? No Director Rosenthal? Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, next is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would
like to address the Board. As we have both in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments will go
first, followed by those who are attending remotely. For those attending in person, please address the
Board when your name is called. If you've not already signed up to speak and would like to do so, please
approach the podium, or when I call for any additional speakers.
For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual
hand, or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed
in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for
the Board or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments, please email those
materials to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
By participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, your
comments will have to be submitted in writing. During this time, the Board will not offer any direct
comments or responses. If you would like to be contacted regarding your comments, please email the
RTD Board Office again at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating your name. And you'll have up to three minutes to provide
comments. Do we have anyone signed up to speak?
SPEAKER: Not that I can see.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Is anyone online? No?
SPEAKER: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Were any emailed comments received?

SPEAKER: There were none.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, there are two recommended actions on the agenda this evening, listed as
section 4, actions A and B. The first action, A, is for the approval of 2023 General Manager and CEO's
performance appraisal and related compensation, for the Board of Directors to approve General Manager
and CEO Debra Johnson's attached performance appraisal for the period of January 1, 2023, through
December 31, 2023, or the performance period, and in connection therewith to approve no corresponding
monetary incentive award and no corresponding change to the 2024 adjusted base salary.
I would note for the record that the earlier Board report did not include the information about no
corresponding monetary incentive award or change to the base salary. Do we have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear Director Williams as the movement and Director Davidson as the second. Is
there any discussion on this motion? OK. Seeing no discussion, and I don't see any online, I'll now call for
the vote. Are there any no votes? I would note that this matter has been discussed in detail at previous
meetings and in executive session. The next action, B, is for-KATE WILLIAMS: Did you say pass?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I'm sorry. The motion did pass. We have 14 attending, 1 absent, and 0 no
votes. Thank you. The next action, B, is for the fifth amendment to the GM CEO employment agreement,
for the Board of Directors to adopt the fifth amendment to the employment agreement with General
Manager and CEO Debra A. Johnson to adjust the annual deadline by which the Board shall adopt the
weighted success outcomes, organizational values, and goals, and the distribution of the compensation
increase between base salary and incentive compensation for the upcoming performance period from
December 31 to January 31, as set forth in the proposed amendment. Do we have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek. So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear Director Buzek as the movement and Director Catlin as the second. Is there
discussion on this motion?
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Tisdale. I just wanted to have some background, if we could,
perhaps. Expand upon what was contained in the Board report relative to the item to get it on the record
and to put it fresh in our minds because I think, as we look at this, we say, well, gosh, this is the fifth
amendment to the contract. They're going to get it right sooner or later. It's kind of like practicing law. We
always say we practice. We're never perfect. But if we can have some further explanation.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. And I'm going to ask Director Davidson to do that for us. I would note-- I think
most of those amendments have been time-changing amendments and things like that. But, Director
Davidson, are you-ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure. Yeah, happy to. It's a great question. So the thinking behind the change is to
afford ourselves more time each year to adopt goals. And there's a couple of things that we're factoring in.
One of them was although it's critical to have the current Board in a given performance period complete
the performance evaluation for the General Manager and CEO, it seemed appropriate that when we pass
goals for the performance period to allow any incoming Directors newly elected in January to at least
have the opportunity to weigh in on those adopted goals.
One thing we did discuss was that the process has not been working well for us and that in the-- Director
Guzman had asked a question about, how do we improve the process? And we had a brief discussion
around the need to discuss weighted success outcomes, goals, and any adjustments to compensation
starting midyear and really having a better cadence towards the end of the year discussing goals, but still
that on a go forward basis, we would allow ourselves time to first wrap the performance evaluation in
December with the Board at that time and then subsequently have a dedicated discussion and adoption
of the goals on January 30-- by January 31.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate that. I think it helps to put that on the record so that people
understand why are we making these changes. I happen to agree with the ideas that have been
expressed. And I think it will make the process hopefully at least more utilitarian and possibly even more
effective. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much for raising it. I think it is a good point. And thank you for that
explanation. Any further discussion? All right, I will call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this
recommended action? Seeing none, the motion passes-- 14 yes votes, 0 no votes, and 1 absent.
All right, are there any other matters to discuss before we start talking-- before we go into executive
session? I see Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, I just wanted to make a comment about the performance evaluation appraisal
that we adopted. I didn't want to make the comment during then to make very clear this is one director's
opinion. We've officially adopted the appraisal. It seems to me-- and I shared this, this morning at the
Performance Committee-- that I certainly don't want to say that it's a consensus. But I think many of us
share that the net promoter score, goals that we adopted, we collectively agreed between General
Manager and CEO and Board, to use those as both short-term and long-term goals.
I think it has become apparent that these are very much, in their nature, long-term goals. They take
sustained action over a long period of time. I, for one, in my opinion, believe it remains important to
measure those, to adopt those, and to move them. But we need to find a more granular way to measure
agency performance and to agree between Board, General Manager, and CEO on how we measure on
an annual basis that we're making progress against those goals.
I think there's a real opportunity for that. The appraisal that we passed this evening found that the General
Manager and CEO did not meet three out of four of our objective criteria. And while that is certainly how
the math came out when we look at the subjective criteria and the organizational values, she passed
those with flying colors. And that was only done in service of our strategic priorities that we believe we're
measuring with NPS.

So to me, there's a fundamental disconnect to say that we see that the General Manager and CEO is
performing for the agency and for the public in great ways against our strategic priorities, with things like
Zero Fare for Youth, completing a fare study and equity analysis that has made our fares more
affordable, more equitable, and more simple than they have ever been in the agency's, certainly, recent
history.
So I think that the challenge is there for the Performance Committee. And certainly, I own the process for
the year of chairing this Performance Committee but certainly ask the next Chair and the next
Performance Committee to really lean into the challenge. I think we got some good things done this year
around compensation philosophy and adopting one that we had been remiss in having for a long period of
time, thanks to the assistance of our great subject matter expert Ms. Polege.
We did react to our compensation analysis. We have had a deficiency in the agency as the Office of the
State Auditor has pointed out at least once, that we were not making data-driven decisions around our
General Manager and CEO compensation. We have done that. And we certainly have made progress.
But there is a lot more that needs to be done, particularly around ensuring that the Performance
Committee is doing its job of adequately measuring both the short-term and long-term progress of the
agency.
So I wanted the chance to say that and also to thank Ms. Johnson for her work and for what I think comes
across in the appraisal as being very, very strong on the subject of criteria. Thank you. That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Well spoken. I think I saw Director Broom and then Director Williams.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. On the compensation side, we don't spend a whole lot of time
discussing that. Are our current pay scale's competitive so that we can track new employees? Or are we
still behind the curve? Could you speak to that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think we're getting into some of that in the executive session today. And I don't
know do you want to speak to it now or just wait.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That'd be great.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. Sorry, we're squishing in this little space.
So that's a great question. So I'll answer it broadly.
So from an agency perspective, the agency over the last few years has spent significant time ensuring
that market assessments were done and that all compensation is at market rate or better. And just slightly
better is what I would say. We're not looking to lead. That goes with represented and nonrepresented.
Excluding the General Manager and CEO position, which I'll talk about in a moment, yes, we are market
competitive. And we are engaging studies, depending on the position, for key positions like transit police
officers. We're doing that annually because we need to, because it's very competitive, and it's moving
quickly. But otherwise, we're doing market assessments every other year. We will be doing one for the
nonrepresented staff. And the represented staff will be done during bargaining. That'll all happen in '24.
With respect to the General Manager and CEO position, based off of the work that this Board
commenced with Gallagher, there was a compensation study that was completed. You will see, when we

discuss further, my recommendation is there needs to be another one done in 2024 to make sure. There's
a lot that has changed in the sector there as well. So generally, yes, Director Broom, we are competitive.
And we do keep touching on the market and analyzing the market.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And we now thank you. Yeah, we note that Director Rosenthal has joined us.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sorry for being late.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's all right. Director Williams. Did I answer your question? That's all you needed?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd just like to note tonight-- I think Director Tisdale and
Director Broom have been here as long as I have-- that the process that we are doing now is a great
improvement over what we did in previous years and a 400% improvement from the process that the
General Manager and CEO went through when I first started.
So although there's weight on both sides of this, I think that we all feel that the process is better and that
we are very, very grateful to have Ms. Johnson with us throughout.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. If I can just follow up on that. The first time I came
to a General Manager review conference with the GMEOC, as we called it at that time-- the GMOC,
General Manager Oversight Committee, the review consisted of a spreadsheet that was taped up on the
wall that started there and ended there.
And for the sake of the record, I've just indicated a distance of about 22 feet of little boxes. And it was an
amazing, one might say insane-- I won't, but one might-- process. And it has been greatly improved. I will
just put that on the record. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anyone else? I agree. I think we've had a big, big change in the process. And I'm
looking forward to moving to goals and metrics that we all feel hopefully will be giving Ms. Johnson the
information she needs and the support she needs to move forward. And I want to say thanks very much
to Director Davidson for all his hard work on this because he has put in a lot of time. Appreciate it.
Now, let's see. Other matters to discuss? I have one. There's an onboarding tomorrow on operations. A
lot of that is on service changes and on the service planning process. But there will be other operations
discussions. We booked these. We kind of put these out as onboarding for the new people. And then I
know staff works hard. And it turns out to be very few people.
So I'm going to be attending tomorrow. I may have to miss a little of it. But I'll be there. And I would
encourage-- I think we all can learn a lot. And I think it may be something that we want to-- certainly, we
want to get these going earlier. And it may be something that we want to start at least every two years,
when people are coming in to the Board, to get everybody coming back and doing some reonboarding.
So encourage you to attend on that. Anybody else? Other matters? Nope. Yeah?

BOBBY DISHELL: Just a friendly reminder, the Audit Committee is meeting on the 20th of this month. In
addition to reviewing in session certain components of the audit that were redacted, there will also be a
discussion item on there for best ways to leverage and use our ad hoc. We have a certain number of ad
hoc audit hours that we're able to use as part of our contract with RubinBrown to included in the internal
audit plan. And there will be a discussion on that.
There were a lot of great discussions when we went-- as we went through the budget process and looking
forward to a discussion at Audit Committee about, what do we take away from that? Is it on the audit
side? How do we leverage audit to help fill that gap where we saw a lot of questions, a lot of concerns
from the Board?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. That was a great last meeting to hear the audit that was coming out. So I
think that's great. All righty, the Board's next meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, January 9, 2024. It's a
special meeting to elect new officers. And we may also talk some about goals and some other things that
we can discuss putting in there.
And now, in a moment, the Board will meet in executive session to discuss personnel matters, assuming
this Board votes to do so. I'd like to append the motion to move into executive session to state that the
meeting will be deemed adjourned after the executive session. Sorry, the adjourning and after the
executive session for public transparency means that once the Board moves into the executive session,
the main meeting will be adjourned. We won't be coming back to the main meeting.
I'll now entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the following. Executive session
pursuant to section 24-6-402(4)(F)(I) of approved one, I guess that is, CRS for consideration of personnel
matters regarding compensation philosophy, base salary range, and potential adjustment to base salary
for the current General Manager and CEO. Do we have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved. Bouquet.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I hear Director Bouquet as the movement and Director Whitmore as the
second. Is there anyone opposed to this motion? All right, we're needing 10 Board members in the
affirmative to pass the motion. The motion passes with 15 yeses and 0 nos. For anyone who is present
but not expected to participate in the executive session, would you please clear the room at this time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Take two minutes?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. You want to take two minutes? OK. We're going to take two minutes to set up
a little technology.

