1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, February 12, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Paul Solano

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Solano called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
7:02 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

7:01 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Absent

6:55 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Absent
Present

7:01 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

7:01 PM
7:01 PM
7:01 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:53 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

7:01 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:01 PM

Paul Solano

Vice Chair

Present

6:58 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Committee Chair
Director, District D

Absent
Present

7:44 PM
6:53 PM

Director Tobiassen arrived late
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen,
Carolyn Conover, James Cook, John Elias, Eric Farrington, David
Genova, Bill Holmes, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas,
Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Barbara McManus,
Brenden Morgan, Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, John Tarbert, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Kelly Casto, Jennifer Eckert, Stan Gronek, Tom Grushka, Sherman
Hamilton, Elbert Johnson, Kathy Maher, Jon Moellenberg, Mike
Newman, Nghia Nguyen, Dan Pearsall, Darla Pearsall, Tom Rousan,
Jason Simmons, Joe Tripett, Gary Van Dorn, Cheryl Wallace, Dee
Wisor

B. Recommended Actions

• April 2013 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the April 2013 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost
increase of approximately $53,200 and, further, to authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for
private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Daly made the motion to
move this to the full Board at the
February 19, 2013 Board meeting.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel stated that the April 2013 Service Changes were
included in the Board Packet along with a refresher of the
West Corridor Service Plan adopted by the Board on October
23, 2012. He also mentioned that several Directors have had
a one-on-one meeting with the staff to review the changes.
Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling,
stated that based on the limited nature of the proposed
changes, they did not have public hearings; however, they did
open this item for public comments. There are only two
substantial changes. Staff continues to do analysis and listen

to customers about what they would like to see changed.
Based on customer feedback there are several changes staff
would like to incorporate in the proposal. These include Route
45 in the Green Valley Ranch area; Route 72X out West;
Route 89 serving Stapleton; and Route 133. These changes
are slight and do not impact the cost.
Director Menten asked about the closing of the 29th and
Welton station. Jessie Carter stated that staff proposed an
evaluation period to determine if this closing would improve
the situation created when City of Denver changed the traffic
light timing. The light rail could end up dwelling at Park
Avenue for up to 7-8 minutes. Closing that station reduces
the amount of time the vehicles are on the single track
section. Bruce stated that the change was implemented in
January, and it seems to have been beneficial as feedback has
been positive. Jesse also commented that many of the
complaints are from people parking in the garage across from
the station, which is not a park-n-ride; it was provided for the
businesses in that area. Bruce stated that they intend to
extend the observation period to see if the outcome continues
to be beneficial. So far the closure seems to be working as
delays in the light rail have been reduced.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Bruce Daly, Director, District N
SECONDER: Larry Hoy, Director, District J
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Tom Tobiassen
Committee Chair Solano declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Amendment to MV Public Transportation ADA Contract ADA 17-DH-007 for
award of the Belmar, Green Mountain and Golden Call-n-Rides.
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute a contract amendment with MV Public Transportation for the
provision of the “Belmar”, “Green Mountain” and “Golden” Call-n-Ride
contracted demand response transit services under the existing MV Public
Transportation ADA contract. This contract amendment is for a nine (9)
month period from April 2013 through December 2013. The cost for the
Belmar Call-n-Ride service will not exceed $183,420, Green Mountain Call-nRide will not exceed $293,172 and Golden Call-n-Ride will not exceed
$234,214. The total not to exceed amount will be $710,806. These

amounts include estimates for fuel costs that are treated as “pass through”
expenses.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the
motion to move this to the full
Board at the February 19, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Daly seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel stated that when RTD went out to procure
paratransit services for ADA contracts, they added the option
for Call-n-Ride services. RTD was trying to generate
economies of scale from having the provider of paratransit
services also provide services for the Call-n-Ride if they were
in similar service areas. With the opening of the West
Corridor, staff is requesting to add three Call-n-Rides to the
contract of MV Public Transportation at the previously
negotiated rate.
Brian Matthews, Manager of Special Services, stated that they
are recommending this addition for MV Transit because it is a
very experienced transportation provider that currently
provides ADA services and 11 Call-n-Rides for RTD.
Director Lubow stated that MV Transit seems to be very
experienced and have provided a good service. She asked if
there is a process to determine if there might be other
providers that could be as good as MV at a lesser price. Bruce
Abel stated that when they sent out the initial RFP, it included
the option for Call-n-Ride. At that time, they did the price
comparison and selected from among the various proposals.
Additionally, when Call-n-Rides do not fall within an
appropriate geographic scope, they have gone out to shop for
Call-n-Ride providers. It was determined that when RTD
generates economies of scale, the cost will be lower when
going with the existing contractors because they have the
infrastructure, facilities and management team in place.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Bruce Daly, Director, District N
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Tom Tobiassen
Committee Chair Solano declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• Smart Card Project Status Update
Bruce Abel stated that the first phase of the Smart Cards went live on
January 1st. This stage included several components: on the hardware side
it required installing the on-bus validators and light rail validators; IT
infrastructure including servers and garage equipment to allow buses to
communicate to the back-office; and issuance of card for the Business
EcoPass, Neighborhood EcoPass and CollegePass programs. Stage two,
which is the issuance of general fare media on Smart Cards, is targeted for
the fall of 2013.
They have worked on the development of software for the web portal for
users of the EcoPass programs to go online and monitor the status of their
account. IT has also worked on the generation of reports to gather the
information necessary to track the use of Smart Cards.
Bruce Abel explained that the biggest challenge was that we received the
cards late from the vendor which put staff behind on getting the cards
produced. This lead RTD to extend the 2012 pass deadline to January 31.
The cards must be coded to the proper fare depending on the program and
be customized with a photo as they are customer specific. Bruce stated
that customers had three options available for people to submit their photos.
If RTD had their digital photo on file, they could authorize RTD to use the
existing photo to create the card. Another option was for the company to
take the photos and submit them to RTD. Finally people could go and have
their passes produced at certain RTD sites such as Boulder Transit Center
and other RTD locations. Another challenge was people submitting their
photos on time or in an incorrect format. As of January 25 we have
produced every card for which the photo was received. With regard to the
complaints received by Director Lubow, these issues have been addressed.
Staff is monitoring the entire system and trying to respond to issues as
quickly as possible. They are verifying that the cards are tapping correctly
and are generating above 55,000 taps a day; they have a benchmark of

70,000 when all the programs are up to speed, which means we are getting
close to the benchmark.
Director Lubow asked if the other cards that we will be rolling out will have
photos as well. She is wondering if we have a lessons learned from this
process. Bruce Abel stated that the next phase is general populous such as
selling monthly passes on Smart Card or having store value cards; these
cards are not personalized. They have done lessons learned internally as
well as with the Xerox contractors.
Director Sisk congratulated Bruce and the staff on the Smart Card program
as it has been very well received. He asked how do they communicate to
the users. He also asked if staff have considered extending the deadline to
January 31 for the college program to allow Boulder students to participate.
Bruce stated that they chose the Business Eco Pass, Neighborhood Eco Pass
and College Pass because these are targeted groups and each organization,
company, college, etc. have coordinators that work with RTD. In each case
they worked with the RTD marketing department in creating targeted
marketing materials on how to use the card for each group. With regard to
the College program, one of the reasons that ridership has been growing is
because schools come back online by mid-January. At this time most of the
colleges have distributed their cards; staff has not heard that there will be
any issues with the colleges meeting the January 31st deadline.
Director Daly stated that the 200 refusals out of 50,000 transactions
completed is impressive. He also asked how the operators are instructed to
handle a fail on a Smart Card. Bruce stated that if the failure is intended or
the card is hot listed (has been reported lost/stolen) the driver is advised to
refuse boarding and collect the card. On an unintentional red “invalid”, the
operator is advised to allow the person to board and ask them to contact
RTD’s customer service center to identify if it is a card or validator problem.
Staff has worked very hard to address all the drivers to ensure they know
the procedures. Supervisors have also done gate checks to reach each
driver. Since the checks were implemented they have seen a reduction on
the number of issues related to extending the 2012 deadline, failures, etc.
Director Hoy stated that it is important to understand that this is a giant beta
test for the rollout in August for people that have cards that pay for each
trip. The cards are pre-paid so if the tap is unsuccessful we are not losing
revenue. Therefore it is important that in August we have all issues resolved
so that when people tap their card they will get charged.
Bruce Abel stated that Gary Googins was not able to attend and that is why
he took the lead on the updates.

• Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location
(CAD/AVL) Project Status Update
Eric Farrington, Project Manager for the CAD/AVL, stated that there is a
status report provided to the Board in the Operations and Customer Service
Agenda Packet from February 12, 2013. He said that since the report was
written there was a failure of the data radio cellular system operated by
Sprint. Sprint made the mistake of resetting all the cards to factory
settings. This means that staff has to go out and reprogram each card.
They are working on this and he will work with Sprint to ensure RTD is
compensated for the work required to correct the issue.
Director Hoy asked if this has to do with the stop requested announcement.
Eric stated that this is the equipment that will do the voice announcement.
Once the new system is installed on all the buses it will actually make an
announcement for the next stop.

D. Other Matters
Director Hoy asked if there had been any feedback on the new route 104X which
has been on the road for about a month. Bruce stated that it has been on the road
for 5 weeks so it is early in the process to have much feedback. Jessie Carter said
that currently the ridership is about 5-6 people per trip but we expect that to grow.

Director Daly stated that he attended the State Capitol where Directors Folska and
Tobiassen testified on the Parking Bill 13-027 in the Senate Transportation
Committee. This is the bill that the Board passed the consent to support. The bill
passed 5-0 and now moves onto the second reading in the Senate.
Director Daly thanked Paula and Barbara for giving up their Saturday and taking
care of everything associated with the teambuilding exercise. He thought they did
a great job with this event.

E. Next Meeting Date - March 19, 2013
F. Motion to Move Into Executive Session
CRS 24-6-402(4)(d): “Specialized details of security arrangements … including
defenses against terrorism, both domestic and foreign, and including where
disclosure of the matters discussed might reveal information that could be used for
the purpose of committing, or avoiding prosecution for, a violation of the law.”
Motion:

Director Anderson made the
motion to move to Executive
Session.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

RESULT:
ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Chair of the Board
SECONDER: Larry Hoy, Director, District J
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Tom Tobiassen
Committee Chair Solano declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

G. Adjourn from Executive Session
Committee Chair Solano adjourned the meeting at 8:14 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

