Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
Tuesday, July 18, 2017
Board Conference Room
3:00 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

I.

Call to Order

Committee Chair Francone called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Committee Chair Francone, Committee
Vice-Chair Sisk, Chair Hoy, Directors
Anderson, Broom, and Walker. Director
Williams arrived late.

Other Board members present:

Director Tisdale

Others Present:

General Manager Genova, Executive Manager
Barbara McManus, Board Office Administrator
John McKay

II.

General Manager presents his 2018 Core and Task Goal Plan
General Manager Genova said the committee had asked for goals in memo format
with bullet points. He said his memo is different from the Excel spreadsheets used
in years past and is organized by five core goals and three strategic goals that were
approved at the retreat. He described the layout of each goal would be the same
throughout the document and began speaking to the core goals, which are derived

from the job description for the General Manager position. He delineated the metrics
of each of the three performance categories: Needs improvement, achieved goal,
and exceeds expectations.
General Manager Genova presented his first core goal regarding the successful
delivery of transit services to the district.
Committee Chair Francone asked how the General Manager would be scored if he
the agency met 79% of key performance indicators (KPI’s).
General Manager Genova said that hitting that 79% mark would put his
performance in the “achieved goal” category. He said the Board has the flexibility
to judge his performance against the performance benchmarks but noted that the
agency hit 89% of KPI’s in 2016.
Chair Hoy asked for clarification about the performance metrics.
General Manager Genova said that the agency uses 42 KPI’s and said that meeting
37 of the 42 goals would yield a performance of 88%. He noted that meeting 29 of
42 goals would place his performance in the “needs improvement” category.
Chair Hoy noted that a performance of 80% would be in the “exceeds
expectations” category, 70-79% would be in the “met expectations” category”,
and below 70% would mean the General Manager “needs improvement”.
General Manager Genova noted that there are factors not necessarily under the
direct control of the General Manager, such as the budget.
Director Anderson said the agency has never been below 80% on KPI’s.
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office, noted that performance
elements had been added to the General Manager’s goals.
General Manager Genova concurred that three or four elements had been added.
Director Walker said that the 80% number is not a low threshold but rather a
number that shows achievement. He added that there are things beyond the
General Manager’s control and said that the General Manager cannot achieve a goal
he cannot control.
Director Sisk offered that the Board may direct the General Manager to reduce
service levels and said he does not think the General Manager should be penalized
for something beyond his control. He said the General Manager’s task was to
present a plan to maintain acceptable service levels, though the agency may not be
able to meet those levels. He said he did not think the performance measure was
fair to the General Manager.

Director Walker said the General Manager needs only to present a plan to maintain
service levels, even though the Board may not follow it.
Director Sisk questioned what would happen if the General Manager proposed a
plan to keep service levels steady, despite knowing that that level of service could
not be maintained due to budgetary reasons.
Director Anderson said the General Manager must also present a plan to preserve
the integrity of the budget, otherwise the agency would be in trouble.
General Manager Genova responded that the performance goals include indicators
regarding a balanced budget as well as a balanced Strategic Business Plan (SBP)
and Annual Performance Evaluation (APE).
Director Anderson likened the service levels to the “achieved goal” category for
PTI’s, in that the goal gives the Board room to determine the General Manager’s
performance. She said not every goal can be quantitative and the Board itself has
to use good judgement.
Committee Chair Francone said that there must be some flexibility in the process
because there is subjectivity in the General Manager’s performance review.
Ms. McManus confirmed the committee’s consensus on the goal.
With regard to the agency’s response to special events, Committee Chair Francone
said that there’s vague language and room for interpretation regarding what makes
an event “outstanding” and “noteworthy”. She said it would be the General
Manager’s task to demonstrate that something is noteworthy.
General Manager Genova said there are several events not planned for every year,
such as the Women’s March in 2017, as well as a large contingency from US36.
Committee Chair Francone asked what would be considered an “outstanding” or
“noteworthy” event as described in the goal.
Director Sisk said he is interested in the General Manager amplifying those events,
such as the aforementioned Women’s March and the Bolder Boulder race.
Chair Hoy said that some special services, such as Broncos Ride, are just a part of
the regular service provided by RTD.
General Manager Genova said that, with certain services such as the Broncos Ride,
the difficulty of providing service depends on the schedule.

Chair Hoy agreed and noted in 2017 the Broncos would play a home game on
Thursday after schools start.
General Manager Genova said that the BroncosRide for that Thursday game is an
example of a regularly scheduled service with incredibly challenging days. He noted
that RTD also experiences clumps of events, when the agency provides peak
service, plus BroncosRide, plus RockiesRide.
Director Anderson noted that the “outstanding and noteworthy events” criterion
was added to the General Manager’s last year to account for events such as the
Broncos parade following their Super Bowl win and other such events that quickly
require a large volume of bus service.
Ms. McManus noted the agency is also involved in providing emergency services.
Director Sisk said that those events are certainly unexpected, such as the flood in
northern Colorado in 2013.
Director Anderson also mentioned the Aurora theater shooting. She said that the
description could be changed to “unscheduled” events.
Chair Hoy suggested the language could read “reacting to special community
events”.
Director Anderson suggested that the General Manager’s performance on certain
events alone could qualify him for the “exceeds expectation” performance
category, because some events are so spectacular as to stand on their own.
Chair Hoy asked whether that would mean negative points could be assigned to the
General Manager’s performance if does not respond to such circumstances.
General Manager Genova suggested that the agency would always react to
extraordinary circumstances and would reflect positively rather than negatively.
Chair Hoy agreed.
Committee Chair Francone reiterated that the General Manager would be adding
language to his performance goal, and General Manager Genova said he would be
adding “unscheduled” events.
Director Walker said that evaluating the General Manager’s performance for all
scheduled events is appropriate.
General Manager Genova described his “communication” core goal and its review
criteria.

Director Sisk asked how the Board would know if the General Manager
communicates with the Senior Leadership Team (SLT).
General Manager Genova said that he conducts weekly meetings and sends out his
Monday Morning Dispatch.
Director Sisk asked whether SLT still conducts FasTracks meetings on Fridays.
General Manager Genova said that the FasTracks meetings had been rolled into the
Wednesday SLT meetings, because there were fewer day-to-day tasks for
FasTracks.
Committee Chair Francone said the onus is on the General Manager to articulate to
the Board what he has been communicating with SLT.
General Manager Genova said he would describe his efforts in his upcoming
document and report on such things as employee forums, visits to different
divisions, and annual employee awards.
Ms. McManus asked whether the committee was in consensus, and there was no
other discussion.
General Manager Genova then spoke about the “strong financial leadership” core
goal and its performance criteria.
Committee Chair Francone said the “exceeded expectation” performance category
does not have very detailed language. She said the use of the words “substantial”
and “aggressive” give the General Manager an opportunity to promote himself.
Director Broom said that RTD’s financial health is an area that the General Manager
does not have much control over. He said RTD needs projects on the shelf in order
to qualify for certain grant funds. He stated that the transportation funding bill is
rolled over year to year and is eventually replaced, leading to changes in the grant
programs available.
General Manager Genova mentioned a current bus grant with a short application
window that recently became available. He said RTD has a nimble team to respond
to such opportunities and that the agency has to look at the SBP and know how to
shuffle things around.
Committee Chair Francone said she was impressed by how nimble the agency has
been over the last few years.
Director Sisk said one of the things he would like to see the committee consider is
the ability to work with other agencies such as CDOT. He said the committee

should include in the goal an item about working with communities where doing so
would achieve savings for both the municipalities and RTD.
Committee Chair Francone asked whether such an item was in the task goals.
General Manager Genova said the fiscal sustainability task goal contained a similar
item.
Director Anderson said that US36 or the TREX project would be good examples.
Chair Hoy reiterated that the type of partnerships would be ones that take a
creative, out of the box, form.
Director Anderson asked how much outside money had been contributed to the
Southeast Rail Extension (SERE).
General Manager Genova said RTD’s local partners raised 14% of the cost to
complete the project.
Ms. McManus asked the General Manager to summarize the amended language.
General Manager Genova said the language would read: “Partners with another
organization to realize funding or savings above what RTD could have achieved
independently”.
Director Broom said that a local match shows the municipalities have skin in the
game.
General Manager Genova noted that local matching funds make a difference to
grantors.
Director Walker said he understood the aim of the goal and said that the new
language may be too close to another goal, making it redundant. He suggested that
one goal could be for private funding and one goal for public funding but said that
goal could become confusing due to creative financing.
Ms. McManus noted that the agency is embarking on a period of operations and
maintenance and offered that funding could be realized outside of capital programs.
General Manager Genova said that was a good example. He said the agency may
be able to leverage other local dollars to do more in local jurisdictions. He
mentioned that Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operating Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations, was invited to talk to Denver City Council
transportation committee about partnering to purchase buying routes, similar to
what Boulder has done.

General Manager Genova said there will be a lot of conversation about regional
transportation authorities (RTA’s). He said the spirit of RTA’s is that they should
not conflict with RTD. He said that he has been hearing from staff in the Mayor’s
office that they do not want to compete against RTD or provide transit but rather
fill in gaps in transportation. He noted that Denver’s potential general obligation
(GO) bond issue did not contain any provisions about transit and were mostly
concerned with things such as improvements and connections.
Director Broom said that Denver is taking a risk, because knowing where the city
invests its money could cause RTD to spend its funds elsewhere.
Director Anderson said that RTD provides service in locations of highest ridership,
such as the Route 15L corridor.
Director Broom said that things change and used Stapleton and Lowry as examples.
Committee Chair Francone asked if the committee had come to consensus, and
there were no objections.
General Manager Genova presented his fourth core goal regarding equal opportunity
(EEO), affirmative action (AA), small business enterprise (SBE), and disadvantaged
business enterprise (DBE).
Committee Chair Francone asked whether the agency’s federal triennial review was
successful.
General Manager Genova said RTD had performed well. He said he would be
reporting the results to the Board.
Director Broom inquired whether FasTracks is winding down.
General Manager Genova said that FasTracks was comprised of $5.6 billion in
issued contracts. He said the agency has done great things with DBE and SBE.
Director Broom then asked whether the percentage DBE and SBE performance goals
for agency contracts would relate to the percentage of the contract, rather than for
dollar amount.
General Manager Genova confirmed. He said that the agency has hit its percentage
goals every year and that the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) recognizes that.
He said the goal is challenging because the agency sets the bar high for SBE and
DBE participation and continues to raise that. He said the agency will have fewer
construction opportunities going forward but is looking into operations and
maintenance opportunities for SBE and DBE, such as snow removal and custodial
services.

Director Anderson asked whether companies have graduated out of that program.
General Manager Genova confirmed and said that one company in the program
started as 10-person firm and has grown to a staff of over 100. He said that
another area the agency actively pursues is making DBE’s and SBE’s the primaries
on contracts and noted that Triunity Hill is a DBE firm that uses a larger, non-DBE
firm as a subcontractor. He said that firms are like people in that some want to
expand and some want to stay as they are.
General Manager Genova presented his final core goal regarding communication.
Chair Hoy noted that this final core goal only contained one criterion in the
“exceeds expectations” category.
General Manager Genova said that the “one of the following” language preceding
the single item could be deleted.
Committee Chair Francone said she struggle with the communications goal because
it is difficult to measure.
General Manager Genova offered an example of being able to describe services
available in a given district. He said it was his task to be able to describe why
communications are effective. He said that, with respect to service change
meetings, the agency has discussed ways of increasing participation. He said the
agency almost always makes changes after community input.
Director Anderson said that service change meetings were attended by hundreds
when routes were cut. She said it is hard to gauge what peaks the community’s
interest.
Director Walker said a negative impact always gets more reaction and said that the
success of the communication effort does not depend on the turnout.
Director Sisk asked whether the General Manager speaks to groups in each
Director’s district.
General Manager Genova said that he tries to get to all places by participating with
stakeholder groups and does district-by-district outreach through Communications.
Director Sisk said there are ample opportunities for outreach.
General Manager Genova said that one of his objectives for Nate Currey, Senior
Manager of Public Relations and Public Information, both for education and
exposure, which he said can be effective.
Director Sisk said he would see such efforts as exceeding goals.

Director Broom said that when he and Director Tisdale were running for office, they
had public debates that were recorded in one district and broadcast elsewhere. He
suggested the General Manager could talk about new pass programs with a
municipality, and they could then share the footage.
Ms. McManus confirmed that the committee did not have any changes to the goal.
General Manager Genova then spoke to his task goals, starting with fiscal
sustainability. He said the task goals for 2018 were similar to 2017’s goals.
Committee Chair Francone asked whether the request for proposals (RFP) for digital
advertising had been released.
General Manager Genova said that his goal was to install latest technology public
information displays (PID’s) that have information and alternate with ads and could
be installed either as a cost-neutral project or even as a revenue generator. He said
he the agency would be looking for a tech company to work with an advertising
firm to be able to roll this out at no cost to RTD, and the displays would need to be
refreshed every few years. He suggested that, under this contract, Park-n-Ride
displays could be dynamic. He noted that different groups have express interest
and noted that the “exceeded expectation” criterion would result from a contract
award for the project. He said that a balance must be maintained between
passenger information and commerce. He said there are many internal technology
questions, and the agency does not want people to get behind our firewall.
Director Broom said there is driverless vehicle used in industrial parks that goes
from stop to stop. He said there may be applications for such a vehicle in the
district, such as in DTC and Lakewood and along US36.
General Manager Genova said the agency is engaged in conversations with various
groups, one being Commuting Solutions, about running an autonomous vehicle on
the University of Colorado Boulder campus. He said Panasonic is interested in
running a shuttle in their smart city between campus and one of RTD’s stops.
Ms. McManus confirmed the committee had reached consensus on the item.
General Manager Genova address his second strategic goal, workforce human
capital. He clarified the Board controls salaried pension plans but cannot make
recommendations on union health and welfare and union pension. He spoke about
education programs and the employee recognition event that took place at Elitch
Gardens on July 15, 2017. He thanked the Board for supporting that event and said
the agency had not held a similar employee event since 2001. He also mentioned
that the Board had approved a $1.00 per hour wage increase for operators. He said
the agency is working out language with the union and would let employees know
soon.

Director Broom said he had heard from an operator that $21.50 is the top of the
pay scale for operators.
Director Anderson said the operators’ benefits are good.
Director Broom said that people the agency is trying to hire do not look at benefits.
General Manager Genova said that, given the economy, the employees face
challenges. He said RTD starts operators at $16.11, and that the agency is going to
be challenged in 2018 to have a competitive package. He mentioned that in 2016
the agency put in place measures to increase hiring and retention. He said retention
is the key, noting that the hours are hard on employees and it takes them a while to
get used to the lifestyle adjustment of working to reduce splits. He questioned
whether the time frame for operators to reach maximum pay should be shorter.
Director Broom said that there is no career there for operators.
General Manager Genova said that prospective employees do not need a lot of skills
to work in RTD, only need clean driving record and a drug screen. He said they
receive a commercial driver’s license (CDL) from RTD along with six-week training
program. He said employees do move from operator to dispatcher, to assistant
manager, to street supervisor, etc. He said there is opportunity and that the agency
works to try to develop them. He said that, for bus and rail operators, the agency is
currently at 90% of total headcount and that a 5% increase would yield an
“exceeds expectation” assessment for the goal.
Director Williams asked whether the hiring goal accounted for the unemployment
rate.
General Manager Genova said that he wanted to give the agency something to
shoot for and that meeting any one of the goals would be very challenging. He said
those goals are important as an agency and so the agency has to reach.
Director Broom said that people are being burned out and driven away.
Chair Hoy said he would like to challenge people to talk to bus operators about
what they do and do not like about their jobs.
Director Williams asked if other RTD employees could be made temporary
operators.
General Manager Genova said that the agency has looked at that concept and it
was decided that many issues could arise.

Ms. McManus asked whether there might be problems with the union, and General
Manager Genova said yes.
Committee Chair Francone asked what happens if the agency does not complete
union negotiations before the expiration of the collective bargaining agreement
(CBA).
General Manager Genova said that, in his time with RTD, the CBA has only been
finalized once prior to the expiration.
General Manager Genova said that, during the last negotiation, RTD and the union
focused on the top four or five items of discussion and would try that approach
again.
Director Broom said that the union may be reluctant to sign another five-year CBA.
Director Anderson agreed and said that five years ago was a totally different
economic time. She said the last negotiation was excellent.
General Manager Genova said that that the agency is contemplating whether to
enter into another five-year CBA as well. He then discussed the third strategic goal,
achieving a state of good repair. He said that a state of good repair has been
federally mandated and that RTD is in good shape because the agency started to
address the issue years ago. He noted that safety and asset management are
tightly intertwined. He discussed what it means for an asset to be in backlog and
how the agency would determine whether an asset can continue to operate.
Director Broom said he was still concerned with union pension plan. He said that
the RTD cannot say that the insolvent pension fund is solely the union’s problem.
He said that, in reality, insolvency impacts employees, which will impact district.
He said the district will not go into bankruptcy but stated there is no federal
pension insurance that would ensure the union pension fund would be saved. He
asked whether two-tiered employee pension plans had been contemplated.
General Manager Genova said the trust that oversees the union pension and health
and welfare plan is made up of three union and three management representatives.
He said they meet once or twice each month and have been talking about creative
solutions, such as a two-tiered pension system. He said that the union’s position is
that the insolvency is RTD’s issue to fix.
Director Broom said that, even if the pension is not RTD’s problem, RTD will be
impacted.
General Manager Genova said he struggled with the problem. He said the
employees work hard. He noted that a change to the union pension plan in 2011

made it so that new employees get less of a multiplier for years of service than
existing employees.
Chair Hoy said the vesting period for employees had been five years.
Director Broom said he thought that the five-year period was the longest allowable
period before an employee could be vested.
General Manager Genova said he would look into it. He said that one model the
pension trust considered placed new employees to into a defined contribution (DC)
plan. He said right now RTD contributes 13% to the employee’s pension plan, and
the trust looked into splitting that contribution, in which case 9% would go into the
newer employees’ DC plans, and 4% would go into existing employees defined
benefit (DB) plans. He said the agency is also considering making lump sum
contributions and has done so previously to bolster the health and welfare fund.
Director Broom asked whether retirees were given employee-sponsored medical
plans.
General Manager Genova said that retirees are not offered medical plans and that
the health & welfare plan only applies for working employees. He said Director
Broom’s point about solvency is a good one, because whether or not maintaining
the solvency of the fund is a legal obligation, it is a moral obligation.
Chair Hoy noted that the represented pension underperformed compared to the
salaried pension fund. He said the agency appointed new representation to the
agency’s side of the pension trust. He said that decisions made by the union
pension trust had not been as good as those made by the salaried pension trust.
Director Broom said the sooner the problem is addressed, the better.
Director Williams said she would abstain from the vote because she had not been
present for enough of the meeting.


Review committee requested changes to GM Core and Task Goals for 2018
presented by GM Genova
General Manager Genova said that he would provide a redlined memo of the core
and task goals for inclusion in the Board packet.



Review for SMART Goals
The committee had reached consensus on each SMART goal during the General
Manager’s presentation.



GM Committee to provide consensus on final goals and recommended action to
bring to the full Board on July 25th

The committee gave consensus to the final goals and recommendations during the
General Manager’s presentation.


Vote to move forward with the recommended action item as amended
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 25, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:



The motion passed with 6 in favor (Anderson,
Broom, Francone, Hoy, Sisk, Walker) and 0
opposed. Director Williams abstained from
voting.

Next Meeting Dates
Committee Chair Francone said the committee was done assessing the General
Manager’s core and task goals for 2018 and would consider his 2017 performance
evaluation beginning in September.



Questions
Ms. McManus said that the survey would be coming out soon. She said the timing
of the survey should coincide with the General Manager’s mid-year assessment of
his accomplishments.
General Manager Genova said he would have that document soon and thanked the
Board for making the evaluation process succinct.



Adjourn
Committee Chair Francone adjourned the meeting at 5:10 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

