2024-05-14
Finance and Planning Committee
Part 1
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening. The Tuesday, May 14 Finance and Planning Committee of the Regional
Transportation District in Denver will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM Mountain
Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are
recognized to speak. My name is Doug Tisdale, and I serve as the chair of RTD's Finance and Planning
Committee. We want to thank you all for joining us this evening.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will continue for a time to be held
remotely via Zoom. These meetings will be audio and video recorded. And the meeting recordings, along
with the unofficial minutes of these meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website.
During today's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. And a link will be provided to you. Additionally, the CART transcript can
be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like to have access to a live transcript of
this meeting in Spanish.
And finally, a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to
call the roll for the committee members. Director Bob Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
DOUG TISDALE: Board First Vice Chair, Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Board Second Vice Chair Lynn Guissinger is traveling and will not be joining us for this
meeting. Next, Board Secretary and Committee Vice Chair, Michael Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: And Director JoyAnn Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: And I am your chair, Doug Tisdale, and I am present. For the record, I also see that we
have our board chair, Erik Davidson and Director Marjorie Sloan present. Are there any other board
members present that I have not acknowledged?
BOBBY DISHELL: Chair Tisdale, this is Director Dishell, committee member. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, sorry. I thought I-- you know what, I probably skipped over that. I'm sorry. I thought
I had called your attendance, and I apologize, Director Dishell. Thank you very much. All right, so we

have all of the committee members, except for Lynn Guissinger. We now turn to the public comment
portion of our agenda.
I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for tonight's meeting or in last month's agenda. If you wish to
speak, and have not already done this, please either raise your virtual hand or press star nine on your
phone. Please note that during this public comment period, the committee will not offer any direct
comments or responses.
However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, you only need to email the
RTD Board Office at that same email address, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Now, let me ask, are
there any hands raised at this time for public comment?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Tisdale, this is Jack Kroll, executive manager of the Board Office. At this
time, I do not see anyone here present with their hand raised.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And we have no one indicating a desire to speak who is on the phone. Is that
correct also?
JACK KROLL: That is likewise correct.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So there's no one who is present who has indicated a desire to speak. So that
saves me a whole bunch of caveats that I would otherwise read into the record at this point. Let me ask
now of the staff, whether we have received any email communications for tonight's meeting.
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Tisdale, this is Jack Kroll, again, executive manager of the Board Office.
We have not received any email communications in relation to this meeting.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Executive Manager. All right. Well, with no participants in the queue,
then we will now close the public comment portion of our meeting and we turn to the next item on the
agenda, which is information from external entities. There is one external entity report on the agenda for
tonight. And that is the public opinion polling presentation. I would now like to ask Michael Davies, who is
our Government Relations Officer here at RTD, to introduce this item and also to introduce our
distinguished guests from New Bridge Strategy. Mr. Davies, you have the floor, sir.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, chair and members of the committee. Michael Davies, government
relations officer. I've been the project manager working with New Bridge Strategy. And that's Lori Weigel
and Kathryn Hahne, who are joining us. And I will turn it over to them to present the presentation to the
board.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Davies, may I ask you, please, to check your microphone or your speaker. We're
getting playback, some stadium sound with your audio. So if you could just take a moment to check that.
And then we can go back to Ms. Weigel and Ms. Hahn for their comments. But double check that. But go
on ahead and try again, sir.

MICHAEL DAVIES: Is that any better?

DOUG TISDALE: No, sir. I regret to say it's not. And I'm not sure what might be causing that unless you
have two devices working simultaneously.
MICHAEL DAVIES: I do not. And the good thing is, is I am not the important part of this presentation. So I
will mute and, again, turn this over to Lori Weigel and Kathryn Hahne.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Ms. Weigel.
LORI WEIGEL: Thank you so much. That was a lovely introduction, and in stereo. So my name is Lori
Weigel. I'm the principal of New Bridge Strategy. We are a Colorado opinion research firm. But I've been-since five years old, but I've worked in the state for over 27 years, not to date myself. And primarily, much
of that has been on state, regional, and local ballot measures. I'm joined by my colleague, Kathryn
Hahne, who's a Director at the firm.
And we are going to share our screen, if that-- that should work. It looks like it will work. Because it's often
easier to see a graphic demonstration of the data rather than me listing off lots and lots of numbers. So I
just want to thank those who were involved, and had input, and provided wise counsel into what we
tested here. We looked back, and you'll see some comparisons to previous surveys that were conducted
within the district's boundaries as well.
And then we also had help from the council here at RTD in order to frame some of the ballot language
that we tested within this survey. So thanks again for all those who participated in that process, because it
really was an interactive and iterative process. So just to tell you what we were contracted to do, we
conducted a survey among 600 voters within the district, all of them obviously registered within the state
and with the appropriate boundaries of the district.
And those interviews were conducted from April 17 through the 23rd of this year. We used a number of
different approaches, as we do with any survey today, in order to provide respondents the ability to
participate either online, or via live telephone interviews. That's both cell phones and landlines. We
distribute those interviews proportionally throughout the district. And we do a number of things to ensure
it's representative of those who are going to be able to weigh in on the questions that we ask them.
We also ensured that we had the opportunity for people to take the survey in either English or Spanish.
And the survey was translated by our subcontractors, worked with the district before GP&P
Communications Consulting. Now, with any survey, there's a margin of error. I'm sure you all read that in
the paper all the time. In this case, it's about 4% for the overall sample. Just to give you some perspective
on a 600 sample, when we conduct national surveys, I presented one earlier today, that's typically in the
range of 800 to a thousand in order to represent all American voters.
So this is a fairly robust sample. And we include-- and we were ensuring that we were including a wide
range of respondents within that sample. I won't read all these numbers, but these are sort of the key
demographics, including partisanship, education, some of the demographics that we ask people. And
obviously, we know from voter files where people are within the district. So that's some of the boring stuff
that people usually aren't that interested in to get to some of the meat and the heart of what we did.
We did, as I mentioned, look at a number of poor perceptions regarding the Regional Transportation
District. We did tell them it's also known as RTD in case people are more familiar with that phrasing and
gave them the opportunity to tell us, first of all, did they have a favorable or unfavorable impression, or
really no opinion? Or have they not heard of the district?

We did follow that up. People that said, for example, favorable, we had 18% who said, oh, I'm very
favorable towards RTD. The remainder, of course, that added up to 60% were somewhat favorable. And
we've just listed a few of the different demographic and geographic subgroups that were more likely to
indicate having a positive impression of RTD. Certainly the majority were, in fact, positive in their
perceptions of RTD.
So there's many more. These are just some of the top subgroups that hosted-- that provided a positive
response to that question. We then-- it's always nice to see those core numbers. But sometimes, it's
helpful to see what underlies those perceptions. So we asked a question, an open-ended question,
asking them what the one or two main reasons are for their impression. In this case, we're showing those
who had a positive impression. I'm going to show you those who had the unfavorable impression in just a
second.
Notably, you'll see some of these things that are on both lists, and even some people who said positive-who answered that they had a favorable impression, and also answered, said that they had some
concerns as well. So people could say anything. And then we just basically collapse those into categories
to make it a little bit easier, rather than you guys reading pages and pages of the verbatims like we did.
People talked about reliability and convenience of the services. They talked about-- they talked about
cleanliness of buses and trains. They talked about affordability and reasonable fares, or just having an
overall positive impression, and just really the importance of public transportation for the community. At
the same time, some people were noting some concerns. So in one breath, they might say something
positive. In the next, they might say something that concerned them, or a hesitation that they had.
Some of those that were more prominent related to safety concerns, particularly on light rail, or at night.
There was a desire for even more transit for expanded routes and service areas. And then there was
some folks talking about delays in light rail construction and expansion, particularly on the northwest
corridor. There's obviously more here. But given my limited time, let me flip to those who had an
unfavorable opinion. And again, safety concerns was something that was mentioned. We're showing the
total number of mentions in each category.
Obviously, there were far fewer people that indicated they had an unfavorable opinion. And so there were
fewer responses in these categories. And so we heard some things about homelessness or seeing some
illegal drug use on trains and buses. Again, that desire for increased routes and coverage, and then
concerns about specifically the northwest corridor in terms of meeting some unfulfilled plans in their
words.
Now, the previous surveys asked the same question. So we asked it in the same manner as they had
done. The last time that we had district-wide ratings in this type of survey where we're talking to voters
within the district was in 2009. We have seen-- well, honestly, just in the last three or four years, we've
seen a decline in perceptions of many types of entities, whether it's municipalities, counties, certainly
sometimes special districts or school districts.
So it's not shocking that we have some-- a slight decline in terms of favorable ratings here. Again, it's just
kind of some of the concerns that we've had about higher levels of government and state government
have begun to trickle down into perceptions of local and regional entities over the last, in this case, 17
years. But honestly, in the last few years, we've seen more of that as well. So while it's moved from a 48point margin, favorable to unfavorable in 2009, down to a 27-point margin today.

And I'd be remiss if I didn't show there was a geographic component. To this response in particular.
Those in Boulder County were somewhat more mixed in their views of RTD. Arapahoe County slightly
too. But really Boulder County was the one that kind of stood out in those responses. And obviously,
some of that was reflected in what they told us. Another question that we looked at was whether you used
RTD services or not. What is your impression of the quality of those services?
54% indicated that they felt it was excellent or good. It was 9% who said excellent, 45% who said, good.
Another 29% said, fair. And it was 13% who said, poor. A mere 2% said, very poor. We collapsed those
to be able to look at that with a greater level of confidence. Some of those who talked about it being
excellent or good are more likely to be seniors, more likely to be female. We saw a number of different
counties rise to the fore. And definitely Hispanic or Latino voters were some of those that indicated having
a more positive impression of the services provided.
And again, this was another one that we had tracked and used the exact same language that was asked
in 2007 and 2009, and saw a little bit of erosion, again, in terms of those perceptions of the quality of
services being provided by RTD. We also asked how confident they are in RTD handling taxpayer money
wisely. And we gave them four different options here. They could say, very confident, which is 8% within
that bar there, somewhat confident, that adds up to 62%.
And then not very, or not at all confident, was a total of 36%, as is the case almost always, whether it's a
water district, a city, what have you, there is a partisan component to that that we've reflected here, with
Republicans more likely to be divided, independents in the more positive-- or unaffiliated voters in the
more positive and confident category, and Democrats overwhelmingly confident with 3/4 there feeling
confident.
And the reason we ask that is because we were also asking about a funding question. So let me explain a
little bit about what we did. We basically took our overall sample of 600, we split it into two representative
samples of 300 each. It's called split sampling. Half of those respondents saw this language exactly as
you see here in the italics. We know that's the one thing that any voter is potentially going to see when
they have that opportunity come November to be able to weigh in on this question.
We don't know what they might read in a newspaper or see online. But we know that they're going to look
at this in their ballot and respond with a yes or no. And so I'll show you in a second, there's a slight
variation that we tested of the other half of the sample. But when we gave them this language, it's
probably a little long for me to read right now. But we had 2/3 indicate that if the election were being held
today, they would vote yes. In fact, 2 in 5, 41% said they would definitely vote yes, the remainder saying
they would probably vote yes.
We only had 12% who said that if the election were being held today on this particular question framed as
it is, they would vote no. Another 19% were undecided. Some of those leaned yes, some of those leaned
no. But again, we saw a really robust response. I will note that this language was, again, vetted by council
and was carefully, carefully crafted. One of the key phrases in here, besides all the purposes that listed
where funds would be directed, was also just simply talking about that. It would not be a new tax or
increasing the tax rate.
And we've tended to see Colorado voters embrace questions where they-- where that language started
out the question. So I mentioned that half the sample heard this one, the other half heard this one. The
only changes underlined here is through and including December 31, 2034. So this was basically a

debrucing measure that ends in 2034. And in order to see if there was a distinction there, we didn't ask
them, hey, do you want it to end in 2034 or not? That'd be kind of an easy question for people to answer.
So instead, half didn't see that language. Half saw it. As you can see, it's basically within the margin of
error of what we saw before. 71% indicated that they would vote yes if the election were being held today.
43% said they would definitely vote yes. And again, it was a very small proportion, only 14% who said
that they would vote no on this particular framing of the question. So basically, there's no statistical
difference between these two questions in terms of their reaction to that language.
So voters don't get to choose which one is on the ballot. That's the job of the board. So we did follow that
up, again, with that open-ended opportunity. They could say anything they wanted. But among those who
indicated that they would vote yes, predominantly, we heard that they, in fact, support and would like to
see improved, or expanded, public transit within our region. Again, some of that we heard in the previous
questions where we gave them the opportunity to weigh in.
Many thought public transit was important or necessary for our region as a larger metro area. They felt
that was important. We saw that some mentioned environmental benefits or accessibility for the disabled
or young people who don't drive. Again, we heard lots of different categories. And notably, a number of
people pointed out that we could do these things without increasing the tax rate. And they felt that was a
positive as well.
We gave you just a flavor, just three out of many open verbatim responses to this question. And you can
see that, again, people are evoking some of those themes that I just talked about. On the flip side,
among, again, a much-smaller group of people who indicated that they would vote no, there was a
concern that, and honestly, this is something we see, and is a very common response for any fundingrelated ballot measure in the state, no matter the entity.
There was a concern about the money would be wasted or mismanaged in some way, and just sort of a
general sense that taxation was too high right now, and they were opposed to either taxes or fees. So
again, those were sort of the top themes. You can see all of them listed here. But there's a general sense
that among these no voters, they're just concerned about how it's spent. I would say this, too, is
important, that nobody really objected to the idea that of the specific purposes that were laid out within the
ballot language. There was very, very little of that.
In order to better examine these subgroups, we combine the two sets of data, given there was no
statistical difference between the two. I'm just going to very quickly touch on a few dynamics. Because
really, for the most part, these are distinctions without a difference because we saw the vast majority
supporting it, no matter where they reside within the district, no matter what type of person they were.
So we saw, again, this is a fairly typical dynamic. Women were overwhelmingly supportive, especially
somewhat-- I use these terms loosely, somewhat younger women. And but really, a robust response
across the board with majority support, no matter our age, no matter gender. Within the different counties
represented here, we saw, again, 3 in 5 or more indicating support and very affirmative response in
Denver County.
Party registration does bear a relationship, though, to support for the measure. We tend to see that with
almost any type of funding measure. But Republicans were actually fairly positive in terms of some of the
dynamics we see in other questions, especially outright tax increases. We had just under half of
Republican voters, 7 in 10 unaffiliated, and more than 4 in 5 Democrats indicating support.

And then newer residents tended to be most likely to embrace the proposal. But really, it was 2/3 or
greater no matter how long you have lived within the area. And again, the reason we asked some core
perception questions is we have often seen that that bears a relationship to how people respond to any
sort of proposal, especially one related to funding.
So for those who had a favorable response to RTD, 4 in 5 basically are telling us that they would vote yes
if an election were being held today. But even among that small proportion who said they had an
unfavorable impression, a majority, granted a bare majority, but 52% indicated that they would vote yes
for this funding measure. And we get basically the same dynamic, too, in terms of confidence in handling
of taxpayer money, with those who said they were confident in RTD's handling, and 82% and just under
half among those who said they were not confident, which is pretty striking given that some of those
concerns.
We did-- we did want to dig in a little bit more, especially to some of the components that we tested within
the ballot language. So purposes, we usually use a scale that you see reflected here where we ask them,
knowing that not everything can be equally important, we ask them to indicate for each one of these, and
these were all randomized, so we aren't getting any sort of pattern response bias here, is it extremely
important, very important, somewhat important, or not important to them that a particular item be funded?
And we are just showing you the proportion. That pink column there, extremely important. And then
extremely and very important, so those top two categories combined, almost all of these, the vast, vast
majority, virtually all, said they were at least somewhat important. So it gets a little boring when we show
you another column of numbers that's basically at 99% on lots of these. Notably, things like ensuring that
you have the necessary workers to offer and ensure convenience and safe service, but something that
resonated strongly.
85% indicated that was extremely or very important. Similarly, attracting and retaining the necessary
workers to deliver safe and secure transit services was at 88% So again, those are within margin of error,
but sort of the same concept, but slightly different language. We did look at just maintaining the
availability of transit services for people with disabilities, improving rail lines, bus stops, stations, other
infrastructure. Both of those 83% embraced that. And again, we tried some different framing of that one I
just mentioned was basically, again, within the margin of error of the response that we just talked about.
Slightly lower on the list, but not by far, really, we still had a majority saying it was extremely or very
important was maintaining the no-fares policy for youth ages 19 and under. Sometimes when we look at-when we look at funding purposes that basically address a need with a specific population, sometimes,
those can be deemed a little less important because we're asking them how to-- basically, how do you
view this in terms of importance? So that was a slightly lower.
But virtually everything we tested was essentially at 65% or higher in terms of people saying that these
are extremely or very important that funding be dedicated to that particular purpose. We also looked at
some pros and cons. I'll just-- I know you guys have these in your packet. So I won't go through these in
great detail. But there were a number of things. Usually, we're trying to hit like 35%, 40% saying
something's very convincing in order to know that that is something that really resonates with people.
The vast majority said that these are at least somewhat convincing as a reason to vote yes in favor of the
proposal. Lots of these really met that test. And the idea that really that providing transit options not only
benefits those using them, but also can benefit roads and highways, that it provides stable, predictable

funding, and that we're giving people choices in terms of how they get where they need to go, and
spending less time in traffic doing so.
And then some of the air pollution benefits and climate benefits also resonated fairly strongly. And again,
these were somewhat lower, but we had 3 in 10 or more saying that each of these was very convincing,
and basically around 2/3 or more saying they're at least somewhat convincing reasons to support it.
On the flip side, we offered up some potential criticisms. There's only one that sort of met the threshold
that I just talked about, that being very compelling as a reason to vote no against the potential measure.
And that was a concern. I don't think you'll be surprised now. I've said it three times about making sure
that the northwest corridor is addressed, and making sure that those residents within the district fully
receive the benefits that had been described in a previous measure to voters.
But again, those anti-tax concerns and some of that just really did not resonate very much at all. So
support for the measure when we look at them overall really didn't move that much. It's, again, where we
started, even though we gave people much more information than they had at the beginning of the
interview, and gave them pros and cons, we ended up in about the same place statistically, where it's
67%, indicating that if the election were being held today, they would vote yes on that proposal. 43%, in
fact, saying they would definitely vote yes.
So it really is sort of a stable sense that this is important, and something that should be-- should be
addressed. And we did ask one more question. Thinking ahead, we asked them if taxes did have to be
increased in the future to fund transit in the Denver metro area, would they prefer an increase in the sales
tax, the property tax? We did give them neither one, which certainly some took. A plurality took that option
at 36%. But this is a very typical dynamic. People tend to prefer sales taxes over property taxes.
I don't think that's ever been more true than it is today. Again, there is some partisan distinction. Sorry, I'm
losing my voice. But in general, if for those who choose, they tend to choose a sales tax over a property
tax irrespective of partisanship and any other demographics.
So I can flip back to a particular side-- slide if there was something that-- I might stop sharing just so I can
see a little bit better. And so we're happy to answer any questions you might have. I know you guys have
that-- had that information in your packets already. So there might be questions you were coming to
already with us. So we're happy to do that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Weigel. That was an excellent presentation. And the packet
was very helpful. And I'm glad we had an opportunity to read all of the fine print before the meeting this
evening. Let me open up to the members of the committee first who have any questions for New Bridge
Strategy, Ms. Weigel, relative to the polling that was done.
I thank you for all not speaking at once too. That helps to keep this orderly. Are there any non-committee
members who have questions? Ah. Wait. Did I see-- First, let's go back to Director Ruscha as a
committee member with a question. Please proceed.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I was still formulating my question. So if there was a non-committee
member who had a question, I'm happy to defer for a minute.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's most kind of you. I saw that board chair Erik Davidson had his hand
raised. And let me invite him to speak. I know he's been involved with this as the polling has been going
on. So Chair Davidson, you are recognized, sir.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. Ms. Weigel, thank you for the presentation and
all the great work on this. It's very helpful, and certainly encouraging. One question that I have is along
the strategic lines of interpreting the data. And in looking at those who have unfavorable views, also
looking at those who had said, no. And then I would say some of those that are-- could be more on the
bubble.
In looking at the messages that detract, so, for example, the not having delivered on northwest corridor,
for example, those list of things of reasons to vote no, how vulnerable do you perceive the yes votes
would be to those-- to the detracting messages? So in other words, should the board refer a measure to
the ballot to just say it more plainly? And should there then be an opposition campaign against the
measure? Based on your interpretation of the data, and the detractors, and the detracting messages, how
vulnerable do you believe some of the yes votes are based on the messages you saw on that side of the
fence?
LORI WEIGEL: Yeah, so I think were this to be an outright tax increase, where the language says, shall
taxes be increased, and there's a significant number there, this would be a very different conversation.
Because it takes essentially, without increasing the tax rate in that language, takes away the major
vulnerability that we typically see in a ballot measure. We actually don't see that a lot of the no messages
are-- here. I've got the numbers right here.
In terms of the no messages with no voters, just [INAUDIBLE] page. I'm sorry. We have reams and reams
of data here. Failing to live up to promises, it's definitely somewhat convincing. But it's none of these are
really at the level where I'd say-- the no vote is only-- it's such a small proportion. And I think I'd rather
look at the undecided folks in the middle in order to say, OK, we're really-- we'd be really vulnerable
without 72%-- sorry, that 17%.
The only message that pops out with them is that failing to live up to promises. So I'm never going to say
that nothing can't be beat. There's no guarantee.
But it would, especially this year, with the number of ballot measures that are on the ballot, with people
considering lots of different issues, there's going to be a lot of clutter potentially. And so someone would
need to spend significant dollars in order to break through and really start to peel away support rather
than just gin up sort of an anti-tax sentiment, for example. Because we just, there's not enough right now
in that undecided and no category to-- you'd have to flip yes voters.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for that. Can I, chair, if I may follow up with one-DOUG TISDALE: Please, proceed to follow up, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And then I'll go to the back of the line. But Ms. Weigel, you touched on-you started touching on another one of my questions on my list, which has to do with the presence of
other ballot initiatives. And I know we're still a little bit early in terms of what's referred, what's at the title
board. But just based on your professional opinion with what's there, and what you've seen in the data, do
you see that the presence of those other, of what looks like it will be a busy ballot season here, do you
see that as being helpful, not helpful, or neutral should the board of directors refer a measure based on
the data that you've seen here?
LORI WEIGEL: I think with this debrucing measure, without increasing the tax rate at the beginning, I only
know of one in the state of Colorado that has failed. Granted, that was in Douglas County, which certainly

some proportion of the district is within the county. To date, that's all I've ever seen that is-- that has
outright failed to pass when you have that language at the beginning.
In terms of the other measures on the ballot, I mean, I would say that. And there were so many. And it
was still informed. So it was, we couldn't list 10 different ballot measures prior to hours prior to this one.
But I would say that Coloradans typically are quite educated. They move around on the ballot. There's
very little straight-- either straight ticket for candidates. There's very little straight yes, straight no in terms
of ballot questions.
We get asked lots of different ballot questions. They're not all going to be funding related. And people
tend to, and it is something that is nice about having mail balloting, is that people are able to take time.
They're able to look at additional information. And I think we have a very well-informed and highlyeducated electorate that tends to do that.
So unless there is something that just usually, we'd have to see something that outright confuses voters
because it's so closely related to the topic at hand, we saw for example, two years ago with three alcoholrelated ballot measures. There was definitely confusion related to those. But voters in Colorado are pretty
used to voting on tax-related and funding measures.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you very much, Ms. Weigel. And your presentation was great the other
day to the Colorado Chamber State of the State. And apparently, we like it as Coloradans, too, as you
had shared. We like all those ballot questions. So thank you for the questions. I appreciate it. Committee
Chair, I'll hand back to you. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Davidson. Appreciate those comments, board chair.
Directors Broom and Catlin, I'm going to ask Director Ruscha first if she has her question formulated now,
or if she still wishes to defer.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I have a couple of questions. So I'll leave it up to you, Mr. Chair. I can ask a question
now and then get in back of line or I can just hang out in the back of line. Maybe one of my colleagues
has the same question. So-DOUG TISDALE: Go on ahead. Let's knock one of them down now and then see where we're left.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. So my question is regarding the methodology. So what was the
methodology that we used to create the pool of voters to sample from? Did you pull-- was it all registered
voters? High-frequency voters? Could you talk about that a little bit?
LORI WEIGEL: Yeah, so we have done lots of research on likelihood to vote. We have found that past
behavior is the greatest predictor of future behavior. So you guys might have noticed that in your personal
lives as well. So what we tend to see is that likelihood-to-vote questions don't work very well. And so what
we use is past participation in similar turnout elections. So they had to participate in 2020 and or been
newer residents that participated in 2022 or registered to vote since then.
And so that's the pool. And obviously, within the district boundaries. And then, we can examine the data
and ensure that our demographics are within the criteria that we just set out in terms of past participation.
And certainly, we're going to have some people. I have one in my household, a young person, who is
newly registered to vote and can participate in this election. So we include those new registrants as well.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Ruscha, you want to hold off? Do you have an immediate follow
up?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just an immediate follow up just to clarify. And I-- hard of hearing. So I'm trying to
track the-- another screen at the same time as you are speaking. So I apologize. So-- so you said that
they would have had to have participated in 2020 and or be newer residents that participated in 2022, or
registered to vote then. Do-- did you-LORI WEIGEL: Sorry, 2020, or 2022, or newly registered.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So I'll finish my thought. Do you-- are you able to go back and access
data regarding people who participated in primaries? Because folks who participate in primaries also tend
to have higher voter turnout in municipal. And while this is a referred ballot measure, they also tend to feel
like they're more involved or educated. So I was just wondering if that is also information that you
retroactively would be able to look at from your sample data.
LORI WEIGEL: Well, we were looking at a broader November electorate. So but we could definitely try
and go back and look at some of the distinctions in terms of past voter participation. I'll make a note of
that right now.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I was just wondering if that would make a difference in if you did that cross tab like in
the answers that we got.
LORI WEIGEL: The primary elections tend to vary wildly in terms of participation rates, and can vary even
county to county in terms of what-- so I'm not clear on-- well, but we're happy to-- we're happy to go back
and look at different scenarios in terms of turnout.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I also-- I also used to do polling. And so that's why I asked because this is also a
public relations. And kind of the-- I hate to say this word, but local influencer question as well. So that's
why I was asking, because we already know in Colorado, we already have the more-- we already have
some of this data.
And then I'm so sorry if I missed this. There is a slide that says a short-term resident woman. And I didn't
understand what that meant. And maybe you covered it. Would you mind repeating? And I'm not looking
at the whole board packet. I'm looking at everything separately. So I don't have the page number. But in
your slide-- maybe you can find the slide.
LORI WEIGEL: I had a slide looking at length of residency and how they responded to the ballot question,
but not broken out by gender on that. So we just simply looked at respondents who had lived in their
particular county less than five years, five to 15 years, and 15 or more years, or said they had lived there
all their life.
DOUG TISDALE: And we're looking at page 25 of the packet for that slide, if I'm correct, Ms. Weigel.
LORI WEIGEL: That the one?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, I believe it's page 25 that you just addressed.
LORI WEIGEL: Do you want me to try and share that? On the screen?

DOUG TISDALE: I don't think we need to share it. I think that Director Ruscha acknowledges that that's
the page that she was looking at. And I'm just doing that for the benefit of the committee members and
others so that they will know what specifically is being addressed there.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, if I may, Mr. Chair, just dialogue really quickly. So I just want to make sure. So
just that the short-term resident women, are you-- you're saying that those are women who have lived
here five years or less?
LORI WEIGEL: Less than 15.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, less than 15.
LORI WEIGEL: Yep.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. OK.
LORI WEIGEL: Thank you. I'm sorry about that.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks. And just for your reference, when we get our board packets, you can review
it as one long packet. I just tend to split up mine by presentation so I don't get lost. That's why I couldn't-that's why I didn't know what the page number was. So appreciate Chair Tisdale for stepping in there. I do
have a few more, but I'll yield to other directors.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Ruscha. OK, let's go to Director Broom at this time.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, chair. Did the state legislature set up a interim study committee that was talked
about? And if they did, is that something that we would have to be concerned about when the results
would come out?
DOUG TISDALE: If I can address that, if you're referring to House Bill 1447, as was amended, which
established-- which prepared to establish a committee to study board governance. 1447 died having been
referred to the Senate Appropriations Committee. And the Senate Appropriations Committee did not take
it up from the table. So no study committee was formed.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And now, first vice chair and committee member, Director Catlin. You are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a couple of things. And I don't know if that-- this would be
considered a crosstab or what. But I would be curious to know how many of those polled were residents
in Colorado or voters in Colorado in 2004 when the FasTracks vote was taken. Because they might-- I
just don't know how their perceptions may or may not have changed.
And then the other question I have, and this is kind of a nuance, we are talking specifically about the TREX bonds that were voted on in 1999. And I'm not sure that the people that were polled understand that
differentiation, as opposed to a wholesale debrucing for RTD. Is that-- did I make myself clear on that?
Because it's really just a segment of the tax that we're asking to be debruced. And that's the portion that's
already been-- it's really just a renewal of a debrucing that took effect in 1999. And that was for the T-REX
bonds. So I just don't know if people understand that or if they just think of debrucing as a whole.

LORI WEIGEL: They absolutely do not understand that. And many of them didn't live here then. So I can
say that with confidence, even though we did not ask them that. I could defer to Ms. Snyder or someone
who might be able to explain how the question was worded, and-PEGGY CATLIN: Well, and the whole unfulfilled promises question, a lot of that is perception based on
media and, quite frankly, our governor and our legislature. And there are other things other than the
northwest corridor that were not-- we were not able to complete due to the downturn in the economy. And
so that was just-- I was just bringing that up. So how much did that influence their answers?
The other thing that was curious for me is that there are-- I mean, you have Jefferson County as a whole.
There are areas in Jefferson County that have pretty good service. And then there are areas that do not.
And I just don't know how if you have any kind of breakdown of those polled, and geographically where
they lived, because I was surprised at the favorability rating in Jefferson County, given where I live. And
yet there-- I mean, Jefferson County has the part of the G line and part of the W line.
So that's interesting. I just don't know if you have that data. And I'm not asking for it. But if it's available, it
would be interesting to see. Thank you.
LORI WEIGEL: Yeah, the margin of error is going to be very high if we start breaking out within counties.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure.
LORI WEIGEL: So that's why we did not do that. It just seemed to make more sense to look at it county
by county in terms of the overall responses. I'm a Jeffco resident too. So I totally understand the
distinctions in terms of service. I will say that perception tends to become reality. And so even when
people have misinformation that sometimes, that becomes a reality. But overall, these are very positive
results.
And I think people are very much saying that they feel this is something that should be funded, and that
they are especially given the question placed before them are saying this is something that they would
vote yes at at a level that is fairly rare this year. Without revealing all our polling results for lots of other
clients, this is quite positive.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's great. I really appreciate it. And I didn't mean to get into the weeds. I was getting
a little bit too granular, I'm sure. But I-- those are some nuances that I-- I'm sort of aware of. So thank you.
I really appreciate the thoroughness of your work and the results are-DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam first vice chair. Some good questions there. And just as a follow up
to that, before I go back to Director Ruscha to see if she has a final question, and perhaps a follow up on
relative to the counties, because I notice that Douglas County was not called out, and that it was part of
the, quote, balance in the statistics for Broomfield, Douglas, and Weld.
And as you know, Highlands Ranch is in Douglas County, and my district. And Parker is in Director
Bouquet's district. And Parker has twice sought to secede from the RTD with a legislative enactment. So
we know that there are different things there. But we all also know that this is a straight popular vote.
This is not an electoral college situation. This is a straight popular vote, yes or no, of the entire district.
And so there are some different dynamics that play into that in terms of campaigning and analysis. Let me
go back to Committee Member Ruscha to see if she has any close-out question that she would like to
pose at this time.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a few quick-- first, I was wondering if the poll results had
been weighted. And if that's a follow-up response, that's OK for the board. And I also just wanted to flag.
And again, I don't know what packet page it is. But in the question when you asked about if folks had a
favorable or unfavorable opinion of how RTD manages its money, one thing that really jumped out was
the unaffiliated-- they're unaffiliated, not independent. But unaffiliated voters.
Because in Colorado, we actually have more unaffiliated voters than we do registered Democrats. And
this is the fastest-growing group of registered voters. But if you can see on that slide, their confidence in
the district's ability to handle taxpayer money wisely, I was just surprised to see it at 57%. And I didn't
know if you had any thoughts, had any thoughts on that.
DOUG TISDALE: And Ms. Weigel, we're referring here to packet page 16, one six, that Director Ruscha
has asked about, if you have any further thoughts on that. And then we'll let Director Ruscha do one last
question before going to Director Guzman, our vice chair. And you are currently on mute. Ms. Weigel.
LORI WEIGEL: Sorry about that. I was trying to be good and go on mute every time. So 46% of the
sample was unaffiliated. Sometimes, people will, in the phone portion of the interviews, will simply say, oh
I'm an independent. So sometimes, we use both terms in there to capture everyone. So you're saying
you're simply surprised that it was 57%, meaning that you were surprised it was higher, or you're
surprised it was lower? Or-JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, you may.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry. No, I-- just so I could answer the question. No, I was surprised that it was
lower since unaffiliated voters in Colorado have trended towards the vote-- trended towards voting more
left or more Democrat. So I would understand if the number was lower, I was surprised it was that much
lower. So I didn't know if you had any thoughts. But thank you for clarifying that. We're talking about
people who self-identified as independent versus-LORI WEIGEL: [INAUDIBLE]
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, the registration. And then the only question I have is like, are there any other
questions-- so FasTracks and unfinished projects came up as a potential negative. And I wasn't able to
ascertain from this presentation, did-- or do you-- I guess-- actually, you know what? I'll just rephrase my
question. Were there any other questions regarding FasTracks projects or the northwest corridor that we
pulled on that aren't shared here?
And I'll just give, just for context, I do have a concern because this is complicated for most folks. And
most voters don't understand the difference between the FasTracks, and the base portion of our tax, and
et cetera, or even what was voted on in 2004.
I guess I'm just wondering if-- my concern is that if we move forward with this debrucing ballot initiative,
that there might be confusion amongst voters as to what it is we're-- what it is we're buying. Does that
make sense? So I didn't know-- yeah, so I didn't know if there were any other questions related to
FasTracks that we just didn't see in this presentation.
DOUG TISDALE: Let's give Ms. Weigel an opportunity to respond to that, and we'll close that out.

LORI WEIGEL: No, there were no additional questions related to FasTracks. Voters in Colorado are often
asked to vote on complex public policy issues all the time that they may not fully understand and or may
need to acquire additional information prior to voting. So I'm sure you all will be communicating to them,
and providing that type of neutral information in a non-electoral manner so that they have that type of
background and information. But this is we've tested many debrucing questions, degallagher questions
prior to that, legislation, and lots of other types of questions that are often fairly complex.
And people vote on them every year. So I'm not-- I read every single open-ended question. I don't recall
anyone naming FasTracks, or T-REX, or any of the other past measures. I hope that's helpful.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Thank you. Director Ruscha. Thank you, Ms. Weigel. Committee
Vice Chair Guzman, you are recognized, sir. Why don't you finish up this hour of discussion that we've
had on the polling results?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Excellent. Less a question and more a comment for everybody that's listening in
from the board of directors. I think that this is a great place to start our conversation. I'm also really wildly
fascinated by the fact that across the board as a popular vote, that we seem to have the approval to do
this, that messaging being key, that we are not going to increase taxes, but being allowed to keep taxes
as they are so that we can improve services.
I'm interested to see how this conversation moves forward. And Ms. Weigel, Ms. Hahn, thank you so
much for your hard work and getting this to us. As we move into the next sections of our conversation
tonight, I think it really does bear in mind the responsibility and the need that we have to work together as
a board to reach out to some of our areas that are feeling a little bit more neglected, and to come with the
truth, and come with some honesty, and come with a good dose of reality that none of this will work if we
don't have funds to support it.
And having that conversation, and engaging fairly with our constituents all throughout the region are
going to be a really key factor in making sure that we get this vote taken care of. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. Appreciate your input on that. And yes, I think you have also
expressed what all of us have felt, which is the numbers are-- I hate using adverbs sometimes, but I think
I'm compelled to. They're astonishingly high under the circumstances, although it may be that people
have finally realized debrucing can and should be an effective mechanic available to public entities when
addressing their current financial needs.
Ms. Weigel, Ms. Hahn, let me, number one, express thanks to you, but also say, do you have any final
words, any closeout, that you would like to do on the polling?
LORI WEIGEL: No, we'd just like to thank you all for the opportunity to work together. And we won't go
away. So we're happy to remain a resource as you all consider your choices and options.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I believe, as I recall, I think I saw that you're speaking to the
Denver Chamber next week. Or is it this week? I forget. But you're busy this time of year. So we know
that. And Chair Davidson, let me acknowledge you, then, for a final word here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you. Committee Chair. I didn't want to take up too much time, but I just
also wanted to thank Ms. Weigel for being willing to come at the end of the month and remind directors
that we'll again see some of this information at the full board meeting to ensure all of our colleagues see it

so that we go into June well informed to have some discussions considering a potential ballot measure.
So thank you. Committee Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. All right, ladies and gentlemen. That concludes our discussion
on the external entity report concerning the public opinion polling. Once again, many thanks to New
Bridge Strategy, and Ms. Weigel, and Ms. Hahn for being available this evening and sharing that
information.
Next, we turn to our update from the Revenue Diversification Working Group. It's time for our monthly
update from the RDWG. And I will now recognize Board Chair Erik Davidson to present this item. Mr.
Davidson, the floor is yours.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair. The Revenue Diversification Working Group has
postponed its usual meeting and is meeting later this month. Largely, we'll be looking at the TABOR cap
calculations and having some discussions around the impact of TABOR. We've had directional
discussions, as everyone will recall, regarding the percentages that have been refunded by other counties
that are not debruced, which range 7 to 11%.
But as members of the committee and directors will recall, this was a coarse approximation, or rough
estimation, of what might happen. We are in a little bit more of a complex situation in that we have a sales
tax. We're not dealing with property tax. But we're looking at the changes in property tax and CPI. There's
a growth factor, and then CPI. So the calculation of what's really at risk is something that's still under way.
It also is probably incumbent upon us to consider a multi-year impact. So that's something that the
Revenue Diversification Working Group is looking at. In addition, I think, as everyone is well aware, we do
have the website, as I noted last time, is live thanks to the work of Mr. Stuart Summers. Again, it is in the
phase of having a spot on the website to be a placeholder to build out, particularly should the board, and
should the agency decide it would like to more specifically educate the Denver metro region on financial
matters.
And perhaps, there are some general things that we would like to highlight depending on the nature of our
discussions following these polling results. So the website is live. And we're largely focused on the
discussions around how to educate the population, given that our ability to influence, dramatically
influence our revenue outlook inside our four walls, is limited without the involvement of the voters and
state policymakers. So communication is one thread, and then really looking at what the potential impact
of TABOR is another effort that will, I suspect, inform the decision that this board makes next month,
whether or not to refer a measure.
That concludes my comments. And I'll be happy to report back next month after the Revenue
Diversification Working Group has its postponed meeting.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you very much, Director Davidson. We appreciate that report. It reminds me
that I should emphasize what you have said here as well for the benefit of all committee members, and
for those who are not with us this evening. And that is that this report will also come back to the full board
to the extent that you might have additional questions that we were not able to get addressed during the
first hour of this meeting, that will be presented as a later opportunity at the full board meeting.
All right. Then we move on to recommended actions. The good news is there are no recommended
actions on the agenda this evening. The bad news is, don't get too comfortable, we have five discussion

items to cover this evening, as you see on your agenda. The first item concerns the taxpayer's bill of
rights, or TABOR. I would now like to ask Doug MacLeod our chief financial officer, to present this item.
Mr. MacLeod, you have the floor, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. And good evening, board members and committee
members. I do have a short presentation to go through. I'll share my screen here as I speak. This
presentation is really dovetailing onto what Director Davidson, Chair Davidson, had discussed regarding
the work of the Revenue Diversification Group, as well as a follow on to the polling results just to give a
refresher about what exactly the Taxpayer Bill of Rights is, and also to communicate some information
that we've discovered through the work of the Revenue Diversification Working Group.
So let me share my screen here and make it full screen. So this evening, just a few slides, as I
mentioned. I want to talk about TABOR Basics, talk about the impact to the RTD agency, and then some
potential mitigation options that have been identified. And then we'll also talk a little bit about next steps,
including future committee meetings as well as board meetings.
So just as a refresher, TABOR as it applies statewide, is 1992 Colorado Constitutional Amendment, it's
applicable to all governments within the state. And it requires that voters approve any new taxes, new
debt, or any TABOR exemptions, which is also referred to as debrucing. Annual government revenue
growth limitations apply if you're subject to TABOR. And this is the subject of the potential ballot measure,
obviously.
The ratchet-down effect is the effect, and I'll give an example of how this works, but the effect of your
base year of revenue is always reset every year. So you get ratcheted down in terms of lower revenues in
one year. That becomes the new basis for calculating growth limitations in the following year.
Any excess revenues must be returned to taxpayers. We've all experienced that through state refunds
and taxpayer TABOR revenue growth limitations, and returning that funding. Tabor also requires that
agencies, governmental agencies, maintain a 3% emergency reserve. That is one of the fund balances
slash reserves that RTD maintains. And it's based on 3% of revenues. And again, debrucing refers to
being exempt from TABOR provisions. And it refers to Douglas Bruce, the author, Constitutional
Amendment for TABOR.
So generally speaking, almost all revenues are subject to TABOR. But there are certain exemptions. And
I've listed those here. And these apply to all governments. The ones that are most notable are there in the
middle of the screen, those four bullets that are for RTD federal funds and associated investment income
and retirement plan contributions.
And I'll show you an example of this in a couple of slides. And then the other thing that we're looking into,
too, is there's this notion that it may not be necessary that refunds, if they were to occur, would have to
occur through a cash refund to taxpayers. We're looking at different options in the revenue diversification
working group.
How does it impact our agency, TABOR, specifically? So on the left side of this slide, you can see the
revenues that are applicable to TABOR be our fares, which are about 5% of our revenue. Advertising and
naming rights, that's even a smaller number typically is $6 to $8 million a year. The 0.6% tax that's been
in effect pre FasTracks that we refer to that 0.6% tax as the base system, investment income. And then,
any other miscellaneous revenue is also subject to TABOR growth restrictions.

On the right side of the slide, you can see for our agency, what would not be applicable to TABOR. So the
0.4% FasTrack tax that was approved by the voters in 2004, the voters at the same time they approved
the additional tax also debruced that tax through the end of the period required to pay off all FasTracks
revenue bonds. That happens to be 2050, 2-0-5-0, as shown here on this slide. So that is exempt.
However, it was specific. The ballot language in 2004 was specific only to that 4/10 tax. So the remainder
of TABOR applicable revenues attributable to FasTracks will be subject to TABOR growth limitations at
the same time as the base system.
Other notable items, I mentioned federal funds, and any associated investment income realized from
those federal funds. So any federal grant funding that we get would be exempt from TABOR. We can also
take a deduction for any retirement plan contributions. So retirement plans being both pensions and our
defined contribution plans. But are a benefit to our employee. And then the other items are really fairly
small or nonexistent for RTD that are listed [INAUDIBLE].

So this slide really talks about the annual revenue growth limit calculation [INAUDIBLE]. So I mentioned
that there's a base here that we use to calculate table revenues. So for RTD, what will happen is in 2024,
voters in 1999 gave RTD a debrucing exemption on all the non-FasTracks tax revenues through the
period it would take to pay off the revenue bonds based system [INAUDIBLE].
That happens to be the final payment on those bonds, happens to be in November of this year. So past
that point, RTD would be subject to TABOR under the current status. So in order to calculate those
TABOR revenue growth limitations, there are two components to that. And it's the lesser of the increase
year over year of the consumer price index for the local area, plus the change in real property value within
the district minus any construction [INAUDIBLE] adding any-- it's really the addition of any new
construction minus any construction of other property in additions.
That information is provided by the Department of Local Affairs, I believe, DOLA, from Colorado. So we
do have those numbers, and been able to make some initial calculations. It's the lesser of that calculation
year over year, or actual revenue. So as I mentioned, it resets the base every year. So we take that lower
number every year, and that's the new number that we would use for the basis for the following year.
So here's an example. We did have some preliminary numbers from 2023. As you know, the audit is
being completed. And these are preliminary numbers from 2023. But I think it's helpful to really
understand how this impacts, or could potentially impact, RTD. And of course, we had to go back years.
So this really wouldn't be applicable for RTD because we'd be subject to TABOR growth limitations in
2025 because we'd lose our debrucing at the end of this year.
We would actually do that calculation would be 2024 numbers and then look at what the 2025 results
were versus CPI plus property tax, net property tax changes, to really compare what that impact would
be. And certainly, we would forecast that going forward, including our budget discussions, et cetera.
And that's one of the items that Chair Davidson mentioned that we're addressing through the Revenue
Diversification Working Group. So with this slide, what you can see is there's a column for the base
system, which is the 6/10. Column for FasTracks, which is the 4/10. Up at the top, gross revenue, coming
down the gross revenue, those are all the revenues that RTD collects. So if you add base system of
819.9 million in 2023 plus 443 million of FasTracks.

Total revenue collected in 2023 was 1,263,000,000. So then from that calculation, we take out the nonTABOR applicable revenues. So those being the 4/10 sales and use tax, which is the 343 million on
FasTracks, and any federal grant funding, totaling 288 million. What you can see in the green box then is
the net revenue subject to TABOR for RTD at this time. 631 million, which is approximately half of our
total overall revenue in RTD.
And I believe we've mentioned that fact in a few other discussions. So 633-- 31 million would have been
subject to TABOR in 2023 had the TABOR revenue growth limitations been in effect. Below that, what
we're showing is the CPI growth rate of 8.011%, which occurred from the prior year from [INAUDIBLE].
So we have to use 2022 as our basis to compare it to the 2023 actuals.
So we take the growth during 2023 CPI, the 8.01%, plus the local property tax growth factor, which
happened to be 1.155% for a total growth limitation under TABOR, had it been applicable, of 9.166%. We
thereby come up with a calculation taking 2022, multiply-- 2022 revenue, applicable-- TABOR-applicable
revenues times the 9.2% to get to 687. That would have been our TABOR revenue cap for 2023. And had
our actual TABOR revenues exceeded that, there would be a refund to follow.
In this case, it did not exceed that. And I'd like to point out a couple reasons why. So this-- I would
describe as potentially a bit of an anomaly from what we historically see, because we know that inflation
is at very high levels, 8.01% in 2023. Historically, it's closer to 2% to 3%, so even lower in more recent
years. So that would move that TABOR cap down a bit had we been experiencing historical levels.
And if you were to actually replace that 8% with, say, 3%, we would still have been slightly under the cap.
And the reason being is that our sales tax revenue growth in 2023 was really flat from the prior year. Only
increased about 1%. So it was kind of that Goldilocks scenario for us in terms of TABOR exposure in
terms of there being a very high cap as well as low sales and use tax growth.
Now, I should also mention, too, that now this sets the new base going forward in the following year for
2024. So 631 million, the lower of the two numbers would be the new cap for next year. So if we grew,
let's say that the growth factor TABOR limitation percent was still 9%, but we grew our sales, and use
taxes, and our overall TABOR revenues by 12%. That differential would be the amount subject to refunds
to taxpayers.
So some potential mitigation options. So we've discussed TABOR exemption voter authorization. So that
looks like the best option [INAUDIBLE]. Everything else that we've talked about in our Revenue
Diversification Working Group is really to more deal with the impacts of that, and be fiscally sustainable if
we had to deal with that. But the best option is obviously to keep the revenue that would normally be
subject to TABOR revenue growth limitations in 2025.
So one of the items that we're still discussing with revenue expectations, certainly the volatility exposure
we have with sales and use taxes making up about 2/3 of RTD revenue subject to swings. So that not
only presents a problem potentially for TABOR revenue growth limitations, but it could also be even more
severe with a ratchet-down effect. If we have one bad year, it takes us down to a new basis that's
significantly lower than our trend line.
Effective accounting application. So one of the things that we've really looked at is, how do we ensure
that our TABOR-applicable revenue is accounted for correctly? So I'll give an example. Right now, when
we draw-- when RTD draws federal funding, which is exempt from the TABOR calculation, TABOR
revenues, we do not segregate the revenues, the investment income associated with that. It's all-- it all

goes into one investment pool, all of the funds, and then that money is invested appropriately. And we
draw investment income.
One thing that we can do is separate out those federal funds into its own accounting methodology, and
also track the investment income associated with that so we can keep that separate from TABOR. Refund
reserve. I do have a presentation a little bit later about some suggestions within our fiscal policy. But one
of the things that we're also discussing is potentially setting up a TABOR reserve separate from the
emergency reserve that's required by statute.
And by that, I mean, if we can come up with reasonable estimations, if we think there's going to be a
TABOR impact, I think it would be advisable to consider setting up a reserve to pay that funding back in
the following year rather than budgeting all of our projected revenues, not accounting for that, waiting until
the end of the year when we find out that we haven't accounted for something in our budget that we're
potentially exposed to in terms of TABOR refunds.
And along with that, we want to make sure that our budgets and financial forecasts are conservative.
We've already included in our mid-term financial plan a TABOR impact, not knowing some of these
details. So we're trying to just not get ourselves in a position where we're overspending only to find out
that we're overcollecting a bit as well. And then, again, I'll mention that cash refunds, there's some
potential for possibly holding on to cash if we're subject to giving TABOR refunds, potentially items such
as offering free fares.
So that's still something that we're looking at in the revenue diversification [INAUDIBLE]. The next steps,
just to give the committee an idea what comes next. So as has been mentioned, at the June 11 Finance
and Planning Committee, we have in the work plan, a recommended action placeholder to potentially
bring forward a recommended action for the ballot measure to debruce. That still requires additional
discussion. And then should that be brought forward and passed, it would be finalized by the board on
June 25th.
Moving into September, we also have fiscal policy recommended action to finalize the fiscal policy. When
I present on this a little bit later, I think it's important to note that some of those fiscal policy concerns are
current state. We won't know-- if we go to the ballot, we won't know what the results of those are until
after the proposed budget and the five-year financial forecast are presented.
But we will have the opportunity, certainly, after the results of a potential election, to go back and make
adjustments. I just think it would be recommended to consider all options, assuming that TABOR will
affect RTD, and budget and plan accordingly until we know more. So I've also listed the October. There's
only the Finance and Planning Committee listed there because that's a discussion item with the draft
budget. That also has to go to the-- be presented to the public by October 15 by state law.
Then the plan would be to come back in November at November 12 committee meeting for the 2025
proposed budget recommended action, and hopefully finalization and ratification of that budget by the end
of November, November 26. So thank you for the time, Mr. Chair. And that concludes my presentation.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. One very quick technical question. If you could
turn to page 44 of your-- of the board packet, and I apologize. I forget which slide page it is. And it's-- wait
hang on. I have it. Your slide presentation page five, you note for exceptions are includes property sales.

Then if you go two pages later onto packet page 46 under TABOR exempt revenue and deductions from
revenue, it indicates other income rent slash leases. Am I correct in understanding and recalling that both
property sales and rentals of properties are excluded from TABOR calculations?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, that is correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Just wanted to clarify that. Director Dishell, you are recognized, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I apologize, Doug. This may have been in your presentation.
And I just missed it. But this year in the legislative session, although I think still to be signed into law,
there is some opportunity for RTD to receive some state funds, albeit as compared to the size of the
budget, not necessarily making or breaking the year. What's sort of our flexibility there? And do those go
through a circular TABOR analysis? Or are they wholly off the table once the state has elected to
appropriate funds to RTD?
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. McLeod, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes, Thank you for the question. I might ask General Counsel Snyder to
help weigh in on this. So I believe that the two measures that you're speaking to, Director Dishell, are
number one was the zero-fare funding. It's a grant program issued by the state. $5 million statewide. That
would have to be applied for. And we're really looking at as an agency towards continuing the zero-fare
for youth program under that type of funding. But it is statewide. So it'll be a competitive process, I
believe, to apply for that.
There are also some fees, oil and gas fees, proposed in legislation. These would be excluded from the
TABOR calculation. But, Mr. Chair, if it's OK, I'd like to defer to Melanie Snyder to help me-- help
supplement my response.
DOUG TISDALE: Let's do that. General Counsel, do you have anything further to supplement relative to
Chief Financial Officer McLeod's response?
MELANIE SNYDER: I do not.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Dishell, does that satisfy your inquiry?
BOBBY DISHELL: It does. It leads to others of I believe the grant is set up as actually a refund of
expended funds. And anyways, I think it would be good to have that answer ahead of the next legislative
session as we consider our advocacy and advocating for more transit dollars in connection with TABOR.
But certainly, does not need to be answered tonight.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I think it's an excellent question, and one that I know chief
financial officer will note and carry forward. Other questions for Mr. MacLeod on our TABOR primer? And
it was beyond a primer. It was almost an advanced course in TABOR, which is very appreciated. Because
particularly for the new directors who have not perhaps in their past experience had to deal with that, it's
very useful. Let me call upon committee member, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. TABOR is one of my favorite things to talk about. But this
presentation was well done. So I just have a quick question. There was a reference under the

exemptions. And I don't know what packet page. I apologize. But retirement contributions. Are those-- so I
guess I have two questions.
Number one, is that-- is it-- does that also include represented employees? Does it matter the type of
contribution? That is certainly a large item in our budget.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. McLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Great question. And I should have caveated some of these
exemptions as they apply to RTD. There's still a little bit of research that we need to do with general
counsel regarding those. We're using basic descriptions of TABOR and some other information that we
have. We also need to read through the Revenue Diversification Working Group. But you're right.
Presuming that those are a deduction, that is a substantial contribution that we-- that RTD makes each
year. And if I had to guess, it's probably around $40 million for each of the-- all of the retirement plans
combined.
So, yes. It would be significant. And I'm glad you brought that up because it's something to be aware of as
well. As you remember, in 2022, the board authorized a $160 million pension payment. So it would be
important that we consider those things when we look forward as a finance team to bring to you to
indicate that, hey, if we're planning on making a $160-million contribution, that's going to-- because of the
deduction, it's going to lower our base and could potentially impact our revenue growth limitations in
future years.
So we really need to be very careful about how we approach those things.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I just had just one more. If that's OK?
DOUG TISDALE: You proceed with the follow up. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. It's not-- the second question, not follow up to that. But thank you. Mr.
MacLeod, that's exactly what I was thinking of. So I might be mistaken. So maybe this is just a follow up
memo or something counsel could address. But are there also exemptions, like when we draw from
reserves, when we move from exert-- when we move funds from reserves and spend them? Is that also-does that also factor into the exemption?
DOUG MACLEOD: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And is it-- yeah.
DOUG MACLEOD: Sorry.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Go ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. No, it's really just based on revenue. So our revenue calculation. So if you
were to look at our income statement, after we go through the audit, we would determine which revenues,
which is why it's so very important that we account for things correctly and put them in the right buckets
so that we're using the correct TABOR-applicable revenues. So it's really revenues. We move funds

between-- funds that we already know it's really not considered revenue. So no, those funds would not be
subject to that.
But it's also important to note that we have to be consistent in our calculations. So once we land on a
calculation, it's important that we're consistent from year to year in our application and calculation of those
numbers.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Yes. I think the point is that we don't count those dollars
twice. They've already been calculated into TABOR when they came in as income. They go into reserve.
When they come out of reserve, you don't count them again. That would be double counting on it. All
right. Other questions from the committee, or any board member, for Mr. MacLeod relative to the TABOR
discussion that we have before us now?
Seeing none. We'll conclude that first discussion item. And just for those of you who are wondering, we
will be taking a break after this second discussion item, which I'm not sure how long it will take. It's an
excellent report. I'll give you a preview. It's an excellent report by Mr. Carl Green Jr. And we're very
excited to hear that.
Our second discussion item this evening, then, is the consideration of the draft Title VI fair equity analysis
and the mid-year program evaluation of our very innovative zero-fair for youth pilot program. And I'm
honored now to call upon Mr. Carl Green Jr, our director of civil rights, to present this discussion item. Mr.
Green, you have the floor, sir.
CARL GREEN JR: Thank you kindly, Chair Tisdale. And good evening, fellow board of directors and RTD
staff. I'll go ahead and share my screen. Let's see. All right. Good evening, again. My name is Carl Green
Jr, director of the Civil Rights Division. And as Chair Tisdale has mentioned, I will be going over the draft
Title VI fare equity analysis and mid-year program evaluation this evening.
And to give you an overview of what to expect, I'll give a high-level overview of the pilot program, move
into the Federal Transit Administration requirements. From there, I'll cover on the decision tree as it
relates to our fare equity analyses along with our Title VI policies, the methodology, the results. I'll scratch
the surface high level, as far as the mid-year program evaluation. And then I will get into the next steps.
So as part of the system-wide fare study and equity analysis, RTD introduced the pilot program zero fare
for youth as an opportunity to remove barriers to education and employment, while creating access to
destinations across the Denver metro region. And this program is truly making lives better through
connections by welcoming a future generation of transit users to experience all the benefits at no cost.
So just to give a high-level overview, the pilot began September 1, 2023. And it will run through August
31, 2024. As illustrated in the blue table on the left, customers ages six to 19 can travel zero fare to any
destination in the service area. And this includes paratransit customers. And then absent of this program,
or of this pilot, as depicted by the gray chart, or table to the right, a 70% discount would be applied to
youth fares, as noted.
And for example, this would be $0.85 for the three-hour pass. So this brings me to the second subpoint
that in order for the continuation of the program after the pilot, external funding is required. And as noted
on page 55 of the board packet, Colorado lawmakers introduced the Senate Bill 24-032 methods to
increase the use of transit dating back to January 2024, which is seeking to establish a grant program for
the zero fare for youth.

And then, should this bill be signed into law, RTD will be positioned to apply for the grant in July of 2024
to secure the monies for the adoption of a zero fare for youth program. And then in turn, staff will be
coming to the board of directors in June to present the formal change proposal. And then in advance of
this discussion item, again, I'll be covering the completed draft equity analysis this evening for the board's
awareness and consideration.
So now, let's spend a moment on fare changes as it relates to the FTA requirements. The authority that
sets the legal precedence is Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. This coming July 2 will mark the 60thyear anniversary of this landmark legislation, which provides nondiscrimination requirements for entities
receiving federal financial assistance. And then, by virtue of the Federal Transit Administration or the FTA
circular, it provides the directives to ensure that we are in compliance, and we're upholding the
assurances.
And a key evaluation tool is the equity analyses. So this slide here provides the decision tree. This is
similar to what is presented for service changes. It follows a three-step process. The highlight that I would
like to share here at this time is just the distinction between the fare change and major service change. As
we know, the major service change requires a 25% change. But for fare changes, it's any fare increase or
decrease, discontinuance, or the establishment of new fare media, which is described as the fare
payment.
So I just wanted to highlight that here. And you will hear from here on out, I may refer to Title VI
populations, minority and low income, as equity customers. And to give the definition for low income as
defined by RTD, it's at or below 150% of the federal poverty level. All right. So in accordance with RTD
Title Vi policies, the determination of a disparate impact or disproportionate burden is based on the
difference. It impacts experience by minority and low-income customers as a result of any fare price
change or the average of multiple fare changes compared to the impacts compared-- or experienced by
the overall ridership.
So the established threshold determination, or determining the adverse effects on Title VI populations, is
5%. So below the definition, we can see here, if it's a fare decrease. If it's greater than 5-- if the difference
is greater than 5%, then that would result in a potential adverse effect on equity customers, whereas if it's
a fare increase, if it's less than 5% borne by Title VI populations, then that would result in a potential
disparate impact.
All right. So from here on out, it's a mouthful of saying disparate impact and disproportionate burden. So
I'll refer to, again, as Title VI policies. Now, I'll be getting into the methodology. So at a high level, this-the methodology compares the current fare to the proposed fare. And then what we're looking at is the
calculation of the percent change, or absolute change, difference. From there, we are looking at the
evaluation. Again, all customers compared to equity customers.
The data that we are utilizing is 2019 customer satisfaction survey to more or less discern the fare
product usage rates as well as customer demographics, whereas we're using ticket sales and revenue
data to capture the fare payment type via ridership. And I just wanted to highlight as we were preparing
for the zero fare for youth pilot program, we reached out to the FTA to garner their approval on our
methodology and approach. And they approved of our approach dating back to June of 2023.
And then as I-- just to highlight again, the last bullet point is utilizing our policy thresholds to assess the
impacts on Title VI populations. Now, take just to-- now that we're grounded in the policies and
methodology, let's take a moment to discern how the thresholds are applied using an example. So with

that in mind of the 5% threshold to evaluate possible impacts, we can see by the orange or the red box
that is capturing the graph here, we can see that there is a 6% delta where the average fare increase for
minority customers have a-- it's 25% compared to the overall customers, which there is a 19%.
So we can see that because it exceeds that 5% threshold for a increase, this would result in a disparate
impact. Conversely, when we're looking at disproportionate burden, we can see that low-income
customers have a 22% increase in average fare compared to 19% for overall customers. And the delta
here is 3%, which is below that 5% threshold. So it wouldn't result in a disproportionate burden.
So please, the note here, overall customers are inclusive of minority and low-income customers. I just
wanted to call out-- call it out here. And the way in which we do our average fare analysis, this looks at
the proportion of equity customers in comparison to the overall ridership. All right. At this point in time, as
noted in the board packet, there is the first attachment, which is the complete draft fare equity analysis.
But specifically, I wanted to highlight on packet page 67 that the equity analysis, or the draft equity
analysis, only includes zero fare for youth.
And although from a Title VI perspective, Access-A-Ride or complementary paratransit services, are
excluded from being considered with respect to a fare equity analysis. But I just wanted to highlight here
that the no-cost fare for youth would be applied to Access-A-Ride services if the program is adopted in
the spirit of inclusivity and equity. So just wanted to highlight that here.
So moving into the results is there is no disparate impact on minority customers. What I really want to call
attention here as far as the table that is presented is the third column for all customers compared to the
third column for minority customers. We can see that the proposed average fare, the percent change is
4.2% compared to 5.2%. And the difference is 1%, which again, is less than, or it's within that-- within the
threshold. So overall, customers experience a 4% decrease in average fares compared to a 5% decrease
for minority customers.
So similarly, the results for disproportion-- there is no disproportionate burden on low-income customers,
specifically youth customers. And we can see that the difference here is less than 1%. And there is a
overall 5% decrease for low-income customers compared to a 4% decrease for the average fare for
overall customers.
So now, let's get into the findings that is presented here. There is no adverse effects, again, on minority
low-income customers. And what we can see is the average fare paid by minority and low-income
customers remains lower than the system-wide average fare. So what we're looking at is the totality of all
of our fare products across the different categories, adults, et cetera, are discounts. And what we can see
here, overall, there's a 9% lower, it's for minority customers compared to all customers. And as we look at
low-income, there's a 20% lower fare for low-income customers compared to all customers.
So now, let's get into the mid-year program evaluation. And as we measure program effectiveness, I just
wanted to highlight here that staff implemented several evaluative methods to better understand youth
and or family travel behaviors and experiences while using RTD services, as well as the impact of youth
ridership as a result of the pilot program. So this is just looking at a couple of different tactics. What we're
not looking at is fare revenue impacts that will be presented next month. But really, we're just looking at
ridership impacts.
So the first method that we utilize was a survey. So we administered this between October 16, 2023 and
March 15, 2024. We received over-- or 232 completed surveys. It was offered with both an English and

Spanish. And then as a measure, we also translated the documents to all of our remaining 20-- or 20 safe
harbor languages and that were available upon request.
And as you can see here, the demographics, 29% Black, Indigenous, people of color, and then 32% low
income. And then some of the high-level key results, I just wanted to highlight for the folks that we're
currently using that participated in the survey, 78% indicated that they will be using RTD services more
frequently. And for the folks that never utilized our services, 68% that said-- noted that they are
somewhat, or very likely to use.
And then 86% of the respondents are somewhat, or very satisfied with RTD services. And then with
looking at travel patterns, 42% are traveling to school, whereas 30% are traveling to either social and
recreational activities. There were other listed destinations, but these were the top ones with respect to
school, or social, or recreational activities.
All right. So now, we'll be getting into youth ridership routes. So dating back to December 2022, the
Transit Management and Design Inc, they completed a capacity utilization analysis. And this was
completed during the system-wide fares study to get an assessment of potential, whether there would be
any impacts on crowding or load factors. So we completed this analysis, or by virtue of TMD. And it
indicated through RTD estimates that there are about 26 routes with-- that are deemed high youth
ridership routes.
And then out of this 26, RTD currently operates 13 bus routes, which are indicated on the right in bold.
And those included additional trips, which we deem as trippers during the school year. So doing-- there's
a little bit of math there where there's overall, there's 28 identified high-youth ridership routes. And so I
just wanted to highlight that here. And as such, these routes are targeted to youth riders. And then the
graphic on the left highlights those within the January 2024 run board or network, where it indicates those
28 routes along with indicating by virtue of whether it's yellow dots for high schools or green-- green
coloring as far as college campuses.
So it just gives you an indicator of where our high youth ridership routes are in comparison to our
academic institutions. So now, let's get into service and ridership.
So the time period was September 1, right when we launched our pilot program, September 1, 2023. And
at the mid-year point through February 29, 2024, we leveraged a couple of different data sources, i.e. bus
operator counts through operator observations using our farebox. And then we looked at system-wide
boardings through our automatic passenger counters to look at fixed-route boarding specifically on our
bus. So as we can see with the findings, which is also demonstrated in the graph to the right, the youth
counts increased by 57%.
When we started, it was about 105,000 in September. And it jumped to 165,000 in-- by the end of
February 29, 2023. So this is a gain of over 60,000 customers in comparison to the automatic passenger
counters. We noticed that this-- it was representing about 5% of our system-wide bus boardings.

All right. So moving into the youth ridership and demographics. Again, utilizing our bus operator counts,
the table here demonstrates the top 10 bus routes with regards to targeted school schedules and high
youth ridership. And then as noted by, if you look at the table here, there are two columns, minority
percent, and low-income percent. And what we can see here is that nearly all of these 10 routes overlaid

with minority and low income, it shows that there is-- there's a correlation between our high youth
ridership routes as well as our equity-based routes given the underlying demographics.
And then this is just something that's important to highlight the overlap between the two. And so I just
wanted to highlight that here. And then one last mention is the service district average for minority is
37.5% compared to low income, which is about 14.2%. Now, I'll be getting into the public outreach and
engagement efforts. So I just wanted to highlight, we did not skip a beat. Stemming back to our systemwide fare study, we continued on with our outreach with respect to the zero fare for youth program. And it
was conducted by a cross matrix of staff across various different departments.
So overall efforts took place between June 3, 2023 and March 13, 2024. We formed partnerships with a
number of different youth service organizations, about 124 throughout the service area, 39 recreation
centers, and about 40 different libraries to promote the program. And then staff participated in over 60
plus community events. And RTD also held RTD pop up events at various locations. And then early on,
prior to the launch of the pilot, we did engage with school districts where we had meetings with
representatives over a series of different meetings, given the intent of the pilot and their-- the opportunity
for them to support our engagement with respect to the survey.
We did have to pivot, but I'll just say that it was a very holistic approach with respect to our
comprehensive marketing and outreach strategy, as denoted by the sub bullets underneath where we
created creative, or assets, which is depicted by an example on the far right. We had a dedicated web
page with downloadable kits for our community partners to socialize and promote the pilot. And just the
rounding out a couple of different tactics with respect to public relations, promotion in system promotional
assets and paid media.
So as far as the overall outreach feedback themes, they-- it supports-- the pilot supports access to school
and various key public activity centers. It benefits families who cannot afford fares for multiple children, it
meets climate goals, it encourages youth ridership, provides youth with independence, life-long transit
use support, and it saves money on gas by not having to use a car.
All right. So now, I'll round out with next steps. So in-- as of today, presenting to the board of directors for
their awareness and consideration, we will then release the draft for recommended fare change and the
equity analysis for public review and comment. From there, staff will come back to the board to present as
a discussion item of the fare change. And then we will come back in July for the board's consideration of
the recommendation, or recommended fare change, and fare equity analysis for approval. At this point in
time, this now concludes my presentation. I will now minimize my screen and open up the floor for any
questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Green. We appreciate that. A couple of things. First of all, let
me clarify for the benefit of the committee and the other board members present that we are talking about
a fare change. And you say to yourself, but we already have a fare, zero fare for you. Yes, but that's a
pilot program. And converting that pilot program into a permanent program going forward constitutes a
fare change, which triggers this analysis that you have just had briefed to you.
Relative to the analysis, please note the entire report is in your packet, constituting pages 60 through 88
of that packet. And then also, the survey is in your packet. And that's pages 89 through 118. So many of
your questions, I am certain, have already been addressed in the text of the report or the survey, which is,
what is that, some 60 plus pages of information.

That having been said, let me now open up to questions from the committee members for Mr. Green
regarding this discussion item. Vice Chair Guzman. You are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I have three quick questions. Well, one question and two comments real
quick. The current-- what is the current cost of this program? I remember voting on this, but I don't know if
I have the correct number in my head.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Green, I think you have phoned a friend. And General Manager Johnson is
prepared to respond to that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and good evening, all. Debra Johnson, general
manager and CEO. So as we forecasted the cost of this program, Director Guzman, it was roughly
between like five to seven million contingent upon how many students we anticipated utilizing the
program.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you. On slide 18, packet page 136, thank you for that information. In
particular, the high level of youth ridership routes, I just-- the fact that the skip, the jump, and the dash,
and the northbounds are all on there, and part of this conversation is really good because it's not just local
bus routes. But those are very specific in our region. And I think that needs to be highlighted to a great
extent. And the usage and how it's broken down between minority and low-income riders, thank you very
much for that information.
And finally, if you don't-- and if you have not read through the 60-page packet, 60 plus page packet,
please read that report. Mr. Green, you and your team deserve great kudos for being able to pivot so
quickly and really not giving up on getting that feedback and information. This was really thorough and
well-documented feedback from our communities. And I did spend a lot of time digging through this. So I
just want to give you that high five and thanks for not letting this one slide by. You did a really outstanding
job here. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. [INAUDIBLE] Mr. Green.
CARL GREEN JR: I just wanted to say, thank you, Director Guzman. I will accept the high five.
Appreciate it.
DOUG TISDALE: That's good. And that is a high five that you can take from the committee as a whole, I
assure you. Other committee members who wish to opine or question relative to this item. Director
Ruscha, you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So I understand that when we do a Title VI analysis, like a fare
analysis, we're looking at all categories of fares. But given that this change, if implemented permanently,
only impacts individuals ages six to 19, I was just wondering if you could just speak to that a little bit. I'm
not questioning your methodology.
But as to why we would still-- does that make sense? Evaluate the whole. And then if there is a chart,
maybe I missed it in this packet, that has a whole subset of potential customers and then the subset of
beneficiaries. Because obviously, there's a qualification, you have to be a certain age.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Green.

CARL GREEN JR: Yes. Chair Tisdale. Great question. Director Ruscha. I was looking for the page
number as far as to report you to the specific board packet. But what I can highlight at a high level is
when we're with respect to the average fare analysis, when we're looking at the absolute and the percent
change, we are zeroing in on just youth customers for that particular category.
But as far as when we're looking at the, as I mentioned, a 21% average fare for overall customers, we
have to take into consideration the overall ridership with respect. So it's a zeroing in as far as the average
fare analysis for the absolute change, percent change, which is 1% different, or exactly 1% compared to
minority youth customers, and overall youth customers.
And then there was a less than 1% change for low-income customers compared to overall customers. But
then the next slide that I presented on per our methodology, we have to take into consideration all fare
categories and what's the average fare decrease across the entire fare structure.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for that clarification. In other words, both were addressed. Director Ruscha,
you had a follow up?
JOYANN RUSCHA: If-- I'm sure that-- I understand they both were. What I'm just trying to-- what I'm
trying to find in the packet is the page that shows the analysis of just the-- just the youth. That sub-- does
that make sense?
DOUG TISDALE: It does. And we can make sure that we provide that to you at a later time to make sure
that you do have that specific information, which I know that Mr. Green will be happy to send to you. Vice
Chair Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry, Chair Tisdale. I think Director Ruscha may want to look at the report page 13
and 14 that has that breakout.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
CARL GREEN JR: And then if I may, as another added page number, it is 118 per Director Guzman's
comment that provides the narrative. But as far as taking a deeper dive on the spreadsheet and the
calculations, you can see it on packet page 118. And it'll be highlighted. It's attachment B. It'll be
highlighted in green, which spells out specifically youth customers.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Green. And that does, as I recall, my review specifically
address the question that you have addressed. Are there further comments or questions from any
committee member first, and I'll go to the other directors, relative to this presentation by Mr. Green?
Seeing no hands raised. We'll go to the rest of the board. Mr. Chair. Erik Davidson. You are recognized,
sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, committee chair. I'll keep it brief. I just wanted to say, Mr. Green, thank you
for not only the presentation, of course, this program. But thank you for that survey data. I agree with my
colleagues here. It's really interesting. And I think there's an opportunity to communicate some of these
learnings outward to the community as well. And I'm thinking, there's a number of city councils that are-there's always a lot of opinions out there around what transit should be. But this is a uniting program and
very exciting.
And I'm thinking that there's an opportunity for directors to help communicate some of these learnings to
our respective cities and city councils, which have myriad programs that engage with youth. And anyway,

I just wanted to thank you for including that data. I certainly intend to use that to also communicate with
others throughout the community. So thank you very much. Appreciate it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Director Sloan, you are recognized.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Well, thank you for the recognition, Chair Tisdale and Mr. Green. Thank you for the
great report. And I should preliminary apologize if this is in the report and go away. But I have one
question. And if the answer is no, I'll stop. If the answer is yes, I'll have a follow up. So Mr. Green, does
this include FlexRide as well as fixed routes?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Green, you may respond.
CARL GREEN JR: Director Sloan, great question. It does not include FlexRide.
MARJORIE SLOAN: So zero-fare students are not permitted on FlexRide?
CARL GREEN JR: If I can follow up, the analysis itself did not include FlexRide. But similar to the
application of zero fare, if the bill is passed, I'm sure the same conversation will come up as far as the
fare revenue aspect of it. But it'll apply to our paratransit or access-a-ride complimentary paratransit. So
as far as the determination, that'll be part of the-- what's presented next month. Meaning at this time-- it's
not included in the analysis. But it'll be something that we'll have to address.
MARJORIE SLOAN: OK, and this is specifically about FlexRide because I had gotten a series of
complaints that potential riders were being bumped from FlexRide by zero fare 19 and under eligible
people. And I was wondering if that is something that could be looked into. Or were the drivers mistaken
by allowing the FlexRide?
CARL GREEN JR: I do have-DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may, if I could take that question recognizing that Mr. Green does not
have auspices over the service delivery aspect, we can examine that going forward. But I believe for
everybody's edification, when we got the exemption relative to FTA to do this pilot program in excess of
six months, the intent was looking at our fixed route services, recognizing that microtransit generally
wasn't included as we went forward. So we will delve into the inquiry. And if I can ask of you, Director
Sloan, to give us more specificity around the specific instance, then we can really hone in on the inquiry in
which you're posing.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you very much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: [INAUDIBLE] Thank you.
CARL GREEN JR: I do have a-- I did phone a friend. And our senior manager for fare revenue, it does
apply to-- the analysis didn't include the application of FlexRide. But zero fare for youth as it relates to this
pilot does apply to our FlexRide.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So we will expect then when we see this coming forward next month as a
recommended action, that kind of detail being provided so that we will anticipate such questions and
address it directly. Is that correct?

CARL GREEN JR: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. That's a good affirmation. Any other directors or committee
members, for that matter, who, based upon the questioning, have further questions or comments
regarding this discussion item by Mr. Green on zero fare? I'm sorry, on zero fare for youth? Seeing no
hands raised.
For the sake of the record, I will note that it is now 7:36 PM Mountain Daylight Time. We will take a nineminute break, coming back to this meeting at 7:45 PM, 7:45 PM. We still have three more discussion
items that are very important and very substantive. So just hunker down and be prepared. But that's why
we're giving you until 7:45 as a break at this time. Thank you.

2024-05-14
Finance and Planning Committee
Part 2
DOUG TISDALE: Welcome back to the Finance and Planning Committee meeting this evening. We are
now turning to our third discussion item of the evening. This item concerns the Central Park Station
Development negotiation. The materials commence in your packet at page 145. I would like to ask now
Ms. Chessy Brady, who is our manager of Transit-Oriented Development to present this item. Ms. Brady,
you have the floor.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I will share my screen. And I think we should be good. Good
evening. My name is Chessy Brady. I am the Transit-Oriented Development manager in the Planning
Department. And I'm happy to be speaking to you this evening about a potential affordable housing
project at Central Park Station.
We're here just for a discussion this evening, but expect to come back in June with a recommended
action to authorize the general manager and CEO to enter into an exclusive negotiation agreement in with
the developer for the site. But I'll get to more of that at the end. First, I'd like to introduce you to Central
Park Station. This Park-n-ride and station are on the A line. And RTD owns about 20 acres here, so
including the park-n-rides, the bus gates, the platform. And that also includes a six-acre site, outlined in
red, on the westernmost side of the Park-n-ride.
That parcel was appraised for almost $21 million in the fall, so a very fairly valuable piece of the RTD
portfolio. Based on zoning and local plans and the development market, the site is suitable for anywhere
from 500 to 1,000 units, residential units, so a significant potential for density on that site. Now, if you
build those units, that would require eliminating 651 spaces of RTD customer parking.
The total parking at Central Park Station right now is about 1,500 spaces. So we would go from about
1,500 to 870. And 651 spaces is a lot of spaces. But it's interesting to note and important to note that
utilization at Central Park Park-n-ride is only about 30% right now, meaning that if you remove those 650
spaces, there will be no impact to current riders. No one will be lacking a parking space. And I was
surprised to look back at 2019 and see that even then, utilization at this park-n-ride was only 50%, so preCOVID, still not a very high ridership station.

So with that as a premise, I want to take a step back to talk about our unsolicited proposal procedure,
which is old hat for some of the Directors, but new to some of you. So our unsolicited proposal procedure
allows us to accept proposals from developers. We can put out an RFQ, a Request For Qualifications, or
a Request For Proposals. If we have an interesting piece of land, we can suggest it through an RFQ or
RFP, that developers propose a development on the site, but we can also just accept proposals through
this procedure.
And so more than a year ago, Ulysses Development Group submitted an initial request to the TOD team.
A few months later, they submitted for a technical review, which is step two here. We're going to take a
look at their proposal on the next slide. But I want to note that this is a very detailed procedure that we've
been through. There's a lot of information online about it, including all the forms. And I'm also happy to
answer any questions about it.
Back to Ulysses, so they submitted their technical proposal. And that remains, essentially, their proposal
now, which is to ground lease that full parcel, the westernmost parcel of the Park-n-ride, remove the
existing transit spaces, and build approximately 800 or more affordable rentals. They would also build
community amenities, perhaps a preschool. They're also committed to meeting any RTD operations or
maintenance requirements, which is important to us to protect the transit system, given the proximity to
rail and to bus infrastructure, and they would also improve access to the platform for pedestrians.
So unusually, upon determining in our technical review that removing 650 spaces from this park and ride
was actually a possibility, we decided to depart from our unsolicited proposal procedure and go right to a
Request For Qualifications. Now, the unsolicited proposal procedure itself does get to a Request For
Qualifications, or RFP. We always go out for a competitive bid. But in this case, to increase
competitiveness, to speed the process, to really take advantage of what turns out to be a far more
valuable and high potential site than previously thought, given the previous parking needs, it was
determined-- staff determined that it was best to just go right to an RFQ.
So as I noted, we expect to come back in June. You can see we're in step three here. Now, of course, I've
got my screen behind, so I can't see anything. We're in step three here, the Board review, May 2024.
We'll come back in June to request authorization to enter into an exclusive negotiation agreement. During
that negotiation, we will come to terms on a ground lease and then bring those terms back to the Board
for review.
This proposal, this project, if it moves forward, will be consistent with RTD's Equitable TOD policy. The
Equitable TOD policy was passed by the Board of Directors in 2021. And the goal of that policy is for 35%
of all units developed on RTD land from 2021 to 2031 to be affordable. So given that this proposed
project would be probably 100% affordable, 800-plus units, this is a significant move. This exceeds our
goals and would put us in a really good place to exceed our 2031 goals.
The policy also allows flexibility in parking requirements, as we see on this site, and it requires expedited
administration by staff, which we've been doing to the best of our abilities. It also allows a negotiated land
price to encourage affordability.
Another relevant policy for this project is the TOD evaluation guidelines, which were approved by the
Board in 2018. This project meets all of the principles that were defined in those guidelines, and it gets
good ratings in the factors. And it's able to do that because it's a high-value site. So ground lease revenue
will be significant for RTD and because of the high density proposed, which should yield high ridership.

And I want to take a moment here to mention that there's no way to predict precisely how many riders a
certain number of residential units will generate. But what I can say with certainty is that there are 650
empty spaces right now that are creating zero ridership. And if they're replaced with 800 units or call it
1,200 individuals, particularly if they are low and moderate income, which is who this project would serve,
then some of those people will ride the train and ride the bus, and the benefit of the transit will be really
accessible to them. And RTD not only gets the revenue from the ground lease, but we get the ridership.
And as part of the negotiation, what we'll do is make sure that we are maximizing the potential of bringing
in high ridership and those families who need this accessibility the most to the station area. So plan to
come back in June to bring an action authorizing the GM and CEO to enter into an Exclusive Negotiation
Agreement with Ulysses. So this ENA will be for a two-year negotiation. During that time, we will negotiate
exclusively with Ulysses. That gives them some certainty about their ability to invest in planning for the
site, knowing that we aren't going to sell or lease the site to somebody else while they're spending money
doing designs and working on infrastructure, et cetera.
We will have the ability to review designs for maintenance and operational requirements during that time
to protect the transit system. And the ENA will set the baseline for our expected density and affordability
requirements. So that we're on the same page about what kind of project we want to see when we are
negotiating-- as we are negotiating the ground lease. That's it for the presentation. I'm happy to answer
any questions about the TOD policies or this project, in particular.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Brady, excellent presentation and a fascinating discussion. I
open up now in the first instance to any Committee members who have any questions or comments
regarding this discussion item, noting that we are anticipating it will come back in June, at our June
meeting, for purposes of a recommended action. Madam First Vice Chair Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Chessy, I can't remember. Our policy that we adopted, and it talks about
30% affordable housing, is that program-wide, or is that site specific?
DOUG TISDALE: Ms. Brady, please respond.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you. So the goal that we set in 2021 was that in the following 10 years, 35% of
all units constructed on property would be affordable. So any given project might be 100% affordable or
have very low affordability. But the, the total units, our goal is to be at 35% by 2031.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I thought that was the case, but I just wanted to be clear. OK, thank you
very much, good presentation.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam First Vice Chair. Other Committee members who wish to weigh in
on this? Mr. Vice Chair Guzman, you are recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just a question-- forgive my naivety, but how are we defining "affordable?"
DOUG TISDALE: Ms. Brady?
CHESSY BRADY: So that's a very important question. And that definition comes from the jurisdiction and
also, from the Colorado Housing and Finance Administration, which defines affordability based on area
median income. And so the expectation at this site is that it would get low-income housing tax credits.
And those would be funding units for families in the 30%, 60%, depending on how many units there are
overall, 80% AMI tranches.

DOUG TISDALE: And AMI is Adjusted Median Income. And that's a Yes. All right, any other questions
from Committee members relative to the presentation by Ms Brady? Are there other members of the
Board who are on this Zoom conference for this meeting who have questions or comments for Ms. Brady
at this time? All right, the Chair will-- oh, I'm sorry. Director Ruscha, you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Hopefully, nobody insinuates I didn't read the packet in my
question. So first, I just want to state on the record that I am excited about these types of projects. I hope
more of these come forward. But I had a follow up, and I'm looking for the packet page number. Or maybe
it was just a comment.
It looked like on one page-- oh, here we go, packet page 153. It says that it concurs with our TOD policy
passed in 2021. And then I pulled it up. The 2021 does say, allow negotiated land price as permitted by
statute. That's what the policy just says. That's what the policy in 2021 says.
But I guess my question is, given that the legislature just permitted RTD to sell or lease land for less than
its assessed value, do we anticipate that will be part of the negotiations before the final project has come
back before the Board, given the affordable housing component?
DOUG TISDALE: And, Ms. Brady, you may respond, although I note that General Manager/CEO has
illuminated her screen, so she may have a comment on this as well. And one correction-- I believe that
the legislation passed referred to market value, not assessed value, I believe. And I'm stand to be
corrected on that. But, Ms. Johnson, did you wish to respond to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm going to defer to Ms. Brady. But if there's further information that needs to be
added, I wanted to ensure I was on camera. So I'll yield the floor to Ms. Brady, who is our subject matter
expert.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Ms. Brady?
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you. So until a few days ago, RTD was required by statute to receive fair market
value when leasing or selling land. And a last minute bill Amendment removed that requirement. So the
Equitable TOD Policy, adopted in April 2021, indicates that RTD can be flexible on price. But this is a new
level of flexibility.
And as a path forward, our plan is to come back to the Board with a framework for discussion, based on
existing policy and thorough research on the topic. I'll also add that in all our discussions with Ulysses to
this point, we have maintained that we have to abide by the statute and receive fair market value. So all
of their financial estimations to this point have had them paying fair market value in the ground lease.
JOYANN RUSCHA: May I ask another question, Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, you may.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. And thank you for that, Ms. Brady. That's helpful to know and I
assume because there might be some other tax credits or HUD dollars that can make up some
difference. And that's why this project is feasible for the developer.
Director Guzman had asked, what is affordable? And I know, in our policy, how we define affordable. My
question is, for this particular project and this developer, have they shared what formula they are going to
use in terms of affordable? Does that make sense? Simply because-- OK, because AMI is not affordable

for folks who need affordable housing. And so I was just wondering if we had any insight as to the types
of rents that would be charged.
DOUG TISDALE: And I'll let Ms. Brady respond to that. But I think that we're borrowing trouble here. We
haven't even entered into an ENA, which is when those discussions would commence between the
developer. But if you have any insight or inclination relative to what you have heard from the Ulysses
group, please share that with us, Ms. Brady.
CHESSY BRADY: Yes, it is very, very early, so I cannot offer you potential rents. But their expectation is
to do several buildings. And Some of those would be funded with low-income housing tax credits. So they
would use AMI blending. Generally, those would be lower income, average of 60%, in that range. And
then there might be 80% or 100% units in other buildings.
But it is very early. It all very much depends on the financing, which is very much in question, especially
for a project of this size. This is a very ambitious project that they're proposing. So it will really come down
to exactly where the money comes from, which will directly result-- determine the rents.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. One just closing comment, if I could, Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. Thank you. And thank you, also, for that clarification that this is probably going
to be mixed income housing, it sounds like. And I'm excited to see what comes forward. I'd like to be at
the ribbon cutting ceremony. This is also my district, and I think we should be building the ever-loving fork
out of unused parking lots. So thank you so much for your work and for this presentation. I just really look
forward to what's coming next.
Just one more-- and if we don't know, we don't know. Initially, when this was in the news, there was an
emphasis on units that would be three bedroom, more units that would be three bedrooms. So that would
enable-- so targeting families. And I didn't know if you had any insight if that was still-- if that had changed
or if that would still be the case, there would still be a sufficient or more than usual amount of three
bedroom units with affordable housing rates, so that families could benefit.
DOUG TISDALE: Ms. Brady?
CHESSY BRADY: Yeah, again, very early days for this project, but that is a very clear preference of the
City and County of Denver, which would be providing a lot of the funding. The Colorado Housing and
Finance Administration also emphasizes larger units. We understand the importance. So that will
definitely be an important part of the conversation.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And Director Ruscha, as this is your district, I will defer to you if you have
any further closing thoughts, comments, or questions that you would like to raise at this time. As I say, it's
your district.
JOYANN RUSCHA: This is my happy dance. That's it. Thank you. Good work.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm excited to see what happens next.

DOUG TISDALE: That's a good way to close out your interaction here. Mr. Vice Chair Guzman, you are
recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just a real quick question-- I don't anticipate this would be an issue, but given what
was just stated, having the jurisdiction support, we have Denver support on this, right? I'm just making
sure for the record. Thank you.
CHESSY BRADY: Yes, it's stated out loud for the record. Denver is working closely with Ulysses
Development Group. And we've been speaking with them through the past year. So we're in lockstep on
moving forward with this.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Brady. The Chair will simply note, we are dealing with a $21
million-plus asset, and there is a delicate balancing act that is required. It exceeds our goal for affordable
housing being constructed on RTD property in a transit-oriented development or transit-oriented
community. But that is, of course, not the only goal that has. It is an asset exchange, after all, converting
owned property to leased property.
And obviously, there are many issues to be addressed. But I think from the comments that you have
heard, there is a joinder in some excitement about this and the possibilities that it presents. Based upon
the Chair's comments, any further comments or questions from any Committee member or any member
of the Board? Seeing none, we'll close that discussion item.
We turn to our fourth discussion item of the evening, and this concerns the draft 2025 fiscal policy. So I
would like to invite our Chief Financial Officer Mr. Doug MacLeod, to return to the screen to present this
discussion item. Mr. MacLeod, once again, you have the floor.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm going to go ahead and share my screen and jump right
into the presentation materials. Within your packet. I'd also note that in addition to these presentation
materials, there's, of course, a Board report, but also, the fiscal policy itself from last year. And it's been
marked up in red line version, just so you can refer to that with the specific changes because in my
presentation, I was really just talk to them from [INAUDIBLE].
So what I intend to speak about is the background of the fiscal policy, some initial recommended
modifications, followed by next steps for the Committee. So regarding the background, the purpose of the
fiscal policy is really to establish a financial control framework and also, putting guidelines in place that
the Board authorizes staff to operate within. Again, our fiscal year is January to December. Modifications
can happen to the fiscal policy at any time that would be necessary, but the minimum is that we review at
least once a year with the Board and with the Finance Committee.
This is really intended, this presentation and this discussion, is really to open the discussion items. And
we'll go through the schedule later and talk about what when we would like to bring to recommended
fiscal policy for 2025 with any agreed-to changes to this Committee and to the Board as recommended
action. But we have a few months to really consider what's in the fiscal policy.
In addition, the timing regarding this annual recommended action that will come later is intended to align
with the development of the budget, the proposed budget, as well as the five-year financial forecast,
knowing that if we have those parameters agreed to by the Board, it would help us develop the actual
forecast and budgets for approval as well. And it also outlines the financial governance during the year.

So not only is it for budget and forecasting purposes, it really sets the internal controls and the control
mechanism from governance standpoint as to how we conduct our financial operations.
So to summarize some of the initial recommended fiscal policy changes for 2025-- and we do say initial,
because you'll see in some of these recommendations, they're applicable to TABOR. And again,
depending on the outcome of a potential ballot initiative, if that moves forward, this is subject to change,
of course, depending on where we go with that as an agency.
So the purpose of some of these modifications, initial suggested staff modifications, are to address some
emerging issues, such as the TABOR, concerns that we have as an agency, as well as to keep in mind
community value and financial success. That's always, in any of our policies, in any of our actions, are
really geared towards our strategic priorities and more specifically, towards some of the strategic
initiatives we've developed, budgets and forecasts. We also want to mitigate financial risk to the agency
through these policies and then bolster fiscal sustainability.
So within the document, the actual fiscal policy yourself, I've got two pages here where I've summarized
the changes that we're proposing. It's just initial considerations for the Committee. Number one is to add a
line item to pursue material revenue diversification opportunities. That's really just the codifying in this
policy, the work that's being done by the revenue diversification working group and suggest to the Board
that we pursue that as an ongoing initiative to seek out as a mechanism to diversify our revenue portfolio
and eliminate some-- or mitigate some financial risk.
So where we want to go with that, too, is it would really be things that we want to identify that might be
material to the overall revenue portfolio and as well as returning adequate investment return. In terms of if
we go after a new revenue source, it should at least demonstrate a net positive return and a material
return in terms of the overall portfolio. So if we're going to put in the effort, we really want to make sure
that it's really diversifying the portfolios [INAUDIBLE] want this additional [INAUDIBLE].
I've mentioned this in my earlier presentation, effective accounting application. We thought it would be
wise to add some TABOR-related fiscal policy guidelines, including effective accounting application as it
applies to TABOR. I mentioned the example of segregating federal revenues and related investment
income, since those are not applicable to TABOR, and also, to provide more effective analysis and
projections.
So one of the things that we're working on in revenue diversification working group is coming up with a
methodology in our budgeting and financial process to address not only the current year and what we
might be susceptible to in terms of TABOR impacts, but also, to forecast those numbers out so we can
determine the impact over a longer period of term, at least five years for a five-year financial forecast, and
be prepared for potential economic shocks or other items. And we would use data from a variety of
sources. We would work with CU Leeds School of Business our sales and use-tax experts that are
economists, also use data from the Colorado Legislative Council and the Office of State Planning and
Budgeting, to forecast out what those potential impacts from TABOR might be. Of course, this would be
one of those items the TABOR environment change for RTD from what it's currently looking like, we'd
come back to the Board in this Committee to modify that.
The other items that we'd like to have the Committee consider for modifications, too, is-- we did add some
language to fund balance policy. So you see some markups there, in particular, the FasTracks Internal
Savings Account. So there are already existed references to each one of them. I believe there's four fund
balance policies within the fiscal policy.

Based on feedback that we've heard from the Board, we wanted to strengthen up the description about
the FasTracks Internal Savings Account, including describing what the purpose of the FISA was and then,
also, listing out what the Board, prior Board, back in 2012 through 2015, agreed would be the funding
sources for that account. I would mention as additional information to the FISA, in particular, we do
provide a reconciliation within the monthly financials. We've done that for years now. That shows what the
balance is, what the funding source is by line item have been, and what the funding uses have been.
This fiscal policy just aligns the fiscal policy with that reconciliation information and describes some of
those parameters. I know there's been requests, also, for more detail about the FISA, since it goes back
quite a ways. And the Board Office has been gathering quite a bit of data. As you imagine, there's a few
dozen Board action items and discussion items going back 12 years now that really lays that out. So that
will be provided to the Committee when that's ready.
Oh, and another thing I'll mention about the FISA, and then I'll move on. There was some discussion at
the last Board meeting about use of those funds. And with each of our fund balances, each of those funds
is up to-- expenditure usage of that is really up to the approval of the Board. So staff cannot spend those
funds without actually coming to the Board asking for approval or having the Board request that some of
that funding be used.
So a more recent example was the Northwest Rail Peak Service study, that was projected to cost $8
million. The Board at that time decided that FISA funding would be used for that. So there's an $8 million
subtraction of the balance that you'll see in the reconciliation. The other thing I'd like to add is the FISA
money is FasTracks specific. So FasTracks money can only be spent on FasTracks elements, per voter
approval. So none of that money can be spent on base system issues. So some of the ideas that were
discussed were possibly using that funding across broad elements of the system. However, that's not
possible. We can only use that money with Board approval on FasTracks funds.
TABOR fund reserve-- so I mentioned this earlier, too. Regarding TABOR, I think it would be wise to put
in the fiscal policy that we consider setting aside money for TABOR refunds, projected TABOR refunds,
just so we have that funding available and aren't reactionary to that. When the time comes, if there are
potential refunds, that way, that money is set aside. It does not get considered for expenditure.
So next steps regarding the fiscal policy, so in July, on the work plan for this Committee, we have a
discussion item to come back on July 16th to have further discussions to allow the Committee time to
consider other items or have discussions with me or other staff regarding potential other adds or
modifications to this policy. Where we'd like to ask for a recommended action to approve the 2025 fiscal
policy would come in September, at the September 10 Finance and Planning Committee. That would
align well with the finalization of the draft proposed budget in October for the Board's consideration, as
well as the final recommendation for the budget for 2025, that's being proposed in November. So with
that, Mr. Chair, I believe that concludes my comments. I'd be happy to answer any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. So let us, in the first instance, ask, Are there
Committee members who have comments or questions relative to this item? The first hand I see is that of
Board First Vice Chair Catlin. You are recognized, Director.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just so I understand completely, the reserve fund, TABOR
reserve fund, would be necessary only in the event of a failed election? Is that correct? Or would we-OK.

DOUG MACLEOD: Correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: So that's really predicated on whether or not we go to the ballot and what those results
are.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, can we check?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yeah, great question. Yes. And so I think it would be prudent for us and
the Committee as an agency, as an agency staff, as well as the Board, to consider solidifying or beefing
up our fiscal policy to the extent that we just anticipate being-- about being debruce continuing, and
thereby, being more conservative in our approach to forecasting and budgeting until we know for sure. So
if that's the route that we take, that would be the purpose of that TABOR, is [INAUDIBLE] really to be
prepared for potential refunds.
PEGGY CATLIN: I appreciate that. And I agree that that conservative approach is prudent. On packet
pages 161 and 162, it talks about the FISA contribution being subject to Board approval. And I think,
based on what you suggested earlier about some ideas that were thrown out last month about potential
uses for that FISA account, I think we should have a pretty in-depth discussion about that. But I would
also ask that there be some consideration for applying those funds toward projects that were originally in
the system for enhanced bus service and-- that were in the FasTracks plan that were not necessarily
fixed or not necessarily rail corridors. So I want to make sure that those are factored into the, into
consideration.
And also, these are subject-- I think one year, we chose-- I could be wrong. I think one year, we chose not
to fund the FISA. And I do believe that option should still be on the table for not necessarily continuing to
put that funding on autopilot, but to really have a meaningful discussion among Board members about
what we intend to do with that. Thank you. Because as we're all aware, there are a number of people who
would like to tell us how to spend that money. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Madam First Vice Chair. Yes, the legislature itself has weighed
in and attempted to direct the expenditure of FasTracks dollars. And as you very appropriately point out,
FasTracks does not consist merely of Northwest Rail. And I say that, being the Director for the Southwest
Rail extension, which remains an uncompleted corridor as part of the FasTracks approved plan. Mr.
MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr Chair. I just really wanted to add that all of these fund balances are
really up to the discretion of the Board in terms of which fund balances we have, what the purpose is.
They can be changed at any time. The Board at the time that set up the FISA set that up. It can be
changed at your discretion. And it's not just the spending of those funds. It's really the structure, as well,
so certainly welcome, any of those discussions.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Madam First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: And all I'm suggesting is that we may want to have a pretty in-depth, robust discussion
about this rather than just assuming that we're going to fund the FISA in its entirety without really outlining
in detail what the parameters for funding and spending those dollars would be.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And the Chair will actually offer some observations on that when
the Chair chooses the opportunity to speak. But first, let's go to Director Ruscha. You are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think Director Catlin covered some of what I was going to
say, and Mr. MacLeod concurred. So the FISA can change per Board policy. It was created by the Board,
and we've changed it over time.
We've also considered using the FISA for other purposes, like during financial crises of a couple of years
ago. And at one point, it was even suggested that we use some of those dollars for 119. Thankfully, that
did not happen, And. We're using base dollars. But I think also, we just noted that the money in the FISA
right now, not all of it is FasTracks. And so I just think we need to be really careful about how we talk
about the FISA because there's certainly misperceptions that have been shared in the legislature and in
the media about what the FISA is or what it could be used on.
That being said, I really just do concur with Director Catlin and others, who have said that we need to take
a deeper look at this. And so I would suggest at least a study session. I'm new here. How does one go
about requesting further review? If someone could just tell me who makes this decision-- is it the Chair of
the Committee? Is it the Chair of the Board? This has come up so much in the last six months, I think we
might be overdue for an in-depth, separate meeting. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Ruscha. And yes, in part, the Committee Chair has the
ability, in consultation with the Vice Chair, to address the Committee agenda. We also have some study
session space already set aside for the full Board. And some of those topics are open, and we can
address them. But I will ask our Executive Manager Mr. Kroll if he would like to weigh in and provide
some further amplification on that process for your benefit. Mr. Kroll, you are recognized.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board
Office. You hit on pretty much every conceivable path there is to schedule a meeting. Most of the ability to
schedule a meeting rests with the Chair of the Board and then the Committee Chairs and Vice Chairs.
There is an alternative route that is available to Directors, which is to initiate a meeting by way of a threeDirector request. So three Directors could request of the Chair of the Board that a study session, special
Board meeting, et cetera be called. So that would be the only other option that Committee Chair Tisdale
did not highlight. I will point out and saying this, though, that CFO MacLeod has added to the work plan,
in consultation with the Committee Chair, a subsequent discussion around the fiscal policy in July, which
could be the forum for a more in-depth conversation on this.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. And that is exactly right, that that is intended to be available for a
further in-depth analysis. Director Ruscha, you had a further comment to that point.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, I just wanted to note the last time that we had a retreat regarding unfinished
FasTracks projects was 2019. So that predates some of this Board. And I guess I can't force it, but I think
that I would suggest that we have a separate conversation about FISA uses current policy and the like.
So that before we consider changing our FISA policy as outlined in this proposal, we know where we are.
Right? So it's not just where we might be going with fiscal policy, but where we currently stand. That
would also give members opportunity to weigh in.
So some of the things that were raised in the previous Board meeting could be done if Board members
chose to. There's nothing really precluding a lot of those considerations. So I just wanted to throw out, it's

come up a lot, and not everyone has the same seniority or had the benefit of being able to dialogue with
staff pre-2020 on this question. But thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. And the Chair will also take this opportunity to
refresh the recollection of some of the Directors who were here at the time. But in 2018, we did, in fact,
adopt as a Board a resolution regarding unfinished corridors under FasTracks, and that included periodic
reports by staff relative to steps being taken and status of those matters. So that remains out there as
well. And I just offer that as a refresher to those who are impacted by the obligation to provide further
information to the Board. Director Ruscha, your hand is still up. Did you have some final thought you wish
to share?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just that previously, I had asked if we could just advance all the Board policies
regarding FISA so we had a library. I did speak with Mr. Kroll, and it sounds like that will be coming to us.
And there's an email in my inbox. So I just wanted to flag that that might be one of the documents that's in
my inbox. But that was all. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for pointing out the responsiveness of the Board Office to your
request. Mr. Vice Chair, you are recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr. MacLeod, thank you for this work. I want to applaud the effort. I am
keenly interested in the segregation of the FISA funds from non-FISA funds. I want to emphasize that for
feedback purposes.
The other funds that are listed here, the TABOR one, I think, is an excellent idea and definitely a
conservative approach. As this is a discussion item, I'm assuming you're looking for some kind of
feedback on that. The Capital Replacement Fund and the Operating Reserve Fund seem to make a lot of
sense. I do question just having-- I think it says three months available to us and if that's sufficient, given
everything that we've been through in the last few years, so something to consider there.
Not that I'm advocating one way or the other, I just don't know. And then I appreciate working on the
definitions of what these funds are, considering that they are Board-created funds for the purpose of
running this agency. Because we are the government of this agency.
And yet, our legislators have, by title, listed these in legislation at the state level, is completely mindboggling to me. So I really would like to get this tightened up and very clear about what we're doing and
what we have control over as Board Directors because we do have to make these decisions. That's why
we're here. So I just want to point that out.
Also, everything that we've talked about tonight, y'all, I don't know if you were paying attention or not, but
we did this all without legislation telling us we had to. Go back a couple slides in this packet and realize
that we are doing the work we were sent to do. So I'm really proud of us.
I think we should all be proud of ourselves and proud of the fact that we didn't have to have it done with a
chunkla held over our head in any way, from Transit-oriented Development, to figuring out how to do civil
rights work, which is a federal mandate, even when we're ignored at the state level. So sorry, that's my
snipe. I'm putting it in there. But, Mr. McLeod, you are on the right path. Keep going. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Vice Chairman. We sincerely hope that others who might be
observing this meeting make note of your observations and that that is exactly how this Board does
proceed, has proceeded, and will proceed in the future. I think it is worthwhile to mention that.

I do have an observation relative to the three months, and that's just to point out that my understanding is
that the three months is-- generally accepted accounting principles call for that reserve; and secondly, to
remind us all that, for example-- I used to represent developers a lot. When, for example, you're building a
church, you don't build a church for Easter and Christmas. You build a church for 50 other Sundays of the
year, and you deal with the special circumstances of Christmas and Easter when they arise. Director
Ruscha, I'm going to defer you, and I'm going to go to Committee Member Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much, Director Tisdale. And I apologize if I missed this in an email. But I
think it would be great-- language is challenging. And to the extent it would not violate any of our rules, it
would be great to see a Word version of some of these proposals for an update and perhaps, not to add
to your own burden or Mr. Kroll's burden, but a way to workshop the language that complies with our
open meetings rules, but also, allows us to sit there so we're not doing it live or at the Board meeting
itself. I'm not sure if any language has been circulated, but would love to start putting that in motion, so
that Mr. MacLeod has clarity on what we're looking at and that we're not spending time with amendments
to amendments to amendments on, on language changes, which will fully take ownership of doing from
time to time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Dishell. We appreciate it. A concluding thought from
Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I just want to, since this is also time for feedback, so I just want to
maybe clarify or be more clear as to what would help this Director in the next couple of months. So I
noticed, say, on packet page 161, on fund balance policies and even FISA, a lot of this was already
policy. It just wasn't in our fiscal policy document. But there was one, for example, that says-- sorry-sales and lease opportunities for all RTD properties. And my understanding is that previously, that was
property by prop-- case by case basis based on Board approval.
I think that's what this fiscal policy says as I'm reading it. But is it possible for staff to maybe do it chart, so
again, on every change here, not just the red line, so we're very, very clear as to where we are now and
where we're moving forward, so that we don't have the amendments to the amendments or questions at
9:26 PM? And I think that would help newer Directors as well. It will help me. I'll just say that.
Finally, I just wanted to note/ask or comment. I had asked previously about unrestricted fund balance. So
previously, we, as a Board, had a policy to spend that down. And now we talk about-- but now, in our last
budget, we have an unrestricted fund. So are we using unrestricted fund as a synonym for something
else? Does that make sense? Would you be able to address that, Mr. MacLeod? Because I'm getting
confused.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod, can you help clarify the confusion that Director Ruscha is experiencing at
this time?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you for the question. And next month, we have on
the schedule to provide a mid-year financial update at the June Finance and Planning Committee. What I
would like to do, if it's OK with this Committee, is add to that presentation not just our financial position,
but also, discuss some of those fund balances and how they're broken down between base and
FasTracks, as well as overall. Because I think it's important to understand the whole picture.
So the unrestricted fund itself is everything that's left over that has not been designated for a specific
purpose, such as the FISA, the operating reserve for the capital replacement reserve. So again, that's up

to Board discretion as to how that is being used. In the past, we haven't had much of a unrestricted fund
balance. It's almost like a general fund.
We're finally to the point where we have a decent-sized, unrestricted fund balance, which hasn't been
designated. In our five-year financial forecast, it does show that may be used up, and we need to refresh
that forecast with more current numbers. But I can, at least, begin the discussion in June and really focus
in on those fund balances, if that's a good venue to do that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Ruscha, was there anything else you wish to say?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. And I apologize for taking up the time. I just feel like I keep asking the same
question. So we don't have a policy attached to our unrestricted funds right now as I understand.
Previously, we did, whether it was formal or just said in meetings, that fund would be spent down by
about this date. So again, I also asked this in previous meetings. If we could have each fund, and the
most recent Board-approved policy attached to those funds, that would be very, very helpful, particularly
as we consider changing them.
I was just putting it out. So I'll just ask one more time. But it sounds like right now, we don't have a policy
regarding unrestricted fund dollars. But perhaps I will be enlightened next month or in a couple of months.
Thank you, Mr. Chair, for entertaining the question.
DOUG TISDALE: You're very welcome, Director. And I know that Mr. MacLeod will address that. And I
think there was an essay into the beginning of that response, which is, it has, in the past, historically been
if, in fact, having funded all of the things that we need to fund, including capital projects and operations
and the various funds, we find ourselves in the happy situation of having some money left over, that goes
into an unrestricted fund. I think that's a capsule of what the policy is. Is that correct, Mr MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, that's correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Ruscha did lead into, and Director Catlin did the same
thing, the one comment that I had specifically about this. On the whole, I think it's excellent work, and it's
great to see the funds articulated and given some greater clarity. On page 162 of the packet, related to
the FISA fiscal policy, the enumeration of items that specifically would be identified as funding the FISA
is, I submit, potentially a major change.
And I think the comment relative to sales and lease opportunities for all RTD properties is the part that
specifically caught my attention, along with the other enumerated items. So I think we would benefit from
some further discussion, as we have outlined here, relative to that. And I thank you for that. Did you have
any comment that you wish to make in response to that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The only thing I would say is each of those items that are listed
in the policy are not changed. Those are what was agreed to by previous Boards as the original finance-FISA elements that would contribute to that. So those are exactly as they are.
In fact, the particular lease and sale of property was specifically addressed that it would include both the
Base System and FasTracks sales of properties at the time. So that is the one item that is both base and
FasTracks funded. The rest of the items are strictly related to FasTracks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for that further articulation. That helps. And I think it does demonstrate the
merit of the suggestion by Director Ruscha that perhaps if we could compile these documents into one

place, that would be beneficial for all of us. Any other comments or questions relative to this discussion
item from any Committee member or Board member? Seeing none, that will conclude our fourth
discussion item.
Our fifth and final item for discussion tonight is the return on investment Dashboard. And there is an
excellent Board report that gives some of the history about why this came about and why it is contained in
our work plan and why we are discussing it tonight, as scheduled in the work plan, and what we intend to
do going forward relative to that. So I would once again like to ask Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial
Officer, to present this item. Mr. MacLeod, you're still the man.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And yet, you'll notice as well, there's not any attached
documents. So the Chair suggested a good plan. We have in the work plan to give an update on the
return on investment Dashboard in each of the months of May, June, and July. We're not at a point where
we have information to share with the Committee or the Board at this point in time, but we didn't want to
just ignore it, since it was on the work plan.
There are additional larger discussions regarding this particular item going through the Performance
Committee, which need to be taken into account as well. So I guess stay tuned, and there will be
additional information forthcoming about the status of that. You're muted, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I do want the Committee to know that this remains a topic of
importance for us, that we will continue to follow up on, recognizing the difficulty of trying to compile such
information. But we recognize that our staff is equipped to render the impossible as the inevitable. So we
appreciate that. Madam First Vice Chair, Director Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr Chair. And, Mr. McLeod, I appreciate you saying that. Yes, we are
delving into this in-depth in the Performance Committee, so more to come in the next couple of weeks. I
know staff is working really hard on it, and I see Ms. Johnson nodding. So we're working on that as we
speak. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam. First Vice Chair. Yes, it's a topic that interests all of us
and perhaps more importantly, that interests all of the elected leaders with whom we interact in each of
our jurisdictions, who are desirous of that information. Other comments or questions from the Committee
relative to the Return On Investment Dashboard discussion item? Director Ruscha, you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. if I understood correctly, some of this is also crossing over into
Performance Committee. If there are things that Directors would like to see on such Dashboard, who
would we communicate with before it comes back to us?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's an excellent question. And in the first instance, relative to the Return
On Investment Dashboard, recognizing there's overlap with what the Performance Committee is doing
relative to certain performance metrics to be placed on a Dashboard, if you could get those to me, and
Vise Chair Guzman and I will discuss with our Chief Financial Officer relative to the articulation of that.
And I know the General Manager is invested in and a part of this process, so General Manager/CEO
Johnson will certainly also be a part of that analysis and review. Mr. Vice Chair, you are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So something that I want to have everybody consider as we are in these
conversations, too, is, What is the ramification of providing a return on investment? And who does that
impact, and what potential effect could there be from providing that? We have a really great example of

when it's misused or misunderstood and becomes a bludgeon rather than a way to communicate about
what's going on.
And I also think that it's really advisable that we remember everybody pays into this large system that we
operate, all 2,300-plus square miles, and everybody has access to this system, some better, some less,
some more, some at a distance. But however we put this forward, what I would really hate to see, and I
mean really hate to see it, is that anybody would come away with it thinking, every dollar of tax money I
put in, I only get blah, blah, blah out of it. Because it's nonsense, right?
We all pay in, and we can all use the system. And every [AUDIO OUT] in the whole is what we need to
track. And so how do you do that? I had a conversation earlier today, and I bring this up for this very
reason. Folks down on your end, actually, Director Tisdale-- Chair Tisdale, what does it look like on the
south end of the RTD? And what is the return on investment for my area, my city, my county?
And I had to have the realistic talk. What does it look like for you? What does it look like for me? I
represent Denver, but I still live in the whole district. I can go anywhere on these buses and trains that
RTD goes.
And so, you know, how do we fairly justify what that looks like? And so just a thoughtful approach to what
we're putting out to the public can prevent a lot of stomach ache and upset heartache later, when we
have done our job right in the first instance to provide information that's relevant and that's helpful, but not
in a way that can turn one county against its neighbor. [AUDIO OUT] against another area. It's just
something we really, really deeply need to think about as we wrestle with the idea of having to balance
against transparency throughout the entire region.
And so as we go forward with this, that's one thing that I'm going to keep my eye on. And I would urge all
of my fellow Directors to really pay attention, if we start asking things that are so minutia, that it's going to
potentially become a weapon against this Board or against this agency, rather than something helpful to
convey a message to our constituents or, as you said, to other elected leaders. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Vice Chairman. And you articulate well what this Chair has told this
Board for years. Our task is to communicate, collaborate, and cooperate. And the communication has to
be a two-sided communication, and it has to be one that is respectful of every potential perspective that
can be brought forward. But indicating that there may be issues with the mere fact of measuring this
should not hinder us from, in fact, measuring it and providing some information.
Putting it in context is our job and the job of staff. But you can't just tell elected officials, you don't need to
know this. They're going to continue asking, and we must respond. We have to respond in a responsible
manner, but we must respond. Either further comments or questions relative to this discussion item on the
Return On Investment Dashboard from any Director? Chair Davidson, you are recognized.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. I think I'll in part be echoing what Committee
Vice Chair Guzman had to say, so I'll keep it brief. I just would caution us as we think about an ROI
calculation. I think, historically, I've seen a lot of that broken down by cities and by counties. But I think, as
we talked about a lot recently with our funding structure, our model, our funding model, is very much
directly from the taxpayer. And the taxpayers can experience the entire district.
And also, it's interesting that this evening, We. Were presented with polling data contemplating going to
the ballot on a debrucing measure. And we saw that the most convincing argument for investment in

transit had to do with reducing congestion on highways, perhaps not what I would rank, perhaps not what
many of us here on this call would rank, but something that the community did rank as one of its most
convincing.
The second one had to do with taking care of others. And it had to do with providing access in,
specifically, for folks that had disabilities and needing means to get where they go. So the taxpayers
themselves may be valuing things that are different from what's literally right outside my front door. They
may be valuing things on what do others need. And they may also be valuing things on where their
destination is, when they get to Denver, when they get to Boulder. Can they hit the ground and go to
where they need to go?
There were also a number-- there are things around the environment which, generally, the best lever for
improving environment is either long-haul travel over those high-density areas. So I think there's an
opportunity in this. And thank you for bringing it forward as a discussion. Because we don't necessarily
have to let how we've approached this in the past dictate how we do this in the future.
And there may be an opportunity for us to leverage our recent dialogue and how we may be framing up
value propositions to approach voters as a way to dialogue with communities about, hey, this is what the
taxpayers are telling us from a position of knowledge of what our riders, what our customers, and what
our taxpayers value, and communicating that to other policymakers, rather than just answering the
problem the way that folks maybe want that to be communicated. So just a little bit of a caution and a
thank you, Chair, for bringing this forward.
Thank you to Mr. MacLeod and Ms. Johnson, for working on some of these issues, and I think there's a
good opportunity here. And Committee Vice Chair Guzman, thank you for your comments. It's the
taxpayer paying for this, as we've been saying for many months now. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Davidson. Madam First Vice Chair Catlin, you are
recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize for the second bite at the apple, but thank you, Director Guzman and Chair
Davidson. I was looking at this Return On Investment, not in terms of a geographic distribution of funds,
but rather a return on services. Or based on this investment, what are we getting in return in terms of
service hours or ridership? And so I'm glad you brought that up because that's where we really need to
focus. What are we getting for the dollars that are being spent?
That's the way I was looking at it. But I think taking the taxpayer input into account is where we need to go
with the Dashboard. And I'll leave it up to Ms. Johnson and her staff to come up with the appropriate
operational metrics to better define that. But I appreciate you allowing me to comment on this once again.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam. First Vice Chair. Any other comments or questions
relative to the Return On Investment Dashboard discussion item before us now? Seeing none, that will
conclude our fifth and final discussion item. We turn now to other matters. Are there any other matters
that the Committee would like to discuss at this time pertinent to the Finance and Planning Committee's
work?
Seeing none, then I will advise you that our next meeting date for the Finance and Planning Committee is
scheduled for Tuesday, June 11. Our Committee work plan has us very busy in June with the following
action items slated for our agenda. So this is your movie trailer or your teaser-- one, whether to

recommend to the full Board, the referral of a TABOR ballot question to the voters this November; next,
whether to recommend to the full Board the authorization of the General Manager/CEO to enter into an
exclusive negotiation agreement for the Central Park Station TOD, as was described tonight; next,
whether to recommend to the full Board or a matter related to annexing additional land in Erie, Colorado,
into the RTD, to bring us up to a full 2,400 square miles.
I know General Manager always gives the exact number. I'm a lawyer. I round it. It's 2,400 square miles.
Additionally, there will be discussions on the following matters-- potential Build America Bond refunding;
next, our draft budget framework, about which much has been asked in the past; next, a mid-year
financial update; and of course, as we addressed tonight, formal action on our Zero Fare for Youth
Program, to process that as a fare change.
Once again, June promises to be a very busy meeting night for us. So your Chair suggests that you plan
nothing for the early morning of June the 12th. At this point, then-- and noting, for the sake of the record,
that with five minutes left in the first period, the Nuggets lead the Timberwolves by a score of 21 to 18,
and seeing no further discussion, we will note that this Committee is adjourned as of 8:56 PM, Mountain
Daylight Time. Thank you, all, and have a good night.

