Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, October 14, 2008
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

October 14, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services
Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October 14, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms, R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Not Present:

Chair John Tayer, Noel Busck, Juanita Chacon, Bruce Daly, Daryl Kinton, Bill McMullen,
Chris Martinez, Neill Quinlan, Dave Ruchman, Barbara Yamrick
Barbara Brohl, Bill Christopher, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Wally Pulliam

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Carol Carrillo, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Bob Downes,
David Genova, Cory Granrud, Bob Lewis, Marla Lien, Trent Ratcliff, Cal Shankster,
Terry Howerter, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Brian Matthews, Caitlin Magee, Tony
McCaulay, Robert Merriman, Paula Perdue, Bill Porter, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak,
John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Errol Stevens, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Brad Ramirez (The Segal Company), Roger Sherman, Holman Carter, Kevin Flynn (The
Rocky Mountain News), Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Linda Semmer (The Segal
Company), Tim Burdick, Bruce Behnke (Veolia), Karen Morales, Myra Simmons, Scott
Prickett

Call to Order:

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

I.

Recommended Action
 IT Contingency Work Order Contract Third Year Option – Bob Lewis, Senior Manager, Information
Technology presented the first three action items. These contracts are for specific tasks where IT
does not have the manpower or the knowledge. Both the Ciber and Booz Allen contracts are for work
order related tasks where IT does not have the knowledge or the staff expertise to do them. Both
Ciber and Booz Allen have SBE/DBE participation of 15%.
It is recommended be the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a contract amendment to exercise a
third one-year option with Ciber (Contract 15DK008) and to increase the contract value by $250,000.
This contract was originally awarded in 2006 to Ciber through the competitive bid process and totally
separate from the ERP effort. The contract allowed for an initial year plus four one-year options to
renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The third option year will begin in April 2009.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, October 14, 2008
Page 2 of 6

IT’s Business and Applications Section is presently undergoing reorganization to insure future skills
and experiences are available to support new technologies and software RTD has now implemented.
Until IT staff has been hired, contractors through work order contracts like this one with Ciber are
necessary. The 2008 Amended Budget includes funds to support contractors while staff is being
hired and brought up to speed. It is anticipated the need for work order funds should be reduced in
2009.
 IT Contingency Work Order Second Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manger to execute all documents necessary to award Booz Allen Hamilton (Booz Allen) a
second-year option to a current contract for IT Technical and Management Support Services
(15DK004). This is an increase in the not-to-exceed limit of $250,000. This contract was originally
awarded in 2005 to Booz Allen through the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an
initial-year plus four (4) one-year options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor. With
increased needs for Booz Allen Services, IT requested the first option year be exercised and the annual
not-to-exceed was increased by $500,000. The second option year addition of $250,000 requires
Board approval. The second option year is to begin on November 1, 2008, and remain in effect for
one year until October 31, 2009.
 FasTracks PC Support Contract – It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a
3 year contract, with two 1 year options for consulting services (PC Systems Support). The 3 year
contract in the amount of $274,198, with an effective date of October 26, 2008, is to Technology
Group (TIG). The vendor was selected through the competitive bid process.
This is an award for an individual to provide PC support to the FasTracks team in the Post building.
The amount has been reduced to $244,000 because of negotiating by the Procurement department.
Director Chacon asked about why this was not an internal position. Phil Washington responded that a
cost analysis is always performed before a contract is put out to bid and that this contract actually
saves the District money over having a staff position for this work.
Director Martinez said that it would be helpful for the Board to know how many hours we used by the
contractor and how much money was spent. Staff responded that they would provide this
information in future Board reports.
Director Ruchman echoed Director Chacon’s concerns about bringing more of these items in house
and asked if the Board could make this policy decision instead of staff making the decision for the
Board.
Director Quinlan said that this is a management decision and it would be micro-management by the
Board.
Motion:

Director Yamrick made a motion to forward all three of
these items, IT Contingency Work Order Third Year
Option, IT Contingency Work Order Second Year Option,

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, October 14, 2008
Page 3 of 6
and FasTracks PC Support Contract to the October 21,
2008 Board Meeting Agenda.
Second:

Director McMullen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motions passed unanimously.

FasTracks Equity Update
At this point, Bill Van Meter, Senior Manager, Systems Planning, presented the FasTracks Equity
Update. Cal Marsella was planning on giving this update but was unable to attend the meeting due to
illness. A handout was distributed to the Committee. Please see the minute meeting notebook for
further information. Cal Marsella will address the DRCOG Board of Directors on October 15, 2008
and wanted the Board to see the information before this event. The handout covers what the East
and Gold Line corridors would look like if Federal Funds were not available for these corridors. Mr. Van
Meter stressed that this is not really an option that the District is considering. Staff has received
feedback from the FasTracks public meetings and the Chair of DRCOG, Mayor McNally, wanting to
see what the full build out would look like under the assumption of no federal funds for East and Gold
Line. On the East Corridor, the line would be able to be built to Stapleton and on the Gold Line, from
Denver Union station to Sheridan. This map also illustrates that the other corridors would be held
“harmless” under this scenario.
A broader range of Equity Option scenarios for proportioning out the budget remaining for 2017 will
be presented to the Board on November 11, 2008.
Director Quinlan thought it was a very dangerous precedent to release this information because it can
be misconstrued. Director McMullen said he felt this was appropriate as it is an “eye opener” to the
public. Director Quinlan said he agreed with Director McMullen but felt that when it is addressed as a
single issue, it becomes elevated in importance.
Director Martinez said this option was about showing equity between the corridors. Director Tayer
made a request that the Next Steps calendar (page numbered 62 of the handout) be distributed to
local governments and organizations. Mr. Van Meter said that this will be shown to the DRCOG board
and there are three local government meetings scheduled for next week where this information will be
presented. Director Busck felt it was a good idea to put this information out.
Director Yamrick is getting a lot of questions about total build out with BRT. She wants to see cost
estimates for BRT for all of FasTracks. Bill Van Meter said that this will be presented in the November
6 and November 11, 2008 presentation to the Board. Director Ruchman gave an overview of what
happened in the past regarding the consideration of BRT on all corridors. On several corridors BRT
was not the preferred alternative in the Environmental Impact Statements (EIS). Director Martinez
added that now since voters are concerned about economic implications, the questions that have been
raised about BRT costs should be re-examined.
 Salaried Employee Insured Benefits – Phil Washington, Assistant General Manager, Administration,
introduced this item. Mr. Washington said the District met the budget target for benefits.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, October 14, 2008
Page 4 of 6

Mr. Washington introduced the new benefits manager for the District, Carol Carrillo.
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors approve the
2009 plan Year Salaried Employee Insured Benefits Budget and authorize the General Manager to enter
into a agreement with the Insurance Carriers.
The total estimated cost for the 2009 Salaried Employee Insured Benefits is $7,024,403, of which the
District will pay $6,020,821 (85.7%) and our salaried employees will contribute the remaining
$1,003,582 (14.3%). The District contribution to the salaried insured benefits budget is included in
the 2009 Requested Budget.
Discussion: Director Daly asked how much did the contract go up from 2008. Linda Zimmer from
the Segal Company gave this information. There is about a 9.9% increase overall in the cost of
benefits. United Health Care originally came in at a 16.3% increase and it was negotiated down to a
14.3% increase. Kaiser went up by 9.9% for the low option and 27.7 % increase for the high option
plan. There will be no changes to the premiums for the low option plans but there will be increases to
the high option plans for employees because they are buying up to a richer benefit plan.
Motion:

Director Busck made a motion to forward this item onto
the October 21, 2008 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:
Vote on
Motion:

Director Martinez seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously.

 Station Area Master Plan Transfer Request – Robert Merriman, Manager of Budget and Financial
Analysis introduced this action item.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager to transfer $1,480,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide initial
funding for Station Area Master Planning, Next Steps Planning and Corridor-wide Planning to be
reimbursed by a federal CMAQ Grant.
Director Tayer had a question about why the Northwest Corridor is not included. Bill Sirois, Manager,
Transit Oriented Development answered that the funds are applied for and awarded through a
process. The Northwest Corridor did not apply for any of these funds.
Motion:

Director Busck made a motion to forward this item onto
the October 21, 2008 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, October 14, 2008
Page 5 of 6
 Request for Approval of the 2009-2014 Transit Development Program – Terry Howerter, Chief
Financial Officer and Susan Cohen, Manager, FasTracks Program Control, presented this item. Staff
addressed the concerns and questions that the Board had brought forward on September 23, 2008.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the RTD Board of Directors adopt
the 2009-2014 Transit Development Program (TDP).

II.

Motion:

Director Yamrick made a motion to forward this item onto
the October 21, 2008 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Third Quarter 2008 Investment Report – Teresa Sedmak gave this report assisted by Scott
Prickett. Mr. Prickett gave an overview of the current economic situation and congressional rescue plan.
Ms. Sedmak spoke about the specific effects to RTD. Three positions in the RTD portfolio have fallen
outside the purchase parameters. The District has a limit of exposure to the portfolio of 30% and it
currently at 19%. Ms. Sedmak felt that some of these exposures would work themselves out as the
market stabilizes. Ms. Sedmak then reviewed the Third Quarter 2008 Investment Report. During the
third quarter of 2008, the total return on the enhanced cash and short-term tiers of the District’s
unrestricted portfolio underperformed its benchmarks, primarily due to corporate exposure.
Director Tayer asked if there was a trigger when we would sell securities. Ms. Sedmak said there is not
a trigger to sell in the investment portfolio but there are limitations on buying. These guidelines are in
the Investment Policy which is approved by the Board.

III. AIG Downgrade – Effect on RTD U.S. Leveraged Leases – Teresa Sedmak gave this report. In two
separate transactions in 1997 the District entered into a couple of leveraged lease transactions with U.S.
Corporations. RTD has depreciable assets but can’t take advantage of the depreciation but US
corporations could take advantage. So this involved the lease and lease back of depreciable assets. One
of them involves 17 light rail vehicles and the other involves properties, Boulder, East Metro, and District
Shops. The District is working to shut down the leases or to replace them with another provider. These
types of transactions are no longer approved by the IRS. There will be cost associated with terminating
or finding another provider. Once a cost value has been determined, staff will report back to the Board
for approval.
IV. Market Impact on Salaried Pension Plan – Update – Terry Howerter gave this update. Many employees
have expressed concern about the pension plan. Tim Burdick of Marquette Associates and Brad Ramirez
of the Segal Company helped give this update. Tim Burdick said that the portfolio is down about 10%.
Director Martinez asked that some notification be sent out to the employees regarding the state of the
pension plan.
V.

August Financial Status – Robert Merriman gave this report. This is the first month that the amended
budget has been applied to the report. Ridership is up 4.8% over plan. Ridership has continued to rise

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, October 14, 2008
Page 6 of 6
as has the cost of gasoline. Fare revenues are up. Bruce Abel pointed out that we did institute a fare
increase on January 1, 2008 and that can account for the 19.1% higher revenue. Director Daly asked
about the mall shuttle figure and why it is lower, Robert Merriman said to keep in mind that this is a year
to date figure, not just for August 2008 when the Democratic National Convention occurred.
VI.

2009 Budget Update – Mr. Merriman gave this update. The District has met the legal requirement that
the 2009 budget has been made available to the public. Notice was published in three major papers in
the district and it is physically available in the Board office for review. It is also available for the Board to
inspect. Phil Washington said the Board will be asked to approve the 2009 budget at the November 18,
2008 regular Board meeting.
Director Martinez commended staff for the amount of time they spent to implement an early budget
process.

VII. Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.
VIII. Next Meeting Date - The next Financial/Administration Committee meeting is scheduled for Thursday,
November 13, 2008.
IX. Adjourn - Hearing no objection, Chair Tayer adjourned the Financial/Administration Committee meeting at
7:56 p.m.

