Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on November 5, 2007
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

November 5, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting held on
November 5, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D

***
Committee Members
Present:
Chair Ruchman, Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein, Daryl Kinton, Bill
McMullen, Neil Quinlan, Barbara Yamrick (via teleconference)
Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Dennis Cole, Rick Clarke, John Shonsey,
Daria Serna, Sherry Ellebracht, Jeff Cluphf, David Hollis, Bruce
Abel, Stan Szabelak, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News), Larry Warner (PB), Carl
Hinds
***
Chair Ruchman called the meeting to order at 5:07 p.m.

Call to Order:

I. Recommended Action
 Denver Transit Construction Group Early Procurement/Early Construction Change
Order
Liz Rao, Assistant General Manager, Planning & Development introduced this
action. The District has received approval from the Federal Transit Administration
for early procurement of light rail track and ties and for early construction on
some bridges on the West Corridor.
Dennis Cole, Engineering, Project Manager gave more background on the two
action items. The first action item is for procurement of materials for bridges
along the West Corridor. The price of steel continues to rise and the early
procurement will save the District money.
This action item also contains an early procurement for copper which will also get
the District some savings.
Dennis Cole mentioned that it would be nice to have some early construction
begin on the West Corridor.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on November 5, 2007
Page 2 of 5

Director Ruchman asked if the Committee had any objection to considering both
motions for the West Corridor with one motion. There was no objection from the
Committee.
Director Elfenbein asked how long it will take to fabricate the bridges. Dennis
Cole said it depends on the bridge and the size of the arches and beams.
Construction will begin on some of these bridges in December of 2007.
The second action covers the District early procurement of light rail track and ties.
It is for two types of rail, straight rail and guard rail.
Dennis Cole mentioned that the District received a check back from the
contractor who pulled up the rails on the West Corridor and was able to sell them.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract number 16FF-W01 for the Denver Transit Construction Group, the West Corridor
Construction Manger/General Contractor (CMGC) to allow for:
1. Procurement and fabrication of bridge steel girders for bridges at Indiana,
Wadsworth and Consolidated Mainline.
2. Procurement and fabrication of steel for bridge trusses at 6th Avenue (US6) and
S. Platte River.
3. Procurement and fabrication of raw copper for signal cables, switch cable,
substation positive and negative return feeder cables, impedance bond cable
and cross bonding cable.
4. Early construction bid and construction of bridges for light rail fly-overs at
Kipling Street and the east and west Dry Gulch bridges.
The cost of this change order is not to exceed $29,000,000.00 including
contingency. Funding for this work is available in the West Corridor budget and
has been approved through a Letter of No Prejudice (LONP) request under Federal
Transit Administration (FTA) guidelines. The LONP was received from FTA on
September 25, 2007.


West Corridor Early Procurement of Light Rail Track and Ties
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to solicit for and award the
procurement of 3,800 tons of 115 pound light rail, 800 tons of industrial quality
rail for guard rail and 40,000 standard concrete cross ties for the West Corridor.
The cost of this procurement order is not to exceed $8,700,000 including
contingency. Funding for this work is available in the West Corridor budget and
has been approved through a Letter of No Prejudice (LONP) request under Federal
Transit Administration (FTA) guidelines. The LONP was received from FTA on
September 25, 2007.
Motion: Director McMullen made a motion

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on November 5, 2007
Page 3 of 5

for full approval of both the Denver
Transit Construction Group Early
Procurement/Early Construction
Change Order and the West
Corridor Early Procurement of Light
Rail Track and Ties before the Board
at the November 20, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director Elfenbein seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously

 Approval of Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with Greenwood Village for
Construction of a Transit Plaza at Arapahoe at Village Center Station
Liz Rao introduced this item. This transit plaza was included in the original
Memorandum of Understanding with the TREX. If there was any money left over from
the TREX project, RTD would fund the transit plaza. The District’s contribution is
capped at $1,800,000.
Director Ruchman asked where the $200,000 in the FasTracks budget comes from.
Liz Rao responded that it is a line item in FasTracks for “Southeast Corridor”
improvements.
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City of Greenwood
Village for construction of a transit plaza at the Arapahoe at Village Center station,
including authorization to the General Manager for expenditure of not to exceed
$1,800,000. A total of $1,600,000 is in the T-REX Budget and $200,000 in the
2008 FasTracks Budget.
Motion: Director Elfenbein made a motion
for full approval before the Board at
the November 20, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director McMullen seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on November 5, 2007
Page 4 of 5

 Approval of On-Board Passenger Travel Surveys Contract
Liz Rao introduced this item. The FTA makes a requirement that the District update its
model periodically. This On-Board Passenger Travel Survey is to back up the travel
demand model.
The NuStats team has committed to a DBE goal of 30%.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract to NuStats for the completion of the On-Board Passenger Travel Surveys
project for an amount not to exceed $600,000. The total cost of the project is
$1,000,000. Funding for this effort is coming from a Federal Transit Administration
(FTA) grant, the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG), and RTD. Funding
for the FTA and RTD share ($800,000) is included in the RTD 2008 Budget.
Motion: Director Quinlan made a motion for
full approval before the Board at the
November 20, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director McMullen seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
 Approval of 2007 and 2008 Contract Amendments for 16th Street Mall Transitway
Lanes – Granite Paver Maintenance
Stan Szabelak, Engineering Project Manager, gave an update on the 16th Street Mall.
The District has been working with the City and County of Denver, and the Downtown
Denver Partnership in regards to coming up with a new plan for the Mall. The District
would like to replace the pavers with concrete drive lanes. This was not popular with
the stakeholders. The stakeholders have countered with a strategic study for the Mall.
It would cost approximately $6,000,000 - $6,500,000 to replace the pavers with
concrete. Until there is progress on this front, the current mall needs to be maintained.
This action item covers the ongoing maintenance needs of the mall.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to accomplish the following two amendments to the Mall Paver Contract.
Amendment #1: Increase the current contract funding for maintenance of the Mall
Transitway Lanes for the remainder of 2007 through December 31 by$175,000. This
amount is currently included within the overall 2007 amended budget.
Amendment #2: Exercise the second year option of this contract and authorize
$800,000 funding for 2008. This amount is included within the 2008 budget.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on November 5, 2007
Page 5 of 5

Motion: Director McMullen made a motion
for full approval before the Board at
the November 20, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director Elfenbein seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
II. Updates
 T-REX Lessons Learned Report – Cal Marsella introduced this update. Rick Clarke
distributed the table of contents and the Executive Summary. He reiterated that
the Board has been given the full report and encouraged the Board to read it. There
are 18 lessons learned that are covered in detail in the report.
Key lessons that are being applied to FasTracks:
The importance of partnering. TREX was finished with no claims from the
contractors.
Four project goals were set at the beginning. Decisions were made based on how
they related to the project goals.
Similar goals are being proposed for FasTracks. Cal Marsella said that staff will be
coming to the Board to adopt these goals as they establish the tone and direction
for the projects.
Have all the Intergovernmental Agreements (IGAs) and Memorandums of
Understandings (MOUs) in place before beginning construction.

III.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development
Committee will be December 3, 2007 at 5:00 p.m.

V.

Adjournment - There being no objection, Chairman Ruchman adjourned the
meeting at 6:10 p.m.

