Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, September 23,
2008 at 5:30p.m. Page 1 of 12
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

September 23, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September
23, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Directors Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer
and Yamrick

Member Absent:

Director Kinton. Directors Brohl and Ruchman arrived late and
Director Chacon left early.

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella; Senior Staff: Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Dave
Genova, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Liz Rao, Phil Washington,
Rolf Asphaug for Marla Lien, Cal Shankster
Rolf Asphaug, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin Diviness,
Terry Howerter, Nadine Lee, Tony McCaulay, Robert
Merriman, Jerry Nery, John Perry, Teresa Sedmak, Daria
Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Roger Sherman, Pauletta
Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Julie Skeets, Ken Hardin, James
Starling, Cheryl Holmes,
David Hollis, David Krutsinger

Others Present:

***
Call to Order:

Aaron Greco – Congressman Ed Perlmutter, Audrey Debarros,
Elisa Cohen – North Metro Tribune, Debra Perkins – David
Evans & Assoc, Tom Hobelman – Colo Assoc Realtors, David
Cook – University of Colorado, Rick Pilgrim – URS, Justin
Herrera, Gene Putman – City of Thornton, Keith Simon –
Coventry Development, Martha Roskowsky – City of Boulder,
Kathleen Osher – Transit Alliance, Jeanne Shrene – Adams
County, Stephanie Thomas – CEC, Fred Sandal – DRCOG,
Tom P. – Goldman Sachs
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

I. 2009 DBE Goals

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, September 23,
2008 at 5:30p.m. Page 2 of 12
Phil Washington did a brief introduction of two new people on his team
(benefits and West Corridor) and handed the discussion off to Kenn Hardin.
Kenn Hardin shared the 2009 Federal DBE goal is 14.56%.
II. Public Private Partnership Industry Forum Summary
Kenn Hardin shared that the public private partnership industry forum was
very successful with over a combined number of participants in the morning
session of 500 people and approximately 100 people for the afternoon session
that was geared for the prime and concessionaires. Since then they have
released the RFQ and 141 firms picked up the RFQ. Responses are due back
October 3 and they will evaluate and short-list 4 firms to receive the RFP in
late December.
Director Quinlan inquired what impact Amendment 46 would have on RTD
DBE program. Kenn Hardin responded the DBE is a Federally funded mandate
and is not impacted by this local amendment. The SBE progam is race-gender
neutral and uses economics as its base so it should not be affected either.
Kenn Hardin will confer with Marla Lien, legal counsel for an official position
on any potential SBE implications.
III.

FasTracks Options
Liz Rao passed out a presentation on the review of FasTracks Status and
Options for Future Direction. A copy of the presentation is available in the
Study Session minute notebook located in the Board office.
This presentation will be used by the FasTracks team in the public outreach
Forums scheduled over the next couple of months. The presentation
provided an overview of the changes in cost escalation since 2004, the
revenue forecast and sales tax assumptions, the revised sales tax
assumptions and impact of the reduced sales tax forecasts and increased
cost escalation on FasTracks. Liz Rao provided clarity that this translates
to 88% compound rate for costs.
Liz Rao shared next steps timeline that included a December review with the
Board following the conclusion of the public outreach period. The target date
is the end of Q1, 2009 for the adoption of the preferred implementation plan.
Questions and Answers:
Chair Kemp recognized Aaron Greco, Congressman Ed Perlmutter’s
representative for the I-225 project, and stated that while it is not customary
in study sessions to allow public speaking, Mr. Greco would remain for any
questions that anyone may have of him.
Director Daly: As you have done the 1 on 1’s with Board members, have
you incorporated our comments into this presentation? Liz responded she
was not sure if they have had a chance to incorporate all responses and she
needs to check with Pauletta and Karen.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, September 23,
2008 at 5:30p.m. Page 3 of 12
Director Ruchman: Applauds the FasTracks team efforts for these outreach
session but feels it need to extend far beyond to include the “common man
or Mr. Joe Q”. His questions and concerns are how do we do this and what
are RTD’s plans to take it beyond the traditional media and forums to ensure
it is continuous and engages non-traditional participants such as transit
dependents into this dialogue. Several other directors echoed this concern
(Chacon, Martinez, and Yamrick). His question is can we come up with a
more aggressive communication plan (tops down and bottoms up) that goes
beyond the 1 meeting per district so that the metro region will understand
this is one of the most serious issues the region needs to grapple with? This
is so important to the health of the area. We need a much broader gauge of
the people.
Director Quinlan: He is concerned about the tragic accident in California
with the Metro Link and wonders what impact it will have on RTD’s
commuter rail process. He also wants it to be clear when we are putting our
options on the table, that we might need to raise taxes. He also wants RTD
to look at all our assets that might be a candidate for privatilization to see
what impact this will have on the money needed.
Director McMullen: Director McMullen wants to know if we cannot get
funding, what would be the required sales tax if we have no other pots to go
to (worst case scenario). Cal Marsella responded between .2 & .3 of 1cent.
Director McMullen offers a 6th option called “Forget the whole thing.” We
need to test the public on if this is an option to help show RTD is exploring
all options. We have an obligation to ask the public and politically it can
help us to neuter any opposition—clear and transparent government. In his
meetings, I have asked this question and have gotten very positive response.
Director Martinez: What is the procedure RTD will follow to capture the
information from the public on other options?
Liz explained the process
staff will follow to capture options/input on flipcharts in each meeting. Will
the questions center on FasTracks or RTD operations? Cal responded the
questions will look at both since we will be far enough along in the process
to let this happen. Director Martinez questioned what happens if the
economy improves and we get an increase in sales tax revenue.
Cal
Marsella indicate the options provided for RTD to build more
If the economy improves is embedded in the options. This is an absolute
assumption in each.
Chair Kemp: Has the .4 of a cent on FasTracks sunset? How will this affect
the option to extend this out on a longer timeframe? How will this be
communicated to the public? Cal Marsella indicated this is a complicated
response but he would try to respond as he would to the public. In the
original model, attached 2047 Tabor funds to it. However the ballot
initiative actually says we can continue to collect any percent of the .4
required to continue to operate and maintain the system (O&E costs).
Sunset implication will not enter the picture until 35 years and beyond.
Director Tayer: How does the hold harmless clause apply to option 1 for the
Gold and East lines? Is it appropriate to have some language on the effect
of hold harmless clause (i.e. what can other corridors expect to get in regard

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, September 23,
2008 at 5:30p.m. Page 4 of 12
to the hold harmless clause? Cal Marsella responded that hold harmless is a
difficult calculation that can be done a number of different ways. What we
have done with the maps we showed you is try to come up with logical
termini where lines can end, you can build parking facilities, etc and that is
different by each corridor. Ridership is another option but some will go
further than others. We could do it on sales collection, etc. The most
logical way is where does it makes the most sense to go where you give
everyone something but allow you to optimize the investment on the front
end and provide the most prudent termini points.
Director Tayer indicated he would like this in the presentation in anticipation
of public questions.
Director Busck described the dissention in the North as a perception that the
South corridors are getting their lines but the North are not getting theirs.
He indicated that he believes there are more options and challenged Cal
Marsella and his team to identify the triggers, marks, incentives etc so that
when the financial trouble starts to alleviate, RTD can assure that every
corridors will receive a fair and equitable product(service) whether that is
FasTracks 1, 11, or NexTracks. I believe some citizens will give us some
options we have not thought of. We need to give the best product we can
give right now so everyone feels equitable in the process. We need to make
sure we do not shortchange partners we will need for NexTracks, etc.
Director Christopher stated shock at the option 1 results and was amazed
that we did not get any further up the corridors than we did. He indicated
that the schedule is necessary to sort through next steps and to get the
benefits from the surveys, public feedback itself to make the best decisions.
His question on equity had to do with why are the East and Gold Lines
protected and when is the Federal money awarded. We are not guaranteed
this money-it is a competition. What’s the timeline when we are likely to
get a response from FTA?
Cal responded that the approval and obtaining the recommended rating will
occur in 2009. Cal indicated that this must be in place before the selection
of a PPP. If the Federal money is not received, the whole set of options for
all corridors will need to be re-examined. Director Christopher reiterated that
up North there is a perception issue that needs to be addressed that the
South gets everything and the North gets nothing. On Option 4, the lesser
level of service does it applies to all RTD services or just FasTracks? Cal
responded it is just FasTracks.
Director Pulliam requested caveats need to be added for the BRT and US
36 that this is dependent on Federal dollars. Cal Marsella (Liz Rao) stated
there is no assumption for Federal funding for highways. Director Pulliam
still felt clarity is needed to address the public.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, September 23,
2008 at 5:30p.m. Page 5 of 12
Director Pulliam stated a 6 option is needed to privatize the FasTracks
system. Pauletta indicated there is an option to seek additional funds but
both Directors Pulliam and Quinlan felt this masquerades the privatilization
option. Director Pulliam wants everyone to understand the hold harmless
applies to local dollars for the West and East corridors.
Director Elfenbein wants to make sure that new options that may come from
a FasTracks outreach meeting should be shared at every meeting to get
responses. He wondered if we cut service back (Option 4) are we kidding
ourselves on the tradeoffs if we have to cut back as much as we think we
have to. Cal Marsella indicated there are tradeoffs of longer or more
frequent and which would the public prefer. Director Elfenbein also felt it
was important at any public forum to not assume the people are familiar
with the FasTracks options and to walk slowly through this presentation
with the public especially the maps.
McMullen shared that in meetings he has attended he has asked the
question “should RTD proceed with FasTracks.” The responses have been
overwhelmingly positive that the transit system is solid, and we need to
work out a solution where everyone can get access to it.
Director Yamrick queried about the inflation rate projections for 2008, 2009
and if this was extrapolated to 2034. Cal indicated yes, it had been
extrapolated. There is a possibility the current inflation rate of 6.07 could be
double which affect the future value of money.
Director Yamrick also asked how the hold harmless agreement has been
explained to the public. Cal responded the hold harmless is really a board
resolution but that it basically states that no corridor will be allowed to go
over budget at the expense of the other. Director Yamrick then asked if the
delay will require a re-open of the EIS. Cal Marsella responded it will not.
Director Yamrick wanted assurances that if her meeting was the last one
and a reasonable option was provided by someone in her meeting, the option
would receive the same amount of consideration and exposure as options
coming from other earlier meetings. Cal Marsella and staff offered several
options such as incorporating this to November public opinion survey, having
a loop process, using the website, etc. Director Yamrick still had the
concern on equitable level of exposure time. We need to have the feedback
from all the people on the street.
Director Brohl: Asked which of the options lends itself more easily to
continuity in terms of easiest and cheapest to migrate to next phase. Cal
responded it was not that easy to do as any incremental expansion is more
expensive (i.e. mobilization costs, etc). Director Brohl responded if remobilization cost the same, more or less if you complete one corridor at a
time than partial or piece mill completes.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, September 23,
2008 at 5:30p.m. Page 6 of 12
Director Daly: Asked the General Manager to comment on privatization of
lines. Cal Marsella responded the traditional PPP would not work on
FasTracks because we do not have an asset to sell and stated other
considerations including our union contract negotiations. This is a
complicated political issue.
Director Ruchman: Reemphasized his concern that public outreach does not
stop here but continue other parallel efforts in other corridor and find out
what support is out there. He lauded the FasTracks team to think outside
the box and explore other venues and opportunities to reach the masses and
to go beyond the usual suspects to have a more inclusive outreach effort.
Director Quinlan: We will hang separately if we don’t hang together if the
Board entertains any options that cut off both ends of the lines. We must
deliver equitably and need to put everything on the table to see what we
get.
Director McMullen: When would we have the Full Funding Agreement for
the West Corridor? Cal Marsella responded it was imminent and he has
received verbal commitments. He expects to receive this by yearend but
cannot give you a specific date since this is a product of the process.
Director McMullen stated that FasTracks should have a sign at the
Lakewood bridge saying something to the effect “FasTracks dollars at work”
to get the message out that things are working.
Director Martinez: stated the Board members need to be out there getting
the message to the public. He asked for clarity on if as we build the
FasTracks lines would it become a part of the RTD operational budget. Cal
Marsella responded we still need the .4 of 1% to operate what is built.
Revenue stream will be maintenance cost which will be shared between the
FasTracks and base operational cost.
Chair Kemp: Chair Kemp restated that as Board members, they need to
represent at these outreach meetings to support the people and to help
answer the difficult questions. He encouraged all the Board members to
work with the FasTracks team on appropriate presentations they can deliver
to various groups.
Director Elfenbein: Asked what was the number per household if RTD was
self-funded. Cal Marsella responded $90 based on 4/10 but Liz Rao needs
to confirm this number.
III. North Metro Analysis/EMU/DMU
Jim Starling shared a presentation on the 2008 North Metro Corridor vehicle
analysis update. A copy of this presentation is available in the Study
Session Minute notebook located in the Board office.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, September 23,
2008 at 5:30p.m. Page 7 of 12
EMU/DMU analysis assumption comparison differences between 2007 and
2008 were in the areas of power and fuel costs, noise mitigation
requirements, capital costs and average annual operating costs. The
summary from this analysis indicates that EMU is cost effective for the
North Metro Corridor based on the operating plan and fuel costs in
accordance with the RTD financial plan. EMU is still cost effective when
diesel costs are dropped to $3.10/gallon. This analysis is dependent upon a
number of vehicles and sound walls in addition to fuel prices.
Chair Kemp stated that staff is continuing to analysis on an ongoing basis
the cost effectiveness of the technologies as they are being presented as we
phase through the EIS, etc. This is just a point in time in the project that
says we have updated the figure, this is an awareness for the Board and this
is what we will be taking out to the public for continued discussion. A
similar update needs to be done on the Northwest Corridor.
Directors Tayer and Yamrick inquired about hybrid or dual power vehicles
and if this can be a consideration. Liz Rao to resurrect the information
previously provided on using hybrids for this corridor.
IV. Fare Increase Update
Cal Marsella began by providing clarification on what was previously stated
on the 50 employee minimum. The 50 employee person minimum does not
mean that all the companies cited are out. It just means they have another
decision to make.
With the 50 person minimum, the price structure will
just say there is a minimum ante to get into the EcoPass program.
They
will look at how many people use it and how many
don’t and they will
say do I stay in it or drop out or perhaps subsidize a different type of
program like the Flexpass, monthly pass, whatever. Some will still stay in
because if the business case says they have so many people using it, it still
works for me. It is not like they are out by definition. That is a business
decision they are going to make.
He then provided a summary of the 2009 fare proposal:
 14% across the Board increase in all categories
 5% increase in price in all categories to reflect increases in
EcoPass utilization and ridership from 2007-2008
 $5.00 surcharge on SkyRide to DIA
In the current price structure for EcoPass, it was depicted as a volume
discount but evolved into something differently. However companies of 10
or less can buy for 1 person or less. This is a 10 for 1 pricing structure.
Under the proposed change this minimum number would move from a 1 in
10 to 3 in 10 breakeven price structure:
Move from 1 to 3: 2009
Move from 1 to 4: 2010

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, September 23,
2008 at 5:30p.m. Page 8 of 12
Stay at 1-4 until farebox technology is installed
Questions and Answers:
Director Yamrick:
Do we get reimbursement for ridership? Cal Marsella
stated the 5309 formula funding is based on boardings, not ridership but he
understood her question and would look into the issue of 5307 funding.
Director Brohl: If I understand this proposal correctly, there is a 300%
increase in this proposal. This appears to be a major hit for small
businesses. Cal responded yes but this is a volume discount program
without any volumes. Mathematically, it does not work.
Director Tayer: I am passing out a letter from Martha and Will Toor that is a
rebuttal to some the numbers present. The numbers are still in dispute. I
don’t understand where you are getting a 1.1 million employee number for
EcoPass. Tony McCauley explained this is a cumulative total of adding up
each eligible employees for each monthly column over the period of a year.
Director Tayer shared he feels the neighborhood pass program is being
treated as a stepchild. There are currently 6 Denver programs working to
get into the neighborhood pass program. Can RTD truly ascertain the cost
of $$ revenue or anticipate what we will get from the moratorium? Cal
Marsella responded we can give a revenue number from the pass program
but cannot give a calculation on the savings moratorium since this is a
product of the number of riders. Bruce Abel provided a number of
$432,658 as annual revenue from the neighborhood pass program.
Director Tayer asked the question of in the absence of the additional data, is
it appropriate to apply a 300% increase rate to the business program?
Director Ruchman: His concern is we do not end up in a bad place. What
do we need to do to end up in a good place?
Director Yamrick: All she knows is there are issues with Children’s Hospital
and departments. They still have to buy huge numbers of passes when only
one department needs them. Can someone tell her in numbers how
increased ridership may generate monies back into RTD? Cal Marsella
indicated he would provide an explanation but they do not generate
additional income. He would provide a number based on the formula as well
as the number generated to the agencies back to Director Yamrick.
Bruce Abel then provided a synopsis of the presentation on the 2009
Business Eco Pass Revised Staff Proposal Summary. A copy of this proposal
is included in the Study Session minute notebook located in the Board office.
Bruce indicated there are several tables that provide more detail behind the
recommendations but it will make ones’ head spin. In the end, the business
decision will be made based on if it is a good deal for the business. If not,

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, September 23,
2008 at 5:30p.m. Page 9 of 12
the Flexpass provide other alternatives for the small business who do not
want to be in the program.
More Questions and Answers:
Director Brohl: Please explain to her what is the purpose of the moratorium
on neighborhood passes and what is its impact on the budgetary increase.
If it does not show an impact, why include it in this analysis? Bruce Abel
responded the intent of applying a moratorium, there is a current breakeven
of 3% for regional and 8% for local. The purpose is to suspend selling the
neighborhood passes until data can b obtained to eliminate the expansion of
what is perceived as a mispriced program. Director Brohl responded she still
needs to know the bigger issue of the moratorium impact to the budget and
what is the associated dollar amount. Specifically what is the budget issue
that the moratorium is expected to resolve and by how much?
Director Ruchman: Why are we contemplating? How are we measuring
wins and losses? Bruce Abel responded there is a pricing issue of equity
between the small business and John Q public and there is a revenue issue.
EcoPass was introduced during a time that RTD was focused on increasing
ridership. However, there is a new focus on revenue enhancement. How
many companies will we gain or lose with this recommendation? There is
no true science but using the staff recommendation of moving to 3, 4.5 and
6, the range he thinks the worst case will have an incremental increase of
$2.7 M, the optimistic will be $4.1 M and the more realistic could be $3.1
M.
Chair Kemp: We seem to be mixing a lot of things here. We started out by
trying to address the shortfalls in the budget. We have compounded and
complicated it by trying to address past ills. He understood that Option 3 of
the budget indicated $3M to balance the budget. He sees we are using this
as an opportunity to address past inequities. It seems more reasonable to
him to seek a 19% increase across the Board for EcoPass budget, to place a
moratorium on the neighborhood pass for the 2009 budget and to address
what some are perceiving as structural changes at a more appropriate time.
Bruce Abel responded that using the industry rule of thumb at a 19% across
the board, it would be $2.1 at the low end and $3.0 for the high end. Chair
Kemp stated we have a budget issue and a pass issue. These need to be
separated out. This would give a $900K shortfall, correct? Cal Marsella
responded we have a $3M Ecopass and another $11.7 for all other fare
adjustment. Director Martinez then asked how many monthly passes we sell
on all the other fare programs on an annual basis. Bruce Abel indicated
$11.7non Ecopass.
Director Tayer: Chair Kemp is right on. A 19% across the board is more
palatable but yet incredibly painful. This is a fair policy document. Any
policy and structural changes must be based on well documented data.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, September 23,
2008 at 5:30p.m. Page 10 of 12
When we are so close to installing the farebox technology, we could start
the installation of the smart cards now, and collect the data in October of
2009. Why now with one year to go do we want to alienate our most loyal
and supportive customers at a time we need them the most over a mere
pittance ($900K) because we do not know the number for neighborhood
moratorium.
Director McMullen: Ridership is not based on loyal customers. What we
need to focus on is what is fair. What is fair to people in low economic
status. We have cumulatively 40-50 different pass programs that are out of
control. Ecopass is not fair. They are getting something for nothing. He
will support staff in their recommendation.
Director Busck: This is a money issue. Giving passes for little or nothing is
a losing proposition. We don’t need to take a year to study this issue. This
is a business. The people who are getting this are getting a good deal and
this is the reason they don’t want to give it up.
Director Pulliam: The more he thinks about this, the 19% becomes less
appealing. We need to throw the baby out and start anew. The system is
broken. He has listened to this argument about needing more data for 8
years and he is concerned that even if we get more data, it will not be
enough. He supports Director McMullen that we just need to be fair.
Director Christopher: This is a balancing act. This is not an issue of when
we change the formula-like a 2, or 3 year approach. It is not a question in
my mind of if we change the formula. We have to. The question is more of
when we do and how fast we do it. The two year approach is my
suggestion. It is more of an issue of are we shooting ourselves in the foot
when we go to the ballot? What will this do to our FasTracks supporters
when we implement this program? We need to be smart about what we
propose.
Director Yamrick: It appears the subsidy is going to the Ecopass people.
She does not see this as a business but a public service and we are a public
service agency. We do not want to alienate these people when we need
then to help us find money for the FasTracks system.
Director Elfenbein: We are mixing apples with oranges with the
neighborhood and Ecopass programs. The neighborhood pass implications
are phenomena. We need to do something on the business passes. The
Ecopass program is a wonderful giveaway. It will be 3 years before we have
any reliable figures. The time has come for businesses to pay for what they
are getting.
Director Martinez: We are all struggling with how to best represent the
constituents. Trying to make decisions on “not good data.” We just did a

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, September 23,
2008 at 5:30p.m. Page 11 of 12
fuel lock. Have those numbers been adjusted in the budget? Cal responded
yes. Director Martinez presented his proposal to phase this in. The small
business will feel the brunt of this. A 300% increase for small business is
too much for them to swallow. Here is what he proposes to make it a little
easier to absorb:
2 in 2009
3 in 2010
4 in 2011
Separate out the neighborhood plan.
Director Quinlan: This is political. We need loyal and faithful riders to be
the backbone of FasTracks 1, 11 or NexTracks. We caused the problem and
instead we are giving them an enema.
Chair Kemp: Yes, I agree. Cal, I am as much in favor of a business model as
you are. We are trying to force feed this and this is bad timing. We are
getting ready to go to the public on FasTracks. We are giving them an
enema that is not very tasteful especially since the person who has to give it
to them will get splashback.
Cal Marsella: I have heard all the arguments. We have to provide good,
quality service and if we give good service we will get the support from
people. As far as alienation, if we are not working this issue, we are
alienating the world. It just does not add up-currently Ecopass users are
getting 10 passes for 1. Our recommendation is to give them 10 passes for
4. If this is not a good business model, they can buy Flexpass or some
other option. We have a fatally flawed system here that starts from a bad
starting point. There is no equity in it. What we are presenting is a fairness
and equitable model.
Chair Kemp: We have heard the outcry from thousands of our constituents.
We need to make sure their voice is heard. This will take us from today to a
place where we need to be. Let’s look at balancing the budget but separate
out the structural pass issues. A 19% across the board increase and take
the neighborhood pass out of it.
Martinez: We continue to overcharge our cash customers. What I need to
know is if we do the phased approach that I recommended, what would it
look like? Also what would it look like if we applied a 19% across the
board?
Change?
V.

2009-2014 Transit Development Program
Phil Washington prefaced this discussion by referencing the previous
discussion on fare changes impact to the budget and stating the fuel lock
numbers have already been incorporated into the TDP which reduced the
deficit we have to solve for in 2009 to around $23M. The fare price change

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, September 23,
2008 at 5:30p.m. Page 12 of 12
is just one component in this process. The big elephant that is still in the
room is the decreased sales revenue that is quite beneath any projections for
revenue to balance the cost components.
Terry Howerter, CFO, provided the assumptions of the 2009-2014 TDP
assumptions. Revenue: The sales and use tax growth rates are expected to
be 1% lower through 2012 than the average of June 2008 state agency
forecasts. The annual sales and use tax growth assumptions are
conservative with their projections through 2014.
Cost Assumptions: operating and maintenance costs (other than fuel) based
on 2009 requested budget. 2009 diesel fuel cost locked at $3.10 per
gallon with assumption of $4.00 per gallon through 2014. Inflation rates
based on Colorado Legislative Council forecasts, June 2008 assuming
inflation rate of 3.2%-3.4% per year.
Major capital projects focused on critical infrastructure needs: radio system
replacement, farebox replacement, traction power substation PLC upgrades,
bus fleet replacements, sixteenth street malltransitway, and other
infrastructural needs to maintain in state of good repair.
Questions and Answers:
Several Board members had questions on the bus fleet replacement, intercity
bus procurement, the money allocated in 2008 for spare tires and the
assumptions on the cost for the replacement buses.
Director Yamrick inquired what type of mall shuttles were being considered.
Director Martinez noted that while salary and wage freeze was a
consideration, this only works so long before issues of attrition and other
employee morale issues start to surface.
Director Brohl wanted to understand what is the revenue associated with the
16th street mal and how did this impact our Federal grant. Cal Marsella
responded there is some Federal grant money tied into the fixed guideway
that generates approximately $660K with an estimated $6.2M to operate
mall service (excludes cost of the buses). Director Brohl asked for a couple
of scenarios of if the mall goes away, what would be the “costs”. Cal
Marsella indicated he would build two scenarios based on (1) do nothing or
(2) cost to supplement our bus traffic to make connections from the 16
street mall.
VI. 2009 Requested Budget
Director Ruchman had a number of questions pertaining to the detail behind
some of these numbers and suggested better descriptions with correlating
numbers and years on the same page for ease of reference.
Director Martinez had questions on the decreased change in numbers from
2007 to 2009 in the other operating expense revenue and other income.
Robert Merriman to drill down into these details.
VII. Other Matters
No other matters.
VIII. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 10:00 p.m.

