1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, September 3, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 7:08 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
7:09 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Absent

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

7:05 PM
7:09 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Chair

Present
Present

7:01 PM
7:04 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Vice Chair

Present
Present
Present

7:08 PM
7:05 PM
7:07 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:01 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

7:08 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:04 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:07 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:08 PM
7:02 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Michelle Brier, Rick Clarke, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, John
Elias, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Cory Granrud, Terry Howerter, Kate
Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Patrick McLaughlin, Doug MacLeod, Brian Middleton, Mike
Millage, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp,
Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa
Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Sean Vonfeldt, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Matthew DuBose, ZJ Czupor, Gina Garcia-Balderas, Stan Gronek,
Sherman Hamilton, Susan Monard, Bill Mosher, Laura Rinker, Marta
Sipeki, Joe Triplett

B. Recommended Actions

• Park Creek Metro District & Forest City Stapleton, Inc. Inter-governmental
Agreement Amendment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute a third
amendment of an existing Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) with Park
Creek Metro District & Forest City Stapleton, Inc. for participating in the
funding for the design, construction, and management of the infrastructure
that will support the Central Park PnR along the East Rail Line. It is also
recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or
designee, to execute the necessary documents to convey a certain amount
of RTD property for dedication as City and County of Denver ROW. The cost
maximum for RTD’s share of the infrastructure improvements has been
determined to be $5,564,325. Funding for this IGA is included in the 2013
Amended Capital Programs and the FasTracks Eagle project budgets.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at the
September 17, 2013 Board Meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs,
explained that as stated in the recommended action, this is an
Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) with Park Creek Metro
District & Forest City Stapleton, Inc (PCMD). for the
construction of the infrastructure for the Central Park Park-nRide. This will replace the old Stapleton and also serve as the

Park-n-Ride for the Central Park Station along the East Line.
Rick Clarke explained that this project would be brought to the
Board in stages. The first stage is for the infrastructure and
early next year there will be a separate action to build the
parking lot.
Cory Granrud, Manager of Park-b-Ride Design, stated that in
the IGA when we acquired the properties to build this Park-bRide we agreed to help develop the infrastructure as part of
the project. The infrastructure improvements for which RTD is
responsible include: all or split portions of Smith Road (54%)
from approximately Syracuse to Xanthia Street; Ulster Street
from 37th Place to Smith Road (100%); Unita Street from 37th
Place to Smith Road (100%); and 37th Place from Ulster to its
easterly limits (50%). Corey Granrud said this would include
things like roadway, storm sewers, traffic signals, curbs, etc.
He stated that staff has been working on this project since
1996 and they are very excited to finally see the results.
Committee Chair Hoy noted that we are doing infrastructure
improvements just like any developer would do; sidewalks,
streets, curbs, gutters, etc. are items that the City does not
put in but are the responsibility of the developers. He stated
that RTD is just doing its part of the development process.
Director Lubow asked for clarification on the following section
of the recommended action:
“If the submitted proposals exceed RTD’s allowable funding
(%5,564,325), RTD will have no further payment obligation,
but PCMD may suspend work unless resolution is reached.”
Director Lubow wonders if this is boiler plate language in these
types of agreements and what this means for RTD in the longterm. She also asked if Board approval would be required if
the cost exceeds the amount approved with this recommended
action. Roger Kane, Associate General Counsel, explained
that RTD and PCMD could not foresee everything that would
happen in the future and therefore could not commit to items
that had not been anticipated. He said this is a way to get the
parties back together to decide how to proceed should the
need arise. Roger Kane stated that there is a 10%
construction contingency as well as an overriding 10%
contingency so staff does not anticipate this being an issue.
He said this is not broiler plate language but was something

that had to be written for this specific IGA. Rick Clarke
reiterated that staff feels very good about the estimate
especially with the contingencies in place; this is just to
address what happens if prices do come in higher than
budgeted. Rick Clarke confirmed that anything outside the
approved $5.5 million would require further Board action.
Director Deadwyler asked if staff was anticipating the cost to
go higher. She noted that she has not seen this type of
language since being on the Board. She also inquired if the
infrastructure or Park-n-Ride would be built first. Director
Deadwyler is concerned that if there is a stoppage in work
people will not have a Park-n-Ride facility available for use.
Roger Kane explained that this language was needed based on
the history of the site. He said there has been environmental
clean-up in this area; it has a clean bill of health but it is
possible so environmental issues could be found. Roger Kane
stated that RTD would still build the parking lot even if work
was stopped. The question would be how people get in and
out of the Park-n-Ride fi the roadways were not complete. He
said if there was a substantial issue with cost overrun RTD
would need to renegotiate with PCMD.
Director Menten inquired if PCMD had any ties to the Wal-Mart
that was developed adjacent to the Park-n-Ride. Roger Kane
stated that PCMD is a governmental entity like RTD. He said
staff is not aware of any ties they might have to Wal-Mart.
PCMD sold the land for development to Wal-Mart but staff
does not know of a further connection.
Director Lubow asked for further information on the history of
the property and associated environmental clean-up. Roger
Kane stated that RTD required our parcels to be cleaned-up
before we would buy them. He said that Asbestos was
cleaned up on our parcels which is actually easy to do. Roger
Kane noted that we do not own the property the roads will be
built on so there is the potential for an environmental issue.
Director Rivera-Malpiede indicated she was abstaining from the
vote due to a conflict of interest with Park Creek Metro
District because of their funding for the Stapleton Area
Transportation Management Association with which she is
associated.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [9 TO 4 WITH 1 ABSENTION]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Sisk, Tobiassen,
Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
ABSTAIN:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

• Approval of Final Scope Elements for US 36 Bus Rapid Transit
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve the final scope elements (as illustrated in the
table below) to establish BRT in the US 36 Corridor, as it is RTD Staff’s
desire and intent to implement a “World Class” Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in
the US 36 Corridor. RTD Staff believe that the implementation of these final
scope elements will effectively complete a model BRT in the US 36 Corridor.
Approval of this action will allow RTD to commit to the completion of the
US 36 BRT project through implementation of defined scope items, as RTD
does on every other project in the FasTracks program.
Remaining Project Scope Items
Completion
Item

Description

Opening
Day

Upgraded and standardized furniture,
including benches, trash receptacles,
bike racks/lockers, etc.

X

Station Security
Upgrades

Security devices such as cameras,
emergency telephones and conduit
at each BRT station.

X

Transit Signal
Priority (TSP)

Implementation of TSP at key US 36
interchanges as documented in
RTD’s Transit Signal Priority study
which will provide a potential travel
time savings of over two minutes.
Improve data accessibility for
passengers on US 36 (WiFi,
predictive arrival time information,
etc.)
Procure fleet sufficient to meet 2016
opening day service plan.

Station Amenities

Passenger
Communications
improvements
BRT Vehicle Fleet

X

X

X*

Post Opening
Day

Church Ranch
Platforms
Westminster
Pedestrian Bridge
Broomfield parkn-Ride

Relocation of the Church Ranch
Station boarding platforms closer to
RTD-designated parking.
Improvements for vertical circulation
(additional stairs and elevators) on
each side of the bridge.
Construct a park-n-Ride with
structured parking on the north side
of US 36 at the Broomfield Station
for better access to the station for
residents north and east of US 36 in
Broomfield.

X

X

X

*Note: RTD’s ability to provide the full fleet required for opening day
service will be dependent on the cost of the vehicle that can best
satisfy the corridor’s service requirements.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the
September 17, 2013 Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning,
explained that in the scope of work for the Northwest Area
Mobility Study (NAMS), RTD and study stakeholders
established that the final commitment for Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT) on the US 36 Corridor would be completed within the
first 90 days. He noted the timeline was reiterated in the kickoff meetings in May. Bill Van Meter said that he is pleased to
inform the board that as a result of the NAMS efforts this was
accomplished within that schedule. He stated that on July
17th the HNTB Study Team reviewed the draft list of remaining
US36 project scope items with the NAMS Technical Advisory
Committee and then two weeks later it was presented at a
joint meeting of the Technical Advisory Committee and Policy
Committee. Bill Van Meter shared that in the past few days
staff has hear comments from stakeholders on several items
that are not included in the board report. He said these items
can all be dealt with outside this board action and staff still
supports its approval.
Bill Van Meter explained that two of these items are not near
term items. One would be a future Church Ranch parking
structure if and when the demand has grown enough to

warrant it. The other is maintenance facility improvements
that might be required as our fleet expands to meet future
needs. He said the final request was to include bike shelters
instead of bike racks and lockers normally provided at RTD
facilities. Bill Van Meter shared that Nadine Lee, Project
Manager, has volunteered to work with stakeholders to
identify some areas at which we might be able to install
shelters. He stated that these shelters fall under station
amenities that not fall under BRT requirements; staff has
committed to work with stakeholders moving forward.
Bill Van Meter noted that RTD has already made a significant
funding investment in the Corridor which is outlined in the
board report. He stated that this gives RTD a top notch BRT
system.
Bill Van Meter stated that of significant importance is that this
action really addresses the concerns the Corridor stakeholders
have been articulating to RTD for years which is that the US
36 Corridor has never had a defined scope like other corridors.
This action definitely addresses that concern and was well
reviewed with the stakeholders.
Director Folska believes that the US 36 Corridor is critical for
linking Boulder to Denver. She knows many people that teach
on the Denver and Boulder campus on the same day. She also
knows that many people love to take their bikes. Director
Folska expressed that the buses get very full on the bottom
with all of the bicycles. She stated that bicycles are a really
important part of multi-modal transportation and would like to
see RTD putting a bike requirement in everything we do in the
future. She wants to insure we take a real, hard look at how
we can support cycling as part of our multi-modal system.
Director Sisk stated that these are important milestones. He
commended staff for identifying these items and taking the
necessary steps to move forward as he believes it is long
overdue. Director Sisk encouraged the Board to vote for this
item but indicated he would be voting no. He believes there
are still a few things left to address between now and the
Board meeting; however, he thinks we also have a chance to
work with the stakeholders and have them come to the Board
meeting to support this item. He reiterated that he
encourages the Board to move the forward but wants
everyone to understand why he is voting no today.

Director Deadwyler stated that she agrees this corridor is very
important but she does not agree to all the amenities. She
believes the amenities should be standard like they are
throughout the system; as more funds are available then we
can add additional amenities throughout the entire system.
Chair Anderson stated that she is going to support this item.
She thinks it is a great milestone in the NAM Study. She
thanked Director Sisk for outlining some of the issues that are
left. Chair Anderson noted that there has been a great deal of
work done by a lot of people. She also noted that BRT was
part of the FasTracks plan when the voters approved it so she
will support this action.
Director Tobiassen asked for an explanation of what a bike
shelter is. Nadine Lee explained that this is a big cage that is
accessed with a swipe card; the bikes are then locked-up
inside the cage. She stated this was a suggestion that came
out of a First and Final Mile Study that was completed.
Nadine Lee shared that a bike shelter is being installed at the
Table Mesa Park-n-Ride to determine how they are utilized.
Director Tobiassen thinks the shelter at Table Mesa is a great
idea. He noted that the shelters were very popular at
University Hospital; when they relocated to Fitzsimons bike
shelters were not included and students were very unhappy.
General Manager Washington stated that the stakeholder
concerns are things that staff sees as not necessary for
opening day; we are trying to build the project and include
what makes a “World Class” BRT system. He noted that staff
is not saying there should not be bike storage; it should just be
racks and lockers that we do at other stations. He reiterated
that staff will work with the stakeholders once the system is
built.
Director Lubow commended staff for going the extra mile to
work with the stakeholders to create a defined scope. She
stated that she will be voting no, not because she thinks it is a
bad proposal but believes it useful to keep the item open for
further discussion.
Director Solano asked for clarification on the statement from
alternative number two that reads:

“Do not accept the NAMS Policy/Technical Advisory
Committee recommendation for these scope items deemed
necessary to establish BRT in the US 36 Corridor. This action
is not recommended since it could undermine the efforts and
credibility of the NAMS study.”
Bill Van Meter explained that this was a key early action item
for gaining consent in the NAM Study. He stated that staff
believes this is not passed it could set a bad tenor and tone for
the rest of the Study.
Director Folska shared that there is a bike shelter at the
Denver Athletic Club for anyone who is interested in seeing
one. She noted that on the Boulder campus last year 2,500
bikes were stolen. These were bikes that were tied up with
cables, locks, etc. but those are easy to cut. Director Folska
believes the riders are really in need of a safe place for their
bikes. Director Folska stated that in other areas along the
system there have been riders who wanted additional
amenities. One group found funding for shelters so that may
be something to consider in this Corridor. Director Folska
stated that she will be voting yes because this is very
important to keep FasTracks moving forward.
Committee Chair Hoy shared that he attended the last NAMS
meeting which had the Policy and Technical Committees meet
together. He stated that this was discussed at the meeting
and everyone had the opportunity to provide additional input;
however, the items mentioned by staff today were not
brought up. He also noted that there is nothing in the
recommended action that precludes RTD from doing any of the
additionally requested items. Bill Van Meter stated that was
correct. The project scope was reviewed at the July 17
Technical Committee Meeting then on July 30th at joint
Committee Meeting with a specific request for additional
critiques, additional information, etc. He stated that there is
nothing in the recommended action that would prevent
implementation of these additional requests.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [8 TO 6]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Rivera-Malpiede, Tobiassen,
Walker
NAYS: Deadwyler, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Eagle P3 Project Update
Rick Clarke introduced Brian Middleton (FasTracks Program Manager), Greg
Straight (Project Manager, Engineering-Facilities), Ashland Vaughn (Project
Manager, Engineering) and Kevin Flynn (Project Manager, Public
Information). They reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that
is available in the September 3, 2013 FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Agenda Packet.
Director Daly thanked the team for a great presentation. He stated that
there is so much going on now and the project is really at such a critical
stage being half way finish. He said he is so proud of where RTD is now.
Director Lubow thanked staff not only for a good presentation but wonderful
construction. She noted that the presentation listed the concessionaire
equity at approximately $54 million out of a total budget of $2.2 billion.
She wonders what the terms of our agreement are to get this private
funding. She believes this issue is going to get more and more important as
we move forward with Public Private Partnerships and how RTD is bound by
them. Brian Middleton stated that there was a lot of effort put into
determining the terms and conditions of our agreement with Denver Transit
Partners (DTP); RTD wrote the contract and received a lot of feedback. He
explained that some ideas/suggestions were incorporated into the contract
and some were not as they were not in the best interest of RTD. Brian
Middleton said that the winning proposal came in under 300K of estimates
so staff was very happy with the agreement. He stated that looking forward
RTD will continue to get a good deal because DTP’s concession payments
are contingent on them doing an excellent job; this assures that not only is
the project well-built but it also assures that it will be well maintained for the
duration of the concession period.
Director Lubow noted the situation of the HOV lanes on US 36 and how
now they require a minimum of three passengers. She stated that there
were some very irate constituents and she does not want to be surprised by

a similar situation and RTD. Marla Lien explained that in this deal, unlike the
HOV situation, the RTD Board controls all the fare and schedules over time.
She said the concession agreement is over 1,000 pages and the Board spent
1.5 years approving it in sections. Marla Lien told Director Lubow she
would be more than happy to sit down with her and review the agreement.
Director Lubow asked if RTD had a policy for guiding us in future Public
Private Partnerships. General Manager Washington explained that all PPPs
are different so they would need to be brought to the Board in detail. He
stated that they would never bring a PPP to the Board for approval without
explaining it in full to the whole Board.
Director Walker expressed that he understands from his other life how
difficult it is to coordinate with multiple agencies during construction and
believes staff is doing an amazing effort. He also said he is not too
concerned about the numbers from the open houses because there are so
many ways to communicate now. He stated that he has seen some of the
work and is thrilled to be part of it.
Chair Anderson thanked the team for making her job easier. She shared that
as she is out in the community she only hears good things. She said there
have been some issues but they have been handled very well. She feels this
is a great project; it took some foresight from previous Boards. She
remembers the hard work that the prior board have done to get this far. She
reiterated her thanks to the staff and DTP.
Director Solano asked for further information about Aviation Station. He is
wondering why we need to do an additional environmental evaluation. Greg
Straight explained that there were a number of parameters that had not been
identified at the time so it was not available for the initial environmental
evaluation. He indicated that RTD’s reevaluation indicated no significant
impacts to the initial EIS; FTA will make the final determination.
Director Folska stated that is it is a very complex financial equation that
staff put together for this project. Brian Middleton stated that JP Morgan
and Goldman Sachs acted as our financial advisors. He said they did a great
job getting the message out that RTD had a great project.
Committee Chair Hoy noted that at 71st and Irving there was a building being
razed. He wondered if this had something to do with FasTracks. He was
surprised to see that demolition already occurring. Ashland Vaughn said
that is probably part of the Westminster station demo.

D. Other Matters
Director Folska said that she got the impression from last week’s Study Session
that there would be a discussion of the naming rights at tonight’s meetings.
General Manager Washington clarified that will be presented at the September
Study Session.

E. Next Meeting Date - October 8, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy declared the meeting adjourned at 8:38 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

