1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
FA&A/C&GR/P CP FT Consolidated Agenda
Tuesday, February 2, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here (connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 896 0909 8751#
Webinar Passcode: 748404#

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Peggy Catlin

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Discussion

• CRRSAA Grant Award
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting date - February 9, 2021
F. Adjourn

Communications & Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Lynn Guissinger

A. Call to Order

B. Recommended Actions
C. Other Matters

• RTD Accountability Committee Dialogue – Co-Chairs Elise Jones and Crystal
Murillo

• Communications Overview
• Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal
D. Next Meeting Date - April 6, 2021
E. Adjourn

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Chaired by Shelley Cook

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Approval of 15L Route Improvements Change Order
• Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Policy
C. Other Matters
D. Next Meeting Date - April 6, 2021
E. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
CRRSAA Grant Award

Committee Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO
Doug MacLeod, Acting Chief Financial Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
(5 minutes)
BACKGROUND
In response to the financial crisis caused by the COVID-19 Pandemic, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and
Economic Security (CARES) Act was signed into law on March 27, 2020. Twenty-five ($25) billion of
the $2 trillion CARES funding was designated for award by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to
transit agencies resulting in an apportionment to RTD of $232.3 million. This CARES funding was
awarded on a 100% federal share basis with no matching requirement and was required to be used to
sustain transit operations. RTD completed drawing the entire $232.3 million award in December 2020
for reimbursement of employee compensation and purchased transportation costs that were incurred
sustaining RTD’s operations during 2020.
During the second half of 2020, industry-based associations, labor unions and transportation agencies,
including RTD, advocated for additional funding to supplement the CARES Act as a result of the ongoing
financial crisis.
On December 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental
Appropriations Act (CRRSAA), pronounced “Chrissa”, was signed into law. This $2.3 trillion aid
package included $14 billion in supplemental appropriations for transit agencies of which RTD received
notice of its $203.4 million apportionment on January 11, 2021. RTD is currently awaiting specific
guidance from the FTA regarding the requirements and allowable expenditures necessary to draw these
funds; however, it is clear from the legislation that this funding must also be used to sustain transit
operations.
While there is speculation about the Biden administration seeking additional transit funding, RTD’s policy
is to not include or plan for additional funding in its budget or forecasts until such funding is certain and
measurable. Additionally, RTD’s 2021 Fiscal Policy states “RTD will avoid dependence on temporary
revenues to fund ongoing services. One-time revenues will be used for one-time expenditures”.
As further background regarding Board policy regarding funding, the Board adopted the 2021 Fiscal
Policy in November 2020 that includes a section titled “COVID-19 Response Policies”. This section
establishes guidance for restoration of funding, and the uses thereof, as:
• Restore reserves to three months if possible
• Do not utilize existing FISA balances

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.1

• Limit the use of, or do not use, future rubber tire service contributions to FISA
• Restore deferred projects related to compliance or safety
• Restore service as ridership allows
DISCUSSION
RTD included the $232.3 million CARES funding in the six-year 2021-2026 Mid-term Financial Plan
(MTFP) forecast that was presented to the RTD Board in November 2020. The Board agreed to approve
only two of the six MTFP years, 2021 and 2022, and declined to approve the forecast for years 20232026 primarily due to the economic uncertainty and volatility resulting from the COVID-19 Pandemic.
The Board also approved and appropriated funding for the 2021 Budget in November 2020.
Neither the 2021 Budget nor the 2021-2026 MTFP contemplated additional federal funding after the
2020 CARES funding. As a result, RTD expects to realize annual revenue shortfalls of $100-$150
million through 2026 culminating from a loss of fares and reduction in sales and use tax receipts. In
response, RTD cancelled or delayed capital expenditures and state of good repair projects and
implemented significant expense reductions including service reductions, furloughs, pay reductions,
layoffs and other cost-saving measures to align expenditures with expected revenues.
Through these measures, RTD was able to achieve a forecasted balanced budget on the Base System for
years 2021-2026 but is currently forecasting that it will be unable to balance revenues with
expenditures on FasTracks in years 2025 and 2026 even after exhausting reserves.
The CRRSAA apportionment of $203.4 million to RTD will provide the opportunity for RTD to realize
temporary relief from some of the significant measures taken to reduce and delay expenditures.
RTD’s General Manager and the Senior Leadership Team have been meeting regularly to discuss the
impacts to RTD from the cost reduction actions taken now that the results are being realized and there is
the potential to make course corrections with the availability of the CRRSAA funding.
Moreover, the General Manager has convened a working group comprised of the Acting Chief Financial
Officer, Chief Operations Officer, the Assistant General Manager, Planning and herself to review and
assess CRRSAA funds utilization to optimize and enhance service delivery, as well as assess
recommendations from the Accountability Committee and State Performance Audit.
As of the January 21, 2021, the General Manager, along with the Senior Leadership Team has identified
the following application of funds to be necessary:
•

•

$180,000,000: operations funding to restore service up to $30 million per runboard for six
runboards (two years) beginning with the June 13, 2021 runboard. Service restoration will be
based on the fully-loaded cost per revenue hour amount and provision of service will consider
contracted services.
$4,446,809: estimated cost to restore budgeted overtime and extra shift pay for represented
employees and primarily front line non-represented supervisory employees.

Packet Pg. 4

1.C.1

•
•

•

$1,734,942: estimated additional budget needed to eliminate tiered 6 days of furloughs in 2021
for non-represented employees. Non-represented employees took 9 furlough days in 2020.
$886,550:
estimated additional budget needed to eliminate tiered 2021 temporary pay
reductions for non-represented employees. Other non-represented compensation reductions such
as lower employer retirement contributions, higher health benefit cost-sharing and elimination of
benefit pay will remain in place.
$2,401,009: estimated cost for non-represented employees to cash out up to 80 hours of PTO,
vacation or sick balances over a certain accrual balance threshold allowed by policy. RTD’s
policy prior to 2021 allowed non-represented employees to cash out up to 80 hours per year.
The 2021 Budget eliminated cash-outs to temporarily conserve cash, however, the liability to
RTD remains and the individual receives a cash-out of accrued balances at termination of
employment.
$13,898,218:
remaining funding available for additional uses such as implementing
recommendations from the Accountability Committee and the State Performance Audit.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The total estimated financial impact of the CRRSAA funding is $203,367,528.

Prepared by:
Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO
Doug MacLeod, Acting Chief Financial Officer
Approved by:

Authorized:

Packet Pg. 5

2.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
RTD Accountability Committee

Committee Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021

ATTACHMENTS:
•

RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (PPTX)

Prepared by:
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager, Communications
Approved by:

Authorized:

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

RTD ACCOUNTABILITY COMMITTEE OVERVIEW
• RTD Board of Directors
• Communications & Government Relations Committee
• February 2nd, 2021

• Elise Jones, RTD Accountability
Committee Co- Chair
• Crystal Murillo, RTD Accountability
Committee Co-Chair

Packet Pg. 7

COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Member

Position

Elise Jones
Deyanira Zavala
Rutt Bridges
Chris Frampton

Representative of local government
Transportation equity expertise
Financial planning expertise
Economic development expertise

Rebecca White
Crystal Murillo
Jackie Millet
Julie Duran Mullica
Kathy Nesbitt
Dan Blankenship
Krystin Trustman
Lynn Guissinger
Troy Whitmore

Urban planning expertise
Aurora City Council member
Mayor of Lone Tree
Northglenn City Council Member
Human resources expertise
Multi-modal expertise
Expertise with issues facing transit riders with disabilities
RTD Board Member- Ex Officio
RTD Board Member- Ex Officio
2

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

MISSION

To provide feedback and a set of recommendations for
improvement to the operations of and statutes related to RTD, to
the board and staff of the RTD, the Governor, the General
Assembly, and the public.

We are here to provide guidance to help RTD better serve the
region.

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

OVERARCHING GOALS
• Provide constructive tangible guidance for RTD that will help
them improve the way they deliver vital mobility for our
community.
• Contribute to a future for the Denver region where there are
multimodal mobility options that serve the needs of all people
regardless of income or abilities.
• Review each of the Committee responsibilities and form
subgroups and engage others when necessary and/or
appropriate to formulate concrete recommendations.
• Leverage the experience, intellect, and diverse perspectives
that we have on this committee by working collaboratively.
4

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

REVIEW
• Recent financials
• RTD governance structure
and leadership

• How RTD can better serve all
riders
• individuals with disabilities,

• Short-term and long-term
prioritization of resources

• transit-dependent populations,

• Determine long-range
financial stability

• address coverage gaps,

• expand ridership,
• route planning,
• service area coverage

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

TIMELINE
July 2020 – Committee Convened
December 31, 2020 – Optional Preliminary Report
July 1, 2021- Committee recommendations due
Within 45 days of issuance of the report- RTD Board must
either adopt the recommendations or issue a report stating its
reasons for not adopting specific recommendations

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

ON CALL CONSULTING

• Hired North Highland to provide additional support on as
needed basis:
• guidance,
• research,
• document development,
• facilitation,
• and related needs as they arise.

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

SUBCOMMITTEES

• Governance

• Finance

• Operations

8

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

GOVERNANCE SUBCOMMITTEE
• Alternative regional/subregional governance structure
• Partnerships with other transit agencies & nonprofits
• RTD’s service area
• Size and structure of RTD Board

9

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE
• More sustainable financial model
• Use of COVID-19 relief funds
• Review of RTD statues
• Resolution for unfinished FasTracks Corridors
• Financial transparency
• Partnership opportunities to enhance mobility services
10

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

OPERATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE
• RTD fares and pass programs
• Service delivery to transit-reliant populations
• Community-based transit service planning and operations
• Organizational assessment
• Social/environmental justice and equity analysis
11

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

PRELIMINARY REPORT
Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

Packet Pg. 18

PRELIMINARY REPORT

• Information about the Committee
• Status report for each subcommittee
• Proposed legislative recommendations for consideration
by the Governor and General Assembly in the 2021
Legislative Session

13

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

LEGISLATIVE RECOMMENDATIONS
• Recommendations are focused on statutory restrictions that
have the potential to provide RTD with greater flexibility and
opportunity to improve its finances and/or ridership
• Farebox ratio requirements
• Parking fees
• Commercial & residential uses at stations
• Contracting with local governments & nonprofits

14

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

RTD Accountability Committee Co-Chairs
Elise Jones
Crystal Murillo
Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

2.C.1.a

Packet Pg. 21

2.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021

Communications Overview

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager, Communications
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 Minutes
BACKGROUND
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) Board of Directors holds a bi-monthly Communications and
Government Relations Committee meeting. The meeting is an opportunity for the Communications
Department staff to provide the Board with an overview of communications activities and progress,
highlighting matters of interest to Board members. Staff and the Board also engage in dialogue and staff
fields questions or clarifies information as necessary.
DISCUSSION
Below are some of the notable communications highlights included in this month’s committee report. A
more comprehensive overview is included as an attachment to this report.
•

•

Upcoming Station Outreach Events
RTD staff will hold outreach events at some of the busiest stations to distribute hand sanitizer and
express appreciation to customers for using RTD. Staff will also distribute hand sanitizer at RTD
Sales Outlets and transportation management organization/association (TMO/TMA) partners will
distribute hand sanitizer at additional station outreach events that they plan. Below is a list of the
RTD- sponsored outreach activities:
Date
Location
2/10/2021 Aurora Metro Center Station

Time
4-6 p.m.

2/11/2021 I-25 & Broadway Station

6:30-8:30 a.m.

2/16/2021 Decatur-Federal Station

4-6 p.m.

2/17/2021 Peoria Station

6:30-8:30 a.m.

2/23/2021 Denver Airport Station

4-6 p.m.

2/24/2021 Colorado Station

6:30-8:30 a.m.

2/24/2021 Nine Mile Station

6:30-8:30 a.m.

3/2/2021

Wagon Road

4-6 p.m.

3/3/2021

40th & Airport

6:30-8:30 a.m.

N Line Customer Survey

Packet Pg. 22

2.C.2

Staff will conduct a brief, informal survey of N Line customers to gauge ridership behavior and the
relationship between ridership and the N Line Promotional Fare. The N Line Promotional Fare Pilot
Program was implemented in September 2020 following the N Line opening and ends March 27,
2021. The pilot offers customers a $3 Local fare regardless of which station they use. When the
pilot period concludes, the fare will shift to the established RTD fare structure with a Regional fare of
$5.25 being charged if customers use the Northglenn-112th or Eastlake-124th stations. N Line
customers will be able to take a hard copy of the survey and mail it in or complete the survey online.
The survey will also ask if customers’ stations will change when the promotional fare ends. Below is
a list of the days/times staff will partner with Smart Commute at N Line station events to distribute
hand sanitizer and survey participation information:
Date
Location
2/2/2021 Eastlake-124th

Time
6:30-9:30 a.m.

2/2/2021 Eastlake-124th

9:30 a.m-12:30 p.m.

2/2/2021 Eastlake-124th

12:30 p.m.-3:30 p.m.

2/2/2021 Eastlake-124th

3:30-6:30 p.m.

2/3/2021 Northglenn-112th

6:30-9:30 a.m.

2/3/2021 Northglenn-112th

9:30 a.m-12:30 p.m.

2/3/2021 Northglenn-112th

12:30 p.m.-3:30 p.m.

2/3/2021 Northglenn-112th

3:30-6:30 p.m.

•

Enhanced Stakeholder Engagement
Staff will launch an overarching enhanced approach to stakeholder engagement across the agency as
a continuous effort to foster open dialogue. This will be an opportunity for the Board and staff to
hear directly from key stakeholders on RTD matters that matter most to them. One aspect will be to
hold stakeholder engagement sessions at the beginning of the next service change process to hear
about their communities’ experiences with RTD. The listening phase will begin this month as part of
the June service change process. This feedback will help inform RTD’s plans.

•

New Government Relations Officer
After an extensive recruitment process, Michael Davies joins RTD as the agency’s new Government
Relations Officer. Mr. Davies has 17 years of local, state and federal government relations experience
with a focus on federal government affairs. Previously, Mr. Davies held progressively responsible
roles in the office of U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein and comes to RTD from Washington, D.C. after
working for several years as assistant director of government relations for federal affairs on behalf of
the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LA Metro).

FINANCIAL IMPACT
None

Prepared by:
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager, Communications

Packet Pg. 23

2.C.2

Approved by:

Authorized:

Packet Pg. 24

2.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal

Committee Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Local – Roger Sherman, Partner - CRL Associates, Inc.
State – Jenifer Brandeberry, Partner - Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs
Federal – Patricia H. Doersch, Partner - Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP
PRESENTATION LENGTH
Local - 10 minutes
State - 10 minutes
Federal - 10 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) has a Government Relations Program facilitated and overseen
by the agency’s Government Relations Officer. Part of the role of the Government Relations Officer is
directing the work of the local, state and federal lobbyists that represent the agency. The lobbyists work
collaboratively with RTD’s General Manager and CEO, staff and Board members to advance policy and
legislative initiatives, as well as develop strategies for positioning the agency’s governmental interests.
The lobbyist teams provide regular reports and updates as needed throughout each month, and bimonthly each team submits a written report and follows up with a verbal report for the Board’s
Communications and Government Relations Committee meeting. The bi-monthly written reports are
attachments to this report.
DISCUSSION
The agency’s local, state and federal lobbyists will provide an oral update on the latest developments of
interest to RTD for each level of government.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
None
ATTACHMENTS:
•

CRL LGR Report 01-22-21

•

RTD Feb Board Report (PDF)

•

RTD Federal Update - Jan 22 2021

(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager, Communications
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 25

2.C.3

Authorized:

Packet Pg. 26

Date:

January 22, 2021

To:

Christina Zazueta

From:

Roger Sherman

Subject:

Local Government Relations Update

1. Metro Mayors Caucus – The Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) Transportation & Mobility
Committee will meet on February 2 at 10 a.m. The focus will be a discussion of transportation
principals and fee proposals within the SB19-239 report in anticipation of a bill being filed this
year. There also will likely be a short discussion on the RTD Accountability Committee’s Interim
Report, although the topic is not on the formal agenda. The MMC continues to meet on the first
and third Thursday’s via Zoom for “mayors only” discussions. It remains unclear when they will
return to having open full caucus meetings. The annual retreat typically held in January was
cancelled due to COVID-19.
2. Citizens Advisory Committee – The Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) met virtually on
January 20. The Committee received updates from Mike Meader and Bob Grado regarding the
implementation of changes in the Code of Conduct adopted by the Board last year, COVID
response and the upcoming peer review by APTA. The Committee also met with Pauletta Tonilas
to discuss current communication initiatives, CEO/GM and board engagement plans, and the
success of RTD’s News Stop. In February, the CAC will be updated on the DRCOG 2050 Metro
Vision Regional Transportation Plan and participate in a new service change engagement work
session including a short presentation about the service change, followed by open dialogue
between CAC members and Service Planning.
3. District Snapshot – We will be sending out a district snapshot of local elected officials and their
contact information. The November elections included five counties (Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder,
Douglas and Jefferson) and municipal elections in two towns (Parker and Superior). CRL is
working closely with the Communications team to support enhanced engagement with these key
stakeholders.
4. A Way Forward Coalition - The A Way Forward Coalition is a coalition of over 40
organizations working to pass a bipartisan transportation infrastructure funding bill to fund the
CDOT 10 year. The MMC issued the attached statement in December outlining its concerns and
priorities. To sign up for the summit, visit http://www.awayforwardcolorado.com/. The Coalition
will be hosting a transportation summit on Jan. 26th. This is a process we need to monitor closely.

1660 Lincoln Street, Suite 1800, Denver, CO 80264 p. 303.592.5450 f. 303.592.5460 www.crlassociates.com

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 01-22-21 (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

2.C.3.a

2.C.3.a

Motor fuels taxes, which Colorado relies on to fund transportation and mobility, were last raised
by the legislature in 1991. With the 1992 passage of TABOR, our fuel taxes stalled at 22¢/gallon.
This paralysis, combined with gains in efficiency, has resulted in Colorado drivers paying just
85¢/day for roads.1 However, there is a much higher indirect cost due to a lack of mobility
options, poor road conditions, and safety, environmental and quality of life impacts. It has been
apparent for decades that motor fuels taxes simply cannot support Colorado’s mobility needs.
We applaud the leadership being exercised by our legislature in evaluating new statewide and
regional funding approaches. But, as we do this, it is critical that we do not carry forward
outdated formulas and statutory constraints that do not reflect the Colorado of today or make
progress toward our desired future. To this end we support modernization of the revenue
structure, reevaluation of our spending priorities and taking a more equitable approach to
allocating available revenues.
Modernization of Revenue Structures: The Metro Mayors Caucus recognizes that new sources
of revenue are critical to replacing declining motor fuels tax revenues. We have invested
significant effort into developing statewide consensus for new transportation funding, supported
3 statewide transportation proposals in the last decade, and will continue to work for the “big
fix” that brings Colorado to the forefront of comprehensive statewide mobility investments2. This
includes evaluating how revenue structures can be adapted to offset declines in the gas tax
revenues due to inflation and to reflect the impacts of new mobility trends including mobility
providers, freight, and micro delivery — all of which increasingly impact vehicle miles traveled. It
is important that all users pay an equitable share to offset their impacts to our transportation
infrastructure and that these structures be put in place as soon as possible. We look forward to
reviewing and providing feedback as legislative proposals are introduced. Additionally, given our
tremendous transportation backlog in metro areas across the state, we strongly encourage the
legislature to provide new tools that simplify regional collaborations on mobility investments.
Spending Priorities: With new and innovative statewide funding mechanisms in place, the Metro
Mayors Caucus would prioritize investments that address the backlog of critical mobility needs
and improve safety, reliability, social equity, and sustainability. Transportation investments
should manage congestion, support economic vitality, advance efforts to comply with the Clean
Air Act, and help combat climate change. As such, greater resources should be directed to
1
2

CO & federal fuel taxes, FASTER & registration fees
MMC Supported HB17-1242, Proposition 110 in 2018 and Referendum CC in 2019

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 01-22-21 (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

Transportation Statement December 21, 2020

2.C.3.a

Formula Allocations: Colorado’s Highway Users Tax Fund “HUTF” formulas3 should not be
applied to any new revenue sources. HUTF distributions of motor fuel taxes and various fees are
statutorily allocated according to two formulas developed many decades ago. Neither
population, nor vehicle miles traveled (VMT) are directly accounted for in the HUTF formulas for
allocation of transportation dollars. Therefore, these formulas perpetuate a cycle of
disinvestment where dollars generated primarily by travel in and residents of urbanized areas
are invested elsewhere.
Since the 1980s, Colorado’s
population
has
nearly
doubled, and this growth has
concentrated in urbanized
areas. Colorado has 64
Counties. Yet, by 2018, more
than 83% of Coloradans lived within the 16 counties that comprise Colorado’s five metropolitan
planning organizations (MPOs). The residents of these 16 counties also generate nearly 90% of
Colorado’s GDP.
Because the HUTF formulas focus primarily on miles of pavement to be maintained, on average,
counties statewide receive $263 per capita and municipalities statewide receive $46 per capita
from the local share of the HUTF. But within the densely populated boundaries of DRCOG, the
combined city and county allocation is less than $43 per capita4. This disparity is also seen in
CDOT’s investments; with 57% of the state’s population, 30M visitors in 2017 alone, and 50% of
state highway VMT, the Denver region has historically received just 38-41% of CDOT’s share of
HUTF investment. This is not a sustainable level of investment and is detrimental to our efforts
to improve access to opportunity, address our air quality challenges, meet our GHG goals, and
provide the quality of life that has made Colorado a great place to live and work. As the legislature
evaluates new statewide revenue options, the formulas to allocate new revenue distributions
must be updated to take into better account population and VMT to create a clear nexus between
where revenues are generated and where they are invested.
Thank you for your efforts to put transportation and mobility on the 2021 legislative agenda. We
appreciate the opportunity to provide input on how we can move forward with a more equitable
transportation funding formula and position our regions with the tools to address our backlog of
critical mobility needs.

3
4

CO Rev Stat § 43-4-205 (2016)
2018 HUTF data

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 01-22-21 (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

multimodal transportation and projects that facilitate our attainment of federal air quality
standards and Colorado’s GHG targets set in HB19-1261.

2.C.3.b

1410 Grant Street, C-307 | Denver, CO 80203
office 303.539.1320 | www.bbmk.com

RTD

From: Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK)
Date: January 22, 2021
Re:

Board Report

On Thursday January 21st RTD General Manager Debra Johnson and Board Chair Rivera
Malpiede presented to the Legislative Audit Committee. Board members Guissinger, Caitlin and
Whitmore were in attendance as was Michael Ford and Doug McCloud of RTD staff. The
auditors were complimentary in their opening comments about the transparency and ease of
working with RTD staff, Interim General Manager Ballard and General Manager Johnson.
Ms. Collins of the audit staff released the audit to the committee and public and reminded
members that Colorado statute requires the state to do an audit every five years of the District’s
operations. She stated that this current audit focused on operator turnover and as well as a
legislative request regarding whether the RTD had met their farebox recovery statutory
requirements. After a brief overview of the District, the auditors went through in detail the
results of the audit and GM Johnson and Chair Rivera Malpiede provided substantive responses
to committee questions, articulated background information and agreed with the auditors’
findings. The bi-partisan committee was interested in the substance of the audit and were
impressed with both the GM and RTD Board chair. BBMK received positive feedback from
committee members about the new leadership and Board but it is clear based on some of the
comments both during the committee hearing and in the press that the Agency has limited time to
re-build confidence among many members of the General Assembly.
RTD will present virtually to the House and Senate Joint Transportation Committee on January
27 at 3:00pm. For board members interested in listening here is the link https://sg001harmony.sliq.net/00327/Harmony/en/View/UpcomingEvents/20210122/34.
BBMK anticipates receiving a draft copy of the accountability board legislation by January 27th
and we continue to communicate regularly with the House and Senate sponsors. Both sponsors
apologized to BBMK and RTD for the delay in sharing a draft as promised.
BBMK anticipates that the 2021 legislative session will begin in earnest on February 16 as most
members of the General Assembly will have received vaccinations. The Executive Committee
continues to meet to work through the details of remote testimony and public participation.
ACCOUNTABILITY COMMITTEE
BBMK monitored the most recent accountability committee meetings the proceedings of which
are summarized below:
January 20, 2021 RTD AC Finance Subcommittee Meeting 9
• https://drcog.org/node/981062
Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: RTD Feb Board Report (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

To:

• Agenda
On January 20, 2021, the finance subcommittee of the RTD accountability committee discussed
the new federal COVID-19 relief funding and RTD’s debt obligations. During discussion
regarding federal relief funds, General Manager Johnson highlighted that the funds will be used
primarily to recall represented front line employees and eliminate mandatory furlough days. The
subcommittee then presented potential uses of this funding beyond those outlined by RTD staff.
These uses include potential vaccination incentives such as free transit to vaccination locations
and 15-day free transit upon verification of a vaccine completion as well as changes to RTD
services such as low, flat rate fare pilots, increasing the scope of pass programs, and sharing
some of RTD’s federal funding with other transit partners. The subcommittee will continue to
discuss these potential uses and formulate recommendations for the next RTD accountability
committee meeting February 8th. Rebecca White will also continue to formulate a
recommendation around spending transparency of RTD’s federal relief funding. RTD’s Interim
CFO, Doug MacLeod, presented RTD’s total debt obligation. Subcommittee members will
continue to investigate how these debt obligations are hurting RTD’s ability to finish projects
such as the Northwest Rail. These investigations will continue considering what current levels of
ridership can support.
January 20, 2021 RTD AC Operations Subcommittee Meeting 10
• https://drcog.org/node/981038
• Agenda
On January 20, 2021, the operations subcommittee of the RTD accountability committee met
with various stakeholders on the topic of fixed route services. Before discussing fixed route
services, Interim CFO, Doug MacLeod followed up on how much cost RTD accumulates
through pass programs. 3.5% of fare revenue is used for cost collection processes. DRCOG staff
will investigate how this compares to other transit agencies. Regarding fixed route services, the
subcommittee engaged the Colorado Cross Disability Coalition (CCDC) and officials from the
Auraria campus. CCDC provided the operations subcommittee with 5 items of interest: (1) zero
scaped light rail entrances, (2) increase wayfinding, (3) incorporate multimodal stations on RTD
property, (4) designate areas for last mile services such as rideshare, and (5) address bus stops
that are not accessible for all riders. Subcommittee member Crystal Murillo asked how RTD
could promote sidewalk maintenance when most are on private property. The solution proposed
was modeled after Englewood, CO which collects an extra property tax that individuals can then
access to pay for sidewalk repairs. A representative from the Auraria campus, representing
business interests, outlined the services utilized on campus.
January 21, 2021 RTD AC Governance Subcommittee Meeting 10
• https://drcog.org/node/981139
• Agenda
On January 21, 2021, the governance subcommittee of the RTD accountability committee
discussed the travel shed corridors to be used in the subregional governance model and the future
schedule for the subcommittee. DRCOG staff, Doug Rex, will reconvene the technical staff
working group to develop a subregional governance model recommendation. The subcommittee
will work to finalize a recommendation by the second week of February. Subcommittee
members expressed concerns about how many jurisdictions would be involved in one service

2
Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: RTD Feb Board Report (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

2.C.3.b

council as well as interest in requesting state funding for RTD to meet the state’s emission goals.
A conversation about how to fund these RTD partnerships and innovative solutions was also had
by subcommittee members, highlighting the need for local partnerships around funding. Chair
Julie Mullica outlined the future subcommittee deadlines below:
• Mid-February: finalize a subregional governance structure recommendation
• End of February: provide a recommendation about how to enable RTD partnerships with
other transit agencies
• End of March: address the size and structure of the RTD service area
• May: finalize all recommendations
DRCOG staff will coordinate between subcommittees on areas that overlap.

3
Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: RTD Feb Board Report (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

2.C.3.b

2.C.3.c
Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP
2550 M Street, NW
Washington, DC 20037
+1 202 457 6000
+1 202 457 6315
squirepattonboggs.com
O
F

To:

Denver Regional Transportation District (RTD)

From:

Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP

Date:

January 22, 2021

Subject:

A New President and A New Session of Congress: What These Changes Mean for
the Federal Transit Program and for RTD

THE BIDEN ADMINISTRATION AND THE NEW FEDERAL LANDSCAPE
Joseph R. Biden, Jr. was sworn in as the 46th President of the United States on January 20 under
extraordinary circumstances. Beyond the demands of addressing the COVID pandemic, the
polarized electorate will make governing more difficult because it makes finding common ground
more difficult. Additionally, Biden’s sizable margin of victory in the popular vote and Electoral
College did not translate into the expected number of down-ballot wins in the House and Senate.
So even after the upset wins of both Georgia Senate seats on January 5, Democrats control both
chambers by the narrowest of margins.

Transit is expected to fare well under Biden’s initial four policy priorities.
For President Biden, conquering COVID is Job One – a prerequisite to all Biden hopes to
accomplish under his climate change, equity, and economic recovery priorities.
Biden will address the pandemic and its impacts in two stages. First, Biden on January 14
announced his $1.9 trillion “American Rescue Plan,” for which he seeks bipartisan support. That
proposal includes direct COVID countermeasures like funding for increased vaccinations. It also
includes the pieces Democrats view as missing from the December COVID relief bill: funding for
State and local governments and an additional $1,400 in direct relief payments to individuals.
Significantly, the only specific transportation / infrastructure funding in this first proposal is $20
billion for public transportation. As a summary of that proposal explains, Biden aims to keep
transit operators on the job, while “ensuring that communities of color maintain the access of
opportunity that public transportation provides.”
The second Biden proposal, which he will unveil before a joint session of Congress next month, will
be geared toward recovery; this is likely to include additional infrastructure funding. This second
proposal will be much more ambitious, more expensive, and likely more partisan (e.g., with climate
change countermeasures) than his COVID relief plan, so Biden is already examining ways to
advance this through the budget reconciliation process. Budget reconciliation requires a simple

45 Offices in 20 Countries
Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP is part of the international legal practice Squire Patton Boggs, which operates worldwide through a number of separate
legal entities.

1

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: RTD Federal Update - Jan 22 2021 (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

Federal Update

2.C.3.c

majority vote, rather than the standard 60-vote threshold of the Senate – making it theoretically
possible to pass legislation in the Senate without any Republican support.

Requiring masks on all public transit is among President Biden’s early executive
actions
Within his first hours in office, President Biden sought to fulfill campaign pledges through actions
he can take himself, without legislation. Several of these changes reflect his commitment to an
aggressive Federal response to the pandemic.
While transit agencies nationwide already have mask mandates, Biden has taken action on the
national level to protect transit operators and riders from COVID. On his first full day in office,
President Biden signed an executive order titled “Promoting COVID-19 Safety in Domestic and
International Travel.” Among the provisions in the order is one requiring masks on “all forms of
public transportation as defined in section 5302 of title 49, United States Code,” which is broadly
defined as “regular, continuing shared-ride surface transportation services that are open to the
general public or open to a segment of the general public defined by age, disability, or low income
….” This term defines funding eligibility under the Federal transit program, so if a type of service is
eligible for public transportation funding under chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code, then that
service is covered by the President’s mask requirement.

The Biden Administration is moving quickly to fill US DOT positions
Biden is ahead of his predecessors in naming nominees and appointees across his Administration.
In general, he is drawing on former Federal officials with experience in the programs and agencies
they will oversee. Biden recently announced that New York City Transportation Commissioner
Polly Trottenberg will serve as Deputy Secretary. Trottenberg served as Under Secretary of
Transportation for Policy in the Obama Administration and, before that, on Capitol Hill for Sen.
Schumer (D-NY) and former Sens. Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Daniel Patrick Moynihan (D-NY).
On January 19, Biden announced Nuria Fernandez, CEO and general manager of the Santa Clara
County Valley Transportation Authority, as his nominee for head of the Federal Transit
Administration (FTA). She will begin service as the Deputy FTA Administrator – an appointed
position not requiring Senate confirmation and the same position she held under the Clinton
Administration. Fernandez is highly respected across the transportation industry, having served in
leadership roles at agencies in New York, Chicago, and Washington, DC.

117TH SESSION OF CONGRESS
Plans for Senate governance are still uncertain
Senate leaders Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Chuck Schumer (D-NY) seek to reach a power-sharing
agreement to govern the Senate; this deal has proved elusive so far. Complicating their efforts – and
potentially delaying action on Biden’s two-part legislative agenda – is the lack of agreement on
conducting the impeachment hearing of Donald Trump. Without an agreement between the two

2

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: RTD Federal Update - Jan 22 2021 (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

Transit should fare well under this plan, as it is expected to focus on “shovel worthy” projects –
smart, resilient, green investment – rather than projects that can break ground immediately but do
not address Biden’s key goals of mitigating climate change and addressing racial and social equity.

2.C.3.c

party leaders, the impeachment proceeding will take precedence over all other Senate business once
the House formally transmits the article of impeachment, which is expected to occur on January 25.

With Democrats now in the majority in the Senate, Sherrod Brown (D-OH) takes over as Chairman
of the Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, which has jurisdiction over transit. To
many transit stakeholders, this is a welcome change in leadership. While it is typical for the
Committee to prioritize banking and housing issues over transit, Senator Brown brings a
longstanding commitment to transit to his role as Chairman. As a Democrat from Ohio, Brown
strongly supports organized labor and efforts to support US jobs generally, including robust Buy
America requirements in Federal transit grant programs. Accordingly, we expect that the
Committee will be more engaged during the reauthorization of surface transportation programs this
year than it was in prior authorization cycles.

Buttigieg is expected to be confirmed soon, after a straightforward Senate hearing
On January 21, the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee held its confirmation
hearing for Pete Buttigieg, US Secretary of Transportation nominee. Buttigieg’s written testimony
explained transportation’s role in advancing the President’s ambitious climate change and equity
priorities and included the same commitment to safety that guides every US Secretary of
Transportation. Only after the hearing did Buttigieg make news when his spokesperson clarified
that Buttigieg does not support raising the Federal gas tax as a means to fund infrastructure
investment. Buttigieg is not a controversial appointment, and the nomination of several seasoned
former Federal executives to the Department can mitigate concerns with his limited transportation
experience, so he is expected to be confirmed by the Senate soon.

FY 2022 appropriations bills are the next opportunity to advance our RRIF CRP fix
Each Spring marks the start of the annual appropriations process in Congress. In addition to
pursuing our RRIF CRP fix in the surface transportation authorization bills expected to move this
year through the House and Senate, we will also use the FY 2022 appropriations process to push for
the fix, and will submit formal appropriations requests in the coming weeks to all members of
RTD’s congressional delegation. Support for our fix among RTD’s entire congressional delegation,
as well as House authorizers and appropriators, remains strong.

3

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: RTD Federal Update - Jan 22 2021 (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

A transit champion takes control of the Senate Banking Committee

3.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Approval of 15L Route Improvements Change Order

Committee Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or her designee, to grant Jalisco International, Inc. a time extension for
the 15L Route Improvements Contract until October 15, 2021, and increase the contract amount by
$793,000 for a total amount not to exceed $9,969,050.36.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager – Capital Programs
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
Route 15L Ridership
The route 15L runs between the Decatur-Federal Station in the City and County of Denver (CCD) and the
Aurora Metro Center Station in Aurora, a total distance of 15 miles, on Colfax Avenue. In early 2020,
prior to the COVID-19 Pandemic, the 15 and 15L routes combined carried approximately 24,000
customers on weekdays, which was comparable to the southwest light rail corridor (i.e., the C and D
lines combined). Typically, many of the 15L stops have more than 500 boardings per weekday and the
eastbound stop at Lincoln has more than 2,000 boardings per weekday.
15L Route Improvements Project Scope
The 15L Route Improvements project is currently under construction. The project’s purpose is to
significantly enhance operations and the customer experience through the implementation of Transit
Signal Priority (TSP) and queue jumps/bypass lanes in the Denver project segment, along with bulb-outs
(curb extensions) throughout the corridor. Additionally, 36 modern and transparent shelters with
benches and trash receptacles will be installed throughout the corridor, most of which will be equipped
with light-emitting diode (LED) lights, map/schedule displays and security cameras.
The shelters were designed to enhance the customer experience while minimizing electricity usage,
thereby, reducing their carbon footprint. RTD designed the monument cabinets, which house the
electronics, (i.e., computer networking equipment, fiber optics and cellular gateways, network video
recorders, etc.) without any air conditioning units and utilized efficient LED lighting fixtures.
Project Funding
Funding for the project was made available through federal and state grants totaling $9,025,000. The
grants include a Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Ladders of Opportunity grant; a CDOT Funding
Advancements for Surface Transportation and Economic Recovery (FASTER) grant; a Denver Regional
Council of Governments (DRCOG) Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality (CMAQ) grant; and, Senate Bill1 grant award, for design, construction, materials testing, and inspection of the project. The local match
requirement varies by grant. When considered holistically, RTD is providing 24% of the total as local
match to the funding for a total project budget of $11,841,422.

Packet Pg. 36

3.B.1

On Dec 18, 2018, the RTD Board authorized the General Manager to enter into a contract with Jalisco
International, Inc. for the proposed work with a not to exceed value of $8,690,000. Over the last two
years, the base contract has been increased by $486,050.36 to cover various modifications. The current
contact value is $ 9,176,050.36 and RTD staff is requesting an additional $793,000 to fund
enhancements to the shelter monuments.
A request has been made to the FTA to extend the period of performance of the grant until December
31, 2021.
DISCUSSION
The base contract included an out-of-state manufacturer for monument cabinets fabrication and due to
the pandemic, staff was not able to perform an onsite inspection. Upon receipt and inspection of the
first shelter, the Project Team determined that additional enhancements to the cabinet design were
necessary for the long-term functionality and maintainability of the units.
Staff has directed the contractor to provide proposals for redesigning and fabricating the monuments.
Jalisco has provided three proposals and a local vendor was selected to design and build a new
prototype.
The new monuments will:
• Better withstand weather conditions: improved weatherproofing by enhancing seams, closures
and gaskets.
• Have vandalism resistance elements: improved sturdiness, rigidity and access to panels.
• Be Easier to Maintain: improved access for maintenance.
• Use Less Energy: chimney effect avoids the energy-consuming air conditioning.
The majority of the civil work has been completed and the monuments along with the canopy installation
are the remaining open items. The current completion date is January 31,2021. Based upon the
aforementioned, staff recommends the continuation of work with Jalisco and its local fabricator until
October 15, 2021.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for the contract change is included within the Board approved project budget which includes
funding support from other Agencies.
It is important to note, these project funds are for the agreed scope of work between RTD and its
Partner Agencies and cannot be used for any other projects.

Prepared by:
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 37

3.B.1

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 38

3.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Policy

Committee Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution Number
(the “Resolution”), the “Equitable Transit-Oriented
Development Policy” to permit and encourage the development of affordable housing on RTD real
property.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Chessy Brady, Manager, Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
The intent of the Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Policy (the “Policy”) is to encourage
affordable housing on RTD real property at and along high-frequency transit stations and corridors.
Successful implementation of the Policy would increase ridership through transit-supportive land use,
generate revenue through joint development on RTD real property, and enhance community
relationships. Staff will use the Policy to coordinate with state and local agencies, negotiate with
developers, and reduce administrative, acquisition, and construction costs in order to reduce overall
development costs and help enable affordable housing.
The State enabled RTD to promote the public health, safety, convenience, economy, and welfare of
residents in the region and the state. Housing and transportation typically are the highest costs in a
household’s budget, affecting the vitality of household economy and welfare. Reducing housing and
transportation costs allows households to save for their health, safety, and convenience.
RTD staff has assessed Metro Denver transit ridership trends and parking demands to better understand
customer needs. In a survey of 1,340 residents of 35 station-area apartments across the region, staff
found that low-income households typically use transit more than market-rate residents. Specifically:
•
•
•

63 percent of low-income households use the bus once a week or more, while 88 percent of
market-rate households ride the bus once a week or less.
57 percent of low-income households use the train once a week or more, while 73 percent of
market-rate households ride the train once a week or less.
61 percent of low-income households have no car, while 93 percent of market-rate households
have at least one car.

Packet Pg. 39

3.B.2

Regarding parking demand, RTD staff recently analyzed 86 private station-area properties across the
region. This analysis found that residents use only 58 percent of all parking spaces provided, and
residents of income-restricted housing use only 50 percent of all parking spaces provided. These findings
suggest that negotiating with developers and municipalities to reduce parking supply in joint
development projects – particularly those with income-restricted housing – could reduce development
costs and thus promote affordable housing from which RTD ridership benefits.
Metro Denver needs more lower-cost housing. The City and County of Denver estimates that the region
lacks 100,000 affordable homes, and the National Community Reinvestment Coalition ranked Metro
Denver as the second fastest gentrifying region in the country between 2013 and 2017. As a property
owner, RTD has a unique opportunity to address the intent of its enabling legislation by helping to create
affordable housing on agency property, not only to address rising costs of living but also to encourage
transit use. Were RTD to encourage only market-rate development, it might lose the opportunity to
maximize ridership and satisfy the agency’s intent and mission. While RTD’s land holdings suitable for
joint development may barely make a dent in the region’s housing affordability problem, RTD can be part
of the solution and set an example for how to encourage affordable housing and increase ridership at the
same time.
Statutes/Policies
The following federal, state, and agency requirements for joint development inform this Policy:
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Joint Development Circular (2020): This circular clarifies that the
objective of FTA’s joint-development policy “…is to maximize the utility of FTA-assisted projects and to
encourage the generation of program income through joint development.” Beyond this policy
clarification, FTA defers to transit agencies to define their joint development policy: “It is FTA’s policy to
give project sponsors maximum flexibility within the law to work with the private sector and others to
pursue joint development.”
Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.) 32-9-102: RTD was created by State statute to “promote the public
health, safety, convenience, economy, and welfare of the residents of the district and of the state of
Colorado.” This Policy serves that mandate by enhancing the quality of life for low-income residents to
the economic benefit of RTD, the District, and the state.
C.R.S. 32-9-119(1)(h): RTD has the statutory power to “purchase, trade, exchange, or otherwise
acquire, maintain, and dispose of real property and personal property and any interest therein.”
C.R.S. 32-9-119.8: This statute permits RTD to enter into agreements to provide residential,
commercial, or retail uses at RTD transfer facilities. C.R.S. 32-9-119.8(3) states “Any person obtaining
the use of any portion of a transfer facility ... for the provision of residential uses or other uses shall be
required to compensate the district by payment of rent at fair market value, or, at the discretion of the
district, by the provision of services or capital improvements to facilities used in transit services, alone or
in combination with rental payments, such that the total benefit to the district is not less than the fair
market rental value of the property used by the person.”

Packet Pg. 40

3.B.2

C.R.S. 32-9-119.8(4) requires “The use of a transfer facility ... for the provision of residential uses or
other uses shall not be permitted if the use would reduce transit services [or] would reduce the
availability of adequate parking for the public.” This Policy complies with these statutory requirements.
RTD FasTracks Strategic Plan for TOD (2010): This plan affirms RTD’s support of policy goals, such as
the development of mixed-income housing near stations, as reflected by local jurisdictions’ adopted
policies. However, this plan neither creates incentives nor removes barriers to truly offer support for
affordable housing development.
RTD TOD Evaluation Guidelines (2018): These guidelines require staff to evaluate proposals for joint
development based on revenue, ridership, operations and maintenance impacts, amenities/access
improvements, community facilities/affordable housing provided, and benefits to the RTD brand image.
However, these guidelines are qualitative, and the provision of affordable housing is weighted equally
with other factors.
RTD Board Authority: Per RTD Board Resolution No. 15 Series of 2015, “Policy for Joint Development
and Disposition of Real Property,” the RTD Board of Directors retains the authority to review and
approve all transactions for joint development. This Policy does not conflict with that authority.
DISCUSSION
The Policy is composed of five elements that together will promote affordability in joint development
projects to reflect RTD’s aforementioned policies and abilities and build on best practices from peer
agencies.
Policy Element 1: Affordability Goal
Transit agencies that set affordability goals commonly require or recommend between 20 and 35
percent of units to be restricted to low-income households earning less than 100 percent area median
income (AMI). Some agencies look for these levels of affordability on a per-project basis, others look at
affordability on a per-station or portfolio-wide basis.
To permit and encourage the development of affordable housing, RTD sets an aspirational and nonbinding goal that 35 percent of the total residential units developed on RTD property will be affordable to
low-income households. For consistency with state and local affordability requirements and the variety
of needs across the District, RTD’s determination of affordability will be linked to AMI targets set by
state and local partners. These targets are generally linked to Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC)
requirements as administered by the Colorado Housing and Finance Authority (CHFA). In 2020, CHFA
supports development projects that provide residential units averaging up to 60 percent AMI. Based on
the District’s size and varying suitability for development, the Policy sets a portfolio-wide goal to be
measured over the next 10 years.
Policy Element 2: Parking Replacement
Many customers access transit by driving to a Park-n-Ride (PnR) and boarding a bus or train. RTD’s
typical practice has been to require developers building on active PnRs to replace all existing parking
spaces. Due to the economics of real estate development, those spaces (typically in surface lots) would
then need to be structured in a new garage. Estimates vary, but in 2020 parking garages can easily cost
$25,000 or more per parking space. To put this in context, for a 200-space PnR, a garage would cost
$5,000,000. If a developer cannot afford to pay for the replacement parking on top of the land cost, the

Packet Pg. 41

3.B.2

cost of the replacement parking would need to come directly out of the proceeds to RTD of the land
transfer, whether that be a sale or a ground lease. Replacing RTD parking spaces may also reduce livable
square footage from the larger development.
Some peer agencies evaluate the replacement of parking spaces by modeling future parking demand at
each station. The Policy clarifies that RTD will also determine the quantity of replacement parking based
on projected future parking utilization, among other agency considerations.
Policy Element 3: Shared Parking
Similar to replacement parking considerations, there are opportunities for development cost reductions
when transit customers and non-transit customers can share parking. Peer agencies consider including
shared parking in joint development based on the specifics of each development. In situations where
transit customers’ access to buses and trains can be protected, RTD may also consider opportunities for
shared parking.
Policy Element 4: Expedited Administration
Peer agencies occasionally waive internal processing and development review fees, minimize review
times, and entitle agency property to attract developers and reduce development uncertainty, costs and
schedules. The Policy clarifies that RTD may do the same.
Policy Element 5: Negotiated Land Price
The cost of land, especially at station areas with high real estate values, is a common barrier to
affordable housing development. Some peer agencies offer affordable developers discounts on land price
to encourage affordable housing development. It is not the intent of RTD to offer “discounts,” but rather
to assess and consider other agency benefits in its determination of an appropriate sale or lease price
within the bounds of statutory requirements.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no expected direct financial impact of this resolution. Existing resolutions require that financial
implications be considered as part of any Board or staff decision related to TOD projects.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

2021 Equitable Transit-Oriented Development Policy Resolution

•

Equitable TOD Policy Presentation

(PDF)

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Chessy Brady, Manager, Transit-Oriented Development
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 42

3.B.2

Packet Pg. 43

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. ___, SERIES OF 2021
(Equitable Transit-Oriented Development Policy)
A RESOLUTION PROVIDING POLICY GUIDANCE TO PERMIT AND ENCOURAGE THE
DEVELOPMENT OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING ON RTD REAL PROPERTY.
WHEREAS, Regional Transportation District (RTD) plans, designs, builds, and operates
mass transit for the Denver region; and
WHEREAS, the provision of transit service to the Denver region by RTD influences
development patterns and supports transit-oriented development (TOD); and
WHEREAS, the State created RTD to “promote the public health, safety, convenience,
economy, and welfare of the residents of the district and of the state of Colorado;” and
WHEREAS, RTD has the statutory power to “purchase, trade, exchange, or otherwise
acquire, maintain, and dispose of real property and personal property and any interest
therein;” and
WHEREAS, the adequate availability of affordable housing is a regional concern; and
WHEREAS, RTD research demonstrates that low-income people who reside near public
transit are more likely to use transit than higher income people; and
WHEREAS, RTD research demonstrates that private buildings located near transit provide
more parking than needed by residents; and
WHEREAS, RTD decisions on transit-oriented development are governed by the Colorado
Revised Statutes, Federal Transit Administration guidance (Joint Development Circular C
7050.1B), and a broad set of internal policies, including RTD’s Strategic Plan for TOD
(2010), Policy for Joint Development and Disposition of Real Property (RTD Resolution 15,
Series of 2015), Unsolicited Proposal Policy for Real Property (RTD Resolution 16, Series
of 2015), Parking Guiding Principles (RTD Resolution 24, Series of 2016), and TOD
Evaluation Guidelines (RTD Resolution 2, Series of 2018); and
WHEREAS, FTA guidance, and internal policies support the development of affordable
housing on RTD land; and
WHEREAS, RTD staff would benefit from additional policy guidance from the RTD Board of
Directors on evaluating TOD projects;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT TO ADOPT THE FOLLOWING EQUITABLE TRANSITORIENTED DEVELOPMENT POLICY:

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: 2021 Equitable Transit-Oriented Development Policy Resolution (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Policy)

3.B.2.a

Equitable Transit-Oriented Development Policy
This Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Policy (the “Policy”) permits and
encourages the joint development of RTD-owned real property for the creation of housing
affordable for low-income households in order to increase transit ridership through transitsupportive land use, generate revenue through joint development, and enhance community
relationships. Informed by research of local policies and peer agency practices, the Policy
permits the use of a variety of strategies to spur the development of affordable housing
and sets a goal for affordable housing development on agency land. The Policy is intended
to reduce development costs and empower staff to initiate negotiations with developers
and coordinate with state and local agencies to promote affordable housing as a transitsupportive land use at and along high-frequency transit corridors.

In addition to researching ridership trends, parking demand, best practices employed by
peer agencies, and existing requirements for joint development, staff consulted with local
jurisdictions in the District and other transportation and housing partners to inform the
Policy.

The Policy shall apply to residential development occurring on RTD land through joint
development transactions, wherein RTD has a continued interest in the site, either through
a ground lease or due to on-site or adjacent transit uses.
1. Affordability Goal: To permit and encourage the development of affordable housing,
RTD sets an aspirational and non-binding goal to include affordable residential units
constructed on RTD property. Across its portfolio, and over the next 10 years, staff
shall endeavor to reach the goal that 35 percent of the total residential units
developed on RTD property will be affordable to low-income households. Such
households will have incomes that correspond to affordability requirements at state
and local levels, such as those determined by the Colorado Housing and Finance
Authority (CHFA). In any given year, in any given jurisdiction, and in any given
project, the number of affordable units created may be more or less than 35
percent, but across all residential joint development projects, RTD will aspire to
achieve that goal. This goal will apply over a 10-year period, will be presented to
the RTD Board annually, and may be adjusted by the Board over time.
2. Parking Replacement: Where a new development will be located on an existing
Park-n-Ride, RTD will determine the quantity of replacement parking based on
projected future parking utilization among other agency considerations.
3. Shared Parking: Where there are opportunities to share parking between transit
customers and non-transit customers, and in situations where transit customers’
access to buses and trains can be protected, RTD may consider opportunities for
shared parking.

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: 2021 Equitable Transit-Oriented Development Policy Resolution (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Policy)

3.B.2.a

4. Expedited Administration: Staff may waive internal processing and development
review fees, minimize review times, and entitle agency property to attract
developers and reduce development uncertainty, costs, and schedules.
Negotiated Land Price: RTD will operate within the bounds of its existing statutory
requirements to allow reductions in purchase price or rent in exchange for affordable
housing development or other benefits to the agency.

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: 2021 Equitable Transit-Oriented Development Policy Resolution (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Policy)

3.B.2.a

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

3.B.2.b

Equitable Transit-Oriented
Development (TOD) Policy

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Chessy Brady, TOD Manager
February 2, 2021

Packet Pg. 47

What is the Equitable TOD policy?
Policy Goal
Encourage affordable residential development for low-income households
at and along high-frequency transit stations and corridors
Objectives
• Increase ridership through transit-supportive land use
• Generate revenue through joint development
• Enhance community relationships

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

Intent
Promote affordable housing as a transit-supportive land use by:
• Empowering staff to negotiate with developers
• Coordinating with state and local agencies

Tools
Reduce administrative, acquisition, and construction costs in order to
reduce overall development costs

2

Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

3.B.2.b

Why should RTD implement the policy?
• Lower-cost housing needed in Metro Denver
• Research indicates affordable housing residents use transit more than
market rate housing residents
• Consistency with statute to promote public welfare and increase transit use

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

• Equitable TOD is a best practice

• Enhances commitment to regional partnerships

3

Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

3.B.2.b

Peer Agency Equitable TOD Policy Requirements/Targets
• Varying affordable housing requirements for joint development
• Require 20%-35% of units be affordable at 60%-100% Area Median Income (AMI)
• Require affordability restrictions on a per-project, per-station or portfolio-wide basis

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Sound Transit
(Seattle)

BART
(San Francisco)

LA Metro
(Los Angeles)

MBTA
(Boston)

MARTA
(Atlanta)

MTS
(San Diego)

VTA
(Santa Clara, CA)

% Units
Restricted

80% (min)

20% (min);
35% (goal)

35% (goal)

20% (min)*

20% (goal)

20% (min)

20% (min);
35% (goal)

% AMI

80%

80%

60%

100%

80% (rental);
100% (for sale)

80%

60%;
Half at 50%

Project or
Portfolio?

Per project

Per station

Portfolio

Per project

Portfolio

Per project

Per project

*Negotiable to 10% in certain circumstances

4

Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

3.B.2.b

Peer Agencies’ Other Tools

Legend
Yes

Sound Transit

BART

LA Metro

Transit
Parking
Replacement

Evaluates
opportunity
for shared-use
parking

No parking
replacement at
“Urban” stations

Land
Discounts

Discounts
property based
on financial
need for project
viability

Discounts property
for projects that
are 35% affordable
ranging from 10%60%, based on
AMI

Discounts property
based on
percentage of
affordable units (up
to 30% fair market
value)

Seeks direct or
alternate
funding
sources,
including public
subsidy, to
support joint
development

Pursues state,
regional, and
philanthropic
partnerships to
alleviate and
prevent
homelessness
through affordable
housing

Contributes to
regional housing
fund for creation of
affordable housing
in station areas on
private property

MBTA

MARTA

Case-by-case
basis

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

Other
Financial
Assistance
from Transit
Agency

Preference in
RFPs

May reduce
affordability
requirements
to 10% to
make project
viable

Encourages
reduced parking
minimums and
upzoning for
inclusion of
affordable units

Scores affordable
projects higher

Partial

No

N/A

MTS

VTA

Case-bycase basis

Case-by-case basis

Case-bycase basis

No land discounts,
unless project is
ground lease and
100% affordable

No
financial
assistance
specified

Encourages
upzoning for
greater
affordability and
facilitates
partnerships with
affordable housing
resources
Scores affordable
projects higher

5

Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

3.B.2.b

Equitable TOD Policy Elements
1. Affordability Goal
2. Parking Replacement
3. Shared Parking

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

4. Expedited Administration

EXAMPLE:
Each policy element is illustrated on a spectrum

5. Negotiated Land Price

Policy Element

No way
Option

Policy Commitment
Level

All in
Option

6

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

3.B.2.b

Policy Element 1. Affordability Goal
• 35% of all residential units developed on RTD property will be
affordable to low-income households
• Aspirational, non-binding goal
• Portfolio-wide
• 10-year evaluation period
• “Affordable” designation will correspond to requirements at state and local
levels (e.g., Colorado Housing and Finance Authority (CHFA))

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

• Staff will provide annual updates to RTD Board on progress towards goal

% Affordability Goal

0%

affordable

100%

35% goal,
portfolio-wide

affordable,
all projects

7

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

3.B.2.b

Policy Element 1. Affordability Goal (cont’d)
Illustration of 35% Affordability Goal, Portfolio-wide
•
•
•

RTD has few properties with real development potential
Number of properties that will develop is unknowable
Affordability goal will influence total number of affordable units developed

Assuming 300 units per project and a 35% goal,
if 2 sites are developed:

210 affordable units

if 5 sites are developed:

525 affordable units

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

A goal is not a
requirement — it helps
focus the agency on a
direction to pursue

if 10 sites are developed: 1,050 affordable units

8

Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

3.B.2.b

Policy Element 2. Parking Replacement
• RTD will determine the quantity of replacement parking based on projected future
parking utilization, among other agency considerations
• Park-n-Rides provide crucial access to transit
• RTD parking replacement is expensive, reduces potential revenue for lease/sale of land

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Replacement of RTD transit parking

0%
Replacement

Replacement
depending on
projected utilization

100%
Replacement

9

Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

3.B.2.b

Policy Element 3. Shared Parking
• RTD may consider opportunities for shared parking between transit customers and
non-transit customers when:
• Transit customers’ access to buses and trains is protected
• Opportunities create efficiency and cost savings

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Flexibility around shared parking
(between non and transit customers)

All spaces open to all

Some shared parking
spaces may be permitted,
e.g., for a certain number
of residents or guest
parking, or at certain times

Spaces fully segregated

10

Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

3.B.2.b

Policy Element 4. Expedited Administration
• Reduce development costs by shortening time frame and increasing predictability
• Staff may
• Waive internal processing/development review fees
• Minimize review times
• Entitle agency property

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Expedited processing within RTD

All fees automatically
waived, review times
minimized, prepermit all properties

Waive fees for staff review,
minimize review times,
pre-permit where valuable

Treated no
differently than
other projects

11

Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

3.B.2.b

Policy Element 5. Negotiated Land Price
• Certain statutes require developer to compensate RTD at fair market value (FMV)
and/or by providing services or capital improvements
• Land cost – common barrier to affordable housing development
• Purchase price or rent reductions may be permitted in exchange for affordable housing
development or other agency benefits

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Negotiated Land Price

Require FMV in cash

Donate the land

Reduce price according
to existing statutory
requirements around
Fair Market Value

12

Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

3.B.2.b

Outreach Conducted
Staff has consulted state and local staff, peer agencies, and industry groups to
inform the policy:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

American Planning Association – Colorado Chapter, Sustainability Committee
City of Aurora
City and County of Denver – Community Planning and Development, Housing and Stability
City of Lakewood
Colorado Housing Finance Authority (CHFA)
Denver Region Council of Governments (DRCOG)
Mile High Connects
Neighborhood Development Collaborative
Urban Land Institute – Colorado Chapter
Town of Superior

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

13

Packet Pg. 59

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

3.B.2.b

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Questions?
Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

3.B.2.b

Packet Pg. 60

