Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, February 10, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Present
Present

5:27 PM
4:57 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:21 PM
5:28 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

5:24 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

5:18 PM
5:28 PM
5:17 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:16 PM
5:11 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:28 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:28 PM

Jeff Walker

Committee Chair

Present

5:13 PM

Director Lasater was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Lacy Bell, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter,
Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Lee Cryer, Nathan Diaz, Martell
Dyles, John Elias, Terry Emmons, Steve Gieske, Dave Genova,
Mike Gil, Lou Ha, Kim Heldman, Ann-Marie Isaac-Heslop, Erin
Klaas, Sheri Le, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod,
Barbara McManus, Eric Miller, Vivian Morales, Brenden
Morgan, Amanda Murray, Dave Ober, Linda Ober, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Jan Ross, Zamy Silva, Greg Smith,
Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Audrey DeBarros, Adrina Gibson, Joni Goheen, Sherman
Hamilton, Eugene Howard, Tina Jaquez, Daryl Kinton, Mica
Maniece, Elizabeth Murphy, Dan Pearsall, Dave Sacks, Marta
Sipeki, Faye Tate, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Dace West

B. Recommended Actions
No recommended actions were presented.

C. Updates

• Civil Rights Division- 2014 Annual Report
Zamy Silva, Acting Senior Manager for Civil Rights, thanked the Directors for
the opportunity to present the Civil Rights Department highlights for 2014.
The Civil Rights 2014 Annual Report was included in the February 10, 2015
Civil Rights Committee Agenda packet. A hard copy of the Annual Report
was available for each Director during the meeting. Zamy Silva thanked
Adrina Gibson, Compliance Officer, and Mica Maniece, Workforce Initiative
Now (WIN) Specialist, for their work on the Annual Report.
Zamy Silva and Martell Dyles, WIN Program Manager, reviewed the
presentation included in the February 10, 2015 Civil Rights Committee
Agenda packet. The presentation included an overview of the 2014 Annual
Report, an overview of the 2014 events conducted and attended, and the
2015 goals for the division.
Director Folska commended Zamy Silva and the Civil Rights Department for
their work and passion. She asked if any disabled-owned businesses were
accounted for on the spreadsheet with the information from the Census
Bureau on the Annual Report. Zamy Silva replied that the spreadsheet is
meant to be a look at Colorado’s composition when it comes to
Disadvantage Business Enterprises (DBE) and Small Business Enterprises
(SBE) certified businesses. No line item represents disable-owned

businesses. Director Folska hopes that moving forward in 2015 the disabled
business community would be included in every aspect of RTD operations.
Phil Washington, General Manager, added that there is no Federal category
to track Americans with Disability Act (ADA) businesses but staff will look
into identifying and tracking these businesses.
Director Solano wondered if the Equal Opportunity (EO) videos referred to in
the Annual Report were produced in house. Zamy Silva replied that they
were and that most of them were recordings of classes.
Director Menten asked if RTD did certifications as she was under the
impression that the City and County of Denver (Denver) was responsible for
them. Zamy Silva replied that Denver does the DBE certification. RTD
opted to create its own SBE certification program. RTD is responsible for
certification and monitoring these locally funded projects.
Director Menten mentioned that she met with Dennis Gallagher, City Auditor
for the City and County of Denver (Denver). They measure success by how
many firms graduate from their program. Director Menten asked how RTD
measures success. Zamy Silva said that Denver’s DBE certification program
is different: once a business has a 3 year revenue average sales greater than
$23.98 million they graduate from the DBE Program. RTD’s certification has
a 4 category system in which similarly sized businesses are placed in the
same category. The idea is that firms of the same size are competing with
each other for the same projects. Director Menten wondered if firms stay
within their categories for an extended period of time. Phil Washington
replied that it is considered a success when firms move to the next revenue
category. The top category will be changed to $23 million in accordance
with new Federal DBE regulations. He added that no firm working with RTD
has reached that level in the past 12 months. The Civil Right Department
actively monitors the certifications. Director Menten asked if the number of
employees affects the category placement. Zamy Silva answered that
Federal regulations look at different things depending on the industry. For
example they will look at the average 3 year revenue for engineering firms.
For supplier and manufacturer firms, Federal guidelines look at the average 3
year revenue, size of company, and personal net worth of the socially
disadvantage individual. She added that the intent of the program is to have
firms graduate. She pointed out that some firms do not want to graduate as
they may lose business once they lose their certification. Sometimes firms
pass on jobs in order to remain at their current level. Director Menten noted
that it may be because RTD is providing them with the fish and they do not
want to pick up the fishing rod.
Director Deadwyler said that she was under the impression that RTD did
dual certifications for DBE and SBE. Zamy Silva clarified that there are two
individual certifications: the DBE certification through Denver and the

Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) and RTD’s SBE certification.
Those that qualify for DBE most likely will qualify for SBE. Firms that are
certified for both have the opportunity to participate in both locally and
federally funded projects. Director Deadwyler expressed that she was still
confused. She understands there are two separate programs. She
wondered if it is an automatic graduation if a DBE/SBE gets awarded both a
DBE and an SBE contract. Zamy Silva said that this was not necessarily the
case. Many firms that are both DBE and SBE participated in the West
Corridor and are currently participating in the Eagle P3 project. She noted
that maximizing opportunities does not necessarily mean that they will
graduate from the program; it does provide for more project prospects. Phil
Washington replied that graduation happens when the 3 year average
revenue surpasses $23 million in annual revenue. Having both DBE and SBE
work would not necessarily take them over the threshold. Director
Deadwyler asked if firms are then considered prime/large business if they
cross over the $23 million. Zamy Silva replied that a firm that crosses the
$23 million threshold loses their SBE certification. She noted that firms that
may have started working on FasTracks as a category 1 are now at a 2 or 3
level.
Committee Chair Walker pointed out that it may be possible that some
businesses would not want to grow as they may enjoy the pace of a small
business. He wondered if it has been harder to attract WIN participants
since the economy started bouncing back. He noted the common place
notion that good employees are hard to come by during a good economy.
Martell Dyles said that enrollment has picked up. Many seem to want to
grow with the economy. Committee Chair Walker asked if people were
looking for a specific type of position. Martell Dyles replied that there is
interest in all types of positions. Staff steers applicants toward transit
positions. He mentioned that some construction participants are
transitioning into transit as construction projects come to completion.

D. Other Matters
No other matters were presented.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 14, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned to the Operations and Customer Service
Committee at 6:08 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

