Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October
12, 2010
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

October 12, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
November 9, 2010 at 7:47 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Christopher, Directors Brohl, Cohen, James, Kemp, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer and Tobiassen. Directors Daly, Martinez, and Malpiede
left early.
Directors Bagley, Busck and Pulliam.

Staff Present:

Rick Clarke, Jane Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht, Kevin Flynn, David
Genova, Terry Howerter, Barbara McManus, Anthony Menendez, Paula
Perdue, Carla Perez, John Perry, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed, Daria Serna,
John Shonsey, John Talbert, Liz Telford, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter,
Del Walker, Phil Washington, and Ashland Vaughn.

Others Present:

Brian Middleton, Karen Morales, Julie Skeen, Roger Sherman, Loonera
Auden, Ben Kelley- TKG, Richard Pombo- AECOM, Stephanie Tharros,
and Debra Wilcox
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Christopher called the meeting at 7:41 p.m.

Update
Transportation Improvement Plan (TIP)
Chris Quinn presented this item. The TIP identifies all federally funded transportation
projects in the region over a 6-year period. Only base system projects are eligible. RTD
applied for six projects that were identified in the handout on TIP.
 1st & Terry park-n-Ride, Longmont
 North Boulder Bus Staging Area/p-n-R in vicinity of Broadway & Lee Hill Rd.
 B-cycle expansion at RTD facilities
 Southeast Corridor E. LRT shelter improvements
 Southeast Corridor call-n-Ride

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October
12, 2010
Page 2 of 2

 US 36 Extension of Managed Lanes
Funding requests were submitted on October 1, 2010. Expected DRCOG Board action is
March 2011.
II. Other Matters
There were no other matters.
III. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for
November 9, 2010.
IV. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:50 p.m.

