Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 2,
2009
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

June 2, 2009

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, June 2, 2009 at 6:01 p.m.
****
Board Members
Present:
Vice-Chair Bagley, Directors Busck, Brohl, Chacon, Cohen, Daly, James,
Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, Tayer, Tobiassen
Board Members
Absent:
Director Christopher
Subject:

Staff Present:

Rick Clarke, Bill Van Meter, Julie Skeen, Cal Shankster, David Genova,
Bruce Abel, Cal Marsella, Greg Straight, Bill Sirois, Carol Duecker, Susan
Altes, John Shonsey, Henry Stopplecamp, Susan Wood, Marla Lien, Liz
Telford, Scott Reed, Paula Perdue, Daria Serna, Stan Szabelak, Pauletta
Tonilas, Phil Washington, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Roger Sherman, Russ Larson, Ken Schmidt, Peter Hynes, Stephen
Vickerman, Steve Roescher, Larry Warner, Dwight Schock, Mary Kay
O’Malley, Mark Imhoff, Gina Macafee, Bob Wilson, Paul Courtois, Bill
Schockley, Tom Ashburn, Ann Hayes, Ed Romero, Steve Haffner, Rick
Pilgrim, Jeff Leib, Maria Garcia-Berry, Tom Wooten, Tyler Lowe, Lloyd
Herrera, David S. Cohen, Sharon Terranova (DRCOG), Craig Lessards,
Matthew Stearns, Paul Ryan, Ravi Swamy
****

Call to Order
I.

Vice-Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 6:01p.m.

Recommended Action
Rapid Transit Station Addition Policy – Bill Van Meter, Senior Manager of Systems
Planning presented this action item. The Board had asked staff to go back and get
feedback on this Policy from stakeholders. The information was sent to the US 36
and East Corridor stakeholders. There were three primary comments/themes: NW
Rail Corridor stakeholders felt that providing distinct criteria for the two tiers types
of commuter rail types was somewhat restrictive. In response, staff changed the
policy wording to clarify its flexibility specifically noting that the criteria to be used
in evaluating new stations are to serve as guidelines not as pass/fail standards for

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 2,
2009
Page 2 of 4

the Board to consider in its evaluation. Northwest Rail Corridor stakeholders were
satisfied with this.
Both Northwest and East Corridor wanted to see a clearer articulation of transit
oriented development/transit supportive development opportunities treat as one of
the benefits that could be associated with a proposed new station. In response to
that, staff distributed a new version of the Rapid Transit Station Addition Policy that
addresses these concerns.
The East Corridor stakeholders were concerned about the discussion on the “first in”
approach and were afraid that could preclude cost sharing by multiple proposers for
stations. The policy does not preclude cost sharing as long as it does not increase
the costs to the District.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt this policy, which updates the District’s current established
procedures and guidelines for evaluating proposed new stations on RTD’s existing
and planned light rail and commuter rail lines. Since each potential station and
station area is unique, no one set of guidelines should determine whether a station
is appropriate for a specific site. The criteria described below are meant to serve as
a policy framework for issues that should be considered when planning for and
approving new stations. RTD staff will evaluate each of the criteria, and provide the
results for the RTD Board’s information when considering the approval of a new
station. Final determination regarding whether new stations will be added to light rail
and commuter rail lines, and who will provide associated funding of new stations,
will be a Board decision on a case by case basis.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the June 23,
2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director McMullen seconded the motion.

Discussion: Director Martinez thanked staff for going back to the stakeholders and
getting the questions answered on the East Corridor. Director Bagley commented that
he liked the flexibility built into the policy and felt it benefited both property owners and
local governments.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Extension of Contract – Alameda Station, LLC at 350 S. Santa Fe – Susan Altes
presented this action. This action is for an extension until December 31, 2010 for the
closing to occur between the District and Alameda Station, LLC. Ms. Altes presented a
little history on this contract. The RFP was first submitted in June of 2004. Based on
the proposals and lengthy negotiations, Alameda Station LLC entered into a contract for
the sale and development of the property in November 2006. There were several

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 2,
2009
Page 3 of 4

stipulations/precedents to a closing in the contract. Alameda Station has met all of
these with the exception of financing.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the General
Manager or his designee be authorized to negotiate and execute all documents that
may be necessary to extend the contract for sale and development by and between the
Regional Transportation District and Alameda Station, LLC at 350 South Santa Fe
through December 31, 2010.
MOTION:

Director Brohl made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the June 23,
2009 Board Meeting with an amendment to
modify alternative #1 with the added
statement and “further authorize that no
further extensions be evaluated.”

SECOND:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

Director Chacon asked if this date was realistic to be met. Director Kemp asked for
Director Brohl’s opinion and she responded that she has a great deal of confidence in
this group and that they have put about $750,000 of their own money into the project
so far and done the environmental cleanup. It is in their best interest to get this closed
as quickly as possible. December 2010 is an outside time frame and she believes they
will close early.
Director James asked about the amendment – will the Board have the option of
reversing this motion. Marla Lien responded yes. Director James said he was o.k. with
the extension as the price agreement is unchanged. Director James was curious about
affordable housing as an option. Susan Altes responded that RTD can encourage
affordable housing but cannot require it.
Tom Wooten from Alameda Station LLC addressed the Committee. Affordable housing
is very much part of their plan and they are trying to lift some use restrictions currently
in place by the State of Colorado on the property that they are going to acquire from
Home Depot to allow for development of affordable housing. The use restriction is a
result of environmental conditions on the property. The Home Depot site is the former
site of the Robinson Brick Foundry and it is a Superfund site. The entire site has a use
restriction regardless of contamination. Alameda LLC’s research on the site shows that
this portion was not contaminated and therefore really is not appropriately contained
within the use restriction. They believe the restriction will be lifted by the State.
Cal Marsella reviewed the history of this contract and stated that he believed there has
very much been a good faith effort on the part of the developers to get everything
done.
Director Brohl spoke about how the property is an eyesore and how the community is
really behind the development of this property. The pedestrian bridge will add to safety
for the area and will ultimately increase the transit riders in that area with a link
between sides of the station.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 2,
2009
Page 4 of 4

Director Bagley asked about the bridge and if the bridge will be built while the project is
under construction. Mr. Wooten responded that the project doesn’t work without the
bridge so the plan is to build the bridge early on in the project. Director Bagley asked
about Voluntary Cleanup Redevelopment Act (VCUP) and what the costs would be.
Mr. Wooten responded that VCUP is approved for the northern half of the site and they
are working with the State on a VCUP for the southern half of the site. It appears the
remediation should be contained to the site unless something unexpected is discovered
when the concrete slab is removed. Against the original cost objectives Alameda LLC is
coming in at least 50% below where they originally estimated remediation costs to be.
Director Bagley wanted to know what 50% below was in dollars and Mr. Wooten
responded less than $100,000.
Director Bagley requested that the Board receive an update on the project in December
2009, June 2010 and just before December 2010.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

II.

Updates
a. TIGGER Grant Application – Bill Van Meter gave this update. TIGGER is an
acronym for Transit Investments for Greenhouse Gases and Energy Reduction
grants. It is a $100 million program authorized under ARRA by the FTA. It is a
nationwide competitive grant program. The District submitted three proposals
for consideration: facility efficiency project (add solar panels to East Metro,
Boulder bus maintenance facilities, inner city hybrid bus replacement (20 hybrid
buses), US 36 transit signal priority infrastructure improvements. Staff will
inform the Board of progress and any awards received.

III.

Other Matters – Vice-Chair Bagley asked Cal Marsella asked if there were any
stimulus funds for operational activities. Cal responded that there aren’t monies for
operations as a direct application however, there is a specific provision that the
District can capitalize the cost of maintenance on our facilities which effectively
says we can turn some of that money into operating support but it has to be
predicated on a capitalization of the cost of maintaining existing facilities. There is
a lot of debate around the nation about should the Federal Government go back to
providing operational support to transit properties which they got rid of several
years ago. This is only a discussion at this time, there is nothing approved.

IV.

Next Meeting Date
The next Planning and Development Committee will be held on Tuesday, July 7,
2009.

V.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Vice-Chair Bagley declared the meeting adjourned
at 6:39 p.m.

