Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, August 25, 2009
at 5:30p.m. Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

August 25, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 25,
2009 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Board Member
Absent:

Vice-Chair Martinez; Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck,
Christopher, Cohen, Daly, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam,
Tayer and Tobiassen.
Chair Kemp and Director Chacon

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Jenny Barket,
Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Terry Howerter, Caitlin Magee, Robert
Merriman, Todd Nikkel, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Teresa
Sedmak, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois,
Greg Straight, Stan Szabelak, John Tarber, Liz Terlford, Lisa
Trujillo, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Roger Sherman (CRL), Jeff Lieb (The Denver Post), Steve
Roescher (Siemens), Steve Roberts (Systra), Gregg Moser
(Krauthamer & Associates), Jena Montgomery (PBS&J), Nick
Mollet (JP Morgan), Brian Murphy (MHT), Jon Wingerter (MTP
“Kiewit”), Ed Busch (CRMCA)

***
Call to Order:

Chair Pro-Tem Martinez called the meeting to order at 4:38
p.m.

I. Krauthamer Discussion with Board
Chair Pro-Tem introduced Gregg Moser to the full Board and turned this time
over to Gregg. Greg provided a high level overview of Krauthamer and their
experience in performing over 3500 similar searches in public transportation.
He indicated their role is to advise and provide guidance to the Board in the
selection of the next General Manager. He asked for the Board’s perspective
on what they are looking for, and what they see as important aspects for the
next leader of the agency. The following comments were made:

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, August 25, 2009
at 5:30p.m. Page 2 of 5























Creative mind and thinker
Good communicator not only with Board but with constituents, elected
officials, mayors and businesses.
Good people skills, ability to work with elected Board, must be able to
get “beat up” without showing it, must accept praise, share praise and
criticism
Ability to work with diverse stakeholders
The financial challenges could be perceived as a disadvantage or
opportunity and may draw different types of candidates
What is the track record of Krauthamer in putting people in high profile
positions and dealing with people who are in similar positions? Gregg
responded they have a good success record and provided some
examples.
Key stakeholders are looking for transparency and real accountability
Recognize this is a policy setting Board so needs someone who
recognizes and challenges Board to make policy before staff
implements on tactical level
Teambuilding with Board, staff and community
Krauthamer to provide a profile of candidates from which they will
challenge and help RTD to think outside of the box
Looking for a transformation and renaissance leader
Colorado has become very sensitive to Open Meetings requirementRTD will be in a fishbowl
Question was asked if Krauthamer solicit candidates or wait for them
to come to Krauthamer. Gregg responded their approach is
multifaceted, public and high profile positions in the industry. People
will come to Krauthamer but they also take a specific targeted
approach to search and find a candidate.
Are you hearing anything on the street about disadvantages we may
have to attract high caliber candidates? Gregg responded by stating no
and that anything that can be seen as a disadvantage for one candidate
can be seen as a challenge for the right candidate.
Is there a difference in the availability of applicants in good times
versus bad times? Gregg responded there could be some differences.
In a tough economy, people who are gainfully employed may be
hesitant to leave, values of homes and other dynamics can come into
play
When you look at the fact that the transit agencies are experiencing
revenue decline similar to business may need to look for a turnaround
specialist—need to recognize this is not business as usual
Needs to be business minded
How do you determine a candidate’s commitment to a position? Gregg
responded there are a number of indicators: Look at their past
performance, number of jobs held in past few years, length of time in a
position, where they are in their career, etc. We provide both good and

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, August 25, 2009
at 5:30p.m. Page 3 of 5






bad information to each candidate. Our firm will show the Board both
the strengths and weaknesses of our candidate.
Need a way to include the stakeholders in this process-one suggestion
is a panel discussion or town hall meeting of top 5 candidates to see
how well they would respond to the issues. Gregg expressed there are
pros and cons of this dealing with the issues of confidentiality but there
are appropriate times to do this if the Board so desire.
Strong business relationship and ability to work with the business
community
When you go out to interview potential prospects, at what point do
you discuss salaries and benefits? Gregg responded at the very
beginning, there is a need to understand their ability to relocate and
salary is very important. He provides generalities at the beginning and
then refine as the process goes along. Krauthamer manages
expectations from the very beginning.

II. FasTracks P3 Update
Brian Middleton provided this PowerPoint update. A copy of the presentation
is included in the study session minute notebook located in the Board office.
The presentation was broken down into three main components Scope of Eagle Project
 Contract Overview
 Description of RFP
Q&A:
 Director Bagley: Director Bagley queried about expected completion of
Phase 1. Brian indicated 2016. Director Bagley then noted the
criticality of including the TOD and the issue of value capture into this
RFP. He asked how we make the shift from electrified to diesel along
the NWR. Brian indicated the design does include going from
Longmont to DUS but the operational plan has not yet been developed.
 Director McMullen requested that as staff makes various presentations
to the community (cities) and station channels, could they provide the
Board with feedback from these meetings. Rick Clarke indicated this
was reasonable and shared an example about a pedestrian bridge.
 Bill Sirois commented on who takes the lead on the design and
planning process. He stated that most jurisdictions go through a
planning process but RTD takes the lead on the design. If cities want
something differently, RTD will negotiate with that jurisdiction for
revenue. The planning is part of the EIS process.
 Director O’Boyle queried about the statement that RTD negotiates only
for what is on RTD’s site and wanted to know what happens to the
adjacent properties. Phil Washington indicated RTD may have a
coordinating role if other people’s property but do not negotiate for
them.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, August 25, 2009
at 5:30p.m. Page 4 of 5



















Director Tayer requested a series of cost follow-up items from staff on
the NW railroad dealing with the cost estimates for this segment, the
timing to receiving this money, efficiencies by doing in this phase
versus later, operations characteristics and any throwaway. He also
had questions around the BRT components. Staff will get back to
Director Tayer.
Director Martinez asked if we own property but sell air rights, where do
these funds go. Phil Washington responded it is the Board who sets
the policies but most likely it will go to FasTracks.
Director Pulliam inquired about the purchasing of vehicles now. He
wanted to know if the concessionaires will operate. Rick Clarke
responded the concessionaires will actually purchase and operate. The
first purchase will be for the East and Gold line with an option price for
the rest. Board will have the option to exercise within two years.
Director McMullen wanted to know the level of flexibility that the Board
or RTD has in ordering of vehicles and material. (I.e. if the Board sees
the Lexis model with soft comfortable cushions, could they order them.
Rick Clarke indicated this is in the specifications but RTD does have the
ability to determine options within the specifications.
Director Cohen asked for a clarification on the proposed stipend
amounts and wondered aloud if this was indicative of the spiraling
cost. Rick Clarke indicated this was a staff recommendation which will
come to the Board for their approval.
Director Tayer commented on a couple of things pertaining to the
quality of maintenance: report to Board on performance measures,
performance payment (what kind of teeth is in this) and renewable
energy—wants some element on what it would look like if you got to
zero on fossil fuel. Brian Middleton responded these levels of details
are in the RFP.
Bruce Daly inquired what would be the situation under which a
property would be condemned. Jenny Barket provided a legal
response.
Director O’Boyle asked about the Tabor debt capacity. Phil
Washington indicated it was 3.47B in principal and 7.1B in interest.
Director McMullen wanted to know our source for the boilerplate
language and how the concessionaires might feel about this. Rick
Clarke explained there are precedents (i.e. Freshfield had models, JP
Morgan, etc, industry reviews, more than 2 years of work in process).
RTD is being innovative in their approach and hope to become the
model for doing P-3’s. Lots of expertise goes into these RFPs.
Director Tobiassen wanted to know if they can get locked into phase 2
now and what kind of sanity check has been performed on this RFP.
Rick Clarke responded the ultimate sanity check is the bidder and this
has been a very interactive process.
Director Brohl wanted to know who makes the decision on inferior
delivery. Rick Clarke responded on the O&M side, things become
pretty black and white and referred to Bruce Abel who has similar

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, August 25, 2009
at 5:30p.m. Page 5 of 5







III.

experience with his private contractors. Bruce indicated it will be
articulated in terms of matrix similar to today.
Other concerns expressed around having the role of the independent
engineer clearly delineated and spelled out. Rick Clarke indicated it
would be.
Director Bagley commented that all 3 bidders had responded favorably
to the stipend payment in the RFP. He inquired when does the
intellectual property becomes RTD’s. Jenny Barket provided a legal
response to when the property becomes RTD—once proposal goes to
bid and the stipend is paid.
Director Pulliam inquired about the feasibility of the financial proposal.
Director Bagley requested a copy of the RFP with the requested
changes be e-mailed to the Board.
Chair Pro-Tem Martinez asked the Board members to review this
proposal and email their questions in advance of the public hearing

Other Matters
Scott Reed indicated PI around the public hearing and presentation will be sent
out to stakeholders and the public
Phil Washington provided information on his briefing with James Oberstar.
The briefing was scheduled for fifteen minutes and took well over an hour. His
ASK of Oberstar is to be a cheerleader in Congress for FasTracks. Oberstar
expressed a lot of interest in the Eagle P3 project.

V.

Board Budget Workshop
Robert Merriman presented an abbreviated high level synopsis of the proposed
2010 budget that took into consideration some of the requests from the Board
to look at various options for balancing budget strategies such as:
1. Maintenance of a continued salary freeze
2. Application of additional cost controls to reduce expenses
3. Equitable application of modest additional annual service reductions
4. Implementation of voluntary furlough days
5. Utilization of portion of RTD’s 5% Operating Reserve
Detailed listing of sources of income, capital and reserve will be available to
the Board members on August 28 th Board packet. A copy of the budget and
the handout is available with these minutes in the Board office.

VI.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:25 p.m.

