2024-05-29
Board Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: The recording. I will now call to order the Wednesday, May 29th RTD-- RTD Board
meeting. We are convened as of 6:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone to
remain muted unless you are recognized to speak. First and foremost, I'd like to thank all members of the
public, our external entities, and all members of staff for the patience, given that we are starting an hour
late due to a special board meeting prior to this one. Thank you for your patience.
As RTD-- as the Board has moved to in-person meetings for our monthly gatherings, please note that
committee meetings of the RTD board of directors are still being held remotely via Zoom, and our audio
and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, are posted
as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com and a live stream of this meeting is
also available via RTD's YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we are also providing communication access real-time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at the
email address, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART
transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like to access a live transcript
of this meeting in Spanish. At this time, we'll move to the Pledge of Allegiance, and I'd like to call on Director
Broom to please lead us in the Pledge.
Thank you. And at this time, I would now like to ask Director Lewis, would you please read out our land
acknowledgment?
JAIME LEWIS: The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and trains
operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal nations that
are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who have traveled, inhabited, and
stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout the generations. May this acknowledgment
demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of the Native and all
historically oppressed peoples, and recognize their current and future contributions in the district as we
move forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. I will now call for the roll. Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: This is Chair Davidson. I am also here. I have 14 present and one absent. We do have
a quorum. There are no retiree awards this evening. Second quarter retiree awards will be announced at
the June board meeting of directors.
We'll now move to the public participation period of our agenda, which is open to anyone who would like to
address the board. I'd also like to extend an invitation for any RTD candidates who are in attendance to say
a few words. If you are a director candidate and would like to speak as a member of the public, please
ensure that you are signed up for public comment. As we have both in-person and remote attendees, inperson comments will go first, followed by those who are participating remotely.
For those attending in-person, please come up to the podium when your name is called. If you have not
already signed up to speak and would like to do so, please approach the podium when I call for additional
speakers at the end. For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not done so, you will raise

your virtual hand or press star nine on your phone. When it is your turn to speak, staff will unmute you. If
you are dialed in using the phone, you can press star nine to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments should be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to the Board Office at the email address. rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the Board Office at the already mentioned email
address. Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names and will have up to three minutes to
provide their comments. When approaching the end of the three minutes, I will give you a warning.
At this time, I will move first to our in-person speakers. First, we have Bernard Celestin to please come up
to the podium. Please approach and state your name, and you will have three minutes to speak. One
moment, there's just a button on the microphone we'll turn on there.
BERNARD CELESTIN: Good evening. That sounds much better. Mr. Chair, Board members, Ms. Johnson,
hi, my name is Bernard Celestin. I'm a retiree of RTD as of December of last year. I am in the process of
making sure that I win District F this coming November.
I've been living in Aurora for the last 40 years. I'm 68-years-old. I am extremely fond of the works that RTD
does in this city. Although, I do not believe at all, especially after being a driver for over 15 years, that RTD
is representing itself in the community the way it should. That's why I am running.
At first, I wanted to retire and go into the sunset, and enjoy the family and the grandkids. But there's work
to be done here, and my passion for this company is still alive and active. So I plan on putting on a great
campaign. I plan on making sure that not only I get elected, but I do all the things that I have in mind to do
to work with you folks to make sure we accomplish. RTD is a great organization. And it needs to be
recognized as such, because we are RTD.
I've said this to Ms. Johnson in the past in different functions, and I'm still referring to it as a we, because
RTD is still in my blood. I plan on doing my best to let the city know that they have the best transit
organization in this country, and they need to respect us as such. And they need to understand why we do
what we do.
Right now, when you speak with people in the city, they really don't know, or maybe they just don't care
about this organization. This is too great of a place for people not to care for us. This is too great of a place
for people not to appreciate what we do.
Instead, we're losing programs like Bronco Rides, taking people to Run for the Cure for Bolder Boulder
runs. We used to take thousands of people to help alleviate traffic and pollution. We no longer do that. We
need to get back to serving this community the right way.
We're talking about making it free for kids up to high school. We've gone a month at a time. I would like to
see that be permanent. I would like to see our wheelchair bound passengers also be free. And because
we're talking of very small percentage of people.
ERIK DAVIDSON: If you could wrap in 10 seconds, that would be great.

BERNARD CELESTIN: Yes, sir. But I just wanted you to put a face with the name. I will be taking the place
of someone that I've got great respect for, because I've known Bob Broom from back in his day as a council
member in Aurora. So thank you very much, and we'll see you again in November.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Thank you very much for your comments. We'll move to our next speaker.
We have Bob Deiniger next. If you could please approach the stadium, the podium, state your name, and
you'll have three minutes to speak. And I'll give you a warning when you're approaching ten seconds.
BOB: Hello, everybody. My name is Bob Deiniger. I think you all know my face. I haven't got any prepared
remarks other than to let you know that for years I have paid attention to your proceedings, both board
meetings, as well as committee meetings. And I have coveted those cozy seats you all inhabit. So I decided
to throw my name into the hat for a board seat representing District A. And I look forward to the possibility
of working with everyone.
I was going to say that I don't really have any notes, but I've prepared a dance, though, I'm not very good
at dancing. I do believe that you all have been under a lot of stress over the past few months. I've shared
in some of that. I've worked with some of you for the betterment of all of us, and I hope to make a difference
going forward next year. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments, and perhaps, a warning to candidates, I assure you the
seats get less comfortable as the evening goes on.
[LAUGHING]
Our next in-person speaker is Keith Brooks. If you could please approach the stadium, or the podium, state
your name, you'll have up to three minutes to speak.
KEITH BROOKS: Hello, this is Keith Brooks, the bearer of bad news. I've been mulling over saying
something like this for a while, but I was inspired to do it when I finally found out why during the maintenance
disruptions no trains were being turned using the pocket track at Convention Center. This would relieve
capacity at Union Station, which now, that all trains have to go there, is absolutely slammed. It seems like
a simple no-brainer thing to do.
So it was kind of confusing why it wasn't being used until we found out RTD does not have the staff to flip
three whole switches on the network simultaneously. They can only do two. And because down on the E
line, that requires two switches, that's where they're flipping them.
This highlights something that has been bugging me for a while, which is, just because RTD can't do better
doesn't mean that better things aren't possible. I am tired of hearing board members going to their
constituents and saying, this sucks. I know. I'm right there with you, but it needs to be done for safety. It
does not.
Yes, RTD is too broke, understaffed, and has too dysfunctional an internal culture to do better. But I'm tired
of seeing staff come to the board with proposals that will devastate ridership just for a rubber stamp. Every
proposal should come with a little addendum of here's what RTD can do. Here's what is technically possible,
and what is the agency missing to bridge that gap?
Because I promise you, this elected board is going to be on the chopping block next legislative session,
just like it was this time. And you need to have a list of things that you can show of, here's something the
board can't fix without more money, because right now, all the public sees is failure. So stop it with the

asking for rubber stamps. Be honest about what's technical, and what's simply this specific agency, and
ask around other agencies what they can do.
Director Tisdale, next time you're talking to your colleagues in Saint Louis, they had a lot of their power
stations, substations flooded out a few months ago. And they were able to rebuild those in record time. If
that happened here, the system would be down for two years. RTD is not special, but it can be better.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comments. We'll now move to our next in-person speaker. We have
Brett Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. My name is Brett Paglieri, or Paglieri, if it's hard to pronounce. It's my
pleasure to introduce myself. I'm the candidate for District M. I look forward to working and serving with my
community-- excuse me-- working with you all and serving my community as a board director.
And to tell you a little bit about myself, I am a rider. A lot of my experience comes from riding transit, and I
am a customer experience expert. I know how customers think, and I do that for my day job. But I really
look forward to bringing those two together to make the rider journey a little bit better, seeing things that
those who don't ride the system every day may be able to-- may be able to do better.
And I think the other point that I'm excited to serve my community with is with safety. Too often, on our light
rail, especially in my district with the W Line, or going on to the L line, at least previously last week, there's
too many circumstances where I felt uncomfortable. And if I feel uncomfortable, it's likely other people feel
unsafe, and activities that shouldn't be happening on the light rail. And so I look forward to helping my
community find more-- find more-- I guess, trust in the system, and working with you all to make that happen.
So it's great to meet you all. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comments and for being here. We'll next call on Charles Davis.
CHARLES DAVIS: Good evening, everyone. My name is Charles Davis, and I live on the Littleton side of
Centennial. I am a father, a professional, and a blind person. And I'm here really representing the blind
community, really looking to advocate for the restoration of the multi-stops for our Access on Demand trips
for both Uber and Lyft, both of those companies. And so one thing I do want to mention, many of my
colleagues wish they could be here tonight, and they are unable due to financial constraints and a lack of
rides as well. So many of them hopefully will be online to speak on this.
For me, being a professional has been something that I've had to really work hard for. And sometimes, in
terms of having to bring my child to daycare, and be at my work in a timely fashion, I've really had to rely
pretty heavily on the Access on Demand system. And it's becoming more and more of a financial barrier
for me to make it from my home, to daycare, and to work on time without the use of the multi-stop function
that was previously part of Access on Demand, regardless of the initial intention.
And so when that was taken away without any real warning, and I understand this is under review at this
time, but I feel that it should have been left in place until this review was complete. And so there was a time
just this past month where I was at my child's daycare, had a ride to get there, was waiting for my ride to
get to work, took 15 minutes for that ride to get to me. They pulled up, looked at me, drove off, canceled
the ride. Not sure. I can't speak on why that happened.

Had to wait another 20 minutes for them to come. Again, this seems to be a recurring issue for me. Once
again, late for work. Was not having these issues previously. The cost for these multi-stops are under that
$25 threshold for that subsidy.
And so I'm just asking, be on the cutting edge. Don't be the status quo, because this can be really what
sets us apart from all the rest of the country. And so I just really urge you to restore what was once there
because it's essential for so many of us. So thank you for listening to me tonight.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for being here. I'll go to our next in-person
speaker, Richard Bamber, please.
RICHARD BAMBER: Thanks, Mr. Chair. I think I failed to tick a box. So thanks for assuming I was going to
speak. Hello, everybody, Richard Bamber, Greater Denver Transit. I'm going to start with talking about this
memo 22nd of May from the GM.
So you can't speak to you now. Apparently, she can't speak to him. And if Stuart Summers runs into Director
Harwick at a party, can he talk? I have no idea. Doesn't look great, you know, kind of concerning. You know,
I hope there's more of a team.
So, you know, I want to say that communication is getting to the kind of zone of unprofessional, you know,
normally, after frustration. And frustration is when needs are not being listened to, responded to, or met. I'll
give you an example. And this one is from the Operations and Safety meeting that was two weeks ago on
the 15th. And this was staff had presented on the group 33 service contract.
And they didn't really say which contract it was. Even I had to go running for the RFP to find out. You know,
there was a question came in, what routes does this contract cover, you know? And what is group 33? And
the response-- and that was from Mr. Worthen was, "There are not specific routes associated with this
service package." He's technically correct. I got you. And then defers to legal counsel to then invite the
director to then spend their time writing in to get an individual response.
Would it have been so hard to say that group 33, this is the Englewood bus garage, it is operated by the
incumbent Transdev, routes in this contract are 31 Federal, 51 Sheridan, 76 Wadsworth. You know, would
saying that be so hard, OK? So that is where we see both sides of this. You know, staff do need to come
up with better answers.
Looking at the contract itself, there's some duplicate sections, 4.1.1 duplicated throughout the contract,
probably legally a little bit messy. We also noticed there's a section in the contract inviting the operator to
bid to operate three 900 series of Gillig 30 foot buses. This fleet that dated from 2007 to 2008, the last one
was retired in October.
So given we've put a contract out to get a nonexistent bus fleet to be operated and maintained, I'm thinking
a bit of review, board oversight, probably necessary. 45 seconds, you guys have wrecked my local bus
route in the service changes. You did it by the sneaky way of service adjustments.
The A Line is the 24. We've written it in the letter. We do need a meeting. The GMCO, it's now time for you
to get personally involved top to bottom. GDT is going to be writing to you. We need an answer and a datadriven response on this. What caused the decisions that why we now-- the vision zero issues, Title 6 issues,
usability issues with anybody who wants to travel from the airport down York and University Boulevard,
OK? You just put 15 minutes onto all of my journeys.

Lastly, positively, last night on the L line, three trains in service, all were clean, all were where they should.
Units were looked in good condition. I'd like to absolutely personally single out our operator, Alyssa. She
ran LV number 330 that was run eight. She drove the last train, and drove a big group of GDT folks back
downtown. So she was amazing. So please pass on my thanks to her. Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the comments and for being here. I would now like to move to
any online speakers. At this time, I'll now ask for the assistance of Mr. Jack Kroll to help me call upon any
hands that may be raised virtually. First of all, do we see any hands online?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Paolo Solorzano.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you. Paolo Solorzano, you are now recognized for three minutes.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: OK. Hi. Hi, this is Paolo from the RTD Riders Alliance. I just want to make some
comments and make sure that, you know, the board and the staff know what's been going on ever since
the construction started on the 26th. Specifically, it just hasn't been a very good start.
Well, to begin with, the Next Ride system was completely down on the 26th. So the E, H, R lines, the H line
were not trackable when they needed to be most. And the H line is still the Next Ride, since the 26, has
been down. So people are not able to track if there are cancellations right now. It has not been a good start.
On the 27th, I went out to the 9 Mile station to talk to people waiting there. And what I found out was not
good. So there was a H line trip-- and I'm sorry. This might be the 20-- I think it was the 27th. Yeah, it might
have been 20-- yes, it was the 27th, yes, correct.
So there was a cancellation, actually. And the worst part is that the 5:02 H line was canceled due to
mechanical issues, but the email notification did not come out until 6:00 AM, an hour afterwards. Also, the
6:09 was canceled as well due to a mechanical issue. And the email notification only came out 10 minutes
before.
I talked to about six people that morning at 9 Mile. Two people missed their work by an hour. There was a
person there actually from DRCOG, who was pretty upset. And she mentioned that she was sending emails
about stuff like this as well. But yeah, it's not been a good start. Again, May 28th, there was an E line
canceled. The notification did not come out until 8:21 PM.
I will send an email to the board and the staff. And we really do not need to know why this continues to
happen. It's really not excusable, and people are losing-- they're going to be losing their jobs if this
continues. So please look out for this email. And please start taking this urgently. We just require on time
information at this point. And it does not require any money, you know? So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Mr. Kroll, are there other hands raised?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Davidson, Nate Trela.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Nate, you are now recognized and can unmute yourself and begin for three minutes.
JACK KROLL: Fantastic. Thank you very much again. This is Nate Trela. I live in Arapahoe County. I am a
Board Member of the Blind Parents Division of the National Federation of the Blind. Once again, I want to
speak about Access on Demand.

I always like to preface this by saying, you know, the RTD has taken a significant step forward and been a
model for other agencies by adopting the program with Uber and Lyft to provide the subsidized rides. That
is, it is a program that has allowed people to participate fully in their communities far more than was possible
economically or logistically with other paratransit options. I want to again stress the importance of making
multiple stop trips part of that program again.
As the gentleman said earlier, decisions are made about where people live, where their kids go to school
or daycare, and where they work based on that multiple stop capability having been there before. I've yet
to see anything that shows that the total costs have changed one way or the other by removing the multiple
stop trips, and the personal cost for users of the program is pretty clear. I do what would take me 20 minutes
in a car to take my daughter to preschool and run to work. That takes closing down an hour of my time
waiting for rides. And, you know, 15 minutes of that time, 20 minutes that time can be waiting for a ride in
between stops.
One other issue that has come to my attention too that should be aware of with Access on Demand and
may need to be addressed is that the decision to add Uber Pet as an option under the vouchers is having
some unintended consequences. While I can respect the thinking behind it, they're starting to get reports
that RTD staff is telling Access on Demand users who have service dog animals that were denied that they
should be taking Uber Pet, not that they have the option to do that.
That's an important distinction, and something that should not be happening. Saying somebody should take
Uber Pet because they have a guide dog is basically saying, the driver who's violating federal law with
discriminatory practices and violating their contract with the rideshare providers is fine to keep doing that.
And you, the patron of the service, need to accept getting less for the voucher because of the increased
fares and longer wait times. That's shifting the burden for dealing with a discriminatory practice on the
people being discriminated against. And that is something that needs to be made clear to RTD staff.
And perhaps, the whole issue of Uber Pet should be re-evaluated because that is spilling over to people
that do not use paratransit, even that are trying to catch a regular Uber and are being told despite federal
law and despite the drivers contracts, that they can't bring their service animal into cars. So that is another
aspect of this. I know the peer review is underway. And hopefully, we'll have results on that in June. I would
love to hear about that. And I again, appreciate you considering the ways to improve the service and
continue to make it a model for transit agencies across the country.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comments. Mr Kroll, do we have additional speakers online?
JACK KROLL: There are no additional speakers.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And at this time, Mr. Kroll, can you acknowledge any emailed comments that
were received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Yes. You all received two email comments, both of which were sent to you, one from Greater
Denver Transit, and one related to the Access on Demand issue.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. At this time, is there anyone present here who desires to speak,
that has not already done so. If you would like to do so, if you may, please line up behind the podium, state
your name. You'll be recognized for three minutes.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Which is it? There we go. Beautiful. My name is Chris Nicholson. I am a resident of
District A and a candidate for the RTD seat in District A. When I got on the 10 bus this morning to go to a
meeting, I tapped my card. It was simple, easy. I barely even needed to think about it.
But it worked because I had gone to the trouble of getting a My Ride card at Civic Center Station. I had
taken the time to download the RTD app, add the MyRide card to it, and load funds. And all of that is
unnecessary with the hardware that RTD currently has.
At this very moment in Las Vegas, Nevada, people are using the exact same hardware to tap their credit
cards, and walk onto the bus, never having to think about downloading an app, or loading funds, or whether
they have enough cash on them. This technology has been around for decades overseas and in major
cities like New York, London, and even smaller places like San Diego for a few years now. Boston is rolling
it out this summer. Minneapolis, and many others are actively pursuing it. RTD should too.
This board has the opportunity to take the first steps on credit card tap-to-pay and demonstrate that ease
of use for payments is a major policy priority. I'm certain everyone in this room has had a good experience
tapping their credit card or their phone to buy something. I'm certain most of you have had the same
experience doing so to use public transit somewhere. The challenge comes when you get into issues like
contracts and costs, payment infrastructure, and PCI compliance. So I'm not suggesting this is simple.
What I'm asking for is for you all to champion this. Ask management for a briefing and scope out exactly
what kinds of challenges are involved, how much it will cost, and how long it'll take to get a credit card tapto-pay pilot up and running. The author, William Gibson, famously said, "The future is already here. It's just
not evenly distributed." I'm certain that RTD will eventually implement credit card tap, but eventually should
start now.
As I mentioned, I'm running for the board as a carless, full-time RTD rider to be part of a team making these
kinds of changes. I was inspired to run by the people who've served on the board, the accomplishments
and the sacrifices that you all have made. Kate Williams modeled that for my district for seven years with
wins like free fare for youth, and it was incredibly moving for me this week to receive her support over
coffee. I've been blessed to build relationships with people across District A and the metro area, and I'll
offer to you, all of you today, the same thing I do to all of them. My number is 303-335-9728. Whether I get
elected or not, I'm here to listen and I'm here to help. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Anyone else present that had desired to speak? With no
other participants in the queue, we will now close the public participation period at this time. Thank you to
everybody who has taken time to participate and share your comments and thoughts with this board.
We'll now move to the External Entities Report. This month, we do have a public opinion polling presentation
that will be our first external entity report. This is from Newbridge Strategy. Mr. Michael Davies and our
guests, would you please approach. And Mr. Davies, when you are ready and when Newbridge Strategies
are ready, I'd ask Mr. Davies to make the introduction and kick us off. Thank you.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair and members of the board. Michael Davies, Government Relations
Officer. I'm going to simply introduce our external entity guests. I served as the project manager working
with New Bridge Strategy on the effort, looking at public opinion polling. And with that, I will just introduce- and New Bridge also presented before the Finance Committee. And so some of you have seen this before,
but wanted to make sure that we came before the full board and gave the same opportunity and
presentation. So with that, I'll introduce Lorie Weigel with Newbridge Strategy.

LORI WEIGEL: OK, great. Thank you so much. Thanks for having me here this evening. So we're just going
to walk through an overview of the survey findings. And I'm happy to answer questions at the end of the
process. If anyone has a clarifying question on the board, if there's a point in time where there's any
confusion, just feel free to pause and stop me there. But we can talk about some of the bigger implications
of what we found towards the end. So thanks again.
I'm Lori Weigel with New Bridge Strategy. I've worked in opinion research for going on three decades now,
and have worked with many municipalities, counties, special districts, school districts, and other entities
regarding funding measures around the state, as well as other transportation and transit districts in other
states. So that was more than you wanted to hear.
So just a quick overview about what we did on your behalf, we conducted interviews with 600 voters within
the district's boundaries from April 17 through 23rd. We did that using a multi-modal approach. That was,
people had the opportunity to answer a live telephone interview both on cell phone and landline, and also
had the opportunity to participate via an online apparatus for those who prefer not to answer their phone.
So we distributed those interviews proportionally throughout the district, set quotas, and did a number of
things in order to ensure that the sample was representative. We also ensured that we were providing the
opportunity for those who preferred to take the survey in Spanish, and worked with a local firm here that
has had experience with RTD in translating that survey so that people had the opportunity to be able to
participate in either English or Spanish. Now, to give you some perspective, when we conduct a national
survey, as we just finished one the other day, we're usually speaking to 800 to 1,000 respondents in order
to represent all Americans. So 600 is fairly robust here. But of course, there is a margin of error, which is
just around 4% for the overall sample. And of course, it's going to vary for some of the subgroups that I'm
going to talk about.
This is just a quick demographic profile of the respondents that we spoke to that-- and we were able to look
back at some surveys that were conducted in the early 2000's. So we have some comparison points in time
to some of that data. Obviously, there's been a lot of change within the district, so some of those
demographics have slightly shifted over time. Yeah, so that's the boring part.
Let me tell you a little bit about what we found. So first of all, we looked at a number of questions just to tell
us the core perceptions of RTD. And we asked people to tell us whether they had a favorable or unfavorable
impression. This is a question that we had tracked, as we're going to see in a second from a previous
survey.
And as you can see, we had nearly twice as many indicating that they had a favorable impression as have
an unfavorable impression, and then certainly some that were less familiar as well. So only about 6% just
indicating that they really had no opinion whatsoever. So that's a fairly substantial response. We pulled out
a few of the different subgroups that had a more positive response. But generally, we saw that women,
somewhat older respondents, and then a range of different locations within the district were tended to be
somewhat more positive.
So we asked them in a follow-up question to tell us why they had a favorable response. Now, some people,
they could say whatever they wanted, and then we categorize those into different themes here. So some
people, even though they said they had a favorable response, could also address some concerns as to.
But for the most part, we saw a lot of focus on reliability and convenience of RTD services. They felt that
buses and trains were generally clean and affordable as well.

There's a whole range. And we've categorized all of these. And you guys have the verbatim responses as
well that could be viewed and read. But we also saw some concerns being raised at the same time,
especially among some who were somewhat favorable, noting that they had some safety concerns,
particularly in Light Rail, or using services at night.
There was some desire to see expanded routes and service areas. And certainly, people talked about
occasionally, as we just heard here tonight, a few delays in services. And we also heard some about Light
Rail construction and expansion overall. So we heard a range of different views.
On the flip side, among the very small proportion that had an unfavorable impression, we saw that, again,
some of those themes that I just talked about, safety concerns, concerns about schedules, and frequency
of schedules, or reliability of schedules. And then we heard a little bit about some things on trains and buses
that they felt were concerning in terms of homelessness, or drug use, or things like that. So a range of
different responses. And again, we tried to just categorize and clarify these as we went along.
That was a question that we had tracked from those previous surveys that we had not conducted, but
another research firm had in 2007 and 2009. We've seen some slight decline. Actually, we've seen this for
most local government entities really, writ large these days. So I don't think this is necessarily particular to
RTD. We've seen this sort of a decline in trust and favorable views for many different entities, but over this
period of time. But again, you can see that there's been a slight erosion, but it's still generally much more
positive than negative.
And I will note that we saw a little bit of a geographic distinction. Boulder County respondents, Arapahoe
County respondents were a little bit more divided in their responses than those in Denver, Jeffco, or in
Adams County, or the balance of the district. We also asked them to tell us whether they used RTD services
or not, what is their impression of the quality of services being provided. And again, we got a more favorable
than not favorable.
My apologies. I'm trying to track on two screens here. Favorable than non-favorable response. We had a
majority saying that they classified it as excellent or good, 29% indicating fair, only 15% saying poor, or
very poor. And again, there was some distinctions there in terms of who was saying it was more excellent
and good. We saw that those who are not working, those who are somewhat older, were more likely to be
positive in terms of that response. And that services tended to-- is that easier to do it that way? OK, all right.
Thank you. OK, perfect.
So that way, we were able to see that-- we were able to see that-- we saw just a slight erosion there from
that 72% down to 54% today. But again, that's been a significantly long period of time here. So, you know,
it is something that's worth noting. There we go. That works a lot better. Thank you.
So we also asked a question asking them how confident they would say that they are that the RTD handles
taxpayer money wisely. They could indicate they were very confident, somewhat confident, not very
confident, or not at all confident. Just for ease of viewing here, we have collapsed those who are very and
somewhat confident. And we have a total of 62% indicating confidence in how they handle taxpayer funds.
We have 36% indicating they were not very or not at all confident in how they handle taxpayer funds.
And for the most part, if mostly falls along, as it does with almost any governmental entity, it falls along
partisan lines. But Republicans, a bare majority indicating confidence. Those who told us they were
independent or unaffiliated voters were at 57%. And Democrats expressing about 3/4 expressing
confidence in the districts handling of those funds.

There's a reason we ask those core perceptions, and you're going to see that they often bear a strong
relationship to how people approach a potential funding measure. One of the things that we know is that
ballot language has an incredible impact on how people respond. And so we did a very close approximation
of what could be that eventual language.
And we did a little bit of an experiment. We took half the respondents, so 300 respondents saw this language
that you're seeing here in the italics. All the funding, all the debrucing language at the end, the language at
the top, for the most part, remained exactly the same across all 600 responses you're going to see in the
next slide. There's one key phrase that was somewhat different among the other 300, but this is the exact
language they saw and the purposes for which those funds would be used.
And then they were asked if the election were being held today, would they vote yes in favor or no against
this particular proposal. We had 68% indicating that if the election were being held today with this language
that you see here, that they would vote yes. In fact, 41%, when we followed up and asked them would they
definitely vote yes, or probably vote yes, said, definitely vote yes. So that's nearly two in five district voters
that indicated that level of intense support. On the flip side, 12% indicated that if the election were being
held today, given this language, they would vote no. And another 19% said they were undecided at this
time.
Now, the difference in language for the other half of people is underlined here. It's that to be continued
through and including December 31st, 2034. So there was a bit of a deadline within this language. But
otherwise, all of the purposes, all of the other language is exactly the same. We have virtually the same
response, 71% indicating that if the election being held today, they would vote yes. And about the same
level of dynamics with the intensity of support and opposition at just 14%.
So I will tell you, we don't see numbers like this every day. This is a very positive numbers in reception to
anything regarding funding, period. Obviously, the language does talk about it's not imposing a new tax or
increasing the tax rate. So that's usually one of the first questions people would ask in follow-up to this type
of a question is, how does this affect my taxes? So not shockingly, I think that played a role in terms of their
response.
But that said, we did ask them why they would vote yes on this particular proposal. And we'll see the no
responses in just a second. And there's just a general regard and feeling out there that supporting,
improving, and expanding public transit is something worth doing. A certain number did notice that it's not
a outright increase in their tax rate, but really, there's just sort of a sense that public transit is worthy of
being funded.
And then a few people noted things like environmental benefits, access for the disabled or youth, just a
general sense that we need to reduce congestion and traffic on roadways. So a range of different issues.
But again, we gave you a flavor in the quote boxes there for some of the things that people commented on.
On the flip side, again, remember, it was a very small proportion of the overall electorate that indicated
opposition to this. Honestly, some of the top messages or top themes that they responded to are really just
things that we would hear for any entity, be it a city, a county, what have you. There's a concern that
potentially funds could be mismanaged, that this is a waste of money as a category, or opposition to taxes
and fees in general, and then a concern about accountability and transparency, and then a few other things
that we talked about before. But in general, there were far fewer of these responses, of course, given that
there were fewer saying that they would respond no.

Underneath that data-- and I'll just hit on a few of these really quickly, because I know you guys are starting
late tonight. But in general, we saw really, majority support across almost virtually every single subgroup
that we looked at. So in some ways, these are distinctions without difference, to be honest. So we saw
somewhat higher support among women than we did among men. That's especially true for-- and I use
these terms loosely-- for somewhat older respondents.
We also saw a slightly elevated support level among those in Denver County, but we saw more than three
in five in every single area of the district indicating support. We didn't have enough to look at every single
letter in the alphabet that you guys represent. But in general, by county, we saw a great deal of support
overall.
There was a partisan distinction. Responses among Republicans were somewhat more mixed, but it was
still nearly half that indicated support. Among those unaffiliated respondents, it was seven and 10, and
moved up to four and five Democrats indicating support. Younger-- sorry-- newer residents indicated
support at a somewhat higher level than those who are long-term, but it was 2/3 or greater no matter how
long you've lived here.
And then the reason we asked some of those core perception questions, we do see a strong relationship
to how people responded. But even those who said they had an unfavorable impression of RTD, a majority
are saying that they would vote yes were the election being held today and this was the question on the
ballot. Notably, almost half of those who said they were not confident in RTD's handling of taxpayer money
even said that they would vote yes for this ballot measure. So, again, this is kind of an exception to the rule
in terms of such a robust response.
We did look at basically taking apart some of those purposes. I didn't read them all before because we did
test a number of those individually. And we also tested some distinctions in how we could communicate
about those. And so where you see asterisks are opportunities where we tested slightly different phrasing
among half the sample versus another half. But in general, what we saw was that making sure that we have
the necessary-- that you all have the necessary workers to deliver safe and secure transit services, or that
it's convenient, and safe services, that we're maintaining the availability of transit services for people with
disabilities, that you're repairing and improving rail lines, buses, bus stops and stations, and the other
infrastructure, and whether or not we talked about that as preserving the public's investment in transit or
not, we saw significant proportions telling us for each one of those that it was extremely, or very important
that funds be dedicated for that specific purpose.
They could also have said it was somewhat important or not important. When we add in the folks that said
somewhat important, it's virtually everyone. So I'm not even showing those tonight because this is the
proportions-- these are where we saw any distinctions whatsoever.
Finally, we did see potentially, the lowest one was actually maintaining no fares for youth ages 19 and
under. But we still had a majority indicating that was extremely or very important that these particular funds
be dedicated for that purpose. So we're seeing for virtually all of the things that we tested that people are
robustly supporting the use of funds for those individual things.
And finally-- I'm almost finished, I promise-- finally, we simulated some of the pros and cons that might take
place in public discourse as people consider if a proposal were placed before them. And so we tested some
things that people might say in support of this measure to stabilize funding for RTD. And you can see the
exact language of what we tested for each of these.

They were then asked to tell us whether they found that particular statement to be very convincing,
somewhat convincing, not too convincing, or not at all convincing as a reason to support this particular
proposal. For the most part, on all of these, we had 3/4 or more saying that they found these to be at least
somewhat convincing. And there's a little bit of gradation when it comes to the intensity of that response,
saying, it's very convincing.
But in general, we found, again, and you'll note that the theme, that people found that making sure that
people have options and choices in terms of transportation, that providing more transit might potentially
alleviate some of what's happening on our roads and highways, that we'd have stable, predictable funding
to ensure that transit is available for disabled individuals that may have no other means of getting to where
they need to go, and just really providing local residents with lots of choices in how they get to school, work,
or again, wherever they need to go. The idea of being more air-friendly in terms of being a cleaner, more
efficient method of transportation was something that also resonated. The only ones that were somewhat
lower, and really, all of these rate as at a level where we'd say these are fairly compelling, was looking at
relationship to traffic deaths, and trying to get people out of cars, essentially, and into safer forms of
transportation.
On the flip side, we also tested some things that people might say as criticisms of this proposal, and might
say as a reason to vote against it. And the one that had somewhat more resonance was simply sort of lifting
up the northwest corridor, and being able to say, you know-- and again, not something that may be
completely grounded, and they may not have all the information, but trying to mimic a criticism about the
northwest corridor, and indicating that people who were paying taxes to RTD that maybe are not fully
receiving the benefits that were described to voters at the time, about two in five indicated that they found
that to be a very convincing reason against it.
Some just general anti-tax concerns, a little bit of other things that we-- sorry-- tested in relation to TABOR
were quite a bit lower. And pretty much all of these were somewhat lower than the reasons in support of
the measure. So having done that, we then looked at those combined ballots and asked people again, and
said, hey, sometimes, people feel differently after hearing a lot more about something, and sometimes they
feel the same. So please consider this proposal again.
We gave them the exact same language that they saw before. And basically, their support did not waver.
So it was 70% collectively looking at both those ballot questions at the beginning, 67% after they heard,
and were probably the most educated people outside of this room on this particular proposal. And we still
had the same level of intensity of support as well. So, again, it really shows some stable sense that this is
something that potentially were to be placed before the voters would receive a positive reception.
Now, I noted before this was not an increase in the tax rate. We did ask respondents if taxes had to be
increased to fund transit in the metro area in the future, would they prefer that to be via sales tax, a property
tax? Neither one was an option as well, which many people took. So in fact, a plurality took neither at 36%.
But we saw a fairly typical dynamic that sales tax was preferred over property tax. Again, people tend to
think of it as something that they can control in some way, versus a property tax that is set and you get this
piece of paper telling you how much you owe. And there was a little bit of a partisan distinction there. Our
more Republican voters were more likely to gravitate towards neither. But we did see, for the most part,
everyone saying sales tax over property tax if they did choose between those two. So that was a lot. I'm
happy to go back and talk about any of those. Yes.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Weigel. Yeah, I'll go ahead and call on directors. Respectfully, I'll just
ask directors as we manage time this evening to limit questions and comments to three, and also to focus
questions and comments on those that will influence our contemplation of a ballot initiative, which will be
coming through finance and planning in June. We did have a chance to hear this and dialogue about this
at finance and planning. Thank you for once again, coming to the full board for everybody who wanted to
see it again, and also for those who weren't able to attend. I'll now call on directors, starting with Director
Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: I just have one quick question. And you may or may not know this answer, so I'll totally get
it if you don't. Do you anticipate if we were to go to the ballot this November, that there would be any
particular group that would be really against us?
LORI WEIGEL: You mean based on this data?
IAN HARWICK: I mean, just that you might know-- more not outside of the data, that you might just know,
like, they hate RTD, and they're going to put up a strong opposition.
LORI WEIGEL: I mean, not in terms of demographic subgroups that we could derive from this data. There
might be certainly, you know, sometimes anti-tax groups get passionate about any funding measures. But
typically, when we're looking at something that is of this nature without increasing the tax rate, that's
dissipated quite a bit. So not off the top of my head, no.
IAN HARWICK: That was the answer I was looking for.
LORI WEIGEL: OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you Director Harwick. Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Also, thank you for coming to F&P and giving a really thorough
presentation. I just had one more. You noted that the margin of error was plus or minus 4%, and that might
vary within subgroups. Were there any subgroups where the margin of error was large enough that might
beg additional research? Or would that sample just be too small?
LORI WEIGEL: I think what we saw was that like I mentioned before, that a lot of the differences that we're
seeing, especially in terms of response to a potential ballot proposal, are really-- they're really kind of
distinctions without difference, that that support level is so incredibly high that I'm not looking at something
that's like, at 52% saying yes. And I'm very concerned with oh, my gosh, the margin of error is really going
to impact that dramatically, that, you know, for virtually every number that we looked at within that were well
beyond any sort of margin of error within a particular subgroup. And we tried to basically collapse groups
into ones that are significant enough that we're not concerned about that margin of error too.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you for that. That was the conclusion that I drew based on the presentation, but
it's a question I just wanted to double-check. Thank you. This is very thorough.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Weigel. Thank you, Director Ruscha. I'll go to Director Broom next.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Since RTD falls down to the very bottom of the ballot, historically, is there
a lot of other entities that are going to be going for tax measures that will be asked just before they get to
RTD before they run out of money?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Weigel, would you like to comment on that?
LORI WEIGEL: I would say this. I would say that Colorado voters overall, and certainly, voters in your
district tend to be highly educated, tend to pay attention to lots of issues. And we definitely see within on
the ballot that they move around a lot. So they may support one particular tax, and then the very next thing
on the ballot, they might oppose that, right?
So we don't have a lot of what is called straight ticket sort of voting where people just go, oh, to heck with
it, I'm just voting no for everything else that's on the ballot. We see just lots of movement within that. So
sometimes, the interplay of different issues can affect a question.
I'm not-- we're still waiting to see what all will actually appear on the ballot. And so potentially, some
statewide measure may interact. But I'm not concerned about people being confused about what this does.
And I think we see there if they get to it on the ballot, look at it, they're going to have a positive response.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Thank you for the answer. I'll go next to Second Vice Chair
Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much. It's great to hear these numbers and to hear in your voice, and
what you're saying that these are good numbers. Is there anything in here that gives you pause? And one
thing I wondered about is, you know, they get 60% favorability rating, but when you ask them the specifics,
they're saying, well, reliability and safety, you're getting some mixed things. Are there any answers that
raise concerns for you?
LORI WEIGEL: I mean, you know, I did a survey presentation on 9/11, for example. So there are always
unforeseen events that can happen that we just can't play out right here that could certainly affect how
people feel about funding things. So it's a little hard to be completely predicting how anything could go
sideways within this data.
I mean, obviously, we would want to see people feeling confident, because we saw such a strong
relationship between having a positive view and their confidence in your use of taxpayer funds. I've worked
for entities before that had scandals happen and pop-ups. So, you know, I can't predict the future. I don't
know what could happen. But, you know, so unforeseen events could always have an impact on-LYNN GUISSINGER: But nothing in the answers you were getting here?
LORI WEIGEL: Not here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Second Vice Chair, Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr Chair. Thank you, Lori. So if you don't mind delving a little bit more
into the n number, the 600 registered voters, starting off with, what is their likelihood to vote? So we have
somewhat very, very, very. How would you categorize them?
LORI WEIGEL: Yeah, so we actually-- we've done experiments in the past where we asked people how
likely they are to vote, and then go back and look at did that person show up to vote. And surprisingly,

there's not a great deal of correlation there. What, in fact tends to predict what someone will do is what they
have done in the past. So we look at past vote behavior. And so had they participated in the 2020 or 2022
election?
We included some people who had newly registered since then. But that way, we're making sure that people
have actually participated in those types of past elections so that we know, OK, that's someone who's going
to vote in that. And we have other vote history too that we can look at. And in fact, support actually increased
with some of the less-- some of the even more frequent voters in all types of elections.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And my other question is, how did you obtain the key demographic subgroups,
gender, age, ethnicity, things like that? How did you-- in order to get that, and correlate that to a phone
number, and the voter file of what's their past history?
LORI WEIGEL: Yes, so we asked them demographic questions. The things that are on the voter file, we're
able to record that if we're speaking to that specific individual within that household. But we ask them the
demographic questions so that we're making sure.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
LORI WEIGEL: Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Thank you, Ms. Weigel. Not seeing other hands raised.
I'll just make one comment. Extremely encouraging, and especially I love seeing this data. There's a lot of
perception of perception of RTD. And it's very helpful to see actual data around what the perception is, and
data around what the favorability is on a particular ballot initiative. So thank you very much for the work.
Thank you for reporting to us. I look forward to the discussions that our Finance and Planning Committee
will have in June, and ultimately, this board considering how to proceed with this. Thank you for the work.
And Mr. Davies, thank you for liaising and shepherding the effort. Thank you for joining us.
LORI WEIGEL: Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, we will now move to our next External Entities Report. This is from the
Accessorized Paratransit Advisory Committee, or APAC. Julie Jennings, I believe, is here to provide an
update. Ms. Jennings, if you would like to unmute and join us on the Zoom, and if we could take down the
presentation as well. Thank you very much. Ms. Jennings, the floor is yours.
JULIE JENNINGS: I'm Julie Jennings with a brief summary of the May 14th Access-A-Ride Paratransit
Advisory committee meeting. The QRyde software update, RTD has completed the replacement of Route
Match and implemented the QRyde software. Yay. Access-A-Ride access On Demand peer review. RTD
staff has been gathering materials and preparing for the peer review scheduled for the week of May 20th.
RTD's real time customer feedback mechanism, Accessorize is working to provide customers with the
option of providing real time feedback by way of answering a telephone survey after interactions with
reservations and dispatch. Continuing to improve paratransit service, discussions ensued relative to driver
performances, and contractors provided their perspectives and feedback regarding how drivers are
counseled.
The RTD complaint and commendation process, and why it is important, RTD staff presented on the
importance of reaching out directly to Customer Care whenever possible so that incidents can be entered
into the tracking program and followed up on accordingly. And that concludes my summary.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Ms. Jennings. And thank you for the moment of levity on the yay
there. Not sure if you could hear that come through, but well received. Thank you. Our third-- I'm sorry-yeah, Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yes, we have John Fussa, who is here with the CAC, but we do not have Earl Lee at present
for the ACPD.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Kroll, for letting me know that. We will go ahead and move past the ACPD
External Entity Report. And we'll move to our final external entity report, which is from the Citizens Advisory
Committee, or CAC. Mr John Fussa, please present your report. You are now recognized and welcome to
unmute yourself.
JOHN FUSSA: Thank you, Chair Davidson. And thank you members of the board. I apologize for my video.
I apparently need more light in my home office. The brief update to the CAC, we met in May on May 9th.
And at the May 9th meeting, we had a presentation from John Gardocki of RTD staff on the subregional
service council program and the current call for projects. Much appreciated.
The CAC continues to support the partnership program through the subregional service council. And the
CAC hopes to have a role in supporting that program going forward as it evolves and hopefully expands in
the future. I think of note, and most importantly, for tonight's meeting, the CAC has been working very hard
with variable staff support from Jack Kroll, Colleen Roberts, and Jen Webster. And we have a couple
deliverables, which we've transmitted to the board for your review, information, and consideration, the first
of which is our proposed and requested updates and revisions to the CAC charter.
And that is an action item for the board tonight. We do hope you'll support the revised and updated CAC
charter. We want to thank you for your support of that charter and the CAC itself. I'll be available later in
the meeting if there's any comments or questions to and for the CAC.
Most germane, the CAC continues to have a robust discussion and support RTD's efforts at revenue
diversification. We've transmitted our CAC comments by letter to the RTD Board for your review and
consideration. We hope those comments are helpful. And we're happy to provide further input in the future
as the organization, and you as a board tackle that very important topic.
Particular to that, the CAC has also expressed its robust support for a referred ballot measure for this
November 2024 to debruce under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights, TABOR. And we've transmitted a letter to
you indicating the CAC support for that effort should the board decide to take that action and refer a question
on debrucing to the ballot measure. I think I can simply say that the CAC support is, I think, uniform and
unanimous across the board for a TABOR debruce and referred ballot measure.
We certainly support it and encourage the board to consider that action. We think it's critical to help maintain
the financial sustainability of the organization going forward, as well as your service delivery. And I think
with that, that is most of my update on behalf of the CAC. I do also want to finally report out that with terrific
staff support from Mr. Kroll, Colleen Roberts and Jen Webster, we have finalized our 2024 work plan for
our committee, and we've aligned it with the work plans as best we can of the various board subcommittees
so there's greater alignment for the CAC with board actions and activities. And we think that alignment is
very important going forward.
Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, board. Happy to take any questions. Otherwise, I'll be available in the
background when you do get to the CAC charter revision and update action item. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Fussa. Thank you for joining us and for the patience. I appreciate the
report. We are now going to conclude our external entities. I just want to double check that Mr. Earl Lee
has not joined. I'm not seeing him. So we will go ahead and move on to our committee reports at this time.
I believe Director Dishell did have to depart early and will not be able to provide an Audit Committee report.
However, he did inform me via writing that there is not a report this month, given that the Audit Committee
did not meet. And there will be another report subsequent to the next meeting. I will just note and highlight
I'm very pleased that the Audit Committee is in a steady state. The directors will recall that we are
approaching a time when there will be some action around membership on that committee.
There will be more information coming. I'll be conferring with the Board Office and Audit Committee Chair
Dishell to disseminate any relevant information on that. Next, we'll move to Finance and Planning
Committee and its report. Committee Chair Tisdale, do you have anything you would like to report?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Finance and Planning Committee met on May
14. The minutes of that meeting are found at page 45 of the packet. We had the same New Bridge
presentation that you heard this evening, and five very important discussion items, which will be coming
back to us in our June 11th meeting, which is our next meeting, and especially focused on our TABOR
discussion, as you have just heard. That concludes my report, Mr. Chair.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. Certainly, we look forward to that committee meeting
in June. We'll next move to our Operations, Safety, and Security, recently renamed Committee. Committee
Chair Whitmore, do you have anything you would like to report?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, briefly, Mr. Chair. Thank you very much. We had three presentations, very
interesting presentations on three different topics. Mr. Summers briefed us on our customer facing signage
program and pending improvements, which was really enlightening presentation. We're moving in the right
direction. I see nods from the vice chair over there, and that's always a good sign.
We also had preliminary discussion, as mentioned earlier, on the Group 33 fixed rate service contract, and
that will be coming our way later this summer. And discussion on September 24, service changes proposals.
Next meeting is 6/12. I believe we have Vision Zero presentation scheduled from our committee of directors,
among a couple of other matters again on. 6/12/24. That's all for now. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Whitmore. Much appreciated. Next, we'll move to the
Performance Committee report. Committee Chair Catlin, do you have anything you would like to report?
PEGGY CATLIN: We did meet this last month. And we were continuing our discussion on performance
metrics, and as they align with the strategic plan. We are continuing work in that direction. There were no
action items that were at that committee meeting. We are moving forward and progressing towards
alignment with those items.
And Mr. Kroll was going to pull committee members for the next meeting. And I did notice that it was
scheduled for the third of-- we had a couple of options. I just got a request for something on the third. OK.
June 10th. That's what I thought it was going to be. Forgive me if I got confused. So our next meeting will
be on June 10th. And we hopefully will have a little more clarity on how we are aligning with the strategic
plan. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. Next, we will move to the approval of our board
meeting minutes and committee reports. The board and committee minutes were included in the board
packet.
JAIME LEWIS: Move to approval.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Are there any corrections from directors? Sorry, yeah. Are there any corrections-- are
there any corrections from directors of the minutes to be approved this evening? All right, seeing none.
Unless there's any objection to considering the minutes all at the same time, may I please have a motion
to approve the minutes for the following meetings?
I'll list them off, March 26th, 2024 board meeting, April 30th, 2024 board meeting, May 14th, 2024 Finance
and Planning Committee. May 15th 2024 Operations and Safety Committee. That should be Operations,
Safety and Security Committee. May 21st, 2024 Performance Committee, and May 23rd 2024 Executive
Committee. Director Broom, I'll have you down. Do I have a second?
BOB BROOM: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Is there any discussion on this motion, any objection, any no votes? Seeing none, we'll
have 13 I votes, zero-- I'm sorry, zero no votes, zero abstentions. We have two directors absent. Thank you
very much. We'll now move to the Chair's report, followed by the General Manager's report. Since we last
met as a full board, the legislative session did come to a close. As I stated last month-[CLAPPING]
As I stated last month, I am very proud of the work that RTD did as a team at the staff level and at the board
level to maintain focused, factual, consistency in our dialogue. I'm encouraged and grateful that many in
the community seem to be hearing and working to pursue answers to our calls that more investment in
transit and RTD will be needed. So certainly, we appreciate the opportunity to partner with the community.
May we at RTD remain united and communicate clearly our needs to our state and local partners.
I believe we have an opportunity after all of the energy that was spent looking at RTD, dialoguing about
RTD, as I shared last time, I personally participated in a number of meetings. I won't list those off again
here, but it represented a wonderful opportunity to talk about our short-term and long-term financial position,
and all of the needs this agency faces. May we as a region resist siloed quibbles and focus on big issues.
And may we honor Director Tisdale's favorite three C's, which I believe are communicate, collaborate and
cooperate.
And in that same vein, I do want to touch upon that may we do that internally as well here at the agency.
I'd like to thank our board office, Ms. Parrish, Ms. Knapp Rhodes, Ms. Snell, and Mr. Kroll, as we did
navigate, and as I mentioned last time, as we navigated this legislative session where there was a
tremendous amount of stress, our Board Office did a lot of work working together, fielding a lot of requests,
and doing that hard work, while always maintaining the utmost professionalism and a lot of calm focus.
That's a very difficult thing to do.
[APPLAUSE]

And we see that. We see you. And we appreciate you for that work. And I would note that something great
that the Board Office has been working on and pursuing is an agency response system, which, as we know,
has been rolled out. Forgive me for using a software product launch term here, but we had a soft launch as
we're rolling this out and sharing this with directors.
We have a tremendous opportunity here to ensure that all the communications that the board transmits to
our staff are very organized and very transparent so that directors have access to all information and have
transparent view of communication, and also to ensure that we're organizing our communication in a way
that is respectful to the roles and responsibilities of members of staff. So there was a dialogue around that
at the last executive committee meeting. I'd like to thank first Vice Chair Catlin, General Manager and CEO
Johnson for engaging in discussing what might be possible in terms of improving and organizing our
communications. And again, thank the Board Office for giving us a mechanism to do so.
I'm committed to work closely with all of you. And I ask all board members to please submit to me or to First
Vice Chair Catlin any ideas you might have around streamlining and improving our communications. It is
my recommendation that we would amend our board operating guidelines no later than the end of
September to include guidelines around communication.
I'd like to thank General Counsel Snyder for helping me understand and see times in the past when we've
had dialogues at this board level, many of us not here, around how to do this. I think it's incumbent upon
us to use the agency response system in this moment to take advantage of that and help improve those
communications. So I look forward to that. Those discussions will be coming forward in June to solicit board
feedback at the executive committee, a draft proposal for our board operating guidelines to come forward
in July for discussion, and then vote through committee, executive committee and to the Board in
September.
So with that, I will conclude the report. As always, I would just say, it's a distinct honor and privilege, as we
all know, those of us at staff and board that are serving the public and serving the agency. Time and time
again, we see members of the public take time out of their days, come, show up. And of course, we see
members of the public rely on this system.
So thank you for this opportunity. Thank you for all participating as part of this. I know we're coming out of
a stressful period. I certainly appreciate the dedication and commitment. So I'll wrap my Chair report there
and hand the floor off to our General Manager and CEO Johnson for her report. You are now recognized.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. [INAUDIBLE] board members and to all who are assembled
both virtually and here in the boardroom, I'm Debra Johnson, as introduced, RTD's General Manager and
Chief Executive Officer. This evening, I will share with you a few highlights of activities and strategic
endeavors in which I have engaged, as well as staff since the monthly board meeting on Tuesday, March
26th, 2024, noting that I was not in attendance during the April 30 meeting,
I, along with the support of Stuart Summers, our Chief Communications Engagement Officer, will also be
presenting an update on activities related to phase one of the near term downtown rail reconstruction
project. This report and the activities I'm citing herein are centered around the agency's strategic priorities,
as well as the 2023, 2024 strategic initiatives of back to basics, people power, and welcoming transit
environment.
Related to the strategic priority of community value, on Wednesday, March 27th, I, along with members of
staff, met with representatives from the E-470 Public Highway Authority to discuss our organization's

respective projects, as well as partnership opportunities. On Thursday, March 28th, I was invited to
participate in a panel discussion centered on Women on the Move. The event was hosted by the Central
Florida chapter of the Conference of Minority Transportation Officials, or COMTO, as it's commonly referred.
Panelists discussed Women's History month, their career journeys, women's impact in the transportation
industry, and the role of mentorship and support. Other participants included the Executive Vice President
and Chief Administrative Officer of the greater Orlando Aviation Authority and the Senior Advisor from the
US Department of Transportation's Office of Civil Rights. On Wednesday, April 30th, I, along with Chair
Davidson, attended the Metro Mayors Caucus meeting. I presented initial remarks regarding agency
accomplishments and matters related to state of good repair, and Chair Davidson presented an agency
update regarding potential TABOR impacts to RTD and mitigations related thereto RTD's financial outlook
and recent agency successes.
The following day, on Thursday, April 4th, I engaged in a panel discussion hosted by The Colorado Sun
online news outlet entitled, "Are we on board? Does Colorado have the money, the willpower and the
passengers to build new rail lines?" I, along with Andy Carson, the General Manager of the Front Range
Passenger Rail District, participated in the discussion, which was moderated by Colorado Sun
environmental reporter, Michael Booth, to discuss FasTracks, bus rapid transit, the logistical, operational,
and political realities surrounding developing new rail lines in Colorado, and the prospect of federal funding
among topics.
From Friday, April 5 through Wednesday, April 10th, I, as well as Director Tisdale and Government
Relations Officer, Michael Davies, traveled to Washington, DC to participate in the annual legislative
conference hosted by the American Public Transportation Association. I attended the APTA board meeting
and committee meetings such as the legislative, executive committee and the Commuter Rail CEO
Committee, as well as collectively, with Director Tisdale, and Michael Davies, and our federal lobbyists, met
with members of Colorado's congressional delegation and their staff, and those of congressional
committees with oversight of transportation matters.
On Tuesday, April 16 and Wednesday, April 17th, I returned to Washington, along with Assistant General
Manager of Rail Operations, Dave Jensen. I was invited to testify before the Congressional House
Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials as part
of the hearing on commuter rail service delivery. Also, appearing were transit executives from commuter
rail agencies, including David Deck from the South Florida Regional Transportation Authority, Michael
Nolan, the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation district, and Darren Kettle from Metrolink, which
operates in Southern California, and then Kevin Corbett from New Jersey Transit.
Collectively, we spoke on behalf of the Commuter Rail Coalition, an association of commuter rail agencies,
operators, and other interested parties acting together to engage and educate stakeholders on the value of
commuter railroads bring to the communities they serve. My testimony focused on the commuter rail's
industry exclusion from direct federal funding related to the consolidated rail infrastructure safety
improvements, or what's known as CRISI, as well as potential impacts to commuter rail agencies related to
railway safety, the Railway Safety Act currently under congressional consideration. On Monday, May 20th,
I, along with members of staff, hosted two on site tours of a rail intersection that is among five that's being
addressed in phase one of the near-term rail reconstruction project.
The first tour was given for the benefit of the board and seven directors attended. And later that day, staff
and I returned to the same location to conduct a tour for representatives of the local media. The peer review
that was convened by the American Public Transportation Association to review RTD's paratransit

operations was conducted on site last week, being the week of May 20th through May 24th. The panel was
comprised of individuals from transit agencies across the country, including the Director of Mobility Services
for the Pinellas Suncoast Transit Authority in Saint Petersburg, Florida, the Department Manager for
Specialized Transit Services from the Orange County Transportation in Southern California, and the Chief
of Operations Planning from New York City Transit.
The Senior Director of Bus Operations in new vehicle technologies from APTA served as the peer review
panelist facilitator. The panel was engaged at RTD's request to assess the agency's traditional Access-ARide Paratransit, as well as the premium Access on Demand services, including aspects such as model
program parameters, including responsible cost controls and sound customer facing processes, tools to
ensure optimal service performance, and cost effectiveness, adherence with federal paratransit
requirements, and best practices at similar transit agencies.
The peer review panel interviewed individuals representing a large cross-section of staff, as well as
contractors and individuals from external entities, such as the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition, the
Laradon Hall, and the Deafblind Advisory Council. During a closing conference held this past Friday, May
24th, the panelists shared with me and key staff their initial observations and recommendations, which will
be formally communicated via a formal report that we expect to receive no later than June 30.
I extend my thanks to Fred Worthen and his staff, as well as other individuals, including General Counsel's
office, sitting to my left, our Civil Rights office, as well as Paratransit staff and a myriad of other individuals
in the organization, which I'm probably going to get in trouble for. I start naming entities and I'm inevitably
going to forget someone. But recognizing it was all hands on deck to make this peer review on site
observation initiative take place last week.
And I'd like to extend the panelists as they have full-time jobs-- that they have full-time jobs, and they
forfeited their time from their resident agencies to help us. I look forward to reviewing their findings and
recommendations in depth. Just yesterday, Tuesday, May 28th, I, along with Michael Davies and Director
Whitmore and I, specifically engaged with the Brighton City Council. The purpose of the visit was to share
information related to agency strategic initiatives, to discuss RTD's financial outlook and TABOR
implications, and to present information about the 2024 partnership program, the call that we have, which
runs through June 3.
Related to customer excellence, commencing on Sunday, May 4th, the Transit Police Department began
its shift to 24/7 staffing model in alignment with the strategic initiative of the welcoming transit environment.
This initiative enhances the personal security of RTD's frontline employees and customers, including those
who use the agency's transit services outside of regular business hours. The overnight teams will focus
efforts on known areas of need, such as Denver Union Station, to ensure the personal security of bus and
rail operators as they begin their morning shifts.
I'm transitioning now to our impact teams. As the board is certainly aware, the near term downtown rail
reconstruction project and the coping panels project will impact customers throughout our system over the
next several months. In order to mitigate these impacts, the Communications Engagement Department
launched its impact team pilot program. Under this program, employee volunteers and teams of two to four
individuals are strategically deployed in two hour shifts at rail station and bus stops to provide on site
wayfinding assistance for customers, as well as to share important information about planned service
disruptions. Currently, we have 35 volunteers that represent a cross section of the organization.

Additionally, there will be a variety of assignments that will typically be scheduled during the standard
business workweek and during traditional commuting hours through the late summer. Enhancing the
customer experience is critical to a welcoming transit environment. Related to the strategic priority of
employee ownership, the annual survey in support of the agency's employee ownership priority was
conducted from Monday, May 15 through Friday, May 3rd. As the agency continues to recruit and to retain
a highly skilled and engaged workforce, the annual survey is an important tool to garner opinions,
perceptions, and attitudes of the agency's workforce to create a more supportive work environment.
The survey was made available electronically and via paper form, and survey events were held throughout
the agency's operating and administrative facilities. To maximize participation, the timing of the survey
coincided with the work selection period for the May service changes. While the final survey counts and
responses are being reviewed, early results indicate a high participation rate. A presentation outlining the
survey and the responses thereto is scheduled for the July Performance Committee. So at this juncture, I'd
like to invite Stuart Summers to join us here at the u-shaped tables so we can delve into a very succinct
and concise update on the rail reconstruction project.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO. And Mr. Summers, thank you for joining us and
for presenting. The floor is yours.
STUART SUMMERS: I think we're pulling up a quick slide deck.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. Thank you. Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, if I could ask for the presentation to be put in. Thank you. And so really quickly,
we are going to provide an update on a myriad of things being the communication tactics, engagement,
activities. And I'll round out with the project timeline, recognizing that efforts have commenced with the
service change in reference to mobilizing and things of the like. I will yield the floor to Mr. Summers to talk
about all the great work that he and his team have been doing to ensure that we are being highly
communicative during this very critical undertaking. Mr. Summers?
STUART SUMMERS: Thank you. Mr. Chair, if I may, my name is Stuart Summers, chief Communications
and Engagement Officer. I'm going to take you through a few things that we've done related to
communications, and engagement, and outreach efforts. Starting with communication, I think it's important
to note we launched in February a web page that we're calling our Rail Project Webpage. This is the main
source of truth. We've been pointing our community partners to this to gain information, and knowledge,
and updates about the project.
To date, we've had 13,000 plus visitors to this page. Individuals can download flyers, newsletter content,
other information about the project, b-roll photos. It's a media source as well for our media partners that are
covering information about the project. And this is regularly updated at least weekly, but more recently,
multiple times a week.
Engaging owned media, these are things that we have control over as an agency. Signage was placed at
stations and on vehicles in April. Here's some photo examples of that. We also have dispersed service
alerts about the project. And those are ongoing as well. Our updated scripts for our Telephone Information
Center, so if anyone calls into Customer Care, they'll have information, as well as reaching out via social
media that will have the talking points and information updated regularly.

We have a comprehensive social media plan. Some of you may have seen some of the videos we've
posted, some of the engagement strategies, utilizing some fun videos to try and engage the public in a new
and creative way. And then also as part of our outreach, we've created a number of location specific maps
and service schedules. So, for example, I've met with Auraria campus five different times, presented to their
faculty, staff, and students, and provided them with information about the services that affect their campus
so that they can still utilize RTD.
For Earned Media, in march, I, along with my staff, went and met with all of the metro area newsrooms and
media organizations to talk about the project, set some information out there, and understand a baseline
understanding of the Rail Project. We've sent seven news releases out to date. We have a dedicated
spokesperson to handle interviews and requests for information. And we've had 35 different interview
requests fulfilled as part of this project. And a majority of those have been the last month.
And then lastly, our Paid Media. So if you're on social media, we've been targeting a paid media campaign.
It launched earlier this month. We're utilizing a lot of social media, but also digital media, really trying to
segment populations target by location specific. So those that may be impacted specifically along the D, H,
and L, but others in the service area. And then you can click through to learn more information on the project
web page.
As far as Engagement Activities, GM CEO Johnson mentioned a few of these. We held a couple of weeks
ago our on site event for both the board of directors and the media. For those that were not in attendance,
we do have what we're calling our Overview Guide that's available on the Rail Project for download-- on
the Rail Project Webpage that can be downloaded. This has been a great tool for media, and has been
received very positively.
We also hosted a number of community open house meetings near impacted rail lines in Lone Tree, three
in Denver, and also in Littleton, and just provided an open house style where people could not only get
information, but also learn how to sign up for service alerts, and how to utilize our Next Ride app. And then
we've also hosted virtual open house meetings. I mentioned Auraria campus is one example. We've met
with TMAs. TMOs are our transit management associations and organizations, neighborhood associations,
community groups, anyone that's invited us to attend, we've provided staff to give updates. And then also I
mentioned the location specific maps and service information, and then just a lot of education, helping
people understand how to utilize the Next Ride app, My Ride, and service alerts.
And then currently underway, we launched this a couple of weeks ago. We've been doing business
outreach, business and residential outreach near the five intersections. So our team has been going out
with our contractor to meet with managers at different businesses, residents in the area, really talk about
any of the potential impacts to their business, how they can receive more information. We've provided
phone numbers for them to call. So 24 hours a day, if they have a concern, something that's happening
with the project, they know who to reach out to and when. And then we've also signed them up-- they've
given us contact information so we can provide weekly updates as the project progresses through the
summer.
And then the last thing that I'll focus on is this, the Impact Team Ambassadors. This is part of a six month
pilot. To date, we've already logged more than 250 hours of outreach at stops and stations by the team
really focused on enhancing customer experience. This morning, I was out at Civic Center for a few hours
engaging with customers, helping them to understand how to use MetroRide, and the MallRide, and really
positive experience. And people have been very receptive to this. We're excited.

I can tell you, as GM CEO mentioned, the 35 staff that are volunteering to be part of this are really excited
to be able to step away from maybe their traditional roles for a few hours a week, and engage with
customers, and also understand some of the pain points so we can understand how to better communicate.
And with that, I'll turn it back to you, Debra.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Summers. If you can advance the slides since you have the clicker.
Thank you very kindly. So looking at this map before you, there is a depiction of the five intersections that
will be under construction this summer. Starting with number one, it's Stout and 15th, the second, California
and 15th, where we held the on site tour on May 20. The third picture is Stout and 17th, fourth, California
and 17th, and fifth, Broadway and Welton. It's important to note number five, as that's where work will be
commencing. If we can progress to the next slide, Mr. Summers.
So before you go on this slide, we're depicting the projected timeline. I want to note, while we have work
slated to begin June 3 on Monday at Broadway in Welton, which will be a complete closure of the
intersection, staff just met with city and county representatives, as well as their contractor that's handling
the 16th Street Mall construction. That was intentional, as those discussions ensued relative to the agreed
upon approach, recognizing the impact in downtown. And as was mentioned for those that were in
attendance on May 20th, it's up to us-- it's up to us to coordinate with CCDC. That's a different entity, the
city and county. That was the Bay Area Conservation Development Commission. I just went back 20 years.
But the city and county-- the city and county of Denver staff in conjunction with their contractor, we have
made a commitment that we will not impact certain elements of the downtown, recognizing the 16Th Street
mall construction.
The reason why I'm calling that out is that red indication below says all dates are subject to change and
include contingency to address unknowns. One thing that's specific I want to call out is, we commenced
with the first segment of Broadway and Welton. While that's a 20 day closure, work will be performed on
successive calendar days, and that will include weekends. The way the staging has been proposed at this
juncture, relative to the discussion that ensued with relative staff and contractors as of May 24th, we will
not be impacting any intersections per se on Independence Day holiday.
And so with that, that concludes our report. We will be bringing updates back to this body to ensure that
you all are kept apprised, as that was the commitment we collectively made as staff, and we think it's very
important recognizing that this is the first undertaking this agency has done. So with that, I conclude my
report and yield the floor to you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Summers.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, General Manager and CEO Johnson, for your report. And Thank
you to special guest, Stuart Summers, for joining us here. Given that we did have a special presentation, I
do see there's some questions on the hand raised. Again, if we could just limit questions to three each, that
would be great to help manage our time this evening. Director Rosenthal, you had a question.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. One question for Mr. Summers. Sorry, and thank you very much for that
presentation. And sorry, it's very detailed, and thoughtful, and extraordinary work by you and your team.
Drilling down a little bit on the media outreach, to organizations like, say, Asian Avenue Magazine, La Voz,
Urban Spectrum, you know, they're probably on your email list, but is there an effort to-- because so many
organizations receive a lot of emails and wondering, do you also do personal phone calls, or visits to their
office, or follow-up to say, hey, you just want to make sure you got our information? Thank you.
STUART SUMMERS: Yeah, Mr. Chair, if I may.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
STUART SUMMERS: Great question. Director Rosenthal, so what we annually do, we have about 600
media stakeholders on our news release distribution list. So you can imagine 600 is a significant number
to engage with regularly. Annually, we go through an exercise where we check-in with as many of those
that we can get a response from just to see are they receiving our news releases, are they in a method and
format that is readily accessible for them? Is the information that we-- the time of day we deliver it work for
them?
So to answer your question at a high level, and then I'll drill down a little bit, yes, we engage with them. It's
done on an annual basis, usually January, February. So we've gone through that exercise. As far as the
individual newsroom and organization outreach that we did in March, what we do is, people that-- media
organizations that typically cover RTD, engage with us regularly, we track all of that to see who is our hot
list of media. And it comes up with about 20 to 25. And those are who we reached out to have an individual
meeting with. Of course, we're open to any others that reach out, and we've had a few. But typically, every
year we meet with 20 to 25 in their newsroom.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Summers, for fielding the question. Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Not
seeing any other questions. Thanks once again for joining us here and for the report. We'll move on in our
agenda. There are no items on the unanimous consent agenda, so we will move forward to the
recommended actions. There are two recommended actions on the agenda.
These did come through the Executive Committee. The first action is for-- this is Item A, Catalyst Public
Affairs Contract Extension Amendment. This is for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager
and CEO, or her designee to execute an amendment to exercise the option to extend the current local
government relations contract with Catalyst Public Affairs for three additional years through and including
June 30th, 2027.
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Do we have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved, Tisdale.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear Sloan is the movement and Tisdale as the second. At this time, I'd like to ask
directors if they have any questions. We are joined by Mr. Michael Davies, our Government Relations
Officer, who has been working most closely with Catalyst Public Affairs. Mr. Davies, I'll turn first to you to
see if there is anything you'd like to present. I recognize you presented to the-- briefly to the executive
committee. Is there anything you'd like to comment on this evening?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair and members of the board. Michael Davies, Government Relations
Officer. No. Had a wonderful working relationship with Catalyst Public Affairs, and look forward to more
years ahead of working with them closely.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you, Mr. Davies. At this point, I'll turn to comments and questions from
Directors. Again, respectfully asking if we could limit that to three each, and also focusing any questions on
those that would influence your decision on this matter. With that, we'll start with Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just one question, so in terms of working, you mentioned that
you have had a very good working relationship with Catalyst. And so how do you gauge metrics, or what

are you looking at in terms of working with Catalyst? And how do you gauge success? How do you see
their role in the community? And what influences your decision to recommend continuing working with
them? Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Davies, please go ahead.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you. Thank you, Director Rosenthal. It's a great question. So one, certainly,
looking at the scope within the contract, and generally seeing are those tasks being taken care of? Two,
and I think this is working with board liaisons, namely Chair Davidson and Second Vice Chair Guissinger,
who regularly liaise with our public affairs contractors, and essentially, laying out goals, laying out tasks.
Are those getting accomplished as well?
Lastly, really, feedback from you all as Directors. You know, a lot of events that Catalyst Public Affairs
assists us on are going to your city councils that are included in your district. And really, the feedback that
we get from you all in those events and other interactions that RTD has with local elected officials, those
are important comments and certainly feed into assessing the firm.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies. And thank you, Director Rosenthal. And Director Rosenthal, I
can add as well, that certainly what's been important to me as Chair in the last few months in particular is
the responsiveness and availability. And I would say that Catalyst Public Affairs has always been available
as I've needed. They have helped both arrange meetings and opportunities for me to engage with DRCOG
board, the Metro Mayor's Caucus, city councils, mayors, et cetera. But also, then responded when I was
seeking particular meetings and requesting those meetings. So certainly, that's, I think, the availability also
very positive.
Other questions, comments? OK, seeing none, I'll move to the vote. I will ask and I'll note for the sake of
the record, I believe we have 12 directors present and three absent. So I will go ahead and ask, are there
any no votes? OK, seeing none, that will pass. We will have 12 I votes. We have zero no votes, zero
abstentions, and we have three absent directors. Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Davies, for joining us.
We'll now move to the second action of the evening. This is with regards to the Citizens Advisory Committee
charter adoption. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the attached charter for the Citizens Advisory
Committee. Do we have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Catlin as the movement, and I have Whitmore as the second. Before we move to
discussion, I'd like to note two things. First, is that John Fussa, Co-Chair of the CAC, is still present with us.
Thank you for remaining here. Should any directors have any questions for him as it relates to the approval
of the charter?
Likewise, our Executive Manager of the Board Office, Kroll, who has worked extensively on this item, is
also here and can address questions. Second, I would like to note that there was discussion at the executive
committee about the potential for amendments on this. And so I first would like to open the floor, and I'd
like to take these amendments one at a time so we can maintain order, and structure, and be organized in
this. So first, I'm actually going-JAIME LEWIS: Point of order.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please go ahead.
JAIME LEWIS: I think we need a motion on the main action first.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We do have that. Yes, Catlin and Whitmore.
JAIME LEWIS: Fine.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. So we have one amendment that has been-- you all should have a copy of
it in front of you. That is from Secretary Guzman. We also have two amendments that are from Director
Ruscha. So again, I'd like to take those one at a time. So with that, I'm going to ask Director Guzman for
his amendment. Secretary Guzman, you are recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I move to add the following language in the bulleted list of
membership section as criteria used for the board-- excuse me-- criteria used by the board for appointment
of CAC members to add the bullet, reads as follows, to consider geographic-- sorry, I will quote it.
Geographic residents from across the district's five subregional service council areas, open parentheses,
Boulder, Northeast, Northwest, Southeast, Southwest, close parentheses.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Do we have a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second message.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the second as Whitmore. Is there any discussion on this amendment that we have
written before us, including if Secretary Guzman wants any additional context? I'll look for hands raised. Dr.
Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: This wouldn't be required. It'd just be suggested that you would try to get people from
different geographic areas. I mean, obviously, you're not always going to find them, and you're going to find
maybe two or more in another subdistrict that are qualified.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman, would you like to answer that?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Chair. Yes, Director Broom, this is the suggestion of criteria for how the
way the process is described. There's a committee that gets together to look through applicants. And so
this was just a criteria to make sure that we are considering that we should have persons from all over the
region, not just one specific area, or one specific subdistrict within the RTD. So it's a mindful approach to
ensure that we are being careful when we do that work. Thank you. And that is the whole purpose of the
amendment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. I saw your hand is raised, so that's great, answered a question
and gave the context. Thank you very much. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to amplify that point by saying that the
language would be added to the section in the proposed charter that says criteria used by the board for
appointment may include, but not be limited to. And then these additional elements are done. And so it's

simply an additional factor that may be considered. And for that reason, I would be in support of the
amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I appreciate that clarification, because if it had been
prescriptive, I would have been a no vote, because I think that we need to keep our options open for
appointing directors, or appointing members of this board. So I'm a little bit nervous, but as long as it's
suggested and not mandatory I can be OK with it. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair. Any further questions regarding this amendment? OK,
seeing none, I'll call for the vote. This is on the amendment in front of us from Secretary Guzman to add
the language concerning the subregional service council areas and geographic residents. Are there any no
votes on this amendment? Seeing none, that will be 12 yes votes, zero no, and we have three directors
absent.
At this time, I would like to now call upon Director Ruscha for the first of her two amendments, which are
also in front of you. So Director Ruscha, if you may please read your amendment, your first one.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was fine to move all of these unless the board wanted to split.
And so I guess I need clarification because you said these are two amendments. Can you share with me
where you think this splits? And then I'm happy to make the motion.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Let's do them both one at a time to make sure in case we have, you know, anything that
gets split.
PEGGY CATLIN: We'll go down it. OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I wanted to make sure I understood your instructions, sir. So I would move to add the
following language and the bolded list under responsibilities section for the CAC, and add the bullet, provide
advice to the district and board on fare changes, service changes, and the development of major or new
projects.
JAIME LEWIS: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear the second as Lewis. Is there any discussion on this amendment? And I'll start
with Director Ruscha. Is there any context you'd like to add to this?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, what you see before you, this and following, I think is
germane, but not very drastic. And nor do I think that they deviate from the CAC's purpose, original or
revised. I also looked at examples of other transit advisory committees like CDOT, CTAB, which is Colorado
Springs, Cleveland. And I just had in the back of mind some presentations that we'd circulated last year
regarding engaging community groups.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Any questions or comments from directors? OK. We will
now-- I will now call for the vote on this amendment from Director Ruscha. Are there any no votes? OK,
seeing none. Great. That'll be 12 yes votes, zero no, and again, three directors absent. Now, again, I'd like
to call on Director Ruscha for her second amendment. Director Ruscha, you are now recognized.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And I'll go ahead and take this in a sweep. So I moved to add the following
language to the bulleted list under the membership section as criteria used by the board for the appointment
of CAC members. First, to add the word related before the word-- before the phrase public policy advocacy,
and then add two bullet points below, or with, I should say, within the bullets. First, is a demonstrated history
of advocacy on behalf of transit dependent communities, and the second is an RTD customer who is transit
dependent.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Do I have a second?
JAIME LEWIS: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I believe I heard Lewis as the second. We'll now open up for discussion on this
amendment. And again, Director Ruscha, I'll recognize you first, if you'd like to provide the context on this.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Just to repeat what I stated before, that's where I got my inspiration.
And again, just want to emphasize, under our membership, it is criteria that may include, but not limited to.
So nothing is prescriptive. Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Whitmore, please.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Ruscha answered my question. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Whitmore. First Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I guess because it is permissive and not prescriptive, I'm OK with that. But I
do want to point out that we currently have Access-A-Ride Paratransit Committee that advises this board,
APAC, as well as Advisory Committee for Persons with Disabilities, ACPD. So I do believe that we have-and fortunately, have really good advice from those representatives on those committees. So I just-- I would
say that I'm not sure it's necessary to add those two bullet points, but as long as it's emphasized that it's
permissive, I can reluctantly support it.
JAIME LEWIS: Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair. Yes, Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Clarification of that. I thought the same thing, Peggy, on that. And transit dependent is
becoming such a wide term now. There are people now that have given up their cars and depend on their
bikes and transit to get around, so we can consider them public transit dependent now, even though they
don't have a disability. So I think that term has gotten very broad. So that could-- and I agree with you. We
already have two disability groups, but I think transit dependent has much wider scope right now. Yeah.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. Other questions? Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So in terms of the word related, I guess I have a concern about
that, because potentially, let's just say it's a small business owner who is not a member of a organization,
just a small business owner, and they're like, well, you know, we don't maybe have our business on Colfax,
let's just say that's impacted by the BRT. But at the same time, maybe it is in the middle of the city that
needs bus service or, you know, they're just advocates for small business. However, it's not, quote,
technically related to transit. So I guess that would be the one exception I would have.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Any further questions or-- yes, Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Or I'm sorry-- I'm not supposed to dialogue across the
room. I'm tired. So I thank you for that feedback. And I had thought something similar, and I thought it might
fall under the bullet, professional expertise and qualifications? Or just a demonstrated interest in transit, but
certainly not meant to exclude. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry. As it relates to the phrase transit dependent, I think the USDOT has their
own definition. APTA has a definition. The city of Denver has a definition. Generally speaking, it means an
individual without a car, and they rely on transit to get from A to B. But I would just note that according to
APTA, 8% of the US population is transit dependent. And that is not wholly exclusive just of people with
disabilities. So I just wanted to offer that point of reference. Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Any further questions or comments on this amendment?
Seeing none, I'll call for the vote again on the amendment with the movement as Ruscha, the second as
Lewis. Are there any no votes on this amendment? Seeing none, that will be 12 yes votes, zero no, and
three absent.
We will now return to the main motion. And we do have the movement as Catlin, the second as Whitmore.
And we are now discussing the revisions to the CAC charter as amended in those three amendments. Are
there any questions, or is there any discussion concerning the change to the charter? Yes, Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Mr. Director, I was just curious if we could hear from Mr. Fussa, you know, what his
interpretation of these amendments, and what the changes-- how he feels it will affect his group, and, you
know, just give us a feeling of what their charge is right now.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you very much, Director Lewis. And Mr. Fussa, I see that you have come
on camera, so I will now recognize you to address the question and to comment on the changes and the
changes as amended.
JOHN FUSSA: Thank you, Chair Davidson and board members. I think my view as Co-Chair of the CAC is
that the proposed changes are limited, but that they add-- they bring further clarity and I think definition to
the charter. And certainly, I support them as CAC Co-Chair. And I believe the CAC would support them as
well. They bring clarity to that important document, which is our guiding document for what we're supposed
to be focusing on, and how we operate, and how our membership is composed. So we're supportive.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. And thank you, Director Lewis. Other questions? Well, thank you,
Mr. Kroll, for your work on this and grabbing hold of this. Mr. Fussa, thank you for engaging. General
Manager, CEO Johnson, thank you as well for the contributions and the meetings that we had. And
Directors Guzman and Ruscha, thank you for the helpful amendments.
With that, I will now call for the vote on the main motion as amended. Are there any no votes? Seeing none,
that will be 12 yes votes, zero no votes, and we have three directors absent. That concludes our
recommended actions this evening. We'll now move to our Report of Director Activities. And I will call on
any directors that would like to report their activities for the previous month, especially noting those who
serve on external appointments. Would anyone like to report on activities? Director Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Just very briefly, in case some people have not
seen the information regarding the Denver Downtown Development Authority, RTD sits on that authority as
an important member. There are five of us on the board. I chair that board. And we are very excited about
the fact that the DDA is seeking to-- not accomplished yet-- expand its jurisdiction and authority so as to
help to plug a whole lot of additional money into downtown Denver.
And that's for one reason only, because of the success of the DDA, and the success of the DDA is for one
reason only, the development that we did of Denver Union Station. And that development yielded $5 billion
worth of development around Denver Union Station. And Mayor Johnston of Denver saw that and decided
it would be a good thing to try to expand that.
So I do want to encourage you all, if you have questions about it, please contact me. If you have anyone
who reaches out to you, let them know it is a good thing. And I would be happy to speak with them as well.
Thank you, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Tisdale. Thank you for highlighting that. Other directors?
Seeing none, we'll move forward to other matters. Are there other matters to discuss? Yes, Second Vice
Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr Chair. This is, I guess, a little bit of a director activity, but a little
broader, too. I attended a meeting that CoPIRG Danny Katz put together with about 18 organizations that
were wanting to learn more about RTD's financial situation, and our upcoming decision with regard to
TABOR, and the polling results, and some of those things. So I attended to provide some of that.
It was a great group. Downtown Denver partnership, CoPIRG, Sweep, Green Latinos, Denver Foundation,
a lot of different people that were involved there. And, you know, I think now I know that staff that Jack Kroll
and-- I think it was Michael Davies and Jen Webster met to put together lists of people that the board might
be wanting to start talking to to educate about those issues.
And I think you know them better than anybody. We know that our own areas better than anyone. But, you
know, it's time we need to be taking that information from people as we move forward towards a decision,
and also, just letting people know what our situation is. So just encouraging people to start reaching out.
Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. That is encouraging. And thank
you for participating in that. Again, very grateful that we have a lot of interest right now on our financial
position. And let's capitalize on it. We've got years of work ahead of us. So thank you very much for that.
Director Sloan, please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: This is also piggybacking on the positive information we got tonight. I think it's
important when we do actually make a decision on whether to go forward with an election this year, that we
have sufficient practical advice in front of us when we make that decision. For instance, Director Guissinger
was saying, you know, people were asking about RTD's financial condition. We have heard about that quite
a bit. But if we had a concise set of talking points, it would be really helpful when we go out.
Also, practical advice concerning when we do go out, you know, how we deal with questions. We have kind
of an overview that I'm grateful for from the General Counsel's office, but I think there are more specific
items that we could have. And also, it occurred to me tonight, I'm pretty sure we are going to ask our

advisory boards and commissions if they want to pitch in with this effort, and what are their restrictions in
going out and talking to their groups. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan. It sounds like some things definitely for follow-up there. And
since it was mentioned, the meeting with Mr. Kroll and Mr Davies, I'll certainly be happy to make myself
available if we could engage with me. I'm happy to share some of the talking points and things that I have
shared, particularly around, you know, when it comes to our TABOR risk, and how that may impact our
long-term risk of shortfall that we have projected in the Mobility Plan For Future. It's a tricky thing to talk
about.
And there's been a couple of things we've tested, so I'll certainly make myself available to the board and to
our Board Office to help contribute some of the things that I've shared. Thank you for highlighting that. Dr.
Harwick, please.
IAN HARWICK: This is quick. If we decide to go with debrucing, what's our time frame on making that
decision?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Director Harwick. So currently, we will be-- the plan is to look at
considering the ballot initiative at the Finance and Planning Committee meeting in June. Should that pass
through committee, then that would be considered by the full board at the June meeting, which gives us
then sufficient time to refer the measure. So it is next month. Yeah, please go ahead.
IAN HARWICK: Would we-- would one of our consultants that we already have on staff be able to manage
that? Or would we potentially if we wanted to, bring-- would we have the ability to bring in an outside
consultant to help manage that if we did decide to do it?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, could you clarify in managing?
IAN HARWICK: Well, like, if we want to hire somebody to help run a campaign.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So that wouldn't be under the auspices of the agency. And I'm wondering if, General
Manager-- I'm sorry, if General Counsel Snyder, if there's any comments you would like to make at this
time.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The short answer is no. RTD shouldn't be using any resources,
whether it's staff time or any funds to advocate for or against any ballot measure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right now, we can educate people about what we're looking at, what our financial
situation is. Staff can also do that. And you know, what the decision to be made is and all of that. And that's
the requirement, is it's education. But when it becomes-- when it's referred and General Counsel has written
a memo on this, and maybe we need some more conversation on this, but once it's referred, then, you
know, different rules.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the comments. I'll go to Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So first, I just wanted to thank the Board Office in helping with
accommodations. We had some tech challenges, but there was a lot of communication to try to solve them.
And it's a work in progress. But I did just want to recognize them here.

And I did have a question. I wasn't sure-- I'm sorry-- I wasn't sure if it was more appropriate for the General
Manager's report, but it wasn't covered in her report. May I? Thank you. So the legislature elected to not
fund, or offer funding for free fare for Better Air this year for us. And I know that came up in committee. And
I was wondering if our GM could just take a moment. It sounds like we are not going to appropriate, you
know, funds, or ask for a fund. There is not going to be a request to the board-- excuse me-- to appropriate
our own funds for that initiative. And I just think it's come up a lot that it would be good to hear from our GM
CEO as to how we arrived at that decision.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And General Manager CEO Johnson, would you like to
comment on that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Sure. Thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair, for recognizing me and Director Ruscha for
the question. So at this juncture, I, as staff and members of my team, were not putting forward a
recommendation in which to do that, considering that in the legislation that RTD was carved out to be
eligible to utilize state funding from a grant reimbursable perspective for zero fare for youth, we are going
down that path. In previous years, in which we've taken place and said program work started earlier. So
even if we were at this juncture, it would not be possible for us to leverage a program of that magnitude as
we did previously going forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Ruscha, does that answer your question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think so. I was asking, if there was a decision made as to why we would not cover
the cost? And I think that you answered it, just timeline would not work. OK, thank you. Appreciate it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Any other matters from directors? Seeing none, I will entertain a
motion to adjourn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear Director Guissinger. The meeting, thank you, everyone, for joining us this evening.
And thank you for the patience during the executive session. The meeting is now adjourned as of 8:49 PM
Mountain Daylight Time.

1234532637832524795 1 4  

 553649  3755534263357145 !

#$%&'()*&+&,

-./01$2/3456*78195$.3:)$/.

7;</56$=8.$64>5.($(/561/4(./?(

@AA+9=$0;B(.;;(

1;62;.*:CD+&+&

1;$.:)$/.1$2/3456*

E.;$(;.1;62;.8.$64/(FE18GH5I=3=/0;(5.;4>;?(JI==%4IKL/(>IK=/??5LL;6(56();J5==5H/6<().;;(5>/?4M

426N5N54OO 745793 476 !

E18H./(;4H/()?56?;.6.;<$.3/6<();>.52/3;3L;L5*H)/?).;4(./?(4?5LLI6/?$(/564K;(H;;61/.;?(5.4$63

/63/2/3I$=L;LK;.45J7814($JJ/6();/6(;./L>;./53PQ)/=;();E#R:-CL$%)$2;$=;</(/L$(;?5L>=$/6(

()$(4($JJ)$2;.;?;/2;3I6>.5J;44/56$=?5LLI6/?$(/564*();.;)$2;$=45K;;6$?(/564()$(3/4>=$%)5H3/JJ/?I=(

/(?$6K;J5.1/.;?(5.4(5>.5>;.=%>.52/3;52;.4/<)(H/()5I(;S>=/?/(=%$40/6<4($JJJ5.$33/(/56$=?=$./J/?$(/56

T>5(;6(;S$L>=;H$4563/4>=$%$(();C>;.$(/564RB$J;(%L;;(/6<56#$%@U()H);6();E.5I>VVW/S;3

75I(;9I4B;.2/?;4H$4>.;4;6(;3J5.3/4?I44/56P1;4>/(;.;$456$K=;XI;4(/564J.5L1/.;?(5.456H)$(();

YE.5I>VVZ?56(.$?(?52;.4*4($JJ<$2;656[4>;?/J/?$64H;.4*4I?)$4Y();.;$.;65(4>;?/J/?.5I(;4$445?/$(;3

H/()()/4>$?0$<;ZK;J5.;3;J;../6<(5=;<$=?5I64;=P8)/4();6>.5L>(;3$4I<<;4(/56()$(/63/2/3I$=1/.;?(5.4

4)5I=3H./(;/6$63.;XI;4(?56(.$?(/6J5.L$(/56P8)/4$>>.5$?);6?5I.$<;41/.;?(5.4(5JI.();.?5LLI6/?$(;

H/()4($JJ*;2;6H);6()$(L$%65(K;();L54(;JJ;?(/2;5.$>>.5>./$(;?5I.4;5J$?(/56*$63?$I4;4

J.I4(.$(/564K;(H;;6$==>$.(/;4PQ;;6?5I.$<;4($JJ(54I>>=%$?5L>=;(;4;(5J?56(.$?(35?IL;6(4J5..;2/;H*

I(/=/\/6<;S;?I(/2;4;44/564$4$>>.5>./$(;P

Q)/=;H;=550J5.H$.3(5();$35>(/565J95$.3[(5[4($JJ?5LLI6/?$(/564>5=/?/;4/6();?5L/6<L56()4*$63

)5>;()$(();/6(;./L>5=/?/;4);=>.;3I?;(;64/564/6();L;$6(/L;*H;$.;?56?;.6;3$K5I(1/.;?(5.4]$K/=/(%

(5>.5>;.=%.;?;/2;/6J5.L$(/56()$(H/==$==5HJ5.();L(5?563I?(();/.52;.4/<)(3I(/;4PQ;H/==?56(/6I;(5

$325?$(;J5.(.$64>$.;6?%$63$??5I6($K/=/(%45()$(();6;?;44$.%52;.4/<)(?$6K;>;.J5.L;3P

4 !328347139N53!

E18H/4);4(5)/<)=/<)(56;I6J5.(I6$(;>$.(5J();#$%&+&,B;.2/?;:)$6<;4.;=$(/6<(575I(;&,*H)/?)

.I64J.5L,+()R:5=5.$35T^/6;4($(/56(5:[,_+R6/2;.4/(%a$.0[6[7/3;*L54(=%$=56<6/2;.4/(%9=23P

B$3=%()/4;S$L>=;/456;5J35\;64H)/?))/<)=/<)(();/44I;4E18$63L$6%5();.4)$2;H/()>55.(/L/6<

$63(.$64J;.4*H)/?)$JJ;?(781]4I4$K/=/(%K%();>IK=/?P

8);#$%&+&,B;.2/?;:)$6<;435?IL;6(4($(;3();J5==5H/6<H$4<5/6<(5)$>>;65675I(;&,M

cdefghigifjkdilkmnfddojpnhhjqdrjjskltfpojknujdieqphjlfjiqvdewjgjhxihwlqpjyroeujfnfgjqkeqz

fjlfiqlufpoiiudheggjhfjh{epj|

}}}1234532637832524795 


413

~

1234532637832524795 1 4  

!"#$!%&$$!'!()!

$&$*!&!!+!&!#&%#&%!%*,&-#!(.(/0


123&+&!/.45!!&*&!&+67*&&!!

!!!&&%&!&**&!!08+,$!&!

99:.;!99:.<!,!%!&!$&=(/#,&!$*

!&0>&&!(/!!!99:6(99:6?!,!&%@%&*$&

*&%$*23&!&$!&!&!%!&%,!"!$!

!$#0
!,&*A&*&B!&C!DACE&&$&%F23&,=/.!/.45!

!&G!&HF5I"5&G!$$!+&*(/!!99:.;!

*!&%!*&!#0J&,23&&#!&&%&!99:.;

!&"(/#@#$&!!!*!F*!"!$&G,&&++&%

!"&!&%+&!&+!!!!#!&#&%!*&!01&&!%
!$&"!!&$$!FK&&LG,&!!#!!!&&*!&

*$*!%&!&B&&+&!0

1&!"$!&%9&!*&&!$&!&%"!!&

!!C&!D2=E,A!"DJ6MJ#E,5!5"N-!DO?6#E!3&D8

/;?E!*#!$0J&!!$!&!!&+!&"!&!#

!"&!!!#&*!*!,&#$=1PH&&&0
1&%,OP1&!&%!&&&*$O'458A&!!"!%$&!!#

&!&0OP1&#$&&%Q%!&!!&+!!*!

%!&%!&&(/!99:.;$*/.45!0J&$&

!!*!!&*&%F!*#$$!G&!&&!!&&

&"&&&%#!"$$!&$&!&0

R&&%!$*&Q&5!&P!+&!!"!!3%&!&

!&!,&$#&P&*!%,3%*!+!#

!%**P+!!&*+&$!<!*!&$$&0OP1!*!&B
%!*!%!&*&%!!&%&&%=1P!&**&$&&

#&%!&%=1PH!#&&0R&,##!!#!&!&"!%!&+&*!#
&%!!!"$&*S!$,!!$&&&%*$

!!&0
TTT1234532637832524795 


U413

V

1234532637832524795 1 4  

4951575373

!"#$%&'()*+,-+.+-/-0+,/-++1*23*2-./,.+22-4*+,2-+2-5/6

78*9(/1-2-45/*+66+:0++;,++/+;/**+*++,24*2,-2*1++/;+2-4*+

+.23++,*+.+-2-41++4+-+,,3,+-&2-12*-/6</2+:0+1/,,/,2=+/3/66+-

>,&*+/;+//5*+,2--?@&AB?778%5/C+2-452+-,-/2-4;*+-/6+-,</C:'()2

,//=2-45/1/*+2-+-2-4/-0+,/-1*+-*+(/1-/1-//;1/=+3/6;,++5/*++:

)*-=5/,,//&

D6+E,6


A23*F6C+


GGH 

A)(F//5(2+3/
(+CD/*-/-&A)('+-+,I-4+9GJK


LLL1234532637832524795 


M413

N

Memorandum
We make lives better through connections.

To:

Board of Directors

From:

Erik Davidson, Board Chair
Peggy Catlin, Board First Vice Chair

CC:

Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO
Melanie Snyder, General Counsel
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer
Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager, Bus Operations
John McKay, Executive Business Partner
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
Jack Kroll, Executive Manager Board Office
Board Office

Date:

May 22, 2024

Re:

Board-to-Staff Communications

We are writing to you regarding an urgent matter that requires immediate action. There are problems with
Board-to-staff communications that we must expeditiously and collectively act to resolve.

Board-to-Staff Communication Problems
There are two primary problems with Board-to-staff communications that presently need to be addressed:
1. Dispersed communications.
A high volume of Board Director requests for information and questions are being asked of staff through
numerous communication channels. This makes it difficult for staff to handle requests, particularly at
high volume. It makes it difficult for all Directors to gain transparent access to resulting information. It
also results in repetitive requests.
It was for these reasons that the Board Office worked diligently to develop and implement the Agency
Response system, which we can now use to consolidate and organize communications.
We believe committing more fully to the Agency Response system will mitigate problems caused by
dispersed communications.
2. Unwelcome communications.
The Board Chair was notified by the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO) that there have been Board
Director communications made to staff that staff members have found unprofessional, disrespectful, and
unwelcome.
On Friday, May 17, 2024, GM/CEO Debra A. Johnson transmitted an email to her staff directing them to
please refrain from coordinating directly with Board members, citing too many situations in which
Board members have unprofessionally and disrespectfully engaged in communication with staff.
We have attached that email to this memorandum.
GM/CEO Johnson stated in her email that, this is untenable and compromising my ability to lead. She
reiterated and emphasized that sentiment to the Board Chair in a subsequent call on Friday, May 17,
2024.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Subject:
Page: 2
After reviewing the situation with GM/CEO Johnson, we support her directive to staff. However,
recognizing that Board-to-staff communications are critical, we have subsequently engaged with
GM/CEO Johnson to outline an interim solution that will ensure efficient, respectful communications
resume, allowing the Board to govern and the GM/CEO to manage staff and the agency effectively.

Proposed Board-to-Staff Communication Solution
Due to the seriousness of the unwelcome communications as well as the need to prevent issues caused by
dispersed communications, we are requesting the cooperation of all Directors in the following three-step plan:
1. Fully committing to the use of the Agency Response system and following Board-to-Staff Communication
Interim Guidelines outlined in the next section of this memorandum.
2. Expedient development of formal communication guidelines for Board-to-staff communications by the
Executive Committee, with input from all Board members, the Board Office, General Counsel, and the
GM/CEO. This will likely be done by updating the Board Operating Guidelines.
3. Adoption of the latter formal guidelines for Board-to-staff communications by the full Board no later than
September 24, 2024.

Board-to-Staff Communication Interim Guidelines
We have developed an interim solution in consultation with GM/CEO Johnson and would like to request that,
effective immediately and until such time as a formal Board-to-staff communication policy can be developed
and adopted, the Board follow these interim communication guidelines:


Board Directors direct all requests for information and all non-legal questions to the Board Office as part
of the Agency Response system. This will also ensure that all Directors receive consistent and accurate
information based on all requests made by Directors.



Board Directors refrain from directly communicating with members of staff other than the following:
o

All Board Directors communicating with:
 The Board Office
 The GM/CEO
 The General Counsel

o

The Chair and Vice Chair of the Finance and Planning Committee communicating with:
 The Chief Financial Officer (CFO)
 Any member of staff designated by the GM/CEO or the CFO

o

The Chair and Vice Chair of the Operations, Safety, and Security Committee communicating with:
 The Assistant General Manager, Bus Operations (AGM Bus Operations)
 Any member of staff designated by the GM/CEO or the AGM Bus Operations

o

The Chair and Vice Chair of the Performance Committee communicating with:
 The Chief People Officer (CPO)
 The Executive Business Partner
 Any member of staff designated by the GM/CEO or the CPO

o

The Chair of the Audit Committee communicating with:
 The Chief Financial Officer
 The outsourced Chief Audit Executive (CAE)
 Any member of staff designated by the GM/CEO for specific issues

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Subject:
Page: 3

o

Members of the Executive Committee communicating with:
 The Government Relations Officer
 Any member of staff designated by the GM/CEO
 External consultants who perform legislative and advocacy work on behalf of the agency
that informs and influences Board policy



All Board-to-staff communications should be conducted via email, phone, video conferencing tools, and
in-person meetings and not via text messaging, social media, or other communication channels.



All Board-to-staff communications should honor the agency-adopted values, specifically, the value of
respect that is defined as: We will demonstrate respect and integrity in our interactions with both our
colleagues and community members.



All Board-to-staff communications should be conducted during non-holiday weekday hours from 8 a.m. 
6 p.m. Mountain Time, unless a matter requires urgent attention. Urgent matters are those that
significantly impact safety, security, or critical operations.

Concluding Remarks
By following these interim guidelines, we can collectively foster more respectful and efficient communication
between the Board and staff.
This will not only support the GM/CEO in leading effectively but also ensure that our interactions align with the
professional standards and values of our agency. We value the contributions of each Board member and look
forward to your active participation in this matter.
Thank you for your urgent attention. Together, we can ensure a positive and productive working relationship with
our staff.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Subject:
Page: 4

Attachment

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Greater Denver Transit
Route 24 - Connections Analysis
40th & Colorado Station - A Line to Route 24
Transfer Time
Crossing Tracks
Walking Distance
Connection Time

0:03
0:01
0:00
0:04
Inbound

A Line
Eastbound
Arrival
3:09
3:54
4:24
4:39
4:54
5:09
5:24
5:39
5:54
6:09
6:24
6:39
6:54
7:09
7:24
7:39
7:54
8:09
8:24
8:39
8:54
9:09
9:24
9:39
9:54
10:09
10:24
10:39
10:54
11:09
11:24
11:39
11:54
12:09
12:24
12:39
12:54
13:09
13:24
13:39
13:54
14:09
14:24
14:39
14:54
15:09
15:24
15:39
15:54
16:09
16:24
16:39
16:54
17:09
17:24

A Line
Westbound
Arrival

4:38
5:08
5:38
5:53
6:08
6:23
6:38
6:53
7:08
7:23
7:38
7:53
8:08
8:23
8:38
8:53
9:08
9:23
9:38
9:53
10:08
10:23
10:38
10:53
11:08
11:23
11:38
11:53
12:08
12:23
12:38
12:53
13:08
13:23
13:38
13:53
14:08
14:23
14:38
14:53
15:08
15:23
15:38
15:53
16:08
16:23
16:38
16:53
17:08
17:23

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Outbound
A Line
Assessed
Arrival
3:09
3:54
4:24
4:39
4:54
5:09
5:24
5:39
5:54
6:09
6:24
6:39
6:54
7:09
7:24
7:39
7:54
8:09
8:24
8:39
8:54
9:09
9:24
9:39
9:54
10:09
10:24
10:39
10:54
11:09
11:24
11:39
11:54
12:09
12:24
12:39
12:54
13:09
13:24
13:39
13:54
14:09
14:24
14:39
14:54
15:09
15:24
15:39
15:54
16:09
16:24
16:39
16:54
17:09
17:24

Route 24
Southbound
Departure
(Current)

Connection
Analysis

Route 24
Southbound
Departure (RTD
Proposed)

Connection
Analysis

Route 24
Southbound
Departure (GDT
Proposed)

Connection
Analysis

5:11

0:02

5:11

0:02

5:13

0:04

6:11

0:02

6:11

0:02

6:13

0:04

7:09

0:00

7:07

MISS

7:13

0:04

7:44

0:05

8:09

0:00

8:07

MISS

8:13

0:04

9:10

0:01

9:08

MISS

9:13

0:04

10:10

0:01

10:08

MISS

10:13

0:04

11:10

0:01

11:08

MISS

11:13

0:04

12:10

0:01

12:06

MISS

12:13

0:04

13:10

0:01

13:06

MISS

13:13

0:04

14:10

0:01

14:06

MISS

14:13

0:04

15:08

MISS

15:02

0:08

15:13

0:04

16:08

MISS

16:02

0:08

16:13

0:04

17:06

MISS

17:00

0:06

17:13

0:04

Page 1

Greater Denver Transit
Route 24 - Connections Analysis
40th & Colorado Station - A Line to Route 24
Transfer Time
Crossing Tracks
Walking Distance
Connection Time

0:03
0:01
0:00
0:04
Inbound

Outbound

A Line
Eastbound
Arrival

A Line
Westbound
Arrival

A Line
Assessed
Arrival

17:39
17:54
18:09
18:24
18:39

17:38
17:53
18:08
18:23
18:38
18:53
19:08
19:23
19:38
19:53

17:39
17:54
18:09
18:24
18:39
18:53
19:09
19:23
19:39
19:53
20:09
20:23
20:39
20:53
21:09
21:23
21:39
21:53
22:09
22:23
22:39
22:53
23:09
23:23
23:39
23:53
0:09
0:23
0:39
0:53
1:23
1:53

19:09
19:39
20:09
20:39
21:09
21:39
22:09
22:39
23:09
23:39
0:09
0:39

20:23
20:53
21:23
21:53
22:23
22:53
23:23
23:53
0:23
0:53
1:23
1:53

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Route 24
Southbound
Departure
(Current)

Connection
Analysis

Route 24
Southbound
Departure (RTD
Proposed)

Connection
Analysis

Route 24
Southbound
Departure (GDT
Proposed)

Connection
Analysis

18:11

0:02

18:09

0:00

18:13

0:04

19:11

0:02

19:09

0:00

19:13

0:04

Page 2

ROUTE 24N  N. University Blvd.
Proposed Alignment

Connect

What is the current service?

 Route 24 operates between the 40th & Colorado A Line Station
and the C-470 South University Park-n-Ride
 Weekday headways are hourly

What is proposed?

 Truncate Route 24 at Hamden Ave. to im prove service

reliability and size service to dem and

 Route 24S continues service south of Hamden Ave. from
University of Denver Station with overlapping service to Hampden
Ave
 Proposed headways are 30 minutes daily with 15-minute
headways between University of Denver Station and Hampden
Ave. to im prove service frequency

Proposed Service Plan
Route 24N - N University Blvd

40th & CO Stn / Univ/Hampden via Univ of Den Stn
Service Class: Connect

Span of Service

Core Network Connections:







A Line, Route 40 at 40th & Colorado Station

E, H Lines at University of Denver Station
Routes 15, 15L at Colfax Ave
Routes 83D/L at E. 1st Ave.
Route 21E at E. Evans Ave.

Peak

Service Levels (m inutes)
Midday
Evening
Late

Weekdays:

5:00 am

12:00 am

30

30

30

60

Saturday:
Sunday:

6:00 am
7:00 am

9:00 pm
9:00 pm

60
60

60
60

60
60

60
60

15

From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:

Greater Denver Transit <greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com>
Wednesday, May 29, 2024 1:36 PM
RTD Board Office; Jack Kroll; Tai-Shrae Parish
Debra Johnson; RTD General Manager
RTD Board Meeting Public Comment - Letter - 29th May 2024
20240529_RTD_Board_Letter_Materials.pdf

Follow Up Flag:
Flag Status:

Follow up
Completed

Categories:

Red category

Good afternoon Jack / Tai-Shrae,
Please include the attached letter and materials in the transcript / minutes (as appropriate) for tomorrow
night's RTD Board meeting. It is submitted as public comment.
As part of the materials, we'd like to provide a link for Directors to download the Group 33 Fixed Route
Bus Services Contract Request for Proposals document. Don't worry, there's no need to print this
document off tonight or include it in the minutes - but please note somewhere that we provided a link.
"Group 33" RFP link:
https_;/Lwww____,__gr_eatfil_denvertransit ._com/wp-content/uploads/RFP_124FF001_final.pdf
Best wishes,
Richard Bamber
(For and behalf of Greater Denver Transit)
(303) 803-3898
greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com
www.greaterdenvertransit.com

1

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Katie Ab raham
Wednesday, May 29, 2024 3:58 PM
RTD Board Office
Customer comment for tonight's 5/29 board meeting

To whom it may concern:
Please read this comment during tonight's board meeting if you can
add emailed comments. If not, please respond to the email when it is
convenient.
I am a customer who is unable to drive due to a vision impairment,
and I commute from Lincoln Station to Colorado and Mississippi to
work at a law firm. I am greatly affected by the 1-hour reduction in the
light rail schedules. While I understand the need for the
extensive construction project, I want to acknowledge the burden of
time and emotional stress it causes riders unable to drive.
Additionally, I have heard that people have stopped riding RTD due to
this construction if they have another transportation option.
How will you instill confidence in the RTD system and encourage
riders to resume using the service after completing the construction
project? If ridership falls drastically due to this construction and does
not increase once the project is done, this could impact revenue and
the ability to provide services to individuals with disabilities and
others unable to drive.
Sincerely,
Katie Abraham
1

