Oct 2 2018 0530 PM
Planning/Capital Programs/FasTracks Committee
JULY LUBOW: --three updates and an Executive Session with two items. So I would urge us all
to do what they say in the New York City subway, step lively, ladies and gentlemen, step lively.
OK.
So first we're going to do recommended actions. And I'm going to read it and then ask for a
motion. The first recommended action is for contract award to RockSol Consulting Group, Inc.
It is recommended by the Planning, Capital Programs, and FasTracks Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a work-order contract to
RockSol Consulting Group, Inc, in the not to exceed amount of $5 million for on-call
construction materials, testing, and inspection services.
This is a multi-year contract for four years, with four, one-year options to extend the period of
performance. Funding for the initial tasks is included in the 2018 amended budget. Funding for
future tasks will be included in the budgets for the projects where these services will be utilized.
This recommended action addresses the General Manager's 2018 goal task goal three, asset
management state of good repair. Do I have a motion? That's Solano. And who's the seconder?
OK. OK, can we have a presentation please?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Good afternoon. This is Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General
Manager (AGM) of Capital Programs. We're not going to give a formal presentation. I've got
with me Kevin Diviness, who is the Director of Quality Assurance for RTD.
And this is a contract that he has for managing, a different contractor for this go-around, but the
same contract for being in the fast tracks. So this is FasTrack's and Base System support. And
it'll be used pretty much as a work-order contract. But I'm going to turn it over to Kevin and have
him talk about it.
KEVIN DIVINESS: Thank you, Henry. Again, this is Kevin Diviness, Director of Quality
Assurance. We have been doing this for many years. We test concrete, soils, and welds, and all
the things that go into constructing our projects.
The contractor we've been using for that, their contract is coming to a close. We needed to
procure the services of a new company. And so we undertook that this summer. Received seven
good proposals, made of best-value selection, and we chose RockSol.
The criteria and the strengths of this proposer, as well as other information, is included in the
report. I'm happy to answer questions about that. I would like to introduce their Project Manager,
who is in the audience tonight, Mr. Abe Lavassani.

ABE LAVASSANI: [INAUDIBLE] I will be in charge of this contract from now on.
KEVIN DIVINESS: Thank you, Abe.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you.
KEVIN DIVINESS: So with that, I'm happy to answer any questions.
JULY LUBOW: OK, so far, Director Folska is the only commenter.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lubow. I'm sorry, is your name Ken?
KEVIN DIVINESS: Kevin.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Kevin, thank you. Kevin, could you please remind us what best value
means?
KEVIN DIVINESS: So this is, under the architecture and engineering guidelines for
procurement, we select them strictly on how well they met the criteria without respect to price. I
will say, though, that they gave us a price proposal that was sealed until after we made a
selection, and we compared their price proposal to our independent cost estimate to make sure it
was in line with what we estimated the services ought to be.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And it seems to me, if I remember, when we did the best value thing with
somebody else that whatever that number was they gave us, if they had a mistake, or they had a
change order, or something that would come up, that we weren't going to be liable for it, that all
those extra things that maybe in oversight, they didn't add into their overall cost estimate, that's
on them, not us, is that right?
KEVIN DIVINESS: I think this is probably a little simpler than that. The services are very well
defined as to what we're asking them to do. We're not asking them to build anything. We're not
asking them to design anything. We're asking them to go out and collect a sample of concrete
and take it to their lab and break it.
So it's really more like a time and materials type contract. The technicians that perform this work
are all certified. The labs where this work is performed are all accredited. So the credentials that
take place for this type of work ensures a level of professionalism that they go out and they
follow a test standard.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So what if all of a sudden the price of steel or concrete goes up 25%?
KEVIN DIVINESS: They're not procuring any materials.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: They're not, OK.
KEVIN DIVINESS: It's strictly labor.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: All right, thank you. Well, the cost of labor could go up too. Some people
or increase minimum wage like crazy these days.
KEVIN DIVINESS: Well, this is something we would negotiate annually.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Thank you very much.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Broom-BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. When you build a street and the street fails somewhere down
the line, it's typically not the concrete, or the steel, or anything that fails, typically it's the soils
underneath the road that goes bad. Are these soil engineers, or do you use somebody else to do
that when you lay out a new track somewhere?
KEVIN DIVINESS: They will not be doing any design work.
BOB BROOM: I'm not asking about design.
KEVIN DIVINESS: But the design is what you're talking about that fails underneath it.
BOB BROOM: The soils are bad and need to be taken out and replaced, for example.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: They don't just do concrete, they do soils testing too. So they are our
eyes and ears out on site. So they will check all the materials used for our construction projects.
KEVIN DIVINESS: But I also want to differentiate between the design. Because if we're
building something, a geotechnical engineer or other engineers will be designing it. They are not
doing the design, they are testing the end materials.
BOB BROOM: The materials that are used in the project. Thank you.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Lubow. Having worked with Kevin for a number of years
on quality for the T-Rex project, I trust his judgment on this particular procurement. And I also
understand the scope of the services. But I also wanted to say that you had a lot of good
competitive proposals.
KEVIN DIVINESS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Which is really nice to see. And I know that you selected a good firm with a
lot of good people. But I was really pleased to see the quality of proposals that you did receive.
KEVIN DIVINESS: There's still a lot of people that want to work for us.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's a good thing, so thank you.

JULY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Sisk, please.
CHARLES SISK: Thank you, Chair Lubow. Kevin and Henry, at some point, could you provide
us with a-- this is a five-year contract, and seemingly, I'm thinking in terms of '20, and '22, and
'23, what kind of construction projects are we anticipating then? And I'd like to see how this lays
out, just in terms of the mathematics. Not going to be my issue, per se. But it'll be someone
else's. So could we just get that information in terms of how this is aligned?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I think we can put something together for you. The bottom line is
yes. But it's not just the FasTracks , it's the Base System, state of good repair. So if we're out
replacing a drive lane, we want to check the concrete out. If we're doing work over at District
Shops for Platte and doing concrete pours inside the facilities. So it's not just on new projects.
We do use them for ongoing state of good repair. So we can put together a list for you.
CHARLES SISK: If I may, Chair Lubow.
JULY LUBOW: Yes, please.
CHARLES SISK: Henry, I understand that, in terms of state of good repair and that's so
important. But it seems to me that what I'd like to see is the ratio in terms of the price that we're
looking at. And if we're talking about $200 million in 2019, and we're looking at $100 million in
2023, are those there's going to be in any way comparable. And so I'd like to just see that.
KEVIN DIVINESS: Well, if I could just give you a reference. Our last contractor, Kumar and
Associates we awarded in 2008. And throughout the entire FasTracks program, up through this
year, they just now hit the $5 million mark this year. So the cost of testing is relatively cheap
compared to the cost of the total project. And it's generally about 1 and 1/2 to 2% of the
construction costs.
CHARLES SISK: But you made my point. In 10 years, our contract was with $5 million dollars.
But now, the next five years, we're talking about another $5 million.
KEVIN DIVINESS: Not to exceed.
CHARLES SISK: OK, I get not to exceed. But still it's basically twice as much. I mean, we had
$5 million for 10 years. Now we're asking for $ million for five years.
KEVIN DIVINESS: $5 million for eight years.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yeah, we'll put down, provide you the data-CHARLES SISK: I'm sorry, eight years.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Just because we've got $5 million in there does not mean we spend
the $5 million. So this is a work-order contract, time and material, as Kevin pointed out. But we
can lay something out and show history. So that's probably the best way to do it.

JULY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Just quickly, do we have any other firm who's doing materials
testing for us on the same line?
KEVIN DIVINESS: We currently work with Kumar and Associates. Their contract is ending.
They were one of the teams that bid. They did not get this award. And so we'll phase them out.
They'll finish up what they're currently working on. New work will go to RockSol.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, and there's no others outside of those? Outside of Kumar, outside ofKEVIN DIVINESS: Not working directly for us. They may be working for our contractors.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you very much.
JULY LUBOW: I'm going to ask if Director Williams is still on the phone. And if she is, does
she have comments?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I am still on the phone, but I think that most of
my questions have been answered.
JULY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Well, let's go-KATE WILLIAMS: I will be in favor of the-JULY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lubow. To Director Sisk's question, I'm wondering if
the reason that it's 10 years and now eight years, $5 million, is that because we've expanded our
operations and we just have more things to test, in part?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well a lot of it goes-- going forward, it'll be finishing off the North
Metro and South East Rail Extension (SERE). But we've also got a lot of stake in repair stuff. So
our facilities, I mean, we started in '69, our facilities are 40 years old. Park -n- Rides need a
facelift.
So there's a lot of small projects out there. We threw the $5 million in so we wouldn't have to
come back to the Board and present it again. We don't believe it will hit the the $5 million over
the next eight years. But if we have 119 us Rapid Transit (BRT), for example, comes up, that's
an easy one to slide right into it. They've already got the contract and they're ready to go out and
start testing. So it's a number that we put out there based on past history, not based on we got a
firm number of what it will take to go forward.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.

JULY LUBOW: All right. There's nobody else in the queue. So let's vote on this motion.
Director Solano is the movant and Director Catlin is the seconder.
OK, so there's 13 yes, but also Director Williams votes yes, so it's 14-0. OK, that is the first
recommended action. Let's go to the second one.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Thank you.
JULY LUBOW: Authorization for additional property acquisition for Eagle P3 project. It is
recommended by the Planning, Capital Programs, and Fast Tracks Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying certain additional properties
as necessary for constructed infrastructure on the Eagle P3 Commuter Rail Project and authorize
staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.
Funding for this property acquisition is included in the 2018 Amended Budget for the Eagle
Project. This recommended action is directed towards General Manager's 2018 goal task goal
number one, successful delivery of transit services. Is there a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: Move approval.
SPEAKER: Seconded.
JULY LUBOW: OK. All right. Can we have a presentation please?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes, once again, Henry Stopplecamp, AGM, Capital Programs. I
have Susan Altes, Senior Manager Real Property, with me tonight. We're going to talk about
basically small pieces of properties to be cleaned up for the Eagle Project. I just want to put it on
the table before I turn it over to Susan, we're not looking at acquiring property to build on.
We've already built. So, in some cases, fence, corner foundations. So this is the clean up
exercise. After we had built the corridor, we looked at a little bit closer and found out that there's
a couple locations-- and if you look at the numbers, a 44 square foot take, that's 6 inches over 80
feet. So if the fence is just a little bit off, or drainage, or infrastructure, that's what we're looking
at. So with that, I'd like to turn it over to Susan Altes.
SUSAN ALTES: Thank you, I am Susan Altes, Senior Manager of Real Property, as Henry said.
Towards the end of construction on the Eagle P3 Project, it was recommended that a survey be
done of certain infrastructure that had been built to ensure that it was on property that RTD
owned. And what we found was we moved several fences, which we were able to do on property
that we owned.
But in some very small instances, we have-- our contractor built infrastructure on private
property. And this would be equivalent, basically, of your neighbor putting their fence on your
side of the property line. So it's just a matter of inches. The total number of property to be
acquired from all of these folks that are listed on the information included in that packet is less
than 1,000 square feet.

We intend to acquire permanent easements rather than taking the property in fee. So there will be
no impact to the property owner, to their set backs. The size of their property will remain the
same. We simply will have a permanent easement for the foundation of one of our catenary poles
that may have just crossed the line.
JULY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much. Are there any Directors with comments? Director
Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I would just like to know if somebody was in the process of selling
that property, and because this is the permanent easement, is this going to create any financial
harm or extra money out of their pocket in that situation, or something similar to that?
SUSAN ALTES: Absolutely not, just the opposite. We have had one entity that was trying to sell
their property with an encroachment of RTD's infrastructure on their property. That is the
problem. So that's why we want to go take care of this, pay the folks what they deserve for the
easement that our infrastructure's on their property. But it will not affect them financially. And
that they will be given consideration for the easement based on our value findings.
NATALIE MENTEN: They will be made whole. Yes?
SUSAN ALTES: They will receive just compensation, based on the value finding.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, all right, thank you.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you. I've got a question to ask. This is Chair Lubow. It just kind of
seems-- why wasn't the survey done before? And it will all be purchased at one time, instead of
in two?
SUSAN ALTES: There was a survey done before. And just sometimes on the ground, during the
building of a project, they're not out there with a surveyor every inch of the way. This happens.
Down at Denver Union Station, we have had to do some reconciliation of property lines, where
we actually built the bus barn a little bit on someone else's property down there.
And someone else built a little bit on our property. So these things happen. With large
construction projects there's not a surveyor walking along with the construction crew every day.
So a little bit of concrete gets poured outside a line.
JULY LUBOW: But I guess, not being in the construction industry, I'm thinking, well, you
would think that they would know where the line was so that they wouldn't pour extra concrete
that it would go outside the line.
SUSAN ALTES: Well, I think that the interesting thing is these are so small, even these property
owners have not realized that something is on their property.
JULY LUBOW: OK, so this is typical in big projects?

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: It's not desirable, but it does happen. And so, for example, you put
the line out, you survey it in there, and somebody goes through and does the grading, and the
grade a little bit outside the line. You just lost the marker. Everybody thinks they know where
the line is, and they continue going forward.
So there's several places along this corridor that went outside, that we've pulled our infrastructure
back in. It's really easy for a fencing contractor to mark one end, and the other end, and draw a
straight line between it. And then find out afterwards, there's a little jog in there.
Those are things that we have found. And this is relatively minor compared to some of the
projects we've worked with. And it's not always us asking for forgiveness, a little bit of property,
there's a lot of times it's coming to us doing the same thing.
It's very hard to build on a zero lot line. And two surveyors may have two different lines. So as
Susan pointed out, most of these, you can't tell with your naked eye that we encroach on
somebody's property. And so it does happen, unfortunately. But we want to make them whole.
And so we're going back, and we'd like to pay him for a permanent easement for the property
they lost.
JULY LUBOW: Do you have any idea of a range, of how much money we're talking about?
SUSAN ALTES: I believe each one of these will be less than $5,000.
JULY LUBOW: OK, all right, thank you very much. I've taken a lot of time. Director Folska,
please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you Chair Lubow. Henry, you said it was our contractor that made
the mistake. Who is that contractor?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That will be Denver Transit Partners.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And why aren't they being responsible for this cost?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: They will be responsible for this cost.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Sisk, please.
CHARLES SISK: Chair Lubow and Director Folska, you've asked the questions I wanted to ask,
so thank you.
JULY LUBOW: OK, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I also got my question answered. I think that we should do this. As Henry
said, I think we should make it right.

JULY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much. There's nobody else in line. So let's go to a vote. The
movant is Director Anderson and the seconder is Director Archuleta.
OK, that's 13 yes, no, zero, and zero people with no. And Director Williams is also a yes. So
that's 14. So that has passed.
OK, the third recommended action is the construction award for RFP 18-DB-001. It is
recommended by the Planning, Capital Program, and Fast Tracks Committee that the Board of
Directors authorized the general manager or his designee to award a contract to AutoAuto Wash,
LLC, in the amount not to exceed of $841,111.41 for the Boulder Bus Wash Replacement
Project.
Funding for this contract is included in the 2018 Amended Budget. This recommended action is
directed towards General Manager's 2018 goal task goal three, asset management, state of good
repair.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
BOB BROOM: Second.
JULY LUBOW: OK, so its Director Folska and Broom. All right, please.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: OK, once again, Henry Stopplecamp, AGM Capital Programs. And I
have with me Robin McIntosh, Senior Manager of Facilities Engineering in Facilities. And we
are coming to the Board for an award of a contract. And I'll turn it over to Robin in just a second.
But this is a project that's been at the SPP, approved by the Board. It's a project that is really in
need of an upgrade. So the Bus Facility at Boulder has seen better days. And this is part of the
state of good repair. So we're attacking the Bus Wash Facility, which has been there over 20
years. So with that, Robin-ROBIN MCINTOSH: Yes, this is Robin McIntosh. Thank you very much for this opportunity. I
don't have a whole lot to say about this, other than it kind of speaks for itself. We did the East
Metro Bus Wash back in, I believe, 2001, 2000, somewhere in there.
We are currently, or we just finished up, the Platte Bus Wash and now we're ready for Boulder.
So this is right in line. It came in, amazingly, underneath our estimate. We're very excited about
it. As you can see, it was about $300,000 underneath the next bidder. So we're very confident
that this is going to be a good value for RTD. And we're looking for your support. Any
questions? Glad to answer questions.
MIKE VELLA: I'm here to speak and represent AutoAuto Wash. There's two bus lines. We will
be working on [INAUDIBLE].
JULY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much. Do any of the Directors have any comments?
There's Director Solano.

PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairwoman Lubow. What did the gentleman just state? I couldn't
hear him.
MIKE VELLA: There's a total of two bus lines that we will be-JULY LUBOW: OK.
PAUL SOLANO: Can you speak on the microphone please?
MIKE VELLA: Thank you, Board, sorry, thank you Board. I'm Mike Vella. I'm the Equipment
Sales Manager for AutoAuto Wash.
JULY LUBOW: Excuse me, our presentations are done by our staff people.
MIKE VELLA: OK. I just wanted to-PAUL SOLANO: It's inappropriate.
MIKE VELLA: Then that's fine.
JULY LUBOW: But thank you. OK.
PAUL SOLANO: I apologize.
JULY LUBOW: Yeah, do you have anything to add, based on-HENRY STOPPLECAMP: No, I mean, the project is replacing the existing Bus Wash Facility of
Boulder. Spare parts have been a nightmare, trying to find replacements. It is holding together.
As the gentleman pointed out, it is two bus lanes. But it's the exact same bus facility that we're
upgrading and taking it is a rebuild.
JULY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Director Williams, do you have any comments?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, thank you, Madam Chair, I'm good to go on this.
JULY LUBOW: And this is going to be a yes on your part?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, I would like to see this moves forward also. I think these things we
need to do to maintain our state of good repair.
JULY LUBOW: OK, can we go to vote please? Director Folska is the movant and Director
Broom is the seconder. OK, this is also 14-0. So this motion passes.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Thank you.

JULY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to recommended-- excuse me-to our updates. And the first one is Mobility Choice Blueprint.
BILL VAN METER: Good evening, this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of
Planning, Brian Welch, Senior Manager of Planning Technical Services is joining me. We're
going to give you a very quick update, as we have done most meetings this year, regarding the
progress on the Mobility Choice Blueprint. And Brian's taking us to some of the key highlights
so we can move through this quickly. The full package and presentation was included in your
package. Brian-BRIAN WELCH: Good evening, members of the Board, I'm Brian Welch, Senior Manager for
Planning and Technical Services. Just to check in and give you an update on where we are with
the Mobility Choice Blueprint, I think this is our third briefing for you. We're in the fourth
quarter now of the project, literally and figuratively. It will be wrapping up by the end of 2018.
And I'm going to jump right in, skip some of the preliminary material that's in your packet, in the
interest of time, tell you where we are and where we're headed. The slide you see before you
describes the four scenarios that we have-- we're going to use to sort of gather together different
types of tactical actions for consideration, also to compare different futures that occur depending
upon what kinds of things happen.
The four here, the first one would be sort of a status quo, if Mobility Choice Blueprint's tactical
actions perhaps weren't implemented or took place, and the current trends in technology were not
purposefully promoted or engaged by public agencies.
The second one, technological overrun, this is sort of the uber-bill scenario, where public
agencies take a complete and total hands-off approach and really let the mobility and technology
kind of run wild. And you can imagine what that might look like.
And then three and four are the ones that we're going to focus on. These are the ones where we
would anticipate actions by our Board, by Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG),
by Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), and by the private sector that would guide
our investments in technology to better provide service now and in the future to our passengers.
So what I'm going to do is just give you some really quick examples tonight to give you a flavor
of what some of these tactical actions are looking like. The wording you see before you is in a
draft form, but it'll kind of give you a sense of the breadth and scope of what the project looks at,
which is a combination of plans, and programs, and projects.
The first one, for example, would establish a new way for the region to be more organized and,
again, bringing everybody together on some of these things. Now, this would be DRCOG in the
lead with other agencies involved.
The next one is actually something that's in the works already. This would be looking at
driverless micro transit. These are that easy mile type vehicles that you're familiar with. Just

another example of how you can get the public more acquainted with some of these technologies,
which in and of itself is a significant step.
Here's another one that's more familiar to us as well that we're also working on very actively,
which is a very big issue that we've been spending quite a bit of time in Mobility Choice
Blueprint, which is it's the whole notion of how we engage with our customers in a much more
comprehensive way to leverage technology that benefits everybody in a whole range of ways.
And you're going to be of course hearing more about this. You've also already heard quite a bit
about it.
Another action would be-- this is going to be expanded to include the term transit priority, which
we think is a key to the future of a congested DRCOG region. Transit priority would include
Queue jumps. It would include transit signal priority. It would include bus bulbs. And perhaps
most significantly, a great expansion in the number of peak hour exclusive bus lanes on busy
corridors within the DRCOG region.
We think this is one of the keys to the bus, fixed route bus, and other bus services becoming
much more competitive, and much more reliable, and much more of a travel time advantage to
travelers. I think we all know that one of our biggest challenges in the future is not technology,
it's just space. And no matter how many cars you try and fit, regardless if they're Uber's, or selfdriving, or traditional ones that we see out there now, there's just not enough space.
So here's one more, electrification we think is part of the future. Now you probably look at that,
and you say, wait a minute, 25% by 2030. Again, these are scenarios that we're going to take a
look at, just to see what some of the implications would be. With the age of our fleet, with the
amount of time it takes to turn over our fleet, some of these, of course, I know are a little bit
ambitious. But once again, we're just trying to take a look at what some of the outcomes could be
from this.
Final one to take a look at, this is something that's going on right now in Minneapolis and St.
Paul, where they have appointed, they have agreed now, it was simpler with two entities, just
Minneapolis and St. Paul. Obviously, we've got 50 something. But they essentially agreed,
Minneapolis and St. Paul, that they would appoint one person in this case who is the exclusive
negotiator for all types of mobility services entering either Minneapolis or St. Paul.
So they treat it more akin to how cities and counties deal with utilities, garbage franchises, cable
franchises, and others. And they say, you bring us your best deal for your scooters or your ebikes, and we're going to cut the best deal we can for our member agencies. So again, it's just
another innovative idea.
So with that, I realize I was speaking rather quickly and moving through them quickly, but I just
wanted to give you an opportunity to ask any questions at this time. Thank you very much.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you. First up is Director Menten.

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, Brian, one of the last meetings that I attended, and I admit I think
I've missed one or two, we had that large table, spreadsheet, is that what evolved into these five,
six options?
BRIAN WELCH: Exactly right, Director Menten. And we're down to-- we've winnowed it down
quite a bit. And what we'll be back with next time we're before the Board, is we're going to get it
down to maybe two or three dozen, and then a subset of those, that we all agree are our maybe
top 10 or 15 tactical actions.
So we have made a lot of progress in going from 100 and something. We keep winnowing it
down in a cooperative spirit among the three agencies and the private sector that are involved. So
we are moving forward exactly as you anticipated.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, well, there were some strange ideas in that first sheet. So I think
some of them, I still see here. I'll just-- don't know how to head off without going into a bunch of
specifics, we don't have the time to do it tonight. But if I see government stepping in where they
don't belong, which would be things like telling somebody, a bar, you can't have a bicycle
sharing program because we need to do it, then I'll revolt. So essentially-- OK.
And then I don't get the electricity thing at all. So you can get back with me later on that one. But
what does that have to do at all with moving people faster? And you're right, it's about time, it's
about space. If we think about Wadsworth, Kipling, corridors within my area, the amount of
property takings we would need to really put in that express lane, it's a substantial change.
So I hope I expressed to you my concerns, which you've probably heard before, that I don't think
government is the solution to all of our ills.
BRIAN WELCH: And I will follow up with you. We can discuss both fleet electrification and
then the whole battery electric philosophy and how it would or would not fall into this
technology and mobility.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, and thanks for accepting my blunt statements.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Anderson, please.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you. You know this is very, very exciting. The American
Public Transportation Association (APTA) Board of Directors, and the APTA Transit Board
Members group, everyone is looking at this nationwide. And this is a very exciting time. Because
it's not whether government does it, or who does it, it's how we all work together to do efficient
transportation planning and give people the ability to move without a single occupant vehicle.
So it's exciting. The only regret I have about term limits is that the next eight years are going to
be absolutely crucial in how we efficiently move people. So I'm looking forward to it. And
Denver, and DRCOG, and RTD and CDOT, and all the people that are working on this are right
on top of it. So I think it is really exciting. So, thank you.

BRIAN WELCH: You're welcome. I forgot to mention that the HDR project manager, Rick
Pilgrim is here in the audience tonight as well. So he's taking in all these comments.
JULY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much. Director Milhalik, please.
KEN MILHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thanks, Brian, for that update. I think it's beyond
the scope of Mobility Choice, but I think just as important to the future is going to be evaluating
how to shift or smooth the demand for peak traffic. And that's constructs like 40-hour work
weeks.
I think the percentage of people that telecommute has not moved in 30 years, even though we've
got 5G just around the corner. In fact, they're installing it in Denver now. So I just want to throw
that out there. Thanks.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lubow. Thank you, Brian, that was an excellent
presentation. I really enjoyed it. And to me, this is incredibly exciting. And what I would like to
know is what are you going to do about helping people that can't see or otherwise permanently
transit dependent to have access to these types of mobility choices?
BRIAN WELCH: One of the themes of Mobility Choice, and we picked this up at the very
beginning, was to ensure that the mobility options that are recommended address those very
issues, that we're not interested in mobility options that would benefit only the well-to-do, only
the people who have the most choices.
But, in fact, we're going to be including tactical actions that are specifically intended to address
the unique mobility needs of those who, for one reason or another, don't want to drive or cannot
drive their cars by themselves, or they have other mobility challenges.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Excuse me, Brian, let me just stop you. Let me clarify my question a little
more. Because this Isn't about affluence, right? Like Stevie Wonder's probably not poor, but he's
blind. So what sort of situation can you imagine, and you may not know it now, I doubt it, that a
person, regardless of their economic status, without vision, can utilize these driverless vehicles.
BRIAN WELCH: One of the tactical actions that I was just reviewing today along with RTD
staff, would look at the whole notion of not just what's known as door to door, either micro
transit, but in fact through the door micro transit. So you specifically have-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That would be me going through the door.
BRIAN WELCH: And it would be oriented specifically towards people who don't have the
economic means to have a personal assistant, a personal driver. So the strategy, the tactical
action, in fact, would be to develop ways, whether it's RTD, whether it's human service
providers, whether it's non-governmental organizations, or the private sector, to figure out how
we can have lower-income people, who may have disabilities of some type, get them to where

they need to be in a much more innovative and creative way, not just as, I said, the door to door,
but all the way through the door.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, and let me say this again, because I don't think we're on the same
line. I don't care about money, let's say. I have all the money in the world. I'm blind and I want to
drive my own car with nobody else in it. Can you do that for me?
- Sure.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It's a serious question, Brian.
BRIAN WELCH: Someday.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It's not part of this mix. I mean, because I can't get excited over this. This
isn't something that's for me. It's not the money, you know.
BRIAN WELCH: I understand.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I mean, we don't allow blind people to ride in a driverless car alone.
BRIAN WELCH: We don't anticipate by the 2030 horizon year for Mobility Choice Blueprint
that the level five, which is the fully autonomous vehicle that can go anywhere under any
condition, without any intervention from a human operator, will be in sufficient demand to be a
significant part of the future.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I just got a brilliant idea. OK, you could partner with Google. You
probably know this. Google has Google glasses for blind people. And then you can look at stuff
and then somebody can see what you're looking at, like in another country, and tell you what
you're looking at. They do that. You could partner with them. They're in Boulder.
BRIAN WELCH: Thank you, Director.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's it, thank you.
JULY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Director Sisk, please.
CHARLES SISK: Thank you, Chair Lubow. I want to be short, but blunt. I want to be clear that
there are 15 of us on this Board. And Director Menten does not speak for me. I like what's going
on. I appreciate what's going on, and I support it totally. And I think that's something that you
need to hear, because there are those of us that may be silent.
I'd be happy to see a vote of the Board as to the direction that we're taking. I don't think we have
to do that. But I like electrification. I like the fact that there is government involvement, not
government control. So count me, as blunt as Director Menten, and I respect her a great deal,
politically we just disagree on this. And that's the end of that deal.

JULY LUBOW: Well, thank you, Director Sisk. Director Williams-KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I have one comment. And it's something that I found interesting.
You've got some tactical projects, like that 25% electrification. And I am just wondering if
before they're finalized if the Board could get a heads up, so we could give some comments
about if we like them, didn't like some, thought they made sense, thought they didn't make sense?
BRIAN WELCH: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, thank you, good. Thank you very much. So there are additional
comments now. Director Hoy-LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chairwoman Lubow. So I'll probably stay out of the Menten-Sisk
controversy here, but I do want to make more of a comment than a question. And I remember
back a year ago or more, that Mobility Choice was a big controversy on this Board. And I think
all of us, to some degree, had our pluses and minuses, and should we or shouldn't we.
And I guess my comment would be this. I think I'm going to see a lot of good things coming out
of this. And if nothing else, it might be cooperation, not control between our governments and
our private industry. Because they're a partner too in this. And I like to see the cooperation.
I like to see those four entities sitting down at the same table. I like autonomous vehicles. And I
think that for Director Folska, yeah I think in your lifetime, you will be able to drive an
autonomous car. That's Larry's prediction.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
LARRY HOY: But I just think that'll happen. I know that RTD is involved in some of those
things directly. And I'm excited about this. And I'm disappointed, as perhaps Director Anderson
is, is that we'll be looking at this from afar after the end of this year. But I think I'm happy about
this at this point. Thank you.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Lubow. I really like a lot of the tactical action. But I'm
particularly interested in the effort to ensure interoperability among regional stakeholders. And
I've been involved in an interoperability in the region more with regard to pricing and tolling, but
I really do like integrating that and becoming interoperable.
And I'm also quite anxious to see what pilot projects are proposed for the driverless micro transit
options, and would particularly make a plea for looking at some of those in some of the more
less dense populations and less served areas, where some of those would be more applicable.
Thank you.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Solano, please.

PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairman Lubow. I think what you present here with Mobility
Choice is pretty exciting, and it's innovative, and it looks like you've done with the Mobility
Choice, the planning, the staffing, directing, coordinating, reporting. The one thing I would be
concerned about is the budgeting. Where's the money going to come from? I mean, really? P3s,
private only, government only? I mean, to me that's going to be the big piece of the puzzle. Can
you comment to that?
BRIAN WELCH: The report will include for each of the tactical actions cost ranges that reflect
both the one-time cost of a particular tactical action, as well as the annual cost. That's definitely
because I think when you look at a tactical action, you're going to want to know, is this a million
dollars, is it $10 million, is it $100,000?
We can't pin that down, but we will be giving you orders of magnitude for consideration, and as
well as there will be an extensive discussion in the report of likely funding sources and
opportunities as well. So it's part of the deliverables that are going to come before the Board.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. To Director Solano's point, which I agree with and respect, it's
my hope and my vision that in doing this with cooperation from the various agencies, that it will
result in cost savings, not only for RTD, but cost savings for the other entities, because you're
going to be leveraging that which each agency does best. And so I personally see this as an
opportunity to maybe not just add on costs to the RTD budget, but in the-- using the term
efficiency, seriously make it cost effective as well.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I just hope that-- thank you, Chair Lubow-- that you're also reaching out
to the geniuses at universities around the area, in particular in Boulder, the Lifelong Learning
and Design Center would be very useful for you, I think, if you haven't already done so. That's
all.
BRIAN WELCH: Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you for the second one. So I will just go back to then the example
of example tactical action three, talking about a universal mobility app for planning and trip
payment. I think, personally, one of the things that still shocks me, but I can understand, the
amount that software and programming costs, very, very, very big ticket items. And think of the
newspaper article that I read a couple of weeks ago, where I believe Lyft is funding something
that's right along this line and integrating public transit into it.
So this is where my angst comes from, is why do I kind of get the feeling I'm reading here
government's going to go start from scratch and create their system. That's where I get a little bit

anxious about things. If the public sector is going to take it on, we're invited in, which is what the
article indicated to me. Maybe I'm just sharing my pent up feelings. Thanks.
JULY LUBOW: Any comment?
[INAUDIBLE]
JULY LUBOW: OK, all right, well, thank you for this very interesting conversation. Let's go to
our next update. And that is the First and Last Mile Project.
BILL VAN METER: Chair Lubow and Board, Paul DesRocher will be joining us for a similarly
short, succinct summary of the First and Last Mile Study, which kicked off early this year and is
progressing, nearing the finish line. And so wanted to highlight some of the key findings and
progress in that study.
PAUL DESROCHER: Thank you, Mr. Van Meter, and thank you to the Board of Directors for
this opportunity to give you a very brief update this evening on the First and Last Mile Project. I
don't know that we are cued up on the presentation.
JULY LUBOW: It doesn't look like it.
PAUL DESROCHER: So again, my name is Paul DesRocher, the Manager of Planning
Coordination for the Regional Transportation District. I'll jump back to our beginning of the
project, which is essentially to make RTD more accessible, to more people, more of the time. It's
really our guiding purpose throughout this study, in terms of providing better access to RTD
services.
This is our project schedule. We're still on schedule. We have been focusing on developing this
toolbox of solutions, as well as the station and typology recommendations, which I'll go into here
shortly. As you may recall, back in June I gave you all an update on the selection of 15
representative stations, which took into account different typologies that said we were going to
focus on for this study.
And again, those typologies that we said we were going to focus on our urban stations, mixed
suburban stations, so a mix of both residential and jobs, and then residential suburban stations.
So when we got that information back from the Board, we really wanted to apply an analysis
process to this.
And so what we've been up to for the last few months is making data requests to the local
governments that those 15 representative stations exist within, as well as doing field visits to
have more of an experiential understanding about what it's like to be on the ground at those
stations, as well as near those stations.
And some additional analysis themes that I'll go into, with using Arapahoe Village Center as an
example. So the map that you were provided in your packet is an analysis of active transportation

corridors. And so in coordination with the local government, in this case it was Greenwood
Village, we identified two priority corridors.
And again, this was in coordination with the local government planners and staff there to identify
two corridors that had a focus on connecting both residents and jobs to the station, as well as a
focus on providing low-stress corridors. So those are corridors where if you're on a bike or you're
walking, you're not going to feel terrific rushing by you at 50 miles an hour, but rather a
protected type of environment, which is going to incentivize people to take those more active
transportation modes.
We also looked at existing transportation demand management programs. That would include
things like providing subsidies to eco pass programs, as well as existing travel patterns and
demographics, and shared mobility, such as car share.
We also looked at things like curbside management and parking. Of course, the RTD has a
facility at Arapahoe at Village Center Station, which is, at this point, about 60% occupied. So
understanding the trends of different parking facilities is very important to understanding what
options people feel they have available to them.
And then understanding what ownership of land is very important as well. You may notice, just
to the left or the west of our existing parking garage, where that pie chart is, is a piece of
property that's owned by Greenwood Village. And this is important to understand, because that
parcel is currently used for parking by RTD customers. However, it might not be forever. And so
these kinds of things are important for us to understand, again, in that parking context.
So some of the recommendations, this is kind of the juicy, sweet spot that I think a lot of people
want to get to. But again, keeping it brief, we want to focus on these five really thematic
recommendations. Programmatic things, as I mentioned eco pass provision, and really the
marketing and promotion of those tools, very important to First and Last Mile connectivity, as
well as improvements and reuse of existing infrastructure.
So something like our kiss and ride service, or perhaps an existing transit gate, can potentially be
repurposed to something like an Uber or a Lyft drop-off area. So looking at those types of things,
as well as implementing new and innovative transportation services like you just heard from Mr.
Welch in the previous presentation.
The thing that we've really been focused on for the last few months is really getting stakeholder
and public feedback to the study. And as you can imagine, it's not the easiest topic to really
engage people about, how they get to the station. It's one of a variety of factors that people use to
determine whether or not they're going to use transit or not.
However, I think we've done a pretty good job of it. I actually have Lisa Trujillo, I think, was
here earlier this evening-- there she is. She has been an incredible help to us in terms of getting
the word out, both through social media, as well as some of these partnering events that I'll go
through.

We had five pop-up events at the stations that you'll see there. We engaged hundreds if not
thousands of passengers coming onto and off of our RTD transit vehicles, getting invaluable
feedback, really using this online comments map. And this is a tool that we've developed, that
people can zoom in on a map, as you'll note on the right-hand portion of that slide, and identify
specific trouble areas that they might have in accessing our RTD stations.
And then we also have our online feedback tool. This is something that we have on the RTD
webpage for the First and Last Mile Project. And we've been doing social media posts on this as
well. So again, a hat tip to Lisa Trujillo and the communications team on helping get the word
out about this study. And with that, I'll answer any questions that you have.
JULY LUBOW: OK, Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lubow. Thank you for your presentation. I really
appreciated it. Would you please have Ms. Trujillo contact me this week so I can talk with her
about the legibility and walkability of these areas?
PAUL DESROCHER: Will do.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
JULY LUBOW: OK, I'd like to ask a question. I think that the First and Last Mile issue is an
incredibly important part of the piece of the puzzle in increasing transit ridership. Are there are
any studies that would show that this particular list of tool kits work? So that if we're
recommending them, we can say well, you know, if you do this, and spend this amount of
money, it really should be effective for you?
PAUL DESROCHER: Absolutely. I think that number one, when we first kicked off this study,
we looked at multiple First and Last Mile strategic plans that had been developed at other transit
agencies. So that's number one. Number two, I would say that the recommendations that are
being applied, I don't know that they'll necessarily be formulaic.
So in the sense that you might have X, Y, and Z factors at a station, it's not necessarily going to
be a very specific recommendation that goes along with it. And it really speaks to the importance
of our stakeholder groups. So those local governments that are invited to our planning partners
advisory committee meetings that the Board has been notified about, those local government
partners are going to understand the unique differences that are associated with their jurisdiction.
So I think it's fair to assess that the difference between Boulder and Aurora, there's going to be
different priorities in terms of what First and Last Mile solutions work for those jurisdictions. So
we've really tried to yield to those governments in terms of understanding what their priorities
are and their understanding of their Constituents.
And the reality exists that the First and Last Mile issue exists outside of the RTD boundaries. It
doesn't at the edge of our station area. So again, working with those stakeholders has been
integral to finding solutions that are going to actually work, again, based on their experience.

JULY LUBOW: Thank you. Is there going to be some follow up to determine a year from now if
there's been an improvement in ridership?
PAUL DESROCHER: I will say that this is a study and the implementation of the study is a
second step that we would need to evaluate as an organization. And so in terms of understanding
the effectiveness of these solutions, it's really kind of a little further down the road.
JULY LUBOW: I, for one, would really love to see something that would measure the
effectiveness, because I think it's incredibly important. Go ahead.
PAUL DESROCHER: Yeah, and just to follow up on that. We will identify two pilot projects
out of this project. So there may be some ability to measure the success of those pilots.
JULY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much. Are there any other comments? Apparently not. OK.
Thank you very much. I appreciate that. Our final update is State Highway 119, last but not least.
Here comes Chris Quinn.
BILL VAN METER: All right, I'm trying to do too many things at the same time. Fortunately, I
am not chewing gum. It's Bill Van Meter again. And thank you, Chair Lubow, you recognized
Chris Quinn, Project Manager for State Highway 119 as he was coming up and I was trying to
fiddle with technology.
Now focusing on one topic and group, I am joined by Chris Quinn. The introduction's been made
and he's going to provide a brief update and status report on the State Highway 119 BRT work.
CHRIS QUINN: Good evening, Chris Quinn, the Project Manager for State Highway 119. I'm
lost without my visual cues. The last presentation we provided on 119 was back in the spring. So
what I'll do tonight is try to highlight those items that have changed, just focusing in on a couple
of real high level items that you may have been exposed to before, but I'll go through real
quickly.
First of all, as you may recall, the reason we're doing this whole effort, as this slide indicates, the
last three bullet items, our intent is to complete the environmental review for State Highway 119
for BRT between Longmont and Boulder, and complete preliminary engineering, with the intent
of that being we should be able to put ourselves into a position where we can secure either state
or federal funding.
At the last meeting, we did talk through some of the potential routing or the potential alignments
that the bus services could take between Boulder and Longmont. In your packet, and in each one
of the individual slides, you'll see the part that's highlighted in red on the map illustrates what the
ridership would be.
The ridership for each one of these is the projected ridership for 2040. And I also want to add
that when we were running the model, we were assuming a bus on shoulder type configuration.
And I'll talk more about that in just a moment.

So the configurations that we're looking at for State Highway 119, all of the previous slides, all
of the alignments, do rely on the core of 119 between Boulder and Longmont. And that's where
we would anticipate the most significant capital investment. We've been working very closely
with the local stakeholders, Boulder, Boulder County, and Longmont, as well as CDOT, since
obviously it is their facility.
And the three configurations that we're looking at to help transit in the corridor are bus on
shoulder, which would work very similar to what is out there on US 36 right now. If there is
congestion, the bus operator, at his or her discretion, would have the ability to bypass the
congestion by going onto the shoulder.
The limitations would be the same as on US 36, in that the maximum speed limit would be 35
miles per hour for the operator and they wouldn't be able to go any faster than approximately 15
miles an hour over whatever the speed of the traffic is in the general purpose lanes.
The next configuration we're looking at is sort of similar, but it would be bus queue jumps or
bypass lanes at the most congested intersections. Given some of the congestion that's projected
for State Highway 119, some of these lanes would actually be pretty long, and in some instances,
like at State Highway-- or excuse me, I believe it's 63rd, we anticipate that the lane might have to
be almost a mile long to bypass the congestion. But again, it would give transit the opportunity to
bypass the congestion that the general purpose traffic is subject to.
Then lastly, also similar to US 36, we're looking at the possibility of whether or not a managed
lane could be implemented. And here again, this would work similar to 36, in that the lane would
be open to HOV users, toll-paying autos, and then, obviously, buses as well.
So the intent is, if it were tolled that could provide some revenue for CDOT, and that would also
help, potentially, with the funding of the lanes. Again, similar to US 36, the intent would be to
keep the lanes always moving, based on the toll rates, so that the bus would have essentially freeflow conditions to get through the corridor.
As far as our schedule, we do have a few unknowns, one of the biggest being what happens with
the election, with Proposition 110, this fall. So that could greatly determine how much or little
money could be available for the corridor. But the intent is, regardless of what happens with that,
is that we would probably wind up our efforts and have a locally preferred alternative and the
environmental clearance by first quarter of this next year. And with that, I'd be happy to try to
address any questions you have.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. What do the traffic counts on 119 look like compared to the
traffic counts on the Boulder turnpike?
CHRIS QUINN: I don't know the traffic counts on the Boulder turnpike right now. One of the
unique things-- so, I'm not going to answer the question, but mention one of the differences-- is

the fact that both facilities, prior-- well, US 36 prior to the reconstruction was also two lanes in
each direction, just like 119.
One of the big differences, though, is, of course, that 119 does have signalized intersections
between both Boulder and Longmont. So that-- even if the traffic counts are the same, the
congestion levels are going to be higher, given the backups at those crossings.
BOB BROOM: I guess the reason I'm asking is, I'm wondering about the revenue potential, if
there's that much traffic that would use that inside lane if it were built, to make it economically
feasible for CDOT to do it.
CHRIS QUINN: The initial model runs that we have, and we're still trying to polish the results to
make sure that they really are in keeping with what would likely be reality, are indicating quite a
bit of demand for the lanes. But one of the unique things about the facility, as I just mentioned,
of course, is that there are signalized intersections and there aren't any examples of managed
lanes that do have that type set up.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you, Director Solano, please.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairwoman Lubow. There's a big push in northeast and
northwest Adams County for development of Highway 7. And in your opinion, is it possible in
the near future to see development of Highway 7 as a major corridor for maybe BRT or other
types of transportation?
CHRIS QUINN: The stakeholders, as you may be aware, Boulder, a configuration of counties,
Boulder, Broomfield, and Adams County have submitted a Transportation Improvement
Program (TIP) application to do exactly what we're doing on 119 for State Highway 7. So I don't
want to speculate on what the chances of that are, but there is definitely an effort underway to
make that happen.
PAUL SOLANO: OK, but-- can I add?
JULY LUBOW: Yeah.
PAUL SOLANO: But we'll likely see a 119 development first?
CHRIS QUINN: Right now, of the BRT corridors that are in the DRCOG regional transportation
plan, just 119 of the ones that are in the north, that's the only one that's in there now.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you.
JULY LUBOW: Thank you, any more comments? I don't believe so. OK, thank you very much,
Chris--

CHRIS QUINN: Thank you.
JULY LUBOW: I appreciate it, yeah. OK, that's it for our regular committee meeting, but now
we're going to be moving into Executive Session. So-[INAUDIBLE]
JUDY LUBOW: Is there other matters?
JULY LUBOW: Oh yeah, are there any other matters? Well, apparently there is. Director
Archuleta.
BONNIE ARCHULETA: I'd just like to give a shout out to Ms. Trujillo. I seen her on TV the
other day, and she did a great job. That's all.
JULY LUBOW: Oh, OK, cool. Thank you. OK, I will now entertain a motion.
We have another speaker.
PAUL SOLANO: I just wanted to add, last night I was watching the Bronco game, and Paula
Tonilas appeared on the screen.
They were shooting a crowd and they had a close-up of her.
JULY LUBOW: Was she playing? OK. OK, I will entertain a motion to move into Executive
Session for the purpose of discussing conference with attorneys and staff-- hello? Hello?
Regarding regional rail partners dispute resolution processes and negotiations and Denver
Transit Partners lawsuit, and that CRS24-6-402(4)(b), conferences with an attorney for the local
public body for the purposes of receiving legal advice on specific legal questions, and CRS24-6402(4)(e)(i), determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations,
developing strategy for negotiations, and instructing negotiators.
Do I have a motion and a seconder? OK, Solano is second, Folska is first. OK, is there a
discussion on this motion? No.
PAUL SOLANO: Five minutes?
JULY LUBOW: We will, we will, after-- excuse me, we're not done. OK, ask the mover and
seconder to place their votes in the e-boardroom. Oh, there we go. OK, so would Director Folska
as the movant and Director Solano as the seconder please press those-- OK. And would
everybody else please vote?
SPEAKER: We haven't moved a second, though.
JULY LUBOW: Oh, she hasn't.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I didn't-- nobody's voted.
JULY LUBOW: OK, we're-- everybody else vote please. OK, it's 12-0, and it has passed. Now,
I'd like to recess for five minutes, and then we'll come back and work on this motion. Thank you.
And a second. OK. All right, so this Executive Session is adjourned. And we will now come
back to order to the committee meeting, which is also adjourned. Thank you.

