1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
May 22, 2014 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Pro Tem Hoy called the meeting to order at 12:03 p.m.

Committee members Absent:
Other Board Members Present:

Chair Pro Tem Hoy, 2nd Vice-Chair James,
Treasurer Tobiassen, Chair Sisk via phone
Director Walker
Directors Bagley and Folska

Others Present:

Dave Genova for GM Washington, Paula Perdue

Committee Members in attendance:

II.

Action Item: Motion to Approve Amended Board Operating Guidelines
Motion:

Discussion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve the
amended Board Operating Guidelines.
Director James seconded the motion.
Chair Sisk (via phone) shared that this was a guideline
that had been previously approved by the Board in
2008. We had added language in here regarding the
use of electronic devices at committee and Board
meetings. We had also solicited feedback from the full
Board and had tried to incorporate salient comments
into this document; however, the goal is to keep it
broad enough that it can represent the diversity of the
Board.
Director Folska indicated she felt it was appropriate to
recognize the contribution of Director Tobiassen to the
successful implementation of the paperless packets.

Director Bagley expressed a concern around making
personal references in the Bylaws and that including
names may be inappropriate. Paula Perdue clarified this
action was a resolution and we have established
precedent for recognizing groups, or individuals for their
efforts in resolutions that are already on the books.
Director Bagley shared his opinion that personal
vendettas have no place in Board or committee
minutes. He had left the meeting to escort two of our
important guests out when the discussion around use
of electronic devices occurred. He feels it should have
been discussed offline.
Chair Sisk indicated he felt the guidelines were
appropriate as stated. He called for the question.
Vote on the Motion: The motion passed with the committee members
present.
Chair Pro Tem Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
III.

May Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Pro Tem Hoy began a review of the agenda for the May 27 Board meeting and
requested an update from GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee Chair
Bagley.
GM Committee Chair Bagley indicated that he will be reporting out for a couple of minutes
before the Board. He indicated that the committee had met on May 20, 2014 to begin the
goal setting for the GM 2015 goals. They had reviewed the 4 task goals which were
established at the joint Board-staff strategic planning advance in March of this year. The
committee feels these goals were well articulated. A follow-up meeting with the General
Manager will be held sometime in early June. This document will be adopted by the full
Board at the July 15 Board meeting for the General Manager’s 2015 goals.
Chair Sisk indicated he will be acknowledging the work of GM Oversight Committee Chair
Bagley and the full committee for their efforts.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve moving
the Board agenda to the Board meeting on May 27,
2014.

Director James seconded the motion.
Vote on the Motion:

The committee voted to approve moving the Board
agenda forward on May 27, 2014.
Chair Pro Tem Hoy declared the motion PASSED.



Unanimous Consent
A. Approval of the 2014 Annual Program Evaluation (APE)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee the Board of Directors
approve the 2014 Annual Program Evaluation (APE).
The APE provides a
comprehensive financial blueprint for all FasTracks capital projects completed,
underway or planned through the year 2019.
B. Approval of August 2014 Service Change
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the August 2014 Service Change package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose
service is impacted by these changes.
C. Longmont fare Buy Up Program
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a
contract with Boulder County to allow the County to buy up fares on all four of the
Longmont local fixed route services, herein referenced as “The 300 series.” Specifically
the 300 series are routes 323, 324, 326 and 327 and complementary Access-a-Ride
services for an initial period of 6 months with options to extend the buy-up period up to
two years.
D. Acceptance of 2013 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports
relating to the year ended December 31, 2013 as prepared by Staff and audited by
the District's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.



Recommended Action
E. Recommendation for Contract Award to Triunity-Hill Joint Venture for the
FasTracks Construction Management Support Consultant Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to the Triunity-Hill Joint
Venture, the most qualified firm based on the application of the evaluation criteria, in
the amount not to exceed $15,150,000 for Construction Management Support
Consulting work for FasTracks for the years 2014-2020. Funds for the award are
contained in the RTD FasTracks capital budget for each project to which they will be
assigned.
F. State Legislative Liaison Services Contract
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement for state legislative liaison
services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a one-year
option (June 30, 2014 through June 29, 2015) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at
a cost of $112,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
G. Resolution No.___, Series of 2014 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates of
Participation
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing
the issuance of Regional Transportation District Certificates of Participation, Series
2014A.
H. Resolution No. ____, Series of 2014 Amended RTD Board Operating Guidelines

IV.

Other Matters


Chair Sisk shared that a contractor doing work on the 16 St Mall project had contacted
some Board members. He perceives this is a staff issue and staff will advise the Board
if necessary. Paula Perdue indicated that Rick Clarke, AGM of Capital Programs, is
preparing a memo to go to the full Board.



Chair Pro Tem Hoy shared that he had met with Marla Lien, general counsel, regarding
his questions about the Certificate of Participation (COP). The COP is a complicated
process with many parts. He encouraged anyone who may have questions about
COPs to discuss with Marla Lien offline.

Director James recommended a reminder be sent to all of the Board members
reinforcing the importance of talking to staff on questions they may have about COPs
prior to the Board meeting.


Chair Sisk indicated that he had also discussed the COP with Marla Lien. He feels it is
important that staff explains the reason why the scope of the area covered under the
COP for North Metro was pared down from 124th to 104th.



Dave Genova, Acting GM, reminded the Board of the DUS Plaque unveiling scheduled
for Tuesday, May 27 at 4:00 p.m. in the DUS bus concourse. Chair Pro Tem Hoy
inquired about the West Corridor plaque dedication and if it followed the same process.
Paula Perdue shared that DUS used the West Corridor as a model with all current Board
members on the plaque and using a notice to proceed date of November, 2010 for the
former Board members.



Director Bagley inquired about the DUSPA plaques and if they will be put up at the
same time. Dave Genova explained that they had about three plaques that are under
discussion. We have provided the process to them for submitting their request. This
is an ongoing discussion.



Director Bagley commented about the importance of the collaborative effort between
CDOT, City of Denver and DRCOG relative to DUSPA and suggested that a letter is
written from RTD to these entities thanking them for their efforts. He offered to reach
out to them and personally deliver this message to each of them.



Chair Sisk indicated he thought this was a noteworthy gesture and to have Director
Bagley visit with them will be outstanding.



Director Folska commented she thinks this is a wonderful idea and suggested other
Board members who are our liaisons to these various entities (i.e. DRCOG, CDOT) be
invited to participate. She feels the appreciation should be done in a collaborative and
open manner.



Director James expressed he thinks a formal letter is a great idea; he asked for
procedural clarification from Director Bagley related to the delivery of the message.



Chair Pro Tem Hoy reflected on the fact that we often have one person representing
the agency; he does not think it is inappropriate to have only one person relaying out
thanks. Chair Sisk indicated that he agreed and finds this no different from other
functions where a person represented or spoke on behalf of the agency. Chair Pro

Tem Hoy stated that ultimately it will be up to the Chair of the Board to make this
decision.


Director Folska inquired about the lack of accessible push doors at DUS. Dave Genova
responded they are looking at this but we comply with the ADA requirements relative
to the 15 pounds of resistance for the doors. We will continue to monitor these items
and others they have placed on a list as time evolves.



Director Bagley noted this was a critical issue and shared that DUSPA has elected to
retain Trammel Crow through April of 2015 to work such issues as provided under the
1-year warranty.



Chair Sisk offered up two comments for consideration:
He thanked Paula for the email about the July 11 Crawford Hotel grand opening
and reiterated there are no free rides.
o He wondered if we should begin including on our Board agendas for the
recommended action, how the voting went and who voted for or against. Paula
Perdue asked a clarifying question around this issue and indicated that currently we
provide that information to the Board members and the public from the Committee
minutes. She also expressed concerned about how massive this could get if we
elect to include the voting on the Board agenda.
Director James asked the question who would benefit from this and if it is
necessary.
Director Tobiassen concurred with these points. Chair Sisk chose to accept the
feedback and closed the discussion for now.
Chair Pro Tem Hoy shared that he had participated in a NATA meeting this morning
along with representatives from CDOT. CDOT is very excited to have their busses
using the DUS concourse and enthusiastic about partnering with RTD.
o



V.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 12:55 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

