Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 1,
2008
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

July 1, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, July 1, 2008 at 7:24 p.m.
****
Board Members
Present:
Chair Christopher, Directors; Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck, Juanita Chacon,
Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein, Daryl Kinton, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam,
Neill Quinlan, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer and Barbara Yamrick.
Board Members
Absent:

Chris Martinez and Lee Kemp

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Marla Lien, Dave Genova, John Shonsey, Kevin
Diviness, Mike Turner, Bill Nadine Lee, Pauletta Tonilas, Jerry Nery, Scott
Reed, Nadine Lee, Rick Clarke, Mark Baudermann, Sherry Ellebracht, Jenny
Barkett, Jeff Cluphf, Reed Lee, Susan Altes, Paula Perdue and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Jeff Leib – Denver Post, Kevin Flynn – Rocky Mountain News, Cody
Wertz – GBSM, Andy Mountain – GBSM, Roger Sherman – CRL, Blake
Pendergrass – FRESC.
****

Call to Order

Director Christopher called to the meeting to order at 7:24 p.m.

Chair Christopher suggested changing order of agenda to sequence into the action item
pertaining to the amended IGA with CDOT.
I.

Recommended Action
 Proposed Amendment to CDOT/RTD IGA for Funding for US36 BRT Phase 2
Final Environmental Impact Statement
Liz Rao, Assistant General Manager of Planning & Development presented
this item to the board.
Implementation of the US36 BRT Phase 2 project is dependent on
complementary roadway improvements, such as reconstruction of overpasses,
in order to maximize the benefit to transit operations of the development of
managed lanes. CDOT and RTD actions need to be coordinated in planning,

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 1,
2008
Page 2 of 4

funding and implementation to achieve maximum mobility benefits in the
corridor.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board
of Directors authorizes the General Manager to proceed with an amendment to
the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with CDOT to fund the preparation for
the Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for the US36 Corridor. RTD’s
total funding share for this a
Director John Tayer expressed strong support for this action item on behalf of Director Kemp
(he had to leave) John also tipped his hat to Lee for working with the group in the corridor and
bringing in staff.
Director Bill Christopher would like to piggy back on Tayer’s comments. The process has not
been easy.
Director Neill Quinlan – it speaks volumes that we have continued to move ahead – for this
program and leadership.
Director Dave Ruchman – requested a brief 10 paragraph review of what’s happening with the
strategic funding on getting BRT done.



Motion:

Director Elfenbein made the motion to
approve the recommendation and forward
to the July 15, 2008 Board Meeting
agenda.

Second:

Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed unanimously.

Recommendation for Contract Award to Kumar and Associates, inc. for the
FasTracks Owner’s Materials Verification Testing Services
Kevin Divines, Director of Quality Assurance introduced this item to the
board.
On February 6, 2008 RTD advertised a RFP for Owner’s Material Verification
Testing Services for FasTracks Implementation. The selected firm would
randomly test construction materials on a sampling basis for all FasTracks
construction projects, so that RTD could validate the results of contractor test
programs. This approach allows RTD to lace responsibility for quality assurance

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 1,
2008
Page 3 of 4

with the prime contractor (CM/CG, design-builder, etc.), while maintaining
confidence through ongoing verification testing.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract to the most qualified proposer, Kumar
and Associates, Inc., in an estimated not-to-exceed amount of $5,000,000 for
Owner’s Materials Verification Testing Services for FasTracks. This is a multiyear contract spanning 2008 – 2013, with the provision for additional five oneyear options. The work scope will be negotiated annually to allow flexibility in
supporting the FasTracks projects, and funded through project budgets that will
require separate RTD Board actions. Funds for the initial contract award of
$50,000 are contained in the 2008 RTD Budget for the West Corridor.

II.

Motion:

Director Busck made the motion to approve
the recommendation and forward to the
July 15, 2008 Board Meeting agenda.

Second:

Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed unanimously.

Updates



US 36 EIS, Preferred Alternative Resolution
Liz Rao, Assistant General Manager of Planning and Development discussed the
US36 phase 2 project status and then discussed the process to develop
combined alternative and combined alternative elements. Refer to Power Point
Presentation for specifics.
On July 9, PAC members to formally support the recommendation for the
Combined Alternative. Local governments to pass resolutions to endorse the
Combined Alternative this summer.
RTD has committed FasTracks funds of $214 million for US36 BRT Phase 2.
CDOT is evaluating funding availability.
Major Milestones – August 2008, Notice to Proceed, Public Meeting November
2008, FEIS published June 2009, Public Hearing July 2009, ROD signed
December 2009. There will also be four PAC meeting during process.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 1,
2008
Page 4 of 4

This would commit the Board to funding 25% of the cost of preparing the FEIS
and ROD – not to exceed 1million. CDOT will provide the balance of the
funding to complete the FEIS & ROD.
III.

Other Matters - There were no other matters discussed.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting date of the Planning and Development
Committee will be August 5, 2008.

V.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Chair Christopher declared the meeting adjourned
at 7:51 p.m.

