2024-09-20
Executive Committee
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good morning. The Friday, September 20th executive committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 8:00 AM Mountain Daylight Time and would respectfully ask everyone
attending the meeting to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Please note that our
committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely via Zoom, and are being
audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access
Real Time Translation, also known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service can send an
email to the RTD Board Office at the email address, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be
provided.
Additionally, the CART transcripts can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
to access a live transcript of the meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via
RTD's YouTube page. I'll now call for the roll of the committee members. First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson speaking. I am also present. That is five present, zero
absent. I note for the sake of the record that we are also joined by Director Whitmore and Director
Tisdale. Thank you for joining us.
Please note that this meeting does not have a section for public comment. However, anyone who would
like to address the Board can still offer comments in person by email, or by participating in the regularly
scheduled Tuesday, September 24th board meeting.
We'll now move to our next portion of the agenda. This is an executive session. In a moment, the Board
will meet in executive session to receive legal advice related to workplace investigations. I would like to
append the motion to move into executive session to state that the special executive committee meeting
will be deemed adjourned after it adjourns into the executive session for public transparency. This means
that once the committee moves into executive session, the main meeting will be adjourned.

I-- actually, before entertaining a motion, I'll note for the sake of the record, we are joined now, as well, by
Director Harwick. I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the following.
Pursuant to Section 24-6-402 4b CRS to receive legal advice regarding workplace investigations. Do I
have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved. Second, Guissinger.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Guzman as the movement, the second as Guissinger. Is there anyone
opposed? OK. Seeing none that will pass, with five aye votes, zero no votes, we will now move into
executive session.
We will move to our other Zoom link that we were sent. Please use that second Zoom link that should be
in a second email. And also, please give us just a few minutes to make sure that we are set up with our
Communication Access Real Time Translation. See you in the next link. Thank you.

