Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 24, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

August 24, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 24,
2010 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members
Present:

Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Cohen, Christopher,
Daly, James, McMullen, Malpiede, Martinez, Pulliam, and Tobiassen.

Board Members
Absent:
Directors McMullen, O’Boyle
Staff Present:
Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Martell Dyles, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, Terry Howerter, Jeff Kay, Austin
Jenkins, Marla Lien, Caitlin Magee, Doug MacLeod, Patrick McLaughlin, Anthony
Menendez, Todd Nikkel, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, John
Shonsey, Bill Sirois, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington
Others Present: Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Frank Cannon (USNC), Martin Willie
(USNC), Brian Phetteplace (DDP), Anne Hewes (USA), Elba Wedgeworth (DUSPA),
Mayra Katzenmeier (Romero & Wilson), Ana Levy (Romero & Wilson), Connie
Freeman (DTP), Ed Romero (Romero & Wilson), Ray Taylor (CCD), Mary Anne
Nickle (CCD), Leslie MCClellon (CCD), Jo Ann Price, Roger Sherman (CRL
Associates)* * *
Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the Study Session meeting to order at
5:32p.m.

I. DUS Historic Building Public Process
Bill Sirois provided background and identified the process that the Denver
Historic Building TaskForce is using to obtain public input. Bill and Marla Lien
explained that the development of the DUS building is not part of the funded
DUS project. Bill Sirois provided a timeline for next steps that hopefully will
culminate in a board action in February, 2011. Board members expressed
compliments to the process.
For a copy of the RTD DUS Historic Building Task Force Update provided by
Bill Sirois, please refer to the study session minutes located in the Board
office.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 24, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 2 of 5
Bill Sirois also introduced Martin Willie, Civil Technologies working with USNC,
who presented status on the historic station evaluation. For a copy of this
presentation, please refer to the study session minutes located in the Board
office.
Director Daly asked the question pertaining to who has ultimate decision
making over the use of the DUS building. Bill Sirois responded RTD owns the
building and the Board of Directors will make the decision which is targeted in
February, 2011.
II.

Workforce Initiative Now (WIN)
General Manager Phil Washington introduced this item. The Workforce
Initiative Now is an offshoot from the previous Regional Intergovernmental
Sustainable Communities (RISCO) partnership between HUD, CDOT, RTD and
others who are concerned around the economic viability of the community and
how to put this community to work. In May 2010, RTD was a sponsoring
partner with FHWTA on a pilot workshop that looked at case study and
models from Saint Louis and Wisconsin. RTD has now partnered with CCD,
HUD, DTP, and CDOT to uniquely design this Workforce Initiative Now effort
for the Denver regional community. One of the goals as the FTA rollout the
new new-start evaluation criteria that will focus on the economic benefits, the
WIN initiative will tie into this program. One of the challenges the FTA has is
how to effectively measure the economic benefits of the new start program.
RTD is actively putting together some measurements for the WIN program
where they are establishing a baseline from which measurement can
effectively be taken (i.e. crime rate decrease, housing, etc)
Kenn Hardin then introduced the team of presenters consisting of Martell
Dyles, Ray Taylor (CCD), Carla Perez and Mary Ann Nickle (CCD). The
primary purpose of the discussion tonight was to introduce the model that will
work and that offers total community involvement. The goal is to have other
partners to join with CCD, RTD, DTP and CDOT as they start to build and add
new jobs.
General Manager Phil Washington shared his vision for the WIN by sharing
that future FTA will focus less on ridership and more on economic benefits.
RTD is trying to align itself to fit into the FTA new Start criterion. As a matter
of course all applications from RTD now include this model. CCD will serve as
the facilitator of the process and help with the assessment and identification
of organizations, unions, etc who may want to participate in this program.
The WIN program will put us on the cutting edge and serve as a catalyst for
all others.
Ray Taylor with CCD expressed the support for this program from the CCD
president and their appreciation for this opportunity to help build our economy.
Ed Romero, Public Information for DTP spoke to their commitment reemphasized how important this effort is to getting people employed. He had

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 24, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 3 of 5
met with the Denver City Council and others who are also supportive of this
program. He introduced three members of the DTP team who are poised to
support this program.
Kenn Hardin walked through the model that starts with the unemployed
through the steps that establish livable sustainable communities.
The
undergird for the success of this program will be the evaluation and economic
measurable outcomes. The focus is on sustainability-building careers and
livable communities that can change lives and neighborhoods.
Ray Taylor and Mary Ann Nickel talked to the process for just in time (JIT)
training and establishing the pipeline of opportunity. Carla Perez emphasized
the importance of strong partnerships, strong structure and strong
communities with good follow through. This will take significant time and
effort.
Questions/comments from RTD Board members:
Director Cohen expressed his support but was concerned about economically
how do we funnel money back into the community in a sustainable and
measurable way. What would be the average wage from these jobs? Kenn
Hardin did not have an average but provided a range of from $18/per hour to
$46/per hour. The baseline they are establishing will help them to measure
results.
Director Malpiede is very excited about this program but wanted to know how
does an individual who is not a part of an organization get involved. When
would they start to get paid as a number of the unemployed will need financial
support even as they participate in this program. Kenn Hardin indicated some
of these details are still being flushed out but it will depend on where jobs are
available, where the person enters into the pipeline in terms of current skills or
training needs but the goal is to sequence and offer JIT training.
Director Busck inquired about the sequencing and how would the program
identify down the road so that applicants entering the program who are
already trained (but unemployed) and new applicants requiring training will
have access to the opportunities. General Manager Washington indicated this
is part of the sequencing and creating a pipeline that can promote both.
Directors Martinez and Brohl expressed a need for us to manage expectations
and to frame the opportunity based on interest and experience that an
applicant might bring to the program. Director Brohl emphasized a good
communications plan is needed and a robust feedback mechanism to show
applicants where they are in the queue. She also advocated that as we roll
this out to the constituents, issues are captured and tracked.
She
recommended a website page where people can get current and accurate
information about the WIN program. She also suggested a newsletter or other
communication tools to disseminate the information into the communities.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 24, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 4 of 5
Director Bagley asked if there were any other similar programs in the metro
community. General Manager Washington responded not to his knowledge
but at the July 22 meeting, a number of business owners signed a community
call to action to participate in this program by mentoring/taking some of these
applicants in as protégés to train them on skill sets needed. Director Bagley
inquired on the cost of this program, directly and indirectly. General Manager
Washington responded there is no direct cost to RTD and the details of this is
being worked out. DTP did include some monies in their proposal for some
type of workforce development effort.
Director Tobiassen expressed his support of the program and requested
ongoing updates that he can provide to his constituents.
Chair Kemp thanked the team for this update and for the strategic thinking
process that embraces the community.
He thanked CCD for their
participation.
III.

Introduction/Background to 2011 Budget
The finance organization presented an introduction and background to the
2011 budget with the theme “continued austerity and financial sustainability.”
For a copy of this presentation, please refer to the study session minutes
locate in the Board office.
Questions/Comments from the Board of Directors:
Director Brohl inquired what happened to the excess of revenue from 1999 to
2006 when the sales tax revenue exceeded the operating expenses. Susan
Cohen indicated during this period, we had just ramped up for TREX and
incurred capital expenditures for LRT lines, park-n-ride, additional vehicles, etc
to support the capital expansion.
Director Martinez inquired about the slide 14 and asked if there was a similar
chart showing increases in fare revenue. He asked what accounted for the
increase in operating expensed depicted on slide 10 from the period of 20072011. CFO Howerter indicated we have rolled out several programs including
the smart card technology that adds to the operating costs. Director Martinez
asked if we could check with other transit agencies to obtain lessons learned
around what things they experienced that has led to the dramatic service
reductions and layoffs. Is there anything the RTD Board can learn from their
experience to avoid the pitfall? Also, how much operating budget do we use
to balance the budget?
Director Christopher referred to page 16 which shows 31% of our sales and
use tax goes to debt service. He indicated this is not good and suggested it
may be prudent for the Board to explore looking at the criteria to relax and
push the debt service further out depending on its implications to Tabor.

VI.

Other Matters

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday August 24, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 5 of 5
Director Tobiassen provided kudos to the LRT for their service to the
ballgame.
Director Malpiede complimented the staff on the Stapleton transfer and the
Federal transfer station. They did an outstanding job.
VII.

Adjournment
The Study Session adjourned at 8:00 p.m.

