Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

SPECIAL BOARD MEETING/BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
REMOTE MEETING
October 27, 2020 at 5:30 PM
855-962-1128
(Press *3 to speak during Public Participation)

I.

Special Board Meeting
I.

Call to Order

II.

Special Recognition
A.

II.

Approval of Proclamation for Paul J. Ballard

III.

Paul J. Ballard Comments

IV.

Adjourn

October Board Meeting
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams

Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Cook
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Catlin
VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 29, 2020

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Adoption of the Pension Plan Contribution

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2021 contribution of $6.1 million to RTD’s Salaried
Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a specified
monthly benefit at retirement. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt a 2021 contribution of 7% of each participant’s eligible
compensation to the Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan (the “DC Plan”),
which contributes a specified amount to the plan for each year of employment.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Strategic Priority #6: Move RTD Toward Stable Financial Situation
B.

Adoption of the 2021 Benefit Plan

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approves the 2021 Salaried Benefits plan and authorizes the
General Manager/CEO or his/her designee to enter into agreements with the
insurance carriers.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Strategic Priority #6: Move RTD Toward Stable Financial Situation
C.

January 2021 Service Change Proposals Final

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the January 2021 Service Change package as revised
and summarized in Attachment A and to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.

The January 2021 service changes are pandemic plan 2, intended to be temporary.
The cuts and changes in this plan and the original pandemic plan will be revisited
by the Board no later than September 2021. In the meanwhile, RTD will establish,
in coordination with local jurisdictions, a documented process for restoring or
restructuring suspended and reduced services. This process will use the January
2020 run board as a baseline, also considering the changes in transit use and
lessons learned in Reimagine RTD and during the pandemic.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 - Successful delivery of Transit Service.
D.

Adoption of 2021 Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors adopts the attached 2021 Proposed Performance Report and the
accompanying performance measures for mission statement goals 1-7. In 2021,
there are 44 proposed performance measures to be tracked for the GM, which is
two higher than in 2020.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Service
XII.

Recommended Action

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Executive Session
Pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(c), C.R.S., for matters required to be kept confidential
by federal or state law or rules and regulations, and §§ 2-3-103(2) and 2-3103.7(1), C.R.S., regarding confidentiality of audit reports and recommendations,
for presentation of draft audit findings by the Office of the State Auditor related to
2020-2021 Performance Audit.

XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

