1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Julien Bouquet, District G
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe, District H
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore, District K
Secretary – Chris Nicholson, District A
Treasurer – Karen Benker, District I
Vince Buzek, District J
Peggy Catlin, District N
Kathleen Chandler, District F
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Chris Gutschenritter, District D

Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L
Matt Larsen, District E
Brett Paglieri, District M
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

AGENDA
Finance and Planning Committee
Tuesday, September 9, 2025
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 823 7200 7176#
Passcode: 1660#
For Public Participation in the meeting: raise your virtual hand
in Zoom or indicate you wish to speak via phone by pressing *9
If you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment(s),
please email the RTD Board office using the address below.
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.Directors@rtd-denver.com

Finance and Planning Committee
Chaired by Michael Guzman A.

Call to Order

B. Public Comment
C. Information from External Entities
D. Recommended Actions

• District Shops Hoists Replacement Contract Award (7 minutes)

• Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail Network Title VI Fare Equity Analysis
(20 minutes)

• 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (FYFF) (30 minutes)
E. Discussion Items

• 2026 Fiscal Policy (10 minutes)
• 2026 Investment Policy (10 minutes)
• Capital Improvement Projects (20 minutes)
F. Other Matters
G. Next Meeting Date: Tuesday, October 14, 2025
H. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.D.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
District Shops Hoists Replacement Contract Award

September 9, 2025
Board Meeting Date:
September 30, 2025

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a
contract with Rhinotrax Construction for the renovation of nine in-ground hydraulic bus hoists at the
RTD District Shops Division building. This includes replacement of eight hoists and the removal of one
hoist at the District Shops Bus Maintenance Facility. The base bid award amount of the contract is
$4,003,792.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Acting Assistant General Manager, Capital Programs
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
As part of the agency’s standard asset management renewal process, staff identified 11 original bus
hoists for replacement, repair and removal as part of RTD’s asset management protocols. The existing
hoists were installed during the original building construction in 1989 and have been repaired and had
parts replaced for over 35 years. Repair costs and efforts become increasingly challenging as the hoists
age. RTD will replace eight of the 11 hoists and remove one. The remaining two hoists will be addressed
in the future.
The new lifts are to be scissor and platform lifts.
DISCUSSION
In adopting this recommended action, the agency seeks to meet the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan Priorities
of Community Value, Employee Ownership and Financial Success.
On April 18, 2025, RTD issued Request for Proposal (RFP) 125FJ003 via RTD’s online solicitation
platform, OpenGov, for a contractor to complete the Hoist Replacement project at District Shops based
on RTD’s prepared plans and specifications. This project included a 15% Disadvantaged Business
Enterprise goal. Proposals were due on June 4, 2025. RTD’s evaluation committee met to review,
evaluate and score responsive proposals based upon the published evaluative criteria for this RFP. As a
result, the evaluation committee voted to recommend Rhinotrax Construction for award as providing the
best value to RTD.

Packet Pg. 3

1.D.1

Should the Board approve this recommendation, the contractor will phase installation of the lifts to
accommodate maintenance operations. The project is expected to be completed within 13 months
following contract award.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Up to 80% of the cost of this project will be paid through a federal grant. The remaining cost will be
funded from existing capital improvement dollars allocated in the 2025 Budget.

Prepared by:
Richard Rost, Manager, Facilities Engineering
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.D.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail Network Title VI
Fare Equity Analysis

September 9, 2025
Board Meeting Date:
September 30, 2025

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board to adopt the Title VI Fare Equity Analysis report for the introduction of tap-to-pay fare
payments to comply with federal laws, regulations and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Carl Green Jr., Director of the Civil Rights Division
Martin Romero, Transit Equity Manager, Civil Rights Division
Jake Bruemmer, Electronic Fare Collection Manager, Finance Department
PRESENTATION LENGTH
15 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI. In this circular, the FTA requires RTD
to evaluate fare changes, prior to implementation, to determine whether those changes will have a
disproportionately negative impact on minority or low-income populations. The FTA defines a fare
change as an increase in the price of fare media, decrease in the price of fare media, creation of new
fare media, or the discontinuance of current fare media.
On May 28, 2025, the Board adopted the 2025-2028 Title VI Program Update, which included updates
to this definition. RTD defines a fare change as any increase or decrease in the price of fare media; the
introduction or discontinuation of fare media (e.g., cash, paper passes, mobile tickets); and changes to
fare products (e.g., Day Pass, Monthly Pass), fare levels (e.g., Standard, Airport), or customer categories
(e.g., full-fare, seniors, individuals with disabilities, Medicare recipients, LiVE participants and youth
under 20). Additionally, fare changes encompass modifications to Ticket Vending Machine (TVM)
access, including changes in the number of machines, fees, or payment options. The introduction of
contactless tap-to-pay fare payments allowing credit cards, debit cards, prepaid debit cards and mobile
wallets to be accepted as valid fare payment media on RTD bus and rail validators meets this definition.
Thus, an analysis is required to be brought before the Board for approval. The complete Title VI Fare
Equity Analysis report is included in Attachment A.
Title VI Fare Equity Analysis Policies
Pursuant to FTA Circular 4702.1B Chapter IV.7, RTD must establish a Disparate Impact Policy and a
Disproportionate Burden Policy. Collectively, these policies provide foundational requirements for

Packet Pg. 5

1.D.2

evaluating fare change proposals for equity and compliance with Title VI. The Board-adopted policies and
their applicable thresholds are defined and illustrated as follows:
Disparate Impact Policy: A fare change should not adversely affect Black, Indigenous and People
of Color (BIPOC) populations 5% more than the overall population’s ridership; this level of impact
is considered a disparate impact. “BIPOC” is defined as all persons who identify as being part of
racial/ethnic groups besides white, non-Hispanic.
Disproportionate Burden Policy: A fare change should not adversely affect low-income
populations 5% more than the overall population’s ridership; this level of impact is considered a
disproportionate burden. A low-income population is a group of households who are at or below
200% of the Department of Health and Human Services Poverty Guidelines.
The purpose of this analysis is to assess whether the proposed fare change would result in disparate
impacts on BIPOC populations or disproportionate burdens on low-income populations. When a proposed
fare change results in a disparate impact, RTD must consider alternatives to avoid, minimize, or mitigate
the impact, demonstrate a substantial legitimate justification for the change and ensure that no lessdiscriminatory alternatives exist that would achieve the same program goals. In cases where a fare
change results in a disproportionate burden on low-income populations, RTD will consider practicable
modifications to mitigate the impact as necessary.
DISCUSSION
Staff recommends the introduction of contactless tap-to-pay fare payments allowing credit cards, debit
cards, prepaid debit cards and mobile wallets (including Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay) to be
accepted as valid fare payment media on existing RTD bus and rail validators. This is often referred to as
acceptance of “Open Payments” in the transit industry. The recommendation includes the addition of
new fare payment methods but proposes no elimination of existing fare media and no other changes to
fare policies. Tap-to-pay fare payments will be available to customers using RTD’s fixed-route services.
Currently, RTD offers a significant fare policy benefit in the form of daily and monthly fare capping to
customers, but only to those customers paying with their MyRide account, either via mobile phone or
smartcard. Customers paying with cash or using paper fare products do not benefit from fare capping.
With the acceptance of tap-to-pay fare payments, fare capping benefits will be extended to customers
paying with contactless credit cards, debit cards, prepaid debit cards and mobile wallets. This
recommended fare change aims to provide RTD customers with additional electronic fare payment
options that enable them to receive benefits from fare capping.
Methodology
For proposed changes that would increase or decrease the fares on the entire system, on certain transit
modes, or by fare payment type or fare media, RTD must analyze any available information generated
from customer surveys and other relevant data sources. Customer survey analysis indicates whether
BIPOC and/or low-income customers are disproportionately more likely to use the mode of service,
payment type, or payment media subject to the fare change.

Packet Pg. 6

1.D.2

The assessment included data from its 2024 systemwide onboard survey (2024 Onboard Survey), which
included 18,285 weekday responses (66% bus, 33% rail), weighted to reflect 170,000 average
weekday trips. Systemwide, BIPOC customers made up 55% of boardings and low-income customers
63%. As part of the 2024 Onboard Survey, respondents were asked, “Do you have a credit or debit
card, including prepaid debit?” This question formed the basis for much of the fare equity analysis (i.e.,
assessing the accessibility of fare media across different respondent populations) and the determination
of adverse effects.
Additionally, RTD utilized the results of the demographic analysis of the MyRide “cash digitization” retail
network to discern fare media implications for survey respondents that do not currently have a credit,
debit, or prepaid debit card. Specifically, this analysis seeks to understand how this subset of customers
may participate in tap-to-pay payments and take advantage of fare policy benefits such as fare capping.
The Geographic Information System (GIS)-based analysis used demographic data from the Census
Bureau’s American Community Survey (ACS) 5-Year Estimates for years 2018 to 2022 at the census
block group geographic level.
Summary of Findings
According to the 2024 Onboard Survey, approximately 90% of respondents across all customer
populations indicated that they have a credit or debit card, including a prepaid debit card, or were
observed using a credit or debit card. Across different respondent populations, the percentage having a
credit or debit card or were observed using a credit or debit card is consistent; 90% of all respondents,
89% of BIPOC respondents and 89% of low-Income respondents indicated that they have a credit,
debit, or prepaid debit card. This finding in isolation suggests that a substantial majority of customers,
across customer type, have access to the types of cards that would enable participation in tap-to-pay
fare payment media.
However, approximately 6% to 8% of respondents do not currently have a credit, debit, or prepaid debit
card, depending on the type of respondent. The percentage that do not have a credit or debit card but
do require fare payment media is relatively consistent; 5.6% of all respondents, 6.5% of BIPOC
respondents and 7.8% of low-income respondents. Among this subset of respondents, the most popular
product and fare media choices are 3-Hour Passes and Day Passes purchased with cash onboard the
bus, indicating ongoing reliance on cash.
A supplemental demographic analysis of the MyRide “cash digitization” retail network (i.e., adding 460
to 500 retail locations) found that the new retail locations will serve a population that is around 43%
BIPOC and 27% low-income, indicating greater proximity to these populations. Many of these retailers
sell prepaid debit cards. Therefore, if these locations are considered to be a representative sample of
retail locations that sell contactless, prepaid debit cards throughout the Denver metro area, then the
ability of BIPOC and low-income populations to access or participate in tap-to-pay fare payments is
favorable.
Of the remaining respondents without a credit, debit, or prepaid debit card, a sizeable share (3% to 5%
of overall respondents) are exempt from paying an RTD fare (e.g., Zero Fare for Youth program

Packet Pg. 7

1.D.2

participants) where fare media is not required, or were participants in an RTD Pass Program where
customers use their own smartphone or use a MyRide card provided to them.
Conclusions:
Based on the responses from the 2024 Onboard Survey and the access results from the MyRide “cash
digitization” retail network demographic analysis, this Title VI Fare Equity Analysis strongly suggests that
there would be no Disparate Impact on BIPOC populations and no Disproportionate Burden on lowincome populations. Taken together, the recommended fare change will advance RTD’s goals under its
2021–2026 Strategic Plan, particularly the priorities of delivering Community Value and Customer
Excellence, while ensuring continued compliance with Title VI federal regulations.
Staff concludes that the recommended fare change does not result in an inequitable distribution of
benefits or burdens. The acceptance of contactless tap-to-pay fare payments should provide greater
convenience and fare media options to all customer populations, including BIPOC and low-income
customer populations. Moreover, the expanded cash digitization network locations are suggested to
improve access for the subset of customers that may not have a credit, debit, or prepaid debit card. As
such, the recommended fare change should proceed as proposed.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The adoption of the Title VI Fare Equity Analysis will not result in any direct or foreseeable financial
impacts.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis

•

Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended Action Item

(PDF)
(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Martin Romero, Transit Equity Manager
Monika Treipl-Harnke, Sr. Manager of Revenue
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 8

1.D.2

Packet Pg. 9

Introduction of Contactless, Open Payments

Title VI Fare Equity Analysis
August 7, 2025
Prepared by Amey Consulting

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis (5185 : Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail

1.D.2.a

1.D.2.a
August 7, 2025

Table of Contents
1 Introduction ............................................................................................................................................................. 3
2 Overview of Proposed Fare Changes ...................................................................................................................... 4
2.1 Changes to Pricing, Fare Products, Customer Category Discounts .................................................................. 4
2.2 Changes to Fare Media & Fare Distribution ..................................................................................................... 4
3 Title VI Policies......................................................................................................................................................... 6
3.1 Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policies................................................................................. 6
3.1.1 Fare Changes ............................................................................................................................................. 7
3.1.2 Adverse Effects .......................................................................................................................................... 7
4 RTD Customer Characteristics ................................................................................................................................. 8
4.1 2024 Onboard Transit Customer Survey .......................................................................................................... 8
4.2 Demographic Analysis of MyRide “cash digitization” Retail Network ........................................................... 10
5 Discussion of Equity Implications .......................................................................................................................... 11
5.1 Average Fare Implications .............................................................................................................................. 11
5.2 Fare Media Access Implications ..................................................................................................................... 11
6 Fare Proposal Outreach ......................................................................................................................................... 13
7 Next Steps.............................................................................................................................................................. 14

Prepared for: Regional Transportation District

2

Prepared by: Amey Consulting

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis (5185 : Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail

Title VI Fare Equity Analysis – Open Payments

1.D.2.a
August 7, 2025

1 Introduction
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (“Title VI”) ensures that “no person in the United States shall, on the basis
of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to
discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.” The Regional Transportation
District (“RTD” or “The District”) has committed to the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Title VI objectives set
forth in Circular 4702.1B, ensuring that FTA-assisted benefits and related services are made available and are
equitably distributed without regard to race, color or national origin.
This analysis of the acceptance of contactless credit cards, debit cards, prepaid debit cards and mobile wallets
(“Open Payments”) was prepared in conformity with the guidelines laid out in Chapter IV and Appendix K of FTA
Circular 4702.1B, Service and Fare Equity Analysis Questionnaire Checklist.
The Fare Equity Analysis described herein assesses whether the proposed change in fare payment media
acceptance is expected to result in Black, Indigenous and People of Color (BIPOC) and low-income customers
bearing a greater share of negative impacts compared to customers overall, or whether BIPOC and low-income
customers would experience a lesser share of the positive impacts compared to customers overall.
Based on an analysis of the 2024 Onboard Survey and the access results from the MyRide “cash digitization” retail
network demographic analysis, this Title VI Fare Equity Analysis strongly suggests that there would be no Disparate
Impact on BIPOC populations, and no Disproportionate Burden on low-income populations. The acceptance of
contactless, Open Payments should provide greater convenience and fare media options to all RTD customer
populations, including BIPOC and low-income customer populations.

Prepared for: Regional Transportation District

3

Prepared by: Amey Consulting

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis (5185 : Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail

Title VI Fare Equity Analysis – Open Payments

1.D.2.a
August 7, 2025

2 Overview of Proposed Fare Changes
RTD has proposed the acceptance of contactless credit cards, debit cards, prepaid debit cards and mobile wallets
(including Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay) as valid fare payment media. This is often referred to as
acceptance of “Open Payments” in the transit industry. The proposal includes the addition of new fare payment
methods, but proposes no elimination of existing fare media and no other changes to fare policies. Open Payments
will be available to customers using RTD’s Fixed Route services. The proposed change is summarized in greater
detail in the following sections.
Currently, RTD offers a significant fare policy benefit in the form of daily and monthly fare capping to customers,
but only to those customers paying with their MyRide account, either via mobile phone or smartcard. Customers
paying with Cash or using Paper fare products do not benefit from fare capping. With the acceptance of Open
Payments, fare capping benefits will be extended to customers paying with contactless credit cards, debit cards,
prepaid debit cards and mobile wallets. This fare change aims to provide RTD customers with additional electronic
fare payment options that enable them to receive benefits from fare capping.

2.1 Changes to Pricing, Fare Products, Customer Category Discounts
RTD’s fare structure, including fare pricing, fare products and customer category discounts, will remain unchanged
during and after the launch of Open Payments. Fare prices for Local and Airport services will remain unchanged,
and transfer policies will remain unchanged. Customers using contactless credit, debit and prepaid debit cards
and mobile wallets will continue to receive daily and monthly fare capping benefits when using the same fare
media and will pay the same amount per trip, per day and per month as customers making identical trips while
using other fare media including paper passes, MyRide Stored Value and mobile tickets. Customers using
contactless credit, debit, prepaid debit and mobile wallets will have the opportunity to register their card to their
RTD MyRide account (or register after opening a free RTD MyRide account) and receive fare discounts (Senior,
Persons with a Disability, Medicare and LiVE income-based discounts) that they are eligible for, using their
contactless fare media. Customers eligible for Zero Fare programs, including Youth, will continue to ride RTD at
no cost. There will be no additional fees charged by RTD to pay with contactless credit, debit, prepaid debit and
mobile wallets, and MyRide cards will remain free for RTD customers. As there are no changes in fare pricing, fare
products, customer category discounts or card fees, there are no anticipated changes in the systemwide average
fare or product-specific average fares, in aggregate or across customer populations.

2.2 Changes to Fare Media & Fare Distribution
The introduction of contactless, Open Payments is an incremental form of fare media which RTD customers are
free to adopt. No existing forms of fare media are being eliminated or altered. The addition of contactless credit,
debit and prepaid debit cards and mobile wallets should increase customer opportunities to acquire fare media.
The introduction of contactless credit, debit and prepaid debit cards and mobile wallets supplements existing fare
media choices for RTD customers. Cash will continue to be accepted on-board buses, at TVMs, at ticket book and
pass vending machines at select stations, and at RTD’s four Sales Outlets. Paper fare products will still be available
from RTD Sales Outlets, at Safeway and King Soopers retailers, from ticket book and pass vending machines at
select stations, and through online purchase. MyRide fare payment via mobile phone or smartcard will continue
to be accepted. MyRide smartcards will continue to be free to RTD customers. Mobile tickets will still be available
Prepared for: Regional Transportation District

4

Prepared by: Amey Consulting

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis (5185 : Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail

Title VI Fare Equity Analysis – Open Payments

1.D.2.a
August 7, 2025

in the MyRide, Transit, and Uber apps. While some unbanked and underbanked RTD customers are unlikely to
have ready access to contactless credit and debit cards issued through banking establishments, contactless
prepaid debit cards are widely available at retail outlets throughout the service area without the need for a formal
banking arrangement or credit history check. Although the exact number of locations within the RTD service area
that vend prepaid debit cards is unknown, the forthcoming introduction of the MyRide “cash digitization” retail
network provides some sense of scale. The InComm-based VanillaDirect cash digitization network aims to add
approximately 460 to 500 retail locations including convenience stores, gas stations, pharmacies, grocery stores,
large retail outlets and dollar stores. These types of retailers are frequently sellers of prepaid debit cards, so it is
likely that there are approximately 460 retail outlets or more in the RTD service area and surrounding communities
that sell prepaid debit cards. The introduction of contactless, Open Payments increases fare media choice and RTD
customer convenience while retaining all other existing fare media options and distribution channels for RTD
customers.

Prepared for: Regional Transportation District

5

Prepared by: Amey Consulting

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis (5185 : Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail

Title VI Fare Equity Analysis – Open Payments

1.D.2.a
August 7, 2025

3 Title VI Policies
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 601 states:
“No persons in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded
from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any
program or activity receiving federal financial assistance.”
It is RTD’s objective to avoid, minimize or mitigate disproportionately high and adverse impacts on BIPOC and lowincome populations. As a recipient of financial assistance from the FTA, RTD is required to comply with Title VI of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and its own Title VI Program adopted in accordance with same by evaluating major
service and fare changes at the planning and programming stages to determine whether those changes have
discriminatory impacts, including Disparate Impacts on BIPOC populations and/or Disproportionate Burdens on
low-income populations.
According to the Federal Department of Transportation, equity in the provision of transit service is "providing
equal levels of service to minority and non-minority residents of the urbanized area. Levels of service, in turn, are
defined in terms of capital allocation and accessibility." 1 The metrics of discrimination that could be monitored
for disparate treatment include fare structures that could consistently cause minority-group customers to bear a
higher fare burden than the overall riding public, access to specialized fare media, or methods of communication
to populations with Limited English Proficiency. However, a Title VI Equity Analysis should not replace good
program planning, which should be an ongoing process that considers equity among other factors when designing
fare changes, service changes, or discretionary policies and programs.
Per FTA Circular 4702.1B Chapter IV.7, RTD must establish a Disparate Impact Policy and a Disproportionate
Burden Policy for evaluating fare change proposals for equity and compliance with Title VI. As part of the 2025
Title VI Program Update, RTD maintained their 5% threshold for determining a Disparate Impact or
Disproportionate Burden of a fare modification as established in RTD’s Fare Disparate Impact or Disproportionate
Burden Policy. The RTD Board-adopted 2025 Title VI Program Update also clarifies what constitutes a Fare Change.
The detailed policies used by RTD for analysis of proposed fare changes are found in the following sections.

3.1 Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policies
The FTA requires that transit agencies assess whether a proposed fare change or major service change would have
a “Disparate Impact” on minority populations, or “Disproportionate Burden” on low-income populations, under
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title 49 C.F.R. Section 21.5(b)(2) and (b)(7), and Appendix C to Title 49 C.F.R.
part 21. Pursuant to FTA Circular 4702.1B, FTA requires public transit agencies operating 50 or more fixed route
vehicles in peak service, and located in urbanized areas of 200,000 or more people, to clearly establish, with input
through a public engagement process, threshold definitions for measuring Disparate Impacts and
Disproportionate Burdens.
RTD’s Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden policies establish threshold standards for evaluating
the equity impacts and the distribution of adverse effects caused by any fare change or major service change.
1 Transit Cooperative Research Program, Legal Research Digest: “The Impact of Civil Rights Litigation Under Title VI and

Related Laws on Transit Decision Making”, TCRP Project J-5, Washington, D.C. June 1997
Prepared for: Regional Transportation District

6

Prepared by: Amey Consulting

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis (5185 : Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail

Title VI Fare Equity Analysis – Open Payments

1.D.2.a
August 7, 2025

These thresholds enable RTD to determine whether BIPOC and low-income customers would be
disproportionately impacted by the adverse effects of the proposed changes and, by inference, whether the
overall ridership would disproportionately benefit from the proposed changes when compared to the protected
populations (BIPOC and low-income). These thresholds are based on the cumulative impact of the proposed
service or fare change.
The policies and their applicable analyses and thresholds are defined and illustrated as follows:
●

Disparate Impact Analysis
A disparate impact analysis is a review of the difference in the adverse effects absorbed by BIPOC persons
as a result of any fare price change, which shall not be greater than or less than 5% of impacts absorbed
by the overall population ridership. “BIPOC” is defined as all persons who identify as being part of
racial/ethnic groups besides white, non-Hispanic.

●

Disproportionate Burden
A disproportionate burden analysis is defined as an examination of the difference in the adverse effects
absorbed by low-income persons as a result of any fare price change, which shall not be greater than or
less than 5% of impacts absorbed by the overall population ridership. A low-income population is a group
of households who are at or below 200 percent of the Department of Health and Human Services Poverty
Guidelines.

3.1.1 Fare Changes
RTD defines a Fare Change as an increase in the price of fare media, decrease in the price of fare media,
introduction of new fare media or the discontinuance of current fare media, changes in fare types or products,
changes in fare levels, changes in customer category definitions/eligibility, and modifications to Ticket Vending
Machine access. Fare Media are defined as forms of payment for transit service (i.e., cash fare, paper pass, etc.).
Based on federal guidance, prior to adopting a fare change, RTD must conduct a Fare Equity Analysis and analyze
specific elements of the proposed structure and changes to fare media along with the recommended pricing
schema, to determine whether the changes would result in impacts that exceed the threshold established by the
policies. As referenced in C4702.1B, some fare changes are excluded from being the subject of a Fare Equity
Analysis, such as instances where all passengers ride free such as “Zero Fare for Transit Equity Day”; fare changes
undertaken during an emergency such as a natural disaster, if the change is intended to address an immediate
need; minor fare changes that do not affect the fare structure (e.g., minor fare rounding); and
temporary/promotional fare reductions, so long as the temporary fare reduction or promotional reduction does
not last longer than six months.

3.1.2 Adverse Effects
For the fare equity analysis, adverse effects include an increase in cost or a reduction in accessibility of fare media.
Benefits include a decrease in cost, increase in discounts for certain fare types or customer populations, or
increase in accessibility of fare media.

Prepared for: Regional Transportation District

7

Prepared by: Amey Consulting

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis (5185 : Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail

Title VI Fare Equity Analysis – Open Payments

1.D.2.a
August 7, 2025

4 RTD Customer Characteristics
Several data sources were considered when evaluating the demographics and access characteristics of RTD
customers, namely the 2024 Onboard Transit Customer Survey and the demographic analysis of the MyRide “cash
digitization” retail network.

4.1 2024 Onboard Transit Customer Survey
As part of this equity review, RTD is committed to understanding which customers may be impacted by the
proposed introduction of contactless, Open Payments. Demographic characteristics summarized in this section
reflect results from RTD’s recently completed 2024 Onboard Transit Customer survey (2024 Onboard Survey). The
2024 Onboard Survey was an on-board, customer intercept survey undertaken between August 2024 and
December 2024, and captured 20,062 survey responses across 99 bus routes and 10 rail lines. For analysis
purposes, respondents who indicated they were visitors to the Denver metro area were excluded from the survey
results. After processing the survey results, approximately 10,092 of a total of 18,285 completed surveys (55% of
weighted survey responses) identified as BIPOC, and 8,800 of a total of 14,359 completed surveys (63% of
weighted survey responses) identified as low-income using a definition of 200 percent of the federal poverty level.
As part of the 2024 Onboard Survey, respondents were asked “Do you have a credit or debit card, including
prepaid debit?” This question formed the basis for much of the analysis in this section; however, it’s important to
acknowledge some potential shortcomings of the use of this question. First, the question does not specifically ask
whether respondents have contactless credit/debit/prepaid debit cards, which is a requirement for use as Open
Payments media. It is likely that some respondents who confirmed having a credit/debit/prepaid debit card may
not have a contactless card that would function as payment media on RTD services. It is worth noting that
contactless (cEMV) card penetration has increased rapidly since the COVID-19 pandemic and it is expected that
by 2027, virtually all credit/debit/prepaid debit cards are likely to include contactless payment technology, based
on California Air Resources Board (CARB) research 2. Second, the phrasing of the question could be interpreted as
possession of a credit/debit/prepaid debit card, or access to credit/debit/prepaid debit cards. Care should be
taken in the interpretation of survey results, given that respondents may have interpreted the question in
different ways.
According to the 2024 Onboard Survey, approximately 90% of respondents across all customer populations
indicated that they have a credit or debit card, including a prepaid debit card, or were observed using a credit or
debit card (financial data from RTD indicates that 99.4% of all MyRide Stored Value transactions and mobile ticket
purchases by value were made with a credit or debit card, so respondents indicating that they paid with MyRide
were included in the percentage possessing a credit or debit card). Across different respondent populations, the
percentage having a credit or debit card or were observed using a credit or debit card is consistent; 90% of All
Respondents, 89% of BIPOC respondents, and 89% of Low-Income respondents indicated that they have a credit,
debit or prepaid debit card.

2 California Air Resources Board, “Contactless Payments Penetration Assessment - Moving Toward a Contactless Payments

Ecosystem in the United States”, Sacramento, CA. November 2023
Prepared for: Regional Transportation District

8

Prepared by: Amey Consulting

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis (5185 : Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail

Title VI Fare Equity Analysis – Open Payments

1.D.2.a
August 7, 2025

RTD 2024 Onboard Survey Respondents Having a Credit/Debit Card
100%
90%

10%

11%

11%

90%

89%

89%

All Respondents

BIPOC

Low-Income

80%
70%
60%
50%

40%
30%
20%
10%
0%

Have a Credit/Debit card OR are observed paying with a Credit/Debit card

No Credit/Debit card

Of the remaining respondents without a credit, debit or prepaid debit card, a sizeable share (3% to 5% of overall
respondents) are exempt from paying an RTD fare (e.g., Zero Fare for Youth program participants) where fare
media is not required, or were participants in an RTD Pass Program where customers use their own smartphone
or use a MyRide card provided to them. The remaining 6% to 8% of respondents are those who do not currently
have a credit, debit or prepaid debit card, but do require fare payment media and may be interested in using Open
Payments. Across different respondent populations, the percentage that do not have a credit or debit card, but
do require fare payment media is relatively consistent; 5.6% of All Respondents, 6.5% of BIPOC respondents, and
7.8% of Low-Income respondents. Among this subset of respondents, the most popular product and fare media
choices are 3-Hour Passes and Day Passes purchased with Cash onboard the bus, indicating ongoing reliance on
cash.

RTD 2024 Onboard Survey Distribution of Respondents without a Credit/Debit
Card
12.0%
10.0%

8.0%
6.0%

3.9%

4.8%
2.0%

3.1%
2.5%

4.0%

1.9%

2.0%

3.7%

4.5%

5.3%

All Respondents

BIPOC

Low-Income

0.0%
No Credit/Debit card, but Exempt from Fare Payment (Youth, Other) or Pass Program
No Credit/Debit card, traveling with Other Fare Media
No Credit/Debit card, paying with Cash On-Board the Vehicle

Prepared for: Regional Transportation District

9

Prepared by: Amey Consulting

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis (5185 : Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail

Title VI Fare Equity Analysis – Open Payments

1.D.2.a
August 7, 2025

Currently, customers who would prefer to pay with electronic fare media but do not have a credit or debit card
are limited to reloading their MyRide account or card using Cash at RTD’s four Sales Outlets. The forthcoming
introduction of the MyRide “cash digitization” network aims to add approximately 460 to 500 retail locations
where customers could use cash to reload their MyRide account/card, dramatically increasing electronic fare
media access and customer convenience. Many of these same retail locations are likely to sell prepaid debit cards,
providing even more electronic fare payment options to RTD customers, particularly those who remain cash
reliant.

4.2 Demographic Analysis of MyRide “cash digitization” Retail Network
RTD is planning for the introduction of the MyRide “cash digitization” retail network. The InComm-based
VanillaDirect cash digitization network allows customers to bring cash to a variety of retail establishments and
load value to their MyRide digital account or card by exchanging cash for electronic stored value. The planned
cash digitization network aims to add approximately 460 to 500 retail locations including convenience stores, gas
stations, pharmacies, grocery stores, large retail outlets and dollar stores.
The demographic analysis of the introduction of the cash digitization network indicated that the population within
RTD’s District comprises around 38% BIPOC residents, and that the new retail locations serve a population that is
around 43% BIPOC, indicating greater proximity to RTD’s BIPOC populations. Similarly, while the District’s lowincome population averages around 21%, the new locations serve a population that is around 27% low-income,
indicating that these locations are in greater proximity to RTD’s low-income populations.

Prepared for: Regional Transportation District

10

Prepared by: Amey Consulting

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis (5185 : Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail

Title VI Fare Equity Analysis – Open Payments

1.D.2.a
August 7, 2025

5 Discussion of Equity Implications
The proposed fare change is not anticipated to result in any changes in average fare, but fare media access
implications are discussed further.

5.1 Average Fare Implications
The fare change proposal includes no changes in fare pricing, fare products, customer category discounts or card
fees. The impact is that there are no anticipated changes in the systemwide average fare or product-specific
average fares, in aggregate or across customer populations.

5.2 Fare Media Access Implications
As discussed in Section 4.1, the 2024 Onboard Survey suggests that nearly 90% of RTD customers have a credit,
debit or prepaid debit card. The share of customers indicating that they have credit/debit/prepaid debit cards is
consistent across BIPOC, low-income and all survey respondents. This finding in isolation suggests that a
substantial majority of RTD customers, across customer type, have access to the types of card that would enable
participation in Open Payments fare payment.
However, approximately 6% to 8% of respondents do not currently have a credit, debit or prepaid debit card,
depending on the type of respondent. The survey suggests that this group is cash reliant, relying heavily on cash
payment onboard RTD buses. For this subset of customers, it is not clear why they rely heavily on cash payment,
but this analysis seeks to understand how this group may participate in Open Payments fare payment and take
advantage of fare policy benefits such as fare capping.
Access to traditional credit and debit cards is often through a customer relationship with a bank or credit union.
While these groups continue to provide services that are increasingly customer friendly (e.g., elimination of service
fees, provision of overdraft protection), regulations often require that the customer have a Social Security Number
(SSN) or Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN) in order to open a bank account. For recent immigrants
to the country or undocumented residents, this requirement may pose a barrier to establishing a banking
relationship, and acquiring a credit card and debit card. Traditional credit cards often require additional steps,
such as a credit check, which may pose additional barriers. For this reason, the availability of prepaid debit cards
through retail establishments may be the more attractive option for this subset of customers.
Prepaid debit cards are generally widely available at retail locations, but there is no widely available source of
information that comprehensively lists every location within the Denver metro area that sells prepaid debit cards
for a GIS-based access analysis. However, the upcoming introduction of the MyRide “cash digitization” retail
network can be viewed as a sample or subset of retail establishments that are likely to sell prepaid debit cards. As
discussed in Section 4.2, the InComm-based VanillaDirect cash digitization network aims to add approximately
460 to 500 retail locations including convenience stores, gas stations, pharmacies, grocery stores, large retail
outlets and dollar stores, retail locations that also typically sell contactless, prepaid debit cards. If these locations
are considered to be a representative sample of retail locations that sell contactless, prepaid debit cards
throughout the Denver metro area, then the ability of BIPOC and low-income customer groups to access these
locations is favorable. The demographic analysis of the introduction of the cash digitization network indicated that
the population within RTD’s District comprises around 38% BIPOC residents, and that the new retail locations
Prepared for: Regional Transportation District

11

Prepared by: Amey Consulting

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis (5185 : Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail

Title VI Fare Equity Analysis – Open Payments

1.D.2.a
August 7, 2025

serve a population that is around 43% BIPOC, indicating greater proximity to RTD’s BIPOC populations. Similarly,
while the District’s low-income population averages around 21%, the new locations serve a population that is
around 27% low-income, indicating that these locations are in greater proximity to RTD’s low-income populations.
Taken together, nearly 90% of RTD customers already have a credit, debit and/or prepaid debit card that enables
participation in Open Payments fare payment. The remaining 6% to 8% that do not have a credit, debit or prepaid
debit card are likely to have 460 or more locations where prepaid debit cards can be acquired, and these locations
tend to be located in parts of the RTD service area that have a higher proportion of BIPOC and low-income
residents.

Prepared for: Regional Transportation District

12

Prepared by: Amey Consulting

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis (5185 : Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail

Title VI Fare Equity Analysis – Open Payments

1.D.2.a
August 7, 2025

6 Fare Proposal Outreach
RTD’s Communications and Engagement Department developed a comprehensive bilingual communications and
outreach strategy to ensure successful implementation of the two major initiatives. Each campaign will include a
dedicated plan, with integrated efforts from the Transit Equity Office to ensure underserved populations will be
engaged and informed. The launch of these campaigns will commence in November 2025.
Open Payments
The outreach strategy will implement a comprehensive and multifaceted communications strategy to ensure that
customers and the broader public are fully informed about the open payments option. This comprehensive
approach encompasses several key elements designed to maximize reach and effectiveness. The objectives will
emphasize education, accessibility, and equity. Customers will receive clear information on how Open Payments
work, the benefits of fare capping, and how to link cards to MyRide accounts for discounts and trip history. The
plan includes multi-channel education through RTD’s website (available in 10 languages), social media, videos,
infographics, validator signage, and email alerts. Targeted outreach will highlight benefits for reduced fare groups
such as LiVE participants, seniors, and individuals with disabilities. Customer feedback loops will be incorporated
through surveys and online forms to guide improvements.
The Transit Equity Office will supplement this effort with bilingual participation in multicultural in-person events,
and direct engagement with customers at community gatherings. RTD will also distribute bilingual news releases,
Read-n-Ride articles, and direct emails to LiVE and Transit Assistance Grant recipients. This will ensure BIPOC, lowincome, and reduced fare populations received timely and accessible information.
Retail Network Cash Digitization
In parallel, this outreach strategy will implement a comprehensive, multi-channel strategy to ensure customers
are fully informed about cash digitization. Customers will be educated on how to obtain a new MyRide card, load
cash at retail outlets, and manage balances through the MyRide app or online. Outreach for this initiative will
include multi-channel education through web and mobile platforms, instructional videos, infographics, FAQs, and
station signage. RTD will conduct targeted engagement with reduced fare groups and community organizations
serving low-income and unbanked customers.
The Transit Equity Office will support these tactics by coordinating bilingual outreach at community events,
distributing information through newsletters and direct communications to discount program participants, and
ensuring materials are accessible in both English and Spanish and additional languages as requested.
In summary, through these combined efforts, RTD will implement a consistent, equity-focused outreach strategy
across each communication and outreach campaigns. By providing multilingual materials, engaging directly with
underserved communities, and leveraging multiple communication channels, RTD will ensure that all customers
have clear, accessible, and timely information about the new fare media payment option and the expanded cash
digitization retail network.

Prepared for: Regional Transportation District

13

Prepared by: Amey Consulting

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis (5185 : Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail

Title VI Fare Equity Analysis – Open Payments

1.D.2.a
August 7, 2025

7 Next Steps
Based on the responses from the 2024 Onboard Survey, there is strong evidence that a substantial majority of
RTD customers have a credit, debit or prepaid debit card and that the percentage having a credit/debit/prepaid
debit card is virtually identical across BIPOC, low-income and all respondents.
There are, however, approximately 6% to 8% of respondents who do not currently have a credit, debit or prepaid
debit card, depending on the type of respondent. For this subset of customers, the equity analysis considered
whether there is access to contactless fare media. The analysis assumed that the form of contactless fare media
that would be easiest to acquire would be prepaid debit cards, and considered the 460 – 500 planned MyRide
“cash digitization” retail network locations as a sample of retail locations where customers could a acquire a
prepaid debit card. The MyRide “cash digitization” retail network demographic analysis indicated that cash
digitization network locations are in greater proximity to RTD’s BIPOC and low-income populations, suggesting
improved access for those customer populations.
Based on an analysis of the 2024 Onboard Survey and the access results from the MyRide “cash digitization” retail
network demographic analysis, this Title VI Fare Equity Analysis strongly suggests that there would be no Disparate
Impact on BIPOC populations, and no Disproportionate Burden on low-income populations. RTD can proceed with
the proposed fare change without any further changes or mitigations. The acceptance of contactless, Open
Payments should provide greater convenience and fare media options to all RTD customer populations, including
BIPOC and low-income customer populations.

Prepared for: Regional Transportation District

14

Prepared by: Amey Consulting

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: Attachment A Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis (5185 : Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail

Title VI Fare Equity Analysis – Open Payments

September 9, 2025
We Make Lives Better
Through Connections.

Tap-to-Pay and Cash
Digitization Retail Network
TITLE VI FARE EQUITY ANALYSIS
Martin Romero

Transit Equity Manager

Jake Bruemmer

Electronic Fare Collection Manager

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Outline
§ Tap-to-Pay Introduction
§ Proposed Fare Changes
§ Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Requirements
§ Policies and Methodology
§ Key Findings and Results
§ Communications and Outreach Plan
§ Conclusion and Recommendation

September 5, 2025

1

Packet Pg. 25

Ways to Pay: Introduction to Tap-to-Pay

September 5, 2025
3

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Packet Pg. 26

Proposed Fare Changes – Summary
New

Accept tap-to-pay with contactless credit, debit, prepaid debit cards
and mobile wallets on fixed route services

Expand

Increase number of retail locations where customers can load MyRide
stored value to 460+ (MyRide “cash digitization” network)

Note: No validators on Access-a-Ride and FlexRide vehicles

September 5, 2025

1

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

FTA Requirements
for Fare Changes
Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964

“No person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin,
be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to
discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.”
FTA Circular 4702.1B
Title VI Requirements and Guidelines and RTD 2025-2028 Title VI Program

September 5, 2025

6

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Title VI Program Policies
Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policies

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Fare Change Definition
§ Any increase or decrease in fare media price
§ Addition or removal of fare media (e.g., cash, paper passes, mobile tickets)
§ Changes to fare products (Day Pass, Monthly Pass), fare levels (Standard, Airport),
or customer categories (seniors, LiVE, youth, etc.)

§ Modifications to Ticket Vending Machine access (number, fees, payment options)

September 5, 2025

8

Packet Pg. 31

Disparate Impact (DI)/Disproportionate Burden (DB)
Policies
§ A fare change is considered to result in a:
• DI if BIPOC populations are affected more than 5% above the overall ridership average
•If a DI is identified, RTD must:
•Consider modifications to avoid, minimize or mitigate impacts
•Prove substantial legitimate justification
•Show no practical alternatives
• DB if low-income populations are affected more than 5% above the overall ridership average
•If a DB is identified, RTD will:
•Consider practicable changes to mitigate impact

September 5, 2025

9

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Methodology

Data Sources

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Methodology
§ 2024 Onboard Transit Customer Survey
• 55% of respondents identified as BIPOC out of 18,285
• 63% as low-income out of 14,359
• Core question: "Do you have a credit, debit, or prepaid debit card?“

September 5, 2025

11

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Methodology (Continued)
§ Demographic analysis of MyRide “cash digitization” retail network
• 460–500 new retail locations assessed for demographic proximity and access
§ Limitations and Assumptions
• Assumed most modern cards are contactless-capable by 2027
• MyRide retail network used as a proxy for prepaid debit card access
• Recognized continued reliance on cash payment among 6–8% of customers

September 5, 2025

12

Packet Pg. 35

Key Findings – Card Access
§ 90% of all respondents, BIPOC and lowincome customers report having
credit/debit/prepaid cards

2024 Onboard Survey –
Respondents Having a Credit/Debit Card
10%

11%

11%

90%

89%

89%

All Respondents

BIPOC

Low-Income

§ 6-8% are cash-reliant, often using 3-Hour
or Day Passes

§ Some customers do not pay fares (e.g.,

youth) or do not make direct payments to
RTD (e.g., EcoPass, CollegePass)
No Credit/Debit card
Have a Credit/Debit card OR are observed paying with a Credit/Debit card

September 5, 2025

13

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Key Findings – Retail Network Access
§ New MyRide "cash digitization" retail locations (~460–500):
• Serve areas that are 43% BIPOC = above 38% District avg.
• Serve areas that are 27% low-income = above 21% District avg.
§ Indicates improved proximity and access for underserved populations

September 5, 2025

14

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Open Payments – Results
§ No DI on BIPOC populations
§ No DB on low-income populations
§ Tap-to-Pay increase fare media options
§ Maintains equity in pricing, access and benefits

September 5, 2025

15

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Communications and Outreach Plan
§ Comprehensive, multifaceted communications and outreach strategy for each initiative
• November 2025 launch
§ News releases and publications
• English/Spanish communications
• Read-n-Ride
§ Direct emails
• LiVE and Transit Assistance Grant Participants
• Non-profits
• Community-based organizations database
September 5, 2025

16

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Communications and Outreach Plan (Continued)

§ Website (10 languages), videos, infographics, email alerts
§ Social Media
§ Community Newsletters
§ Attend in-person community events
• Staff and community partner contracts

September 5, 2025

17

Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Conclusion
§ Tap-to-Pay improves convenience, flexibility and equity in fare payment
§ Strong evidence of equitable access across all populations
§ No negative impact on BIPOC or low-income populations

September 5, 2025

18

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Recommendation
§ FTA requires agency’s Board of Directors be made aware, consider and
approve equity analysis prior to the agency taking action

§ Proceed with Tap-to-Pay and Retail Network equity analysis approval

September 5, 2025

19

Packet Pg. 42

We Make Lives Better
Through Connections.

rtd-denver.com
Attachment: Attachment B Tap to Pay and Expanded Retail Network Fare Equity Analysis Recommended

1.D.2.b

Packet Pg. 43

1.D.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (FYFF)

September 10, 2025
Board Meeting Date:
September 30, 2025

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to adopt the 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (FYFF).
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer
Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager, Budget
PRESENTATION LENGTH
20 minutes
BACKGROUND
The 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (FYFF) is the financial forecast used as the basis for the
development of the 2026 Proposed Budget and provides guidance for future years’ financial planning.
The development of the FYFF seeks to balance planned expenditures with anticipated available funding
sources in alignment with RTD’s Strategic Plan. The FYFF is prepared on an annual basis or can be
produced more frequently if material changes in assumptions and inputs occur. The previous financial
forecast, the 2025-2029 FYFF, was approved by the Board in September 2024.
The 2026-2030 FYFF is prepared using currently available information to assist in planning. The FYFF is
a forecast or projection of financial results, is not an appropriation of funds, and is non-binding.
During the July 15, 2025, Finance and Planning Committee, staff presented a discussion item that
described the purpose of and assumptions used in the 2026-2030 FYFF.
DISCUSSION
The 2026-2030 FYFF has been prepared using currently available information and does not include
assumptions regarding future potential changes, such as new grant funding from SB24-184 Congestion
Impact Fees and SB24-230 Oil and Gas Production Fees. The FYFF only includes funding sources and
use projections that have reasonable certainty to occur in accordance with RTD’s Board-approved Fiscal
Policy.
Other requirements of the Fiscal Policy to consider for the FYFF include the following:
• A balanced budget in which beginning reserves plus total anticipated revenues is greater than or
equal to expenditures will be prepared
• Debt financing will not be issued to support operating expenditures

Packet Pg. 44

1.D.3

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The 2026-2030 FYFF projects continued adherence to Fiscal Policy requirements and maintenance of
adequate reserves to continue to cash-fund expenditures while providing the necessary funding to
support currently known Transit Asset Management Plan needs.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 45

September 9, 2025
We make lives better
through connections.

Five-Year Financial Forecast (FYFF)
2026–2030

Kelly Mackey
Chief Financial Officer

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (5183 : 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast

1.D.3.a

Outline

$

Background

September 9, 2025

Financial Planning
Process

2026–2030
Assumptions

FYFF

Next Steps

2

Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (5183 : 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast

1.D.3.a

Attachment: 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (5183 : 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast

1.D.3.a

Background
§ Annual five-year revenue and expenditure forecast
• Prior FYFF was approved in September 2024
• Basis for RTD’s budget preparation, not an appropriation
• Basis for 30-year long-range financial plan

§ Strategic Plan alignment to Financial Success
§ Transit Asset Management (TAM) Plan
§ Funding request scoring
§ Business cases
September 9, 2025

3

Packet Pg. 48

Financial Planning Process
Goal: The right money in the right year for the right requests for the right reasons
December

November

October

September

August

July

June

May

April

March

February

January

December

November

October

September

2026

August

July

June

May

April

March

February

January

2025

2027 Annual Budget

2026 Annual Budget

2027-2031 FYFF

2026-2030 FYFF

2027-2031 Asset Management Plan (AMP)

2028-2032 Asset Management Plan (AMP)

Drop 2026, add 2031, adjust 2027-2030
Plan Implementation

September 9, 2025

Initial AMP

Validated AMP

Prioritized AMP

4

Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (5183 : 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast

1.D.3.a

Attachment: 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (5183 : 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast

1.D.3.a

2026-2030 FYFF Assumptions
§ Low-single-digit fare revenue growth
§ March 2025 sales and use tax forecast
§ No unawarded grants or debt restructuring not yet transacted
§ 3% annual inflation and 3% tariffs ($1.2M in 2026) on
materials/supplies

§ TAM Plan inclusion with continued maturity needed
§ Reserves meet RTD’s Fiscal Policy
• Three months operating coverage and 1.2 net revenue coverage
• Use of Capital Replacement and Unrestricted Funds
September 9, 2025

5

Packet Pg. 50

Five-Year Financial Forecast: Total
($ Thousands)

Fares
Sales and use taxes
Grants and contributions
Investment income
Other income

2025 Budget

2025 Projected

$

$

57,164
903,170
347,328
36,000
8,400

57,170
889,720
347,328
50,000
8,400

2026
$

59,738
875,263
170,020
23,000
9,000

2027
$

61,232
949,630
169,950
24,000
9,000

2028
$

62,763
995,067
174,960
27,000
9,000

2029
$

64,332
1,039,882
179,221
31,000
9,000

2030
$

65,941
1,085,513
184,511
28,000
9,000

Total Revenue

1,352,062

1,352,618

1,137,021

1,213,812

1,268,790

1,323,435

1,372,965

Operating expenses
Expense projects
Financing Proceeds
To/(From) Operating Reserve
To/(From) Capital Reserve
To/(From) FISA Reserve
Capital expenditures
Debt service

1,233,613
361,146
229,426

1,137,826
361,146
229,426

839,934
13,535
(19,575)
(3,384)
(38,000)
(68)
168,384
247,913

872,844
12,260
(283,977)
11,293
(10,000)
(3,713)
399,645
273,923

922,896
11,703
(60,779)
12,374
65,000
(23,136)
129,160
260,174

1,005,220
8,543
(49,737)
19,791
80,000
61,242
258,060

1,053,394
9,248
(124,883)
12,219
25,000
(18,100)
263,324
246,511

Total Expenditures

1,824,185

1,728,398

1,208,739

1,272,275

1,317,392

1,383,118

1,466,712

Net Sources and Uses

(472,123)

(375,780)

(71,718)

(58,463)

(48,602)

(59,683)

(93,747)

Operating reserve
Capital replacement reserve
FISA reserve
Unrestricted reserve

218,302
261,000
190,099
338,207

218,302
261,000
190,099
333,175

209,983
223,000
190,031
261,457

221,276
213,000
186,318
202,994

233,650
278,000
163,182
154,392

253,441
358,000
163,182
94,708

265,660
383,000
145,082
961

Total Available Reserves

1,007,608

1,002,576

884,471

823,587

829,224

869,331

794,703

0.52
2.1

0.94
2.3

1.20
3.0

1.24
3.0

1.33
3.0

1.23
3.0

1.30
3.0

Net Revenue Coverage
Months Operating Reserve

September 9, 2025

2025 Budget is at:
• 0.5 net revenue
coverage ratio
• 2.1 months of
operating reserve
Included $280M in
grants and $187M
in expense for
Colfax BRT

6

Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (5183 : 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast

1.D.3.a

Attachment: 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (5183 : 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast

1.D.3.a

Five-Year Financial Forecast: Total
($ Thousands)

2026

Operating expense with
expense projects as a %
of revenue is as follows:
•
•
•
•

84% 2024 Actual
91% 2025 Budget
75% 2026 Forecast
75% 2027-30 Forecast

Fares
Sales and use taxes
Grants and contributions
Investment income
Other income

$

Total Revenue

1,137,021

1,213,812

839,934
13,535
(19,575)
(3,384)
(38,000)
(68)
168,384
247,913

872,844
12,260
(283,977)
11,293
(10,000)
(3,713)
399,645
273,923

Operating expenses
Expense projects
Financing Proceeds
To/(From) Operating Reserve
To/(From) Capital Reserve
To/(From) FISA Reserve
Capital expenditures
Debt service
Total Expenditures

$

61,232
949,630
169,950
24,000
9,000

2028
$

62,763
995,067
174,960
27,000
9,000

2029
$

2030

64,332
1,039,882
179,221
31,000
9,000

$

65,941
1,085,513
184,511
28,000
9,000

2.5%
5.5%
2.1%
5.0%
0.0%

1,268,790

1,323,435

1,372,965

4.8%

922,896
11,703
(60,779)
12,374
65,000
(23,136)
129,160
260,174

1,005,220
8,543
(49,737)
19,791
80,000
61,242
258,060

1,053,394
9,248
(124,883)
12,219
25,000
(18,100)
263,324
246,511

5.8%
-9.1%
58.9%
N/A
N/A
303.9%
11.8%
-0.1%

1,208,739

1,272,275

1,317,392

1,383,118

1,466,712

5.0%

Net Sources and Uses

(71,718)

(58,463)

(48,602)

(59,683)

(93,747)

6.9%

Operating reserve
Capital replacement reserve
FISA reserve
Unrestricted reserve

209,983
223,000
190,031
261,457

221,276
213,000
186,318
202,994

233,650
278,000
163,182
154,392

253,441
358,000
163,182
94,708

265,660
383,000
145,082
961

6.1%
14.5%
-6.5%
-75.4%

Total Available Reserves

884,471

823,587

829,224

869,331

794,703

-2.6%

1.20
3.0

1.24
3.0

1.33
3.0

1.23
3.0

1.30
3.0

Net Revenue Coverage
Months Operating Reserve

September 9, 2025

59,738
875,263
170,020
23,000
9,000

2027

Annual
Growth
Rate

7

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (5183 : 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast

1.D.3.a

Five-Year Financial Forecast: Base System
($ Thousands)

2026
Fares
Sales and use taxes
Grants and contributions
Investment income
Other income

September 9, 2025

$

38,838
525,158
170,020
23,000
9,000

2027
$

39,809
569,778
169,950
24,000
9,000

2028
$

40,804
597,040
174,960
27,000
9,000

2029
$

41,824
623,929
179,221
31,000
9,000

2030
$

Annual
Growth
Rate

42,870
651,308
184,512
28,000
9,000

2.5%
5.5%
2.1%
5.0%
0.0%

Total Revenue

766,016

812,537

848,804

884,974

915,690

4.6%

Operating expenses
Expense projects
Financing Proceeds
To/(From) Operating Reserve
To/(From) Capital Reserve
To/(From) FISA Reserve
Transfer to FasTracks
Capital expenditures
Debt service

665,701
13,535
(19,575)
(3,384)
(38,000)
168,312
30,516

695,458
12,260
(283,977)
10,504
(10,000)
395,932
19,435

741,240
11,703
(60,779)
11,307
65,000
106,024
5,886

794,738
8,543
(49,737)
12,584
80,000
61,242
5,889

784,937
9,248
(124,883)
(2,274)
25,000
245,224
5,889

4.2%
-9.1%
58.9%
-9.5%
N/A
N/A
N/A
9.9%
-33.7%

Total Expenditures

783,812

810,095

850,774

885,704

916,191

4.0%

Net Sources and Uses

(17,796)

2,442

(1,970)

(730)

(501)

-59.0%

Operating reserve
Capital replacement reserve
FISA reserve
Unrestricted reserve

166,425
223,000
929

176,929
213,000
3,371

188,236
278,000
1,402

200,820
358,000
672

198,546
383,000
171

4.5%
14.5%
N/A
-34.5%

Total Available Reserves

390,354

393,300

467,638

559,492

581,717

10.5%

8

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (5183 : 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast

1.D.3.a

Five-Year Financial Forecast: FasTracks
($ Thousands)

2026
Fares
Sales and use taxes
Grants and contributions
Investment income
Other income

September 9, 2025

$

20,900
350,105
-

2027
$

21,423
379,852
-

2028
$

21,959
398,027
-

2029
$

22,508
415,953
-

2030
$

23,071
434,205
-

Annual
Growth
Rate

2.5%
5.5%
N/A
N/A
N/A

Total Revenue

371,005

401,275

419,986

438,461

457,276

5.4%

Operating expenses
Expense projects
Financing Proceeds
To/(From) Operating Reserve
To/(From) Capital Reserve
To/(From) FISA Reserve
Transfer from Base
Capital expenditures
Debt service

174,233
(68)
72
217,397

177,387
789
(3,713)
3,713
254,488

181,656
1,067
(23,136)
23,136
254,288

210,482
7,207
252,171

268,456
14,493
(18,100)
18,100
240,622

11.4%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
303.9%
N/A
298.2%
2.6%

Total Expenditures

424,927

462,181

466,618

497,415

550,521

6.7%

Net Sources and Uses

(53,922)

(60,906)

(46,632)

(58,954)

(93,245)

14.7%

Operating reserve
Capital replacement reserve
FISA reserve
Unrestricted reserve

43,558
190,031
260,527

44,347
186,318
199,622

45,414
163,182
152,990

52,621
163,182
94,035

67,114
145,082
790

11.4%
N/A
-6.5%
-76.5%

Total Available Reserves

494,116

430,287

361,586

309,838

212,986

-19.0%

9

Packet Pg. 54

Operating Expense Planning
To achieve the 2026 target operating expense,
staff is exploring potential budget savings, such as:

§ Contract modifications
§ Operations optimization
§ Merit pay timing in 2025 (~$5M)
§ PTO sell back in 2025 (~$5M)
§ Slow hiring process (~$4M)
§ Service modifications

September 9, 2025

Year

Operating Expense

2024 Actual

$ 908M

2025 Budget

$1,234M including $187M Colfax BRT

2026 FYFF

$ 840M

10

Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (5183 : 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast

1.D.3.a

Attachment: 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (5183 : 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast

1.D.3.a

Next Steps

October 2025

November 2025

2026 Proposed
Budget Discussion

2026 Proposed Budget
Recommended Action

September 9, 2025

January 2026
2026 Budget
in Effect

11

Packet Pg. 56

Thank you.

rtd-denver.com
Attachment: 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast (5183 : 2026-2030 Five-Year Financial Forecast

1.D.3.a

Packet Pg. 57

1.E.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
2026 Fiscal Policy

September 9, 2025

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Fiscal Policy establishes the financial control framework and governance of the agency’s financial
resources for that year. Staff present the proposed Fiscal Policy annually for the Board’s consideration
for the upcoming fiscal year. Once approved by the Board of Directors, it may be amended by the Board
at any time.
The most recent modification to the Fiscal Policy was approved by the Board of Directors on April 29,
2025, for the 2025 fiscal year. The Fiscal Policy determines the parameters within which the Proposed
Annual Budget is developed as well as parameters within which financial activities are performed.
Proposed changes to the Fiscal Policy are recommended to the Board to address current and emerging
issues, including those that result from regulatory, compliance, legislative, audit, Board-directed, fiscal
sustainability, best practices, or other requisite sources.
DISCUSSION
The purpose of this Discussion Item is to review a modification to the Fiscal Policy for 2026.
The recommendation for modification to the Fiscal Policy is included in the attached redlined 2026 Fiscal
Policy document as follows:
•

Expenditure Policies – Change “will” to “may” in 7. RTD will limit expenditure and expense fiscal
carryforwards to the lesser of the life of the project or three years.

The reason for this recommended modification is that, in limited circumstances, program modification
opportunities or requirements may result in the extension of a project for the benefit of RTD, such as the
Ticket Vending Machines capital project that was originally approved in 2020 and then expanded in
2024. This type of extension should be a very limited occurrence.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact from this Discussion Item.

Packet Pg. 58

1.E.1

ATTACHMENTS:
•

RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy Proposed (PDF)

•

RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy with Redlines

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 59

1.E.1.a

2026 FISCAL POLICY

REVENUE POLICIES
1.

The Board of Directors may consider potential fare adjustments. Fare adjustments must:
a. Be understandable
b. Be implementable
c. Meet Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights Act requirements

2.

Fare policies will take into account the special needs of all transit customers.

3.

Fare policies will be empathetic to customers’ fare cost pain points.

4.

RTD will avoid dependence on one-time or finite revenue sources to fund ongoing
services. One-time revenues will be used for one-time expenditures.

5.

RTD will continuously explore additional sources of revenue.

6.

When appropriate, RTD will actively pursue legislation and grant opportunities to
enhance revenue. The Board will actively oppose legislation that would limit or diminish
revenue.

7.

Unutilized property and equipment will be monetized to enhance cash flow.

8.

RTD will contract with a qualified, independent third party to provide sales and use tax
forecasts.

9.

RTD will pursue revenue diversification opportunities that are material and provide a
reasonable return on investment that results in financial risk mitigation.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 60

Attachment: RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy Proposed (5180 : 2026 Fiscal Policy)

EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2026

1.E.1.a

Subject: 2026 Fiscal Policy
Page 2

INVESTMENT POLICIES
1.

RTD financial assets are managed in accordance with the RTD Investment Policy, which
is reviewed and approved by the RTD Board on an annual basis.

1.

RTD will align expenditures with the Strategic Plan Priorities.

2.

RTD will continue to implement the most cost-effective and reliable methods of
delivering public transit services.

3.

RTD will maintain its assets at a level that protects capital investment and minimizes
future maintenance and replacement costs according to the Asset Management Policy.

4.

RTD will maintain a risk management program, which will provide protection against
loss and mitigate exposure to liability.

5.

A safety management system will be maintained to minimize exposure to liability
claims.

6.

RTD will provide transit services in accordance with Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights
Act requirements.

7.

RTD may limit capital expenditure and expense fiscal year carryforwards to the lesser of
the life of the project or three years.

CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT POLICIES
1.

RTD will maintain its assets in a state of good repair.

2.

Capital investments will align with the RTD Strategic Plan.

3.

Capital asset investment decisions will be prioritized in accordance with the Transit
Asset Management (TAM) Plan. The TAM Plan and items reconciling to the budget
appropriation request will be included in budget documents and also be presented on
the RTD website. TAM Plan information will include, but not be limited to, asset
descriptors, useful life benchmarks, unique identifiers, and estimated replacement cost

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 61

Attachment: RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy Proposed (5180 : 2026 Fiscal Policy)

EXPENDITURE POLICIES

1.E.1.a

Subject: 2026 Fiscal Policy
Page 3

4.

Priority will be given to replacement of existing, backlog, and deferred assets before
consideration of new asset expenditures.

5.

RTD shall allow for multiyear capital project funding to be carried forward in accordance
with Board policy.

FUND BALANCE POLICIES
1.

Operating Reserve Fund: RTD will maintain a fund balance equivalent to three months
of operating expenses, excluding depreciation, to mitigate impacts from economic
volatility to ensure advancement of the Strategic Priorities of Community Value and
Financial Success.

2.

Capital Replacement Fund: RTD will maintain a Capital Replacement Fund that provides
the annual funding for the TAM Plan. RTD will avoid the assumption of additional debt
to fund the TAM Plan unless financially advantageous.

3.

TABOR Emergency Fund: RTD will maintain an emergency (TABOR) reserve equal to
3% of non-Federal TABOR applicable revenues, as specified by Article X, Section 20 of
the Colorado Constitution. A portion of this fund may be collateralized with real
property in order to maximize non-TABOR working capital.

4.

FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) Fund: The FISA will be used to provide
funding to complete and operate additional FasTracks projects. Expenditures from the
FISA will be subject to Board approval. Funding of the FISA will be approved by the
Board with FISA funding sources including the following:
a. Limitation of annual growth in FasTracks funding for Base System bus feeder
service and Paratransit service to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for DenverAurora-Lakewood
b. Sale and lease opportunities for all RTD properties
c. Request local financial participation in projects above the current 2.5%
d. Excess FasTracks sales and use tax contributions as determined by the Board

5.

FasTracks funds will not be used to fund Base System expenditures.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 62

Attachment: RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy Proposed (5180 : 2026 Fiscal Policy)

as well as information regarding the number and total dollar amount of TAM Plan
bypass requests.

1.E.1.a

Subject: 2026 Fiscal Policy
Page 4

1.

Debt financing will not be issued to support operating expenditures.

2.

Capital projects funded through the issuance of bonds, Certificates of Participation
(COPs), or other financial obligations shall be financed for a period not to exceed the
lesser of the expected useful life of the asset or a maximum of 40 years.

3.

Communication with credit rating agencies and continuing disclosure requirements will
be maintained.

4.

RTD will maintain a high-quality investment-grade credit rating.

5.

RTD will maintain a minimum gross sales tax revenue bond coverage ratio for the Base
System (annual non-FasTracks sales and use tax revenue to annual sales and use tax
debt service for senior non-FasTracks debt) of 4.0 times for debt backed by the 0.6%
sales and use tax. RTD will maintain a minimum gross sales tax revenue bond coverage
ratio for FasTracks (annual FasTracks sales and use tax revenue to annual FasTracks
sales and use tax debt service) of 2.0 times for debt backed by the 0.4% FasTracks
sales and use tax.

BUDGET AND FINANCIAL FORECAST POLICIES
1.

RTD shall comply with all requirements of the Colorado Local Government Budget Law.

2.

RTD will align the annual budget with the Strategic Plan Priorities.

3.

The Board will review and approve the RTD Fiscal Policy annually or on an as-needed
basis to consider any changes that may be necessary.

4.

There shall be a budgetary monitoring system that charges expenditures against
approved budget appropriations.

5.

The budget shall be summarized for adoption purposes. The actual level of detail
required for adoption shall be determined by the Board with a minimum requirement to
provide comparative cash by fund, prior year actual figures, and estimated figures
through the end of the current fiscal year as well as beginning and ending fund
balances.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 63

Attachment: RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy Proposed (5180 : 2026 Fiscal Policy)

DEBT POLICIES

1.E.1.a

6.

The budget shall be prepared using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.

7.

A balanced budget in which beginning reserves plus total anticipated revenues is greater
than or equal to expenditures will be prepared.

8.

Budgetary procedures that postpone the funding of necessary expenditures, such as
preventive maintenance or replacement of equipment, will be avoided.

9.

RTD will provide conservative revenue estimates that take into consideration recent
experience and reflect reasonable future growth.

10. RTD will monitor funding sources and expenditures and amend the budget, if necessary.
11. RTD will maintain a minimum net revenue coverage ratio (all annual revenues remaining
after operating and maintenance expenses to annual debt service requirements net of
excess appropriations required for variable rate debt) of 1.2 times annual debt service.
12. RTD will update financial forecasts annually as part of the Five-Year Financial Forecast.
13. Budgets and forecasts will be prepared that contain essential programs and projects
needed to support the Strategic Plan Priorities.
14. RTD will incorporate Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA) budgeting best
practices, as appropriate.

ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING POLICIES
1.

The accounting system will maintain records on a basis consistent with Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles for enterprise funds.

2.

The accounts of RTD will be reported using the accrual basis of accounting. Revenues
will be recognized when earned and expenses will be recognized when incurred.

3.

RTD will establish and maintain a high standard of accounting practices to conform with
uniform financial reporting in Colorado.

4.

An independent firm of certified public accountants will perform an annual financial and
grant compliance audit and will issue an opinion that will be incorporated into the
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 64

Attachment: RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy Proposed (5180 : 2026 Fiscal Policy)

Subject: 2026 Fiscal Policy
Page 5

1.E.1.a

Subject: 2026 Fiscal Policy
Page 6

5.

RTD will submit the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report to the Government Finance
Officers Association for peer review within the Certificate of Excellence in Financial
Reporting program.

6.

The accounting system will record all financial activity including investment activity.

7.

Internal control policies will be maintained to include procedures that separate control of
assets from accounting for those assets.

8.

RTD will identify and account for all revenues, expenditures, assets, and liabilities
separately for FasTracks and the Base System.

9.

A monthly financial status report shall be submitted to the Board.

GRANT POLICIES
1.

All potential grants shall be carefully examined for matching requirements (both dollar
and level-of-effort matches).

2.

Intergovernmental assistance shall be used to finance only those capital improvements
that are consistent with the Strategic Plan and for which operating and maintenance
costs have been included in operating budgets and forecasts.

3.

RTD will draw apportioned grant funds as quickly as possible for efficient working
capital management.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 65

Attachment: RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy Proposed (5180 : 2026 Fiscal Policy)

e

1.E.1.b

DRAFT 2025 2026 FISCAL POLICY

REVENUE POLICIES
1.

The Board of Directors may consider potential fare adjustments. Fare adjustments
must:
a. Be understandable
b. Be implementable
c. Meet Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights Act requirements

2.

Fare policies will take into account the special needs of all transit customers.

3.

Fare policies will be empathetic to customers’ fare cost pain points.

4.

RTD will avoid dependence on one-time or finite revenue sources to fund ongoing
services. One-time revenues will be used for one-time expenditures.

5.

RTD will continuously explore additional sources of revenue.

6.

When appropriate, RTD will actively pursue legislation and grant opportunities to
enhance revenue. The Board will actively oppose legislation that would limit or
diminish revenue.

7.

Un-utilized property and equipment will be monetized to enhance cash flow.

8.

RTD will contract with a qualified, independent third party to provide sales and use tax
forecasts.

9.

RTD will pursue revenue diversification opportunities that are material and provide a
reasonable return on investment that resultresults in financial risk mitigation.
10.9.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 66

Attachment: RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy with Redlines (5180 : 2026 Fiscal Policy)

EFFECTIVE MARCH 25JANUARY 1, 20265

1.E.1.b

Subject: 20256 Fiscal Policy
Page 2

INVESTMENT POLICIES
RTD financial assets are managed in accordance with the RTD Investment Policy, which
is reviewed and approved by the RTD Board on an annual basis.

EXPENDITURE POLICIES
1.

RTD will align expenditures with the Strategic Plan Priorities.

2.

RTD will continue to implement the most cost-effective and reliable methods of
delivering public transit services.

3.

RTD will maintain its assets at a level that protects capital investment and minimizes
future maintenance and replacement costs according to the Asset Management Policy.

4.

RTD will maintain a risk management program, which will provide protection against
loss and mitigate exposure to liability.

5.

A safety management system (SMS) will be maintained to minimize exposure to liability
claims.

6.

RTD will provide transit services in accordance with Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights
Act requirements.

7.

RTD maywill limit capital expenditure and expense fiscal year carry-forwards to the
lesser of the life of the project or three years.

CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT POLICIES
1.

RTD will maintain its assets in a state of good repair.

2.

Capital investments will align with the RTD Strategic Plan.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 67

Attachment: RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy with Redlines (5180 : 2026 Fiscal Policy)

1.

1.E.1.b

3.

Capital asset investment decisions will be prioritized in accordance with the Transit
Asset Management (TAM) Plan. The TAM Plan and items reconciling to the budget
appropriation request will be included in budget documents and also be presented on
the RTD website. TAM Plan information will include, but not be limited to, asset
descriptors, useful life benchmarks, unique identifiers, and estimated replacement cost
as well as information regarding the number and total dollar amount of TAM Plan
bypass requests.

4.

Priority will be given to replacement of existing, backlog, and deferred assets before
consideration of new asset expenditures.

5.

RTD shall allow for multi-year capital project funding to be carried forward in
accordance with Board policy.

FUND BALANCE POLICIES
1.

Operating Reserve Fund: RTD will maintain a fund balance equivalent to three months
of operating expenses, excluding depreciation, to mitigate impacts from economic
volatility to ensure advancement of the Strategic Priorities of Community Value and
Financial Success.

2.

Capital Replacement Fund: RTD will maintain a Capital Replacement Fund that provides
the annual funding for the TAM Plan. RTD will avoid the assumption of additional debt
to fund the TAM Plan unless financially advantageous.

3.

TABOR Emergency Fund: RTD will maintain an emergency (TABOR) reserve equal to
three percent3% of non-Federal TABOR applicable revenues, as specified by Article X,
Section 20 of the Colorado Constitution. A portion of this fund may be collateralized
with real property in order to maximize non-TABOR working capital.

4.

FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) Fund: The FISA will be used to provide
funding to complete and operate additional FasTracks projects. Expenditures from the
FISA will be subject to Board approval. Funding of the FISA will be approved by the
Board with FISA funding sources including the following:

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 68

Attachment: RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy with Redlines (5180 : 2026 Fiscal Policy)

Subject: 20256 Fiscal Policy
Page 3

1.E.1.b

Subject: 20256 Fiscal Policy
Page 4

5.

FasTracks funds will not be used to fund Base System expenditures.

DEBT POLICIES
1.

Debt financing will not be issued to support operating expenditures.

2.

Capital projects funded through the issuance of bonds, Certificates of Participation
(COPs), or other financial obligations shall be financed for a period not to exceed the
lesser of the expected useful life of the asset or a maximum of 40 years.

3.

Communication with credit rating agencies and continuing disclosure requirements will
be maintained.

4.

RTD will maintain a high-quality investment-grade credit rating.

5.

RTD will maintain a minimum gross sales tax revenue bond coverage ratio for the Base
System (annual non-FasTracks sales and use tax revenue to annual sales and use tax
debt service for senior non-FasTracks debt) of 4.0 times for debt backed by the 0.6%
sales and use tax. RTD will maintain a minimum gross sales tax revenue bond coverage
ratio for FasTracks (annual FasTracks sales and use tax revenue to annual FasTracks
sales and use tax debt service) of 2.0 times for debt backed by the 0.4% FasTracks
sales and use tax.

BUDGETBUDGET AND FINANCIAL FORECAST POLICIES AND FINANCIAL
FORECAST POLICIES
1.

RTD shall comply with all requirements of the Colorado Local Government Budget Law.

2.

RTD will align the annual budget with the Strategic Plan Priorities.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy with Redlines (5180 : 2026 Fiscal Policy)

a. Limitation of annual growth in FasTracks funding for Base System bus feeder
service and Paratransit service to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for DenverAurora-Lakewood
b. Sale and lease opportunities for all RTD properties
c. Request local financial participation in projects above the current 2.5%
d. Excess FasTracks sales and use tax contributions as determined by the Board

1.E.1.b

3.

The Board will review and approve the RTD Fiscal Policy annually or on an as-needed
basis to consider any changes that may be necessary.

4.

There shall be a budgetary monitoring system that charges expenditures against
approved budget appropriations.

5.

The budget shall be summarized for adoption purposes. The actual level of detail
required for adoption shall be determined by the Board with a minimum requirement to
provide comparative cash by fund, prior year actual figures, and estimated figures
through the end of the current fiscal year as well as beginning and ending fund
balances.

6.

The budget shall be prepared using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.

7.

A balanced budget in which beginning reserves plus total anticipated revenues is greater
than or equal to expenditures will be prepared.

8.

Budgetary procedures that postpone the funding of necessary expenditures, such as
preventive maintenance or replacement of equipment, will be avoided.

9.

RTD will provide conservative revenue estimates that take into consideration recent
experience and reflect reasonable future growth.

10. RTD will monitor funding sources and expenditures and amend the budget, if necessary.
11. RTD will maintain a minimum net revenue coverage ratio (all annual revenues remaining
after operating and maintenance expenses to annual debt service requirements net of
excess appropriations required for variable rate debt) of 1.2 times annual debt service.
12. RTD will update financial forecasts annually as part of the Five-year Year Financial
Forecast.
13. Budgets and forecasts will be prepared that contain essential programs and projects
needed to support the Strategic Plan Priorities.
14.

RTD will incorporate Government Finance Officer’s Association (GFOA)
budgeting best practices, as appropriate.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 70

Attachment: RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy with Redlines (5180 : 2026 Fiscal Policy)

Subject: 20256 Fiscal Policy
Page 5

1.E.1.b

Subject: 20256 Fiscal Policy
Page 6

1.

The accounting system will maintain records on a basis consistent with Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles for enterprise funds.

2.

The accounts of RTD will be reported using the accrual basis of accounting. Revenues
will be recognized when earned and expenses will be recognized when incurred.

3.

RTD will establish and maintain a high standard of accounting practices to conform with
uniform financial reporting in Colorado.

4.

An independent firm of certified public accountants will perform an annual financial and
grant compliance audit and will issue an opinion that will be incorporated into the
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report.

5.

RTD will submit the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report to the Government Finance
Officers Association for peer review within the Certificate of Excellence in Financial
Reporting program.

6.

The accounting system will record all financial activity including investment activity.

7.

Internal control policies will be maintained to include procedures that separate control of
assets from accounting for those assets.

8.

RTD will identify and account for all revenues, expenditures, assets, and liabilities
separately for FasTracks and the Base System.

9.

A monthly financial status report shall be submitted to the Board.

e

GRANT POLICIES
1.

All potential grants shall be carefully examined for matching requirements (both dollar
and level-of-effort matches).

2.

Intergovernmental assistance shall be used to finance only those capital improvements
that are consistent with the Strategic Plan and for which operating and maintenance
costs have been included in operating budgets and forecasts.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 71

Attachment: RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy with Redlines (5180 : 2026 Fiscal Policy)

ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING POLICIES

1.E.1.b

Subject: 20256 Fiscal Policy
Page 7

RTD will draw apportioned grant funds as quickly as possible for efficient working
capital management.

Attachment: RTD 2026 Fiscal Policy with Redlines (5180 : 2026 Fiscal Policy)

3.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 72

1.E.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
2026 Investment Policy

September 9, 2025

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer
Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager, Debt and Investments
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
Each year, staff proposes the Investment Policy for the upcoming fiscal year in accordance with Fiscal
Policy requirements. RTD is required by state law to have a written investment policy (C.R.S. § 32-9163(4)) and it may be amended by the Board at any time.
The purpose of the Investment Policy is to specify the policies and procedures that support a prudent
and systematic program for investment of RTD’s operating funds, debt proceeds and reserve funds. The
primary objectives in order of priority are: 1) safety of principal, 2) sufficient liquidity to meet known
cash flow requirements and 3) yield to achieve a market rate of return. Although RTD must follow the
investment parameters dictated by state law (C.R.S. §§ 24-75-601.1 and 32-9-163), the proposed
Investment Policy is more conservative to achieve the Strategic Priority of Financial Success.
The most recent modification to the Investment Policy was approved by the Board of Directors on
October 22, 2024, for the 2025 fiscal year.
DISCUSSION
Changes in this draft 2026 Investment Policy include:
1) Including an annual listing of investments held and investment returns within the Q4 investment
report rather than in the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR), as staff sees this level
of detail as being too much to include in the ACFR
2) Adding the following titles to the list of persons authorized to transact investment business on
behalf of RTD to align with organizational roles: Director of Treasury and Manager of Debt and
Investments
3) Updating the prudent investor standard to cite C.R.S. § 15-1-304
4) Clarifying that C.R.S. § 32-9-163(1)(d) authorizes collateralized prime commercial paper, rather
than commercial paper more broadly
5) Editing minor grammar and punctuation
The proposed changes have also been reviewed by legal counsel. No other changes have been identified

Packet Pg. 73

1.E.2

at this time.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with this discussion item.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

RTD 2026 Investment Policy Proposed

•

RTD 2026 Investment Policy with Redlines (PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 74

1.E.2.a

2026 INVESTMENT POLICY

1. PURPOSE
The purpose of this document is to specify the policies and procedures that support a prudent
and systematic program for investment transactions involving operating and reserve funds of the
Regional Transportation District (RTD).

2. SCOPE
This investment policy applies to investment of all operating and reserve funds of RTD
(collectively, the Portfolio).
This Policy shall not restrict the ability of RTD to invest proceeds from the issuance of RTD
securities in financial obligations permitted through Board-approved bond resolutions or indentures
of trust pursuant to which the securities were issued. The standards of care dictated for
investments of other RTD funds shall also pertain to the investment of such proceeds.

3. OBJECTIVES
The objectives, in priority order, of RTD's investment activities shall be:
3.1 Safety
Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the investment program. Investments of RTD will
be made in a manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the Portfolio. To attain
this objective, RTD will endeavor to mitigate credit and interest rate risks.
Credit Risk: RTD will minimize credit risk, which is the risk of loss due to the failure of the
security issuer or backer, by:
•
•

Limiting investments to the types of securities listed in the Authorized Investments
section of this Policy
Diversifying the Portfolio in accordance with Policy limits in order to minimize the
potential for losses from any one type of security or any one individual issuer

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 75

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy Proposed (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2026

1.E.2.a

Subject: 2026 Investment Policy
Page 2

•

Maintaining Portfolio duration appropriate to the cash flow requirements of RTD, thereby
reducing the likelihood that securities would need to be sold on the open market prior
to maturity.

3.2 Liquidity
The Portfolio will remain sufficiently liquid to enable RTD to meet all cash flow requirements that
might be reasonably anticipated. This will be achieved through maturity diversification and
purchases of securities that have an established secondary market.
3.3 Yield
The Portfolio shall be designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the investment risk constraints, liquidity
needs, and cash flow characteristics of the Portfolio.

4. STANDARDS OF CARE
4.1 Prudence
All RTD officers and employees involved in the investment of RTD funds, along with any external
investment advisors, shall adhere to the guidance provided by the “prudent investor” standard to
ensure that according to Colorado Revised Statutes, Section 15-1-304:
“In acquiring, investing, reinvesting, exchanging, retaining, selling, and managing property
for the benefit of others, fiduciaries shall be required to have in mind the responsibilities
which are attached to such offices and the size, nature, and needs of the estates entrusted
to their care and shall exercise the judgment and care, under the circumstances then
prevailing, which men of prudence, discretion, and intelligence exercise in the management
of the property of another, not in regard to speculation but in regard to the permanent
disposition of funds, considering the probable income as well as the probable safety of
capital."
RTD shall recognize that no investment is totally riskless and that the investment activities of
RTD are a matter of public record. Accordingly, it recognizes that occasional measured losses are
inevitable in a diversified portfolio and shall be considered within the context of the overall
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 76

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy Proposed (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

Interest Rate Risk: RTD will minimize interest rate risk, which is the risk that the market value
of securities in the Portfolio will fall due to changes in market interest rates, by:

1.E.2.a

Subject: 2026 Investment Policy
Page 3

Authorized investment personnel acting in accordance with this Policy and exercising due
diligence shall be relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security’s credit risk or market
price changes, provided that deviations from expectation are reported in a timely fashion and
appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
4.2 Delegation of Authority
RTD has authority to invest its funds pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes, Section 32-9-119.
Management responsibility for the investment program is hereby delegated to the General
Manager and CEO (GM/CEO) and her designees. The GM/CEO’s designee will hereinafter be
referred to as the Chief Financial Officer (CFO).
RTD may, in its discretion, contract with one or more investment advisers, registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, to manage a
portion of its Portfolio assets. Any such advisor shall comply with this Policy and such other
written instructions as provided by RTD.
While it is understood that the procedures and trading counterparties of a contracted investment
adviser may differ from those of RTD, contracted investment advisers must maintain internal
controls and compliance systems at least as extensive as those of RTD in order to assure adequate
protection of RTD assets in keeping with the standards of prudence outlined below.
4.3 Investment Procedures
The CFO shall establish written procedures for the operation of the investment program,
consistent with this Policy, which shall include explicit delegation of authority to persons
responsible for investment transactions. No person may engage in an investment transaction
except as provided under the terms of this Policy and the internal procedures established by the
CFO. Persons who are authorized to transact investment business and wire funds on behalf of
RTD are listed in Appendix 1 to this policy.
4.4 Internal Controls
The CFO shall establish a system of internal controls, which shall be reviewed annually. The
controls shall be designed to prevent loss of funds due to fraud, employee error, misrepresentation
by third parties, or imprudent actions by employees of RTD.
4.5 Ethics and Conflicts of Interest

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 77

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy Proposed (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

Portfolio’s return, provided that adequate diversification has been implemented and that the sale
of a security is in the best long-term interest of RTD.

1.E.2.a

Investment activities shall be performed in accordance with RTD’s Code of Ethics and other
policies of RTD. Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution of the investment
program, or which could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions. Employees
and investment officials shall disclose to the GM/CEO any material financial interests in financial
institutions that conduct business with RTD, and they shall further disclose any material
personal/financial/investment positions that could be related to the performance of the Portfolio.
Employees and officers shall subordinate their personal investment transactions to those of RTD
particularly with regard to the timing of purchases or sales.
5. AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS
Authorized investments for RTD funds are specifically listed below. RTD recognizes that
investment risk can result from issuer defaults, market price changes, or various technical
impediments, leading to diminished liquidity or loss of capital. Portfolio risk management and
diversification are employed as a way to minimize the risks inherent in investing.
Credit Criteria: Credit criteria listed in this section refer to the credit rating at the time the security
is purchased. Rating categories defined by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations
(NRSROs) include intermediate rating categories. For example, the second highest rating category
(AA) includes bonds rated AA+, AA and AA- for Standard & Poor's and Fitch, and Aa1, Aa2 and
Aa3 for Moody's Investors Service. In the event that an issuer or security is downgraded below
the minimum rating level for any specific security that is held in the Portfolio, the CFO will review
the exposure of that security holding and will determine if it is advisable to sell such holding.
Maturity Restrictions: Maturity restrictions shall be calculated from settlement date to maturity
date. Portfolio percentage restrictions by security type and issuer are applicable only on the date
of purchase of the investment.
Sector Diversification: The Portfolio will be limited to an aggregate exposure of 50% for the
following investment types: Municipal Bonds, Corporate Bonds, Commercial Paper, Time
Deposits/Time Certificates of Deposit, and Bankers’ Acceptances.
1. U.S. Treasury Obligations. Obligations in the form of bills, notes, bonds, or certificates of
indebtedness backed by the full faith and credit of the United States of America. 100% of
the Portfolio may be invested in U.S. Treasury Obligations. The maximum maturity for
investments in U.S. Treasury Obligations shall be limited to five years.
2. Federal Agency and Instrumentality Securities. Obligations, participations, or other
instruments of any Federal agency, instrumentality, or United States governmentsponsored enterprise as described in Colorado Revised Statutes, Section 24-75-601.1(1)(b)
(an “Agency” or “Agencies”). Such securities shall be rated in one of the two highest rating
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 78

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy Proposed (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

Subject: 2026 Investment Policy
Page 4

1.E.2.a

Subject: 2026 Investment Policy
Page 5

Authorized Securities include, but may not be limited to:
•
•
•
•
•

Federal Home Loan Bank
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
Federal National Mortgage Association
Federal Farm Credit Bank
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)

3. Municipal Bonds. General Obligation Bonds and Revenue Obligation Bonds of state or local
governments. Such obligations of Colorado (or any political subdivision, institution,
department, agency, instrumentality, or authority of the state) shall be rated in one of the
three highest rating categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two
NRSROs. Such obligations of any other governmental entity shall be rated in one of the
two highest rating categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two
NRSROs.
For short-term or variable-rate instruments (Short Term Municipal Bonds), the securities
must be rated at least A-1, MIG 1, or the equivalent, by a NRSRO.
Pre-Refunded Municipal Bonds, which are secured by an escrow of U.S. Treasury securities
or State and Local Government Series securities, shall be rated in one of the two highest
rating categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by a NRSRO. No more than
40% of the Portfolio may be invested in Pre-Refunded Municipal Bonds and no more than
5% may be invested with a single issuer.
With the exception of Pre-Refunded Municipal Bonds described above, no more than 20%
of the Portfolio may be invested in Municipal Bonds with no more than 3% of the Portfolio
invested with a single issuer. The maximum maturity for investments in Municipal Bonds
shall be limited to five years.
4. Corporate or Bank Securities. Debt denominated in United States Dollars, issued by
corporations or financial institutions organized and operating in the United States. Eligible
corporate or bank securities such as negotiable certificates of deposit shall be rated in one
of the two highest categories as described in the Credit Criteria section by at least two
NRSROs. These ratings requirements first apply to the security being purchased and
second, if the security itself is unrated, to the issuer provided the security contains no
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 79

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy Proposed (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

categories (as described above in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two NRSROs. No
more than 75% of the Portfolio may be invested in Federal Agency and Instrumentality
Securities with no more than 25% being invested in a single issuer. Subordinate debt of
any issuer is not authorized. The maximum maturity for investments in Federal Agency and
Instrumentality Securities shall be limited to five years.

1.E.2.a

Subject: 2026 Investment Policy
Page 6

5. Commercial paper. According to Colorado Revised Statutes, Section 32-9-163(1)(d),
collateralized prime commercial paper issued by a corporation or bank that is organized and
operated within the United States. Investments in commercial paper must carry at least
two credit ratings from any NRSRO and both must be at least A-1, P1, or F1.
Investments in commercial paper may not exceed 40% of the Portfolio, and no more than
3% may be invested with a single issuer. The maximum maturity for investments in
commercial paper is 270 days.
6. FDIC Insured Certificates of Deposit (CDs). FDIC Insured Certificates of Deposit (CDs)
issued by a nationally or state-chartered bank or a state or federal savings and loan
association or by a state-licensed branch of a foreign bank. Eligible certificates of deposit
shall be rated in one of the two highest categories (as described in the Credit Criteria
section) by a NRSRO. CDs shall be exempted from rating requirements if the CDs are fully
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).
For CDs in amounts in excess of the FDIC limit, the CD amount must be collateralized in
accordance with the Public Deposit Protection Act. No more than 10% of the Portfolio may
be invested in securities described in this investment category. No more than 3% of the
Portfolio may be invested in CDs of a single institution. The maximum maturity for
investments in FDIC-insured CDs shall be limited to one year.
7. Bankers’ Acceptances (BAs). Bills of exchange or time drafts that are drawn on and
accepted by a commercial bank. Eligible BAs shall be rated in one of the two highest
categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two NRSROs. No more
than 20% of the Portfolio may be invested in BAs and no more than 3% may be invested
with a single institution. The maximum maturity for investments in BAs shall be limited to
one year.
8. Repurchase Agreements. Repurchase Agreements concerning U.S. Treasury and agency
securities listed in items (1) or (2) above. Repurchase agreement counterparties must be
Primary Government Securities Dealers reporting to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
and shall have either a) a long-term rating in one of the two highest categories by a NRSRO
(as described in the Credit Criteria section) or b) short-term ratings not less than A1, P1,
or F1 by any NRSRO.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy Proposed (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

provisions subordinating it from being a senior debt obligation of the issuer. No more than
20% of the Portfolio may be invested in corporate and bank securities and no more than
3% may be invested with a single corporation or bank; notwithstanding the book value
limits of 24-75-601.1(1)(m). The maximum maturity for investments in corporate and bank
securities shall be limited to three years.

1.E.2.a

Subject: 2026 Investment Policy
Page 7

No more than 50% of the Portfolio may be invested in repurchase agreements and no more
than 10% may be invested with a single counterparty. The maximum maturity for a
repurchase agreement shall be limited to 90 days.
9. Money Market Funds. Shares of beneficial interest issued by diversified management
companies that are treasury or government money market funds registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and
meeting the maturity requirements specified in rule 2a-7 of that Act. To be eligible for
investment, these companies shall have either: (i) attained the highest ranking or the
highest letter and numerical rating provided by one or more NRSROs or (ii) assets under
management of one billion dollars or more ($1,000,000,000). The investment policies of
any such fund shall include seeking to maintain a stable $1 net asset value. Additionally,
the purchase price of shares of beneficial interest shall not include any commission that
these companies may charge. A maximum of 100% of the Portfolio may be invested in
treasury or government money market funds with a single fund constituting no more than
50% of the Portfolio.
10.
Local Government Investment Pools. Any interest in a local government investment
pool organized under Colorado Revised Statutes, Section 24-75-701 et. seq. To be eligible
for investment, a local government investment pool shall have the highest ranking or the
highest letter and numerical rating provided by one or more NRSROs. A maximum of 100%
of the Portfolio may be invested in local government investment pools with a single pool
constituting no more than 50% of the Portfolio.

6. INVESTMENT PARAMETERS
6.1 Sale of Securities
RTD does not make investments for the purpose of trading or speculation, but, rather, with the
prevalent intent to hold securities to maturity. The prohibition of speculative investment precludes
pursuit of profit through unusual risk or conjectural fluctuations in market prices. However,
fluctuations in market rates or changes in credit quality may produce situations where securities
may be sold at a nominal loss in order to mitigate further erosion of principal or to reinvest
proceeds of sale in securities that will outperform the original investment.
6.2 Competitive Bidding
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy Proposed (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

The market value of collateral securities shall be marked-to-market daily. RTD shall have
specific written agreements with each firm with which it enters into repurchase
agreements.

1.E.2.a

RTD shall obtain competitive bid or offer information on all purchases or sales of investment
instruments on the secondary market. A competitive bid or offer can be executed through a
bidding process involving at least three separate brokers/financial institutions. If RTD is offered a
security for which there is no readily available competitive offering on the same specific issue,
the investment officer may document quotations for comparable or alternative securities. When
purchasing original/new issue securities, no competitive offerings will be required as all dealers in
the selling group offer those securities at the same original issue price.
6.3 Portfolio Duration
The maturity of the securities in the Portfolio shall be managed with respect to the cash flow
needs of RTD, and the Portfolio shall be managed to maintain a duration of three years or less.
6.4 Authorized Financial Dealers and Institutions
RTD, or an investment advisor hired by RTD, will maintain a list of financial institutions authorized
to provide investment services, and it shall be the policy of RTD to purchase securities only from
those authorized institutions and firms. Trading counterparties shall be limited to (i) primary
dealers reporting to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or (ii) broker/dealers that qualify under
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c3-1 (uniform net capital rule).
6.5 Authorized Investment Advisors
RTD may engage the services of one or more professional investment advisory firms to assist in
the management of the Portfolio. Such investment advisors may be granted discretion to purchase
and sell investment securities in accordance with this Policy and may utilize their own approved
list of broker/dealers. Such firms must be authorized to conduct business in the State of Colorado
and shall be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940.

7. SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY
7.1 Safekeeping and Custody
With the exception of collateral under repurchase agreements discussed below, all investment
securities purchased shall be held in a safekeeping account or trust custody account at a
designated third-party custodian. For safekeeping accounts, the institution shall issue a
safekeeping receipt for each security, listing the specific instrument, par value, rate, CUSIP
number, and any other pertinent information. In addition, the safekeeping or trust custody
institutions shall provide a statement on at least a monthly basis listing all securities held in
account, including book value and market value of holdings at month-end.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 82

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy Proposed (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

Subject: 2026 Investment Policy
Page 8

1.E.2.a

Subject: 2026 Investment Policy
Page 9

For collateral (purchased securities) under repurchase agreements, RTD may utilize tri-party
repurchase agreements with an acceptable third-party custodian, provided that RTD is satisfied
that it has a perfected interest in the securities used as collateral and that RTD has a properly
executed tri-party agreement.

All investment transactions will be executed on a delivery versus payment basis.

8. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Investment reports shall be prepared on a monthly, quarterly, and annual basis. Transaction
summaries shall be maintained and available in the office of the CFO or other authorized
investment personnel. Quarterly investment reports shall be submitted to the Board of Directors
and shall outline RTD’s total investment return and compare the Portfolio’s performance to a
publicly available index of securities having similar quality and duration characteristics.
Staff will include an annual listing of investments held and investment returns within the Q4
investment report.
All securities holdings reports for RTD shall disclose the average maturity of the investment
portfolio.

9. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
RTD's Portfolio is managed with the objective of obtaining a market rate of return, commensurate
with identified risk constraints and cash flow characteristics. Because the composition of the
Portfolio fluctuates, depending on market and credit conditions, various indices may be used to
monitor investment performance.
The current Board-approved index for the liquidity tier of the Portfolio (cash and cash equivalents)
is the ICE BofAML 3-month U.S. Treasury Bill Index. For the enhanced cash portion of the Portfolio
(securities maturing between 90 days and five years and with a target duration of one year), the
designated performance benchmark is the ICE BofAML 1-year U.S. Treasury Note Index.
RTD recognizes that bond proceeds must be invested in accordance with Section 1.148 of the
U.S. Internal Revenue Code related to arbitrage rebate, which limits the investment returns that
may be achieved or retained by RTD on such proceeds’ investments. For purposes of this Policy,
“bond proceeds” shall mean proceeds from the issuance of bonds, certificates of participation, or
other financial securities issued by RTD.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 83

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy Proposed (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

7.2 Delivery vs. Payment

1.E.2.a

Subject: 2026 Investment Policy
Page 10

10. INVESTMENT POLICY REVIEW AND APPROVAL

11. RTD-AUTHORIZED INVESTMENT SUMMARY
THIS PAGE IS PROVIDED FOR SUMMARY PURPOSES ONLY. FOR A DETAILED DESCRIPTION
PLEASE SEE AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
Security Type

Maximum
Portfolio %

Maximum
Issuer %

Maturity
Restrictions

Rating
Restrictions

U.S. Treasuries

100%

100%

5 years

N/A

25%

5 years

AA

3%*

5 years

A

3%*

5 years

AA

3%*

5 years

“A-1” or
“MIG 1”

5%

5 years

AA

3%

3 years

AA

Federal Agencies and
75%
Instrumentalities
Municipal Bonds,
20%*
of a Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds,
of
a
non-Colorado 20%*
Issuer
Municipal Bonds,
20%*
Short Term
Municipal Bonds,
40%
Pre-Refunded
Corporate or Bank
20%
Securities
Commercial Paper

40%

3%

270 days

“A-1/P1/F1”

FDIC-Insured CDs

10%

3%

1 year

AA

Bankers’ Acceptances

20%

3%

1 year

AA

Repurchase
Agreements

50%

10%

90 days

AA

Money Market Funds

100%

50%

N/A

AAAm

Local
Government
100%
Investment Pools

50%

N/A

AAAm/AAAf

* The aggregate exposure to such bonds may not exceed 20% of the Portfolio, and no more than
3% of the portfolio may be invested with a single issuer.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy Proposed (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

The CFO shall conduct a review of the Policy on an annual basis and present the Policy, denoting
any changes, to the Board of Directors for approval.

1.E.2.a

Subject: 2026 Investment Policy
Page 11

INVESTMENT POLICY APPROVAL AND ADOPTION

General Manager and CEO

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy Proposed (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

Approved

Date

Adopted
Board of Directors

Chair

Secretary

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Date

Date

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 85

1.E.2.a

Subject: 2026 Investment Policy
Page 12

The following persons are authorized to transact investment business on behalf of RTD:
General Manager and CEO
Chief Financial Officer
Director of Treasury
Senior Manager of Debt and Investments
Manager of Debt and Investments
Senior Manager of Budget

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy Proposed (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

Regional Transportation District (“RTD”)
Investment Policy Statement
Appendix 1
Authorized Personnel

1.E.2.b

20265 INVESTMENT POLICY

1. PURPOSE
The purpose of this document is to specify the policies and procedures that support a prudent
and systematic program for investment transactions involving operating and reserve funds of the
Regional Transportation District (RTD).

2. SCOPE
This investment policy applies to investment of all operating and reserve funds of RTD
(collectively, the Portfolio).
This Policy shall not restrict the ability of RTD to invest proceeds from the issuance of RTD
securities in financial obligations permitted through Board-approved bond resolutions or indentures
of trust pursuant to which the securities were issued. The standards of care dictated for
investments of other RTD funds shall also pertain to the investment of such proceeds.

3. OBJECTIVES
The objectives, in priority order, of the RTD's investment activities shall be:
3.1 Safety
Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the investment program. Investments of RTD will
be made in a manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the Portfolio. To attain
this objective, RTD will endeavor to mitigate credit and interest rate risks.
Credit Risk: RTD will minimize credit risk, which is the risk of loss due to the failure of the
security issuer or backer, by:
•
•

Limiting investments to the types of securities listed in the Authorized Investments
section of this Policy.
Diversifying the Portfolio in accordance with Policy limits in order to minimize the
potential for losses from any one type of security or any one individual issuer.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 87

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy with Redlines (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 20265

1.E.2.b

Subject: 20265 Investment Policy
Page 2

•

Maintaining Portfolio duration appropriate to the cash flow requirements of RTD, thereby
reducing the likelihood that securities would need to be sold on the open market prior
to maturity.

3.2 Liquidity
The Portfolio will remain sufficiently liquid to enable RTD to meet all cash flow requirements
which that might be reasonably anticipated. This will be achieved through maturity diversification
and purchases of securities that have an established secondary market.
3.3 Yield
The Portfolio shall be designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the investment risk constraints, liquidity
needs, and cash flow characteristics of the Portfolio.

4. STANDARDS OF CARE
4.1 Prudence
All RTD officers and employees involved in the investment of RTD funds, along with any external
investment advisors, shall adhere to the guidance provided by the “prudent investor” standard to
insure ensure that according to Colorado Revised Statutes, Section 15-1-304:
“When investing, reinvesting, purchasing, acquiring, exchanging, selling, or managing
public funds, a trustee shall act with care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the
circumstances then prevailing, including, but not limited to, the general economic
conditions and the anticipated needs of the agency, that a prudent person acting in a like
capacity and familiar with those matters would use in the conduct of funds of a like
character and with like aims, to safeguard the principal and maintain the liquidity needs of
the agency. Within the limitations of this section and considering individual investments
as part of an overall strategy, investments may be acquired as authorized by lawIn
acquiring, investing, reinvesting, exchanging, retaining, selling, and managing property for
the benefit of others, fiduciaries shall be required to have in mind the responsibilities which
are attached to such offices and the size, nature, and needs of the estates entrusted to
their care and shall exercise the judgment and care, under the circumstances then
prevailing, which men of prudence, discretion, and intelligence exercise in the management
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy with Redlines (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

Interest Rate Risk: RTD will minimize interest rate risk, which is the risk that the market value
of securities in the Portfolio will fall due to changes in market interest rates, by:

1.E.2.b

Subject: 20265 Investment Policy
Page 3

RTD shall recognize that no investment is totally riskless and that the investment activities of
RTD are a matter of public record. Accordingly, it recognizes that occasional measured losses
are inevitable in a diversified portfolio and shall be considered within the context of the overall
Portfolio’s return, provided that adequate diversification has been implemented, and that the sale
of a security is in the best long-term interest of RTD.
Authorized investment personnel acting in accordance with this Policy and exercising due
diligence shall be relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security’s credit risk or market
price changes, provided that deviations from expectation are reported in a timely fashion and
appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
4.2 Delegation of Authority
RTD is granted legislativehas authority to invest its funds pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes,
Sections 32-9-119. Management responsibility for the investment program is hereby delegated
to the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO) and her designees. The GM/CEO’s designee will
hereinafter be referred to as the Chief Financial Officer (CFO).
RTD may, in its discretion, contract with one or more investment advisers, registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, to manage a
portion of its Portfolio assets. Any such advisor shall comply with this Policy and such other
written instructions as provided by RTD.
While it is understood that the procedures and trading counterparties of a contracted investment
adviser may differ from those of RTD, contracted investment advisers must maintain internal
controls and compliance systems at least as extensive as those of the RTD in order to assure
adequate protection of RTD assets in keeping with the standards of prudence outlined below.
4.3 Investment Procedures
The CFO shall establish written procedures for the operation of the investment program,
consistent with this Policy, which shall include explicit delegation of authority to persons
responsible for investment transactions. No person may engage in an investment transaction
except as provided under the terms of this Policy and the internal procedures established by the
CFO. Persons who are authorized to transact investment business and wire funds on behalf of
RTD are listed in Appendix 1 to this policy.
4.4 Internal Controls
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 89

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy with Redlines (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

of the property of another, not in regard to speculation but in regard to the permanent
disposition of funds, considering the probable income as well as the probable safety of
capital."

1.E.2.b

Subject: 20265 Investment Policy
Page 4

The CFO shall establish a system of internal controls, which shall be reviewed annually. The
controls shall be designed to prevent loss of funds due to fraud, employee error, misrepresentation
by third parties, or imprudent actions by employees of RTD.

Investment activities shall be performed in accordance with RTD’s Code of Ethics and other
policies of RTD. Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution of the investment
program, or which could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions. Employees
and investment officials shall disclose to the GM/CEO any material financial interests in financial
institutions that conduct business with RTD, and they shall further disclose any material
personal/financial/investment positions that could be related to the performance of the Portfolio.
Employees and officers shall subordinate their personal investment transactions to those of RTD
particularly with regard to the timing of purchases or sales.
5. AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS
Authorized investments for RTD funds are specifically listed below. RTD recognizes that
investment risk can result from issuer defaults, market price changes, or various technical
impediments, leading to diminished liquidity or loss of capital. Portfolio risk management and
diversification are employed as a way to minimize the risks inherent in investing.
Credit Criteria: Credit criteria listed in this section refer to the credit rating at the time the security
is purchased. Rating categories defined by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations
(NRSROs) include intermediate rating categories. For example, the second highest rating category
(AA) includes bonds rated AA+, AA and AA- for Standard & Poor's and Fitch, and Aa1, Aa2 and
Aa3 for Moody's Investors Service. In the event that an issuer or security is downgraded below
the minimum rating level for any specific security that is held in the Portfolio, the CFO will review
the exposure of that security holding and will determine if it is advisable to sell such holding.
Maturity Restrictions: Maturity restrictions shall be calculated from settlement date to maturity
date. Portfolio percentage restrictions by security type and issuer are applicable only on the date
of purchase of the investment.
Sector Diversification: The Portfolio will be limited to an aggregate exposure of 50% for the
following investment types: Municipal Bonds, Corporate Bonds, Commercial Paper, Time
Deposits/Time Certificates of Deposit, and Banker's’ Acceptances.
1. U.S. Treasury Obligations. Obligations in the form of bills, notes, bonds, or certificates of
indebtedness backed by the full faith and credit of the United States of America. 100%
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 90

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy with Redlines (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

4.5 Ethics and Conflicts of Interest

1.E.2.b

Subject: 20265 Investment Policy
Page 5

2. Federal Agency and Instrumentality Securities.: Obligations, participations, or other
instruments of any Federal agency, instrumentality, or United States governmentsponsored enterprise as described in Colorado Revised Statutes, Section CRS 24-75601.1(1)(b) (an “Agency” or “Agencies”). Such securities shall be rated in one of the two
highest rating categories (as described above in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two
NRSROs. No more than 75% of the Portfolio may be invested in Federal Agency and
Instrumentality Securities, with no more than 25% being invested in a single
issuer. Subordinate debt of any issuer is not authorized. The maximum maturity for
investments in Federal Agency and Instrumentality Securities shall be limited to five years.
Authorized Securities include, but may not be limited to:
•
•
•
•
•

Federal Home Loan Bank
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
Federal National Mortgage Association
Federal Farm Credit Bank
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)

3. Municipal Bonds. General Obligation Bonds and Revenue Obligation Bonds of state or local
governments. Such obligations of Colorado (or any political subdivision, institution,
department, agency, instrumentality, or authority of the state) shall be rated in one of the
three highest rating categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two
NRSROs. Such obligations of any other governmental entity shall be rated in one of the
two highest rating categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two
NRSROs.
For short short-term or variable variable-rate instruments (Short Term Municipal Bonds), the
securities must be rated at least A-1, MIG 1, or the equivalent, by a NRSRO.
Pre-Refunded Municipal Bonds, which are secured by an escrow of U.S. Treasury securities
or State and Local Government Series securities, shall be rated in one of the two highest
rating categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by a NRSRO. No more than
40% of the Portfolio may be invested in Pre-Refunded Municipal Bonds and no more than
5% may be invested with a single issuer.
With the exception of Pre-Refunded Municipal Bonds described above, no more than 20%
of the Portfolio may be invested in Municipal Bonds with no more than 3% of the Portfolio
invested with a single issuer. The maximum maturity for investments in Municipal Bonds
shall be limited to five years.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 91

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy with Redlines (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

of the Portfolio may be invested in U.S. Treasury Obligations. The maximum maturity for
investments in U.S. Treasury Obligations shall be limited to five years.

1.E.2.b

4. Corporate or Bank Securities. Debt denominated in United States Dollars, issued by
corporations or financial institutions organized and operating in the United States. Eligible
corporate or bank securities (such as negotiable certificates of deposit) shall be rated in
one of the two highest categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by at least
two NRSROs. These ratings requirements first apply to the security being purchased and
second, if the security itself is unrated, to the issuer provided the security contains no
provisions subordinating it from being a senior debt obligation of the issuer. No more than
20% of the Portfolio may be invested in corporate and bank securities and no more than
3% may be invested with a single corporation or bank; notwithstanding the book value
limits of 24-75-601.1(1)(m). The maximum maturity for investments in corporate and bank
securities shall be limited to three years.
5. Commercial paper. According to Colorado Revised Statutes, Section 32-9-163(1)(d),
collateralized prime cCommercial paper issued by a corporation or bank that is organized
and operated within the United States. Investments in commercial paper must carry at
least two credit ratings from any NRSRO and both must be at least A-1, P1, or F1.
Investments in commercial paper may not exceed 40% of the Portfolio, and no more than
3% may be invested with a single issuer. The maximum maturity for investments in
commercial paper is 270 days.
6. FDIC Insured Certificates of Deposit (CDs). FDIC Insured Certificates of Deposit (CDs )
issued by a nationally or state-chartered bank or a state or federal savings and loan
association or by a state-licensed branch of a foreign bank. Eligible certificates of deposit
shall be rated in one of the two highest categories (as described in the Credit Criteria
section) by a NRSRO. CDs shall be exempted from rating requirements if the CDs are fully
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).
For CDs in amounts in excess of the FDIC limit, the CD amount must be collateralized in
accordance with the Public Deposit Protection Act. No more than 10% of the Portfolio
may be invested in securities described in this investment category. No more than 3% of
the Portfolio may be invested in CDs of a single institution. The maximum maturity for
investments in FDIC FDIC-Iinsured CDs shall be limited to one year.
7. Bankers’ Acceptances (BAs). Bills of exchange or time drafts that are drawn on and
accepted by a commercial bank. Eligible BAs shall be rated in one of the two highest
categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two NRSROs. No more
than 20% of the Portfolio may be invested in BAs and no more than 3% may be invested
with a single institution. The maximum maturity for investments in BAs shall be limited to
one year.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 92

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy with Redlines (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

Subject: 20265 Investment Policy
Page 6

1.E.2.b

8. Repurchase Agreements. Repurchase Agreements concerning U.S. Treasury and agency
securities listed in items (1) or (2) above. Repurchase agreement counterparties must be
Primary Government Securities Dealers reporting to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
and shall have either a) a long long-term rating in one of the two highest categories by a
NRSRO (as described in the Credit Criteria section), or b) short short-term ratings not less
than A1, P1, or F1 by any NRSRO.
The market value of collateral securities shall be marked-to-market daily. RTD shall have
specific written agreements with each firm with which it enters into repurchase
agreements.
No more than 50% of the Portfolio may be invested in repurchase agreements and no more
than 10% may be invested with a single counterparty. The maximum maturity for a
repurchase agreement shall be limited to 90 days.
9. Money Market Funds. Shares of beneficial interest issued by diversified management
companies that are treasury or government money market funds registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and
meeting the maturity requirements specified in rule 2a-7 of that Act. To be eligible for
investment, these companies shall have either: (i) attained the highest ranking or the
highest letter and numerical rating provided by one or more NRSROs or (ii) assets under
management of one billion dollars or more ($1,000,000,000). The investment policies of
any such fund shall include seeking to maintain a stable $1 net asset value. Additionally,
the purchase price of shares of beneficial interest shall not include any commission that
these companies may charge. A maximum of 100% of the Portfolio may be invested in
treasury or government money market funds with a single fund constituting no more than
50% of the Portfolio.
10.
Local Government Investment Pools. Any interest in a local government investment
pool organized under Colorado Revised Statutes, SectionCRS 24-75-701 et. seq. To be
eligible for investment, a local government investment pool shall have the highest ranking
or the highest letter and numerical rating provided by one or more NRSROs. A maximum
of 100% of the Portfolio may be invested in local government investment pools with a
single pool constituting no more than 50% of the Portfolio.

6. INVESTMENT PARAMETERS
6.1 Sale of Securities
RTD does not make investments for the purpose of trading or speculation, but, rather, with the
prevalent intent to hold securities to maturity. The prohibition of speculative investment precludes
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 93

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy with Redlines (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

Subject: 20265 Investment Policy
Page 7

1.E.2.b

Subject: 20265 Investment Policy
Page 8

6.2 Competitive Bidding
RTD shall obtain competitive bid or offer information on all purchases or sales of investment
instruments on the secondary market. A competitive bid or offer can be executed through a
bidding process involving at least three separate brokers/financial institutions. If RTD is offered
a security for which there is no readily available competitive offering on the same specific issue,
the investment officer may document quotations for comparable or alternative securities. When
purchasing original/new issue securities, no competitive offerings will be required as all dealers in
the selling group offer those securities at the same original issue price.
6.3 Portfolio Duration
The maturity of the securities in the Portfolio shall be managed with respect to the cash flow
needs of RTD, and the Portfolio shall be managed to maintain a duration of three years or less.
6.4 Authorized Financial Dealers and Institutions
RTD, or an investment advisor hired by RTD, will maintain a list of financial institutions authorized
to provide investment services, and it shall be the policy of RTD to purchase securities only from
those authorized institutions and firms. Trading counterparties shall be limited to (i) primary
dealers reporting to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or (ii) broker/dealers that qualify under
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c3-1 (uniform net capital rule).
6.5 Authorized Investment Advisors
RTD may engage the services of one or more professional investment advisory firms to assist in
the management of the Portfolio. Such investment advisors may be granted discretion to
purchase and sell investment securities in accordance with this Policy and may utilize their own
approved list of broker/dealers. Such firms must be authorized to conduct business in the State
of Colorado and shall be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940.

7. SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY
7.1 Safekeeping and custodyCustody

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 94

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy with Redlines (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

pursuit of profit through unusual risk or conjectural fluctuations in market prices. However,
fluctuations in market rates or changes in credit quality may produce situations where securities
may be sold at a nominal loss in order to mitigate further erosion of principal or to reinvest
proceeds of sale in securities that will out-perform the original investment.

1.E.2.b

With the exception of collateral under repurchase agreements (discussed below), all investment
securities purchased shall be held in a safekeeping account or trust custody account at a
designated third third-party custodian. For safekeeping accounts, the institution shall issue a
safekeeping receipt for each security, listing the specific instrument, par value, rate, CUSIP
number, and any other pertinent information. In addition, the safekeeping or trust custody
institutions shall provide a statement on at least a monthly basis listing all securities held in
account, including book value and market value of holdings at month-end.
For collateral (purchased securities) under repurchase agreements, RTD may utilize tri-party
repurchase agreements with an acceptable third-party custodian, provided that RTD is satisfied
that it has a perfected interest in the securities used as collateral, and that RTD has a properly
executed tri-party agreement.
7.2 Delivery vs. Payment
All investment transactions will be executed on a delivery versus payment basis.

8. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Investment reports shall be prepared on a monthly, quarterly, and annual basis. Transaction
summaries shall be maintained and available in the office of the CFO or other authorized
investment personnel. Quarterly investment reports shall be submitted to the Board of Directors
and shall outline RTD’s total investment return and compare the Portfolio’s performance to a
publicly available index of securities having similar quality and duration characteristics.
Staff will include an annual listing of investments held and investment returns within the Annual
Comprehensive Financial ReportQ4 investment report.
All securities holdings reports for RTD shall disclose the average maturity of the investment
portfolio.

9. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
RTD's Portfolio is managed with the objective of obtaining a market rate of return, commensurate
with identified risk constraints and cash flow characteristics. Because the composition of the
Portfolio fluctuates, depending on market and credit conditions, various indices may be used to
monitor investment performance.
The current Bboard-approved index for the liquidity tier of the Portfolio (cash and cash equivalents)
is the ICE BofAML 3-month U.S. Treasury Bill Index. For the enhanced cash portion of the
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 95

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy with Redlines (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

Subject: 20265 Investment Policy
Page 9

1.E.2.b

Subject: 20265 Investment Policy
Page 10

RTD recognizes that bond proceeds must be invested in accordance with Section 1.148 of the
U.S. Internal Revenue Code, related to arbitrage rebate, which limits the investment returns
thatwhich may be achieved or retained by RTD on such proceeds’ investments. For purposes of
this Policy, “bond proceeds” shall mean proceeds from the issuance of bonds, certificates of
participation, or other financial securities issued by RTD.
10. INVESTMENT POLICY REVIEW AND APPROVAL
The CFO shall conduct a review of the Policy on an annual basis and present the Policy, denoting
any changes, to the Board of Directors for approval.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 96

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy with Redlines (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

Portfolio (securities maturing between 90 days and 5 five years and with a target duration of
one1 year), the designated performance benchmark is the ICE BofAML 1-year U.S. Treasury Note
Index.

1.E.2.b

Subject: 20265 Investment Policy
Page 11

11. RTD -AUTHORIZED INVESTMENT SUMMARY

Security Type

Maximum
Portfolio %

Maximum
Issuer %

Maturity
Restrictions

Rating
Restrictions

U.S. Treasuries

100%

100%

5 years

N/A

25%

5 years

AA

3%*

5 years

A

3%*

5 years

AA

3%*

5 years

“A-1” or
“MIG 1”

5%

5 years

AA

3%

3 years

AA

Federal Agencies and
75%
Instrumentalities
Municipal Bonds,
20%*
of a Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds,
of
a
non-Colorado 20%*
Issuer
Municipal Bonds,
20%*
Short Term
Municipal Bonds,
40%
Pre-Refunded
Corporate or Bank
20%
Securities
Commercial Paper

40%

3%

270 days

“A-1/P1/F1”

FDIC
CDs

10%

3%

1 year

AA

Bankers’ Acceptances

20%

3%

1 year

AA

Repurchase
Agreements

50%

10%

90 days

AA

Money Market Funds

100%

50%

N/A

AAAm

Local
Government
100%
Investment Pools

50%

N/A

AAAm/AAAf

FDIC-Insured

* The aggregate exposure to such bonds may not exceed 20% of the Portfolio, and no more than
3% of the portfolio may be invested with a single issuer.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 97

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy with Redlines (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

THIS PAGE IS PROVIDED FOR SUMMARY PURPOSES ONLY. FOR A DETAILED DESCRIPTION
PLEASE SEE AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.

1.E.2.b

Subject: 20265 Investment Policy
Page 12

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy with Redlines (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

12. INVESTMENT POLICY APPROVAL AND ADOPTION

Approved

General Manager and CEO

Date

Adopted
Board of Directors

Chair

Secretary

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Date

Date

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 98

1.E.2.b

Subject: 20265 Investment Policy
Page 13

The following persons are authorized to transact investment business on behalf of the Regional
Transportation District (RTD):
General Manager and CEO
Chief Financial Officer
Director of Treasury
Senior Manager of Debt and Investments
Manager of Debt and Investments
Senior Manager of Budget

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 99

Attachment: RTD 2026 Investment Policy with Redlines (5181 : 2026 Investment Policy)

Regional Transportation District (“RTD”)
Investment Policy Statement
Appendix 1
Authorized Personnel

1.E.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
Capital Improvement Projects

September 9, 2025

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Acting Assistant General Manager, Capital Programs
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
RTD undertakes Capital Improvement Projects to periodically replace or extend the life of vehicles,
equipment, software systems, infrastructure and facility components. Other projects that do not extend
the life of assets are funded through the expense budget.
RTD coordinates financial planning to deliver an agency-wide plan for projects involving assets. The
delivery of capital projects involves structured activities that typically span multiple years. The Transit
Asset Management Plan is aligned to financial planning in the Five-Year Financial Forecast and annual
budget process, which then provides for plan implementation by various departments.
DISCUSSION
The purpose of this Discussion Item is to review capital improvement projects that are greater than $2M
and recently completed, ongoing or underway. This overview includes funding, cost alignment,
challenges and stages from Q4 2023 through Q2 2025.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact from this Discussion Item.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

Capital Improvement Projects

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 100

1.E.3

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 101

September 9, 2025
We make lives better
through connections.

Capital Improvement Projects
Finance and Planning Committee

Kelly Mackey
Chief Financial Officer

Attachment: Capital Improvement Projects (5182 : Capital Improvement Projects)

1.E.3.a

Packet Pg. 102

Capital Improvement Projects Overview
The Board’s Role
in Capital Projects

• Strategic oversight
• Fiduciary responsibility
• Risk governance
• Performance monitoring
• Stewardship of public trust
• Connecting communities

§ Staff coordinates planning and execution of capital projects to
deliver an agency-wide plan

§ Capital projects are completed in a structured way based on
years of planning

§ Many decisions around these asset replacements were

substantially made 20+ years ago when the infrastructure was
built

§ The fiscal policy states, “RTD will limit capital expenditure and
expense fiscal year carryforwards to the lesser of the life of
the project or three years.”

§ On the following slides is a list of capital projects at least $2M
in value that were recently completed, ongoing, or underway

September 9, 2025

2

Attachment: Capital Improvement Projects (5182 : Capital Improvement Projects)

1.E.3.a

Packet Pg. 103

Project Delivery Cycle Phases

Need Identification

Financial Planning
Process

Age
Condition
Obsolescence
Other initiatives

Asset Management
Plan inputs into annual
budget and five-year
fiscal forecast

Implementation/
Construction

Closeout/Warranty

Desired end product
put in service

Close technical and
business matters

September 9, 2025

Planning/Design

Procurement

Detailed technical,
business and
implementation
requirements and
procurement package
developed

Retention of
external consultants
and contracted
services

3

Attachment: Capital Improvement Projects (5182 : Capital Improvement Projects)

1.E.3.a

Packet Pg. 104

Development Cycle in Financial Planning

Plan Implementation
Amended

2024 Annual

2024-2029 MTFP

2025 Annual Budget

2025-2030 FYFF

2025-2030 AMP
Add 2030

Adjust 2026-2029

Initial AMP

Validated AMP

2026-2030 AMP

2026 Annual Budget

2026-2030 FYFF

2027-2031 AMP

Prioritized AMP (AMWG)

September 9, 2025

4

December

November

October

September

August

July

May

April

March

February

January

December

November

October

September

August

July

June

May

April

March

February

January

December

November

October

September

August

June

2025

2024

July

June

May

April

March

February

January

2023

Attachment: Capital Improvement Projects (5182 : Capital Improvement Projects)

1.E.3.a

Packet Pg. 105

Capital Improvement Projects >$2M (1 of 2)
Capital Project

Budget

Approved

Cost

Source

Challenge

Q4’23

Q1’24

Q2’24

East Metro Triple Pit*

$3M

2021

Under

Local funds

None

East Metro Roof Replacement

$7M

2023

Under

Federal/CDOT/
local funds

None

CO-119 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)

$33M

2022/2023

Aligned

Local funds

None

HVAC Boulder

$4M

2025

Aligned

Local funds

None

Design

District Shops Rooftop Unit Replacement

$2M

2024

Aligned

Local funds

None

Design

Downtown Rail Reconstruction

$152M

2024

Aligned

Federal/local

Schedule

Ticket Vending Machines

$24M

2020/2024

Aligned

Federal/local

Schedule

Access-a-Ride and FlexRide Cutaways

$24M

2022

Aligned

Local funds

Schedule

District Shops Hoist Replacement

$4M

2023/2024

Aligned

Federal/local

Schedule

Over-the-Road Coaches

$8M

2025

Aligned

Local/CDOT

Schedule

Design

Q3’24

Q4’24

Q1’25

Complete

Construction

Design

Construction

Complete

Design

Construction

Planning

Implementation
Planning

Planning

Implementation
Design
Planning

*One small change order to be completed in 2026

September 9, 2025

Q2’25

5

Attachment: Capital Improvement Projects (5182 : Capital Improvement Projects)

1.E.3.a

Packet Pg. 106

Capital Improvement Projects >$2M (2 of 2)
Capital Project

Budget

Approved

Cost

Source

Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
Upgrade

$8M

2023

Aligned

Local funds

None

Server Equipment Replacement

$8M

2022

Aligned

Local funds

None

HVAC Replacement – Elati, Security
Command Center and Mariposa

$5M

2023/2025

Aligned

Local funds

Schedule

Design

East Metro Hoist Replacement

$5M

2023

Aligned

CDOT/local

None

Design

Wheel Mill – Elati

$4M

2024

Under

Local funds

None

Transit Buses (40’ Buses)

$111M

Ongoing

Aligned

Local funds

None

Implementation

Network Equipment Replacement

$4M

2022

Aligned

Local funds

None

Implementation

Camera Replacement (Facilities, etc.)

$3M

2022/2025

Aligned

Local funds

None

Ongoing

Support Fleet (i.e., Support Service,
Transit Police, Pool Admin Vehicles)

$9M

2022/24/25

Aligned

Local funds

None

Software Architect Development
Equipment (Oracle Hardware)

$4M

2022

Aligned

Local funds

None

September 9, 2025

Challenge

Q4’23

Q1’24

Q2’24

Q3’24

Q4’24

Q1’25

Q2’25

Planning

Implementation

Planning

Implementation

Ongoing

Pause
Planning

6

Attachment: Capital Improvement Projects (5182 : Capital Improvement Projects)

1.E.3.a

Packet Pg. 107

Thank you.

rtd-denver.com
Attachment: Capital Improvement Projects (5182 : Capital Improvement Projects)

1.E.3.a

Packet Pg. 108

