2025-09-09
Finance and Planning Committee
MICHAEL GUZMAN: The Tuesday, September 9 Finance and Planning Committee will now come to order.
We are convened as of 5:31 PM, and I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and
will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings,
will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Real-Time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com and a link will be provided.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]

Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
to receive a live transcript of this meeting by sending an email to the same website. A live stream of this
meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. I would like to call the roll for the committee members
Vice Chair Karen Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Present
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Peggy Catlin
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Lynn Guissinger
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Chris Gutschenritter has informed me that he will be joining us, but he will
be late this evening. Director Matt Larsen
MATT LARSEN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Patrick O'Keefe
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Here
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am, Chair Michael Guzman. Please, everybody, someone interrupt the conversation.
If you see Director Gutschenritter arrive so that we can keep moving and just note that he is present in the
minutes. Thank you so much.

For the record, I am looking to see if there are anybody else joining us this evening. And I am quickly doing
that, sorry. I do not see any other Directors on my screens. Can someone verify that as well?
JACK KROLL: That's my assessment as well.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, thank you. I don't see any other Directors joining us this evening. If anybody does
join, we will make sure that we note that in the meeting transcript.
I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month, which would be
July of 2025. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or
press star 9 on your telephone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like
to be contacted regarding your public comment, please feel free to email the RTD Board of Directors
rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com. Are there any hands raised, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Guzman, there are no hands raised at this time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, I did not see anything in email before I logged in. Were there any comments
received that we need to read into the record?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Committee Chair Guzman, you all received one emailed comment from Greater Denver
Transit in relation to a couple items on your agenda for this evening. This being the tap-to-pay ticket, retail,
and the capital improvements or capital projects discussion item.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. All right, with no participants in the queue, then we will close the public
comment period at this time. We do not have any external entity reports for tonight's committee meeting.
We do have three recommended actions before us tonight. And our goal will be to navigate through them
thoroughly and efficiently.
As I have done over the last month or so, to aid us in our work, I have during the pre-meetings, worked with
staff to estimate the time needed for both presentation and discussion for each of our action items and
discussion items. Those times were printed into the agenda. I will do my best to keep us on those times.
However, our conversation may warrant more or less time on an item as we go through them.
Nonetheless, this practice aligns with our operating guidelines, and it has been effective in helping us
complete our work diligently. If any committee member or Director has feedback on this approach, please
feel free to reach out to me after the meeting, and let me know what you think and how we can improve.
Our first action then, is for the district hoist replacement contract award. This is for the Board of Directors
to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to enter into a contract with Rhino Tracks
Construction for the renovation of nine in-ground hydraulic bus hoists at RTD district shop's division
building. This includes the replacement of eight hoists and the removal of one hoist at the district shop's
bus maintenance facility.
The base bid award amount of the contract is $4,003,792. Do I have a motion?
MATT LARSEN: Motion.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Larsen. Is there a second? Director Guissinger-LYNN GUISSINGER: Excuse me, I see Chair Bouquet has joined us as well.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Excellent, thank you. Hello, Julien, Mr. Chair Bouquet, it's nice to see you.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second, if you didn't get one, I think Lynn gave you a second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, Director Larsen was the movement. Director Guissinger was the second. And
so I would like to ask Jyotsna Vishwakarma, acting Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, to
present this item to the committee, please.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you, Chair Guzman and committee members. This recommended
action seeks to renovate hoists in the district shop's bus maintenance facility. The contract award is outlined
on pages 3 and 4 of your Board package.
So a hoist is a machine that is used to lift up buses, so people can work underneath them. These hoists
were installed with the original building construction in 1989 and have been repaired and had parts replaced
ever since. It is becoming increasingly difficult to continue this practice, and that is why we are seeking to
replace eight hoist and remove one hoist.
We propose to get newer versions of the bus hoists. They have a smaller footprint, and they have better
safety and environmental features. They will also be easier to maintain.
The project is expected to be completed within 13 months following contract award, and up to approximately
80% of the cost will be paid through a Federal Transit Administration award. The remaining cost will be
funded from existing capital improvement dollars allocated in the 2025 budget. Thank you for your
consideration. I'm happy to answer any questions you may have on this item.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Miss Vishwakarma. Directors, are there any questions or comments at
this time? I also want to make sure that, for the record, Director Gutschenritter has joined our meeting. All
right, I do not see any hands raised. Going once, going twice, let's take a vote. Are there any no votes on
this action? I see no no votes. This passes unanimously to the Board, thank you. Please give me one
moment.
The second action that we will have tonight, is a tap-to-pay digitization retail network Title VI, Fare Equity
Analysis. This is for the Board to adopt the Title VI fare equity analysis report for the introduction of tap-topay fare payments to comply with federal laws, regulations, and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964. Do we have a motion?
MATT LARSEN: Motion.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Thank you. Director Larsen is the movement. Director O'Keefe is the
second. I would ask Carl Green Jr. Director of the Civil Rights Division and Martin Romero, Transit Equity
Manager Civil Rights. And Jake Bruemmer of the Electronic Fare Collection Manager and Finance to
present this item to the committee. I apologize about the last names. Please correct me and let me know if
I said them incorrectly. Mr. Green, the floor is yours.

MARTIN ROMERO: Thank you, Board Chair Guzman. Good evening, members of the Board. So, as
introduced, my name is Martin Romero, Transit Equity Manager. With me today is Jake Bruemmer,
Electronic Fare Collection Manager. And today, we will be presenting the Title VI Fare Equity Analysis for
the introduction of tap-to-pay, a cash digitization retail network, as a new fare media option for RTD.
As a reminder, this analysis is required for compliance with federal laws and regulations pertaining to Title
VI of the Civil Rights Act. Our review examined whether adding open payments, the term you will see in the
Fare Equity Analysis report, or more commonly known as tap-to-pay, which is the term we will be using
moving forward, would create disproportionate impacts on BIPOC populations, which is also an acronym
for Black Indigenous People Of Color or impacts on low-income customers. So as a reminder, this
presentation is in regards to the Title VI Fare Equity Analysis. Next slide, please.
So here's an outline of what we will be covering today. So first, we will begin our presentation with a short
video explaining the different ways to pay and introducing tap-to-pay. Then we will be summarizing the
proposed fare changes.
After that, a brief review of the Federal Transit Administration or FTA requirements for fare changes. Then
we will cover our Title VI policies and methodology. We'll cover the key findings and results, followed by
our communications and outreach plan. And then we'll end with our conclusion recommendations for Board
action. Next slide.
So with that, let's go ahead and play the video. And kudos to Stuart and team for putting this together.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
- At RTD, we're focused on making it easy to pay your fare because how you ride should be as flexible as
where you ride. Right now, you've got plenty of options. Pay cash right on the bus. Use paper tickets or
passes available online at sales outlets or ticket vending machines. Scan your MyRide app, mobile ticket,
or barcode, or tap your MyRide card, including discounted fares and pass programs.
And starting in fall of 2025, even more convenient ways are coming with open payments, simply tap your
Visa or Master credit card, debit card, or prepaid card, or mobile wallet right at the validator. It's what we
call tap-and-pay. And with cash digitization, load cash into your MyRide account or card at RTD sales
outlets and participating retailers like King Soopers, CVS, Walgreens, and 7-Eleven.
RTD is extending payment choices to make riding simpler and more accessible than ever. No matter how
you ride, there's a way to pay.
[END PLAYBACK]
MARTIN ROMERO: Thank you, and let's go ahead and go on to the next slide. So the proposal is to
introduce tap-to-pay as valid fare payment media on fixed-route services. Additionally, we will increase our
expanded-- or expand the network of retail locations where customers can load MyRide stored value to 460
locations. One thing to note, is that Access-A-Ride and FlexRide will not have validators at this time. Next
slide. So the FTA requires all fare changes, including tap-to-pay, to undergo Title VI equity analysis, which
RTD must complete before implementation. Next slide.

So this requirement stems from Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits discrimination based
on race, color, and national origin in federally funded programs. The FTA circular 4702.1B provides detailed
guidance on transit agencies to implement Title VI and ensure equitable access to services, including fare
changes.
RTD's Board adopted 2025 to 2028 Title VI program establishes the policies and the processes we follow
to maintain compliance and defines what constitutes a fare change. So let's go on to the next slide, and
we'll detail those Title VI program policies.
So RTD evaluates fare changes before implementation using its disparate impact disproportionate burden
policies. And these policies provide a structured framework to assess effects on BIPOC and low-income
customers and ensures equitable service. Next slide.
OK, so prior to initiating the analysis, step one is to determine whether this meets the fare change definition,
which includes increases or decreases in price, the addition or removal of fare media such as cash, paper,
passes, mobile tickets, changes to products like the day or the monthly pass, adjustments to fare levels
such as the standard or the airport passes, and then changes to customer categories such as seniors or
LiVE and youth participants.
This also includes modifications to ticket vending machines, ticket vending machine access fees, or
payment options. So by this definition, introducing tap-to-pay and expanding retail network, both qualify as
fare change, and therefore, fare equity analysis is required as step two to determine if that change will result
in a Disparate Impact or a DI, or Disproportionate Burden, DB for short. Next slide, please.
So our DI policy sets the threshold of 5%. So if a fare change adversely affects BIPOC customers more
than 5% above the overall ridership, that is considered a potential DI. RTD must then explore alternatives,
consider modifications, or show legitimate justification, which is step three of the process.
Then, similarly, our disproportionate burden policy sets a 5% threshold for low-income customers. If an
impact is identified, RTD will consider practicable changes to mitigate impact. And so these policies ensure
that fare changes are equitable and legally defensible. Next slide, please.
So let's get into the methodology of how we completed this analysis and the data sources used. Next slide.
Our primary data source, was the 2024 onboard survey which provided a statistically valid sample of
customer demographics, travel patterns, payment methods, and other characteristics.
This is the onboard survey, not to be confused with the annual customer satisfaction survey. And so of the
18,285 respondents, 55% identified as BIPOC. Of the 14,349 who reported income, 63% identified as low
income. The survey also asked, do you have a credit, debit, or prepaid debit card? This question formed
the basis of our analysis, helping us determine which customers already have access to the cards needed
for tap-to-pay and which may rely on other forms of payment. Next slide.
We also used the MyRide cash digitization retail network analysis, which examined access to 460 to 500
new retail locations across the district for demographic, proximity and access. And so those locations sell
prepaid debit cards and allow customers to load cash into MyRide. So together, these sources provide a
strong data analysis and access for equity impacts.
Next, we recognized several assumptions and limitations. We assume most modern debit and credit cards
will be contactless capable by 2027. We treated the MyRIde retail network as a proxy for access to prepaid

debit cards in the region. And we also noted that 6% to 8% of customers remain cash reliant. And despite
these factors, our combined survey and GIS analysis provides confidence in the results. Next slide.
So cutting down on key findings for card access, the survey shows that 90% of all respondents, including
BIPOC and low-income respondents, have a credit, debit, or prepaid debit card. The results were consistent
across groups, with 89% for both BIPOC and low-income customers, as shown in the graphic on the right
Among those without card access, 6% to 8% remain cash reliant, often buying short-term three-hour passes
on board or day passes. The graph showing the 6% to 8% cash-reliant customers can be found in Board
packet page 18.
This is also consistent across comparator groups at 5.6% for all customers, 6.5% for BIPOC, and 7.8% for
low-income customers. In addition, an additional 3% or 5% are exempt from paying fares or use passes
such as EcoPass or CollegePass, and this includes youth as well. So again, this information can be found
on Board packet pages 18 and 19. Next slide.
And now our key findings for retail network access. The expanded MyRide retail network added about 460
to 500 new locations. These locations are in areas where 43% of the population is BIPOC, which is higher
than the district average of 38, and where 27% of the population is low income, higher than the district
average of 21. This indicates that the expansion improves access for underserved populations. And so
again, many of these retailers also sell prepaid debit cards, which further supports equitable access. Next
slide.
So taken together, the analysis finds no DI on BIPOC populations and no DB on low income populations.
Tap-to-pay increases payment options and extends fare-capping benefits to customers who use
contactless cards or mobile wallets. And so this change maintains equity and pricing access and benefits.
Next slide.
So to ensure our customers are aware of tap-to-pay, RTD developed the comprehensive, multifaceted
communications and outreach plan for each initiative. So one for tap-to-pay and one for retail network
expansion, which is set to launch in November of 2025.
The plan includes news releases, publications including bilingual English and Spanish materials and Readn-Ride articles. Direct emails will be sent to LiVE program customers and transit assistant grant participants,
as well as direct emails to our community-based organizations and nonprofit database. Next slide.
Additionally, a dedicated website will be created with all information available in 10 languages. Customers
will also have access to informational videos, infographics, and email alerts. A social media campaign and
community newsletter will extend the outreach to various populations. And lastly, we plan to fan this
information out to the community via in-person events. So all in all, this multi-channel approach ensures all
customers, including underserved populations, receive the information they need to access tap-to-pay and
its benefits, as well as access to retail networks. Next slide.
So in summary, tap-to-pay will improve convenience, flexibility, and equity in fare payment. The evidence
shows strong and equitable access across all populations, and there is no negative impact on BIPOC or
low-income customers. This proposal supports RTD's strategic goal of community value and customer
excellence. Next slide.
So this presentation and supporting materials ensure that the Board is informed of the Equity Analysis and
its results and has the opportunity to review and approve it before fare change recommendations move

forward. So staff recommend approval of the Title VI Fare Equity Analysis for tap-to-pay and cash
digitization retail network. Approval will keep RTD in compliance with Title VI and allow the implementation
of this equitable fare change. Next slide.
All right, thank you for your time and attention. We will take any questions then.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Directors, who has questions or comments? Director Nicholson, your hand is raised.
You're recognized, sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Chair Guzman, I really appreciated this presentation. You guys, I know,
have done an incredible amount of work bringing this forward. I do have one question about discounts.
Because one of the things that other systems have run into in terms of CDM to tap-to-pay is how they go
about allowing people to enroll in the discount programs and the ease of which it's possible for someone
with, say, a prepaid debit card to tie their LiVE discount to their debit card so that when they tap it they get
the reduced fare.
And I was wondering-- I assume that that has equity impacts because obviously, you're dealing with folks
who are facing disproportionate burden or potentially disparate impact but more specifically, just
disproportionate burden. So I was wondering if that's something that you had looked at, and if any of you
can speak to what that enrollment process will look like and how difficult it is relative to the current process
of using your discount?
KAREN BENKER: Chair Guzman, if I may.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Absolutely, thank you. Please go ahead, Mr. Green.
CARL GREEN JR: Perfect, thank you. Great question, Director Nicholson. Just as at a high level with
respect to tap-to-pay and special discounts, so essentially, once someone is eligible, say, for example, the
LiVE or the income-based program, the way to link their profile, so to speak, with tap-to-pay, it's essentially
establishing a MyRide account.
So once you have two of those items together, they will be linked to allow folks who are in the special
discount programs, whether it be LiVE, people with disabilities, older adults. They would just link that to the
MyRide account to be able to take advantage of tap-to-pay and the MyRIde account system.
So that has been something that we, as staff, have looked through in terms of the availability and access
to the tap-to-pay with respect to discount programs. Does that answer your question, Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I was waiting for Chair Guzman to give me permission to follow up. Is that OK?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: We do have a committee member with their hand raised, so I'll give you a quick follow
up, but then I'm going to move on to the next person.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Mr. Chair, you can let Director Nicholson go.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So going into that vein, obviously a lot of people who are low income, in many cases,
don't have smartphones, for example. The question I have is, if you've got a prepaid debit card, how do you

link that to your MyRIde account so that any taps on your prepaid debit card get that discount? That's the
part that we don't really have in the app right now. There's no way to link a credit card, So I'm wondering
how that's going to factor in.
CARL GREEN JR: I will-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KELLY MACKEY: Would Mr. Bruemmer like to answer that question? Chair Guzman, is that all right?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: That's perfectly fine. Mr. Bruemmer, please proceed.
JAKE BRUEMMER: Yeah, if I may, Director Nicholson, the answer to that question is, yes. There will be a
way to register prepaid debit cards, credit cards, and other compatible CMV cards in the MyRide app and
the Web Dashboard.
We don't have a working demonstration of that yet. We do have details on how Masabi will handle it for our
customers, but that is essentially what will happen. It's not functionality that you can see currently, but it will
be there.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: May I take a moment to request how you pronounce your last name properly. Because
I don't want to-KELLY MACKEY: Yes, it's Bruemmer. I just pronounce it like the "U" isn't there, so.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, thank you very kindly [INAUDIBLE].
JAKE BRUEMMER: No worries to everyone.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Director Nicholson, did that satisfy your inquiry?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So one very quick question, so for individuals who are indigent, who don't have
access to a phone or something like that, is that something that they'll be able to do at our customer service
outlets, or are they going to have to go to the library or something like that in order to be able to enroll and
get those discounts?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I don't know who to ask to speak on that one.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I would assume Mister-JAKE BRUEMMER: Bruemmer, yeah, I-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Bruemmer.
JAKE BRUEMMER: That is something that we are working through in a distribution and communications
plan. I don't know if we have covered that exact scenario. But what I will also say, is that we have worked
with Masabi to comply with all eligible Colorado accessibility requirements for digital applications. So I think
that that should help customers that are in that situation as well. That's all the information I can give with
that.

CARL GREEN JR: And if I may, if I could have one other follow up to that. So as we think about the overall
strategy with respect to tap-to-pay and ensuring equitable access to all of our customers, this tap-to-pay is
an addition to all of our existing methods for payment.
And what I would say, in terms of folks that may not have, whether you're unbanked or underbanked or
don't have access to a smartphone with internet access, with the MyRide system, i.e. The MyRide card,
the reason why we are coupling it with the cash digitization so folks can be able to load stored value onto
their MyRide card, which in turn, they can take advantage of fare capping. So this is just a plus or a positive
in terms of expanding the number of payment types for our customers.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director O'Keeffe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is probably a new Director-- newish Director's stupidity,
but everyone bear with me. You may have even said it. Is there a difference for cash fare purchase on a
daily rate versus electronic payment? If you're buying a ticket for the day, is cash the same as it would be
on a tap-to-pay? I think the answer is yes, but-CARL GREEN JR: That is correct, Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: OK, thank you. Then it's a dumb question. And I just wanted to recognize Director
Nicholson's tenacity on this issue from when I first met with him when we were both candidates. I know
there are a lot of people that have been looking at this, but I wanted to particularly recognize his work on
this. I don't know if it's an amenity as much as a modernization, so thank you, Director Nicholson.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I would like to recognize the returning Directors who've been working on
this for several years, as well, because this has been a long time coming and working through contracts
with Masabi with our contracting department, with Debra Johnson as our General Manager CEO, leading
that conversation, at least for the two years that I served on the Board. And I walked into conversations that
were already going on when I joined in '23.
So this is a group effort, as it always is, because we're one RTD. So Director Nicholson taking the spearhead
on the conversation and not letting us forget is certainly notable. But we get this work done together.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Absolutely.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Awesome, any other Directors have comments or questions at this time? I would just
like to say, gentlemen, thank you so much for your service to the community, the outreach work that you
did, and the data collection that you are required to do. I have one question, and that is, in all of this-- and
I glad to hear what you just said Mr. Green.
We are in the great state of Colorado and House Bill 21-1048 requires that all retail businesses accept cash
as a form of payment in providing services. So as cool as it is that we are advancing in the technological
part, I am greatly concerned that we don't move too far away from the people that are not banked, and cash
is the only option that they may have to access our services.
And so working with communications and community outreach on how to load a MyRide card with
prepayment and other materials, and the increase in available retail locations to load those types of
payments to get the fare capping is really, really going to continue to be important. But I see our General
Manager CEO has her hand raised, so I will turn it to her.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. Greetings, all, Debra Johnson,
General Manager and Chief Executive Officer. Want to amplify the comments relative to staff's work, greatly
appreciate that.
What's quite notable is that we will have a full-fledged communications campaign recognizing the
importance of this amenity in regards to all of our various customer segments. Mr. Summers is online. We
plan to provide an update to the Board with our communications strategy prior to unveiling this amenity to
our customer base.
But want everybody to know, quite naturally, as long as we're providing public transportation services with
the emphasis on being public, we will ensure that we're taking all types of currency, and chances of us
going cashless, are far and few between far and few between, just by virtue of our customer segment and
the demographic.
So thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman, for your comments. We will be getting out information
within the next, I'd say, four to six weeks, prior to launching the full-fledged program. But that will be
something that's critically important to the success of this program, especially when you look at the profile
of our customer base. Thank you very much, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great, thank you. Also, I recognized the voice in the video about 30 seconds after it
started. So thank you, Mr. Summers, for lending us your voice in the video. That was pretty awesome. I've
heard about your anchor voice, but I've never actually seen it in real life, so that was a treat to see. Thank
you so much. [CHUCKLES]
All right, Are there any no votes on this matter? With the full contingent of Directors on the Finance and
Planning Committee, there are no now votes, so that passes unanimously and will also go to the Board of
Directors.
All right, time for the third and final action for this evening. And that is the 2026 through 2035 Year Financial
Forecast. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the 2026-2035 Year Financial forecast. Do we have a
motion?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: So moved.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Gutschenritter is the movement. The second is from Director
O'Keefe. I would like to ask our estimable Kelly McKee, Chief Financial Officer, and Todd Nikkel, our Senior
Manager of Budget, to present this item to the committee. The floor is yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair Guzman. Good evening, everyone. In this discussion, I'll present the
Five-Year Financial Forecast as an action item and ask for approval. The Five-Year Financial Forecast,
also known as the FYFF, was previously presented as a discussion item for the Finance and Planning
Committee on July 15.
As our refresher, I will overview the financial planning process, some key assumptions that are incorporated
in the updated forecast, and then go over next steps. The Five-Year Financial Forecast is a five-year
revenue and expenditure forecast that we update annually at this time of the year.

The prior forecast was approved in September of 2024, FYFF is the basis for RTD's budget preparation. It
is not an appropriation. The FYFF will be a basis for the 30-year long-range financial plan that is currently
in development.
We review the FYFF internally in detail and ensure it is aligned with the fiscal policy that is Board adopted.
It is tied closely to the Transit Asset Management Plan. Cross-functional teams go through a process to
evaluate and score funding requests with a number of variables. Additionally, business cases are created,
evaluated, and adjusted for funding needs and requests.
Here's a view of the financial planning process for 2025 and 2026, which shows that the bulk of the FiveYear Financial Forecast internal efforts conclude in August. The 2026 annual budget process is currently
underway and concludes typically, in November. The asset management plan for 2027 through 2031 began
in the spring, and it will carry into 2026, and this will feed the updated Five-Year Financial Forecast next
year. Overall, the goal of this process is to align the right money, in the right year, for the right requests,
and for the right reasons.
Fares, sales and use tax, grants, and contributions are projected at low-single-digit growth when looking at
the Compound Annual Growth Rate or the CAGR. This incorporates the CU Boulder Leeds Economic
Growth Forecast for Sales and Use Tax that was presented earlier in the year, and an update will be
presented to the Finance and Planning Committee on October 14.
According to the fiscal policy, this view incorporates grants that we know we will receive and not potential
future funding from grants not yet awarded. We are exploring upcoming opportunities for debt restructuring,
which would not transact until next year, so impacts related to those potential activities are not incorporated.
We have included an assumption of 3% inflation. Only a subset of materials, parts, equipment and
technology are expected to be affected by tariffs. And we have included a 3% assumption, or $1.2 million,
in 2026.
The FYFF is tied closely to the Transit Asset Management Plan, with continued maturities. Importantly, we
have aimed to meet RTD's fiscal policy, incorporating reserves for three months of operating expense, as
well as net revenue coverage of 1.2 for debt repayment obligations in both principal and interest. Net
revenue is revenue less operating expense. We are also utilizing capital replacement funds and unrestricted
funds according to fiscal policy.
Here, is a view of the Five-Year Financial Forecast, with two columns added on the left for the 2025 adopted
budget and a 2025 projection, which is primarily first half of the year actuals and second half of the year
budget. The 2025 budget was at 0.5 net revenue coverage ratio with 2.1 months of operating reserve, with
total expenditures significantly exceeding revenue.
Note that we have set the Five-Year Financial Forecast to follow the fiscal policy of 1.2, net-revenue
coverage, and three months of operating reserve. Net sources and uses of cash was 472 million in the
2025 budget, and we are continuing with higher expenditures than revenue through 2030, until the
unrestricted reserve is utilized.
The 2025 budget also includes 280 million in grants and 187 million in expense for the Colfax bus rapid
transit. The capital replacement balance, in 2030, is expected to be utilized for capital requirements in 2031.
The capital replacement reserve is insufficient for projected capital requirements of the existing system and
infrastructure, so we have included issuance of additional financing proceeds, such as for buses in 2027.

As we discussed in July, our TD staff recommends utilizing the FasTracks Internal Savings Account, or
Feddersen, for the west corridor state of good repair, and the Flat Iron flyer buses, as the unrestricted
reserve and the capital replacement reserves are not sufficient.
Here is a similar view, but staff has added the compound annual growth rate on the right column. So you
can see that revenue growth is at 4.8%, while the operating expense is at 5.8%, meaning that expenditures
are forecasted to grow faster than revenue.
I called out in the box, for your reference, that operating expense with expense projects, as a percent of
revenue, was 84% in 2024. It was 91% in the 2025 budget. And it is set at 75% of revenue in 2026, or $840
million in order to balance two key figures.
First is the net-revenue coverage ratio so that there is sufficient available remaining funds for debt service,
while also balancing to close to zero, ending balance of unrestricted reserve in 2030. And I have highlighted
these three key figures in yellow for your reference.
The next two pages are simply views broken out by the Base System and FasTracks for your reference.
Here, in the FasTracks' view, for example, you can see 45 million recommended for the FasTracks' state
of good repair. But more importantly, I'd like to draw your attention to the next slide.
We are not alone in tightening the belt, as you know. You have seen headlines about SEPTA, Tri-Met, State
of Colorado, and the City and County of Denver. The leadership team and GM CEO Johnson have been
meeting and discussing this collectively. And as the governing body, we are bringing this information to you
for your awareness.
And we're trying to retain the people that comprise this wonderful agency. We do not expect that the
updated CO Leeds forecast that we will present in October, will change the 2026 budget significantly. But
in order to achieve our 2026 target operating expense, the staff is exploring potential budget-savings
opportunities such as the ones I've listed here, including contract modifications, operations optimizations,
merit-pay timing, PTO paid-time-off sell back, slow hiring processes, and service modifications. So that
instead of having operating expense at 908 million, that we had in 2024, it's actually closer to 840 million
for 2026 based on what our revenue projections are.
And that is all I have for this discussion item, action item, so, Chair Guzman, I will turn it back to you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Hands shooting up immediately. Vice Chair Benker, you are first in line.
Go for it.
KAREN BENKER: Yes, I have many questions, many comments. I'll try to keep them somewhat short and
perhaps email you all of my questions. First of all, I apologize for not being at the pre-meeting. I was in
Canada traveling, so I was not able to participate.
First of all, if we could start on the 2025 capital budget. I went through the current budget book that I have,
and I'd like to request an update on all of the capital projects that are listed for 2025 to see where are we.
Because when I was looking for the one that we just passed, just a few minutes ago, the four million for the
hoists, I didn't see it in the capital budget. Maybe I missed it. But if I could get-- or if we could all get an
update on where we are on the 2025 capital budget.

So then also looking at the capital budgets that you have-- so let me go back and state this Five-Year
Financial Forecast is completely different from the one that we saw several months ago. You've got
substantially lower sales tax collections, which I understand. I know we're in tough times.
Just an FYI, the Governor's Budget Office and Leg Council should be coming up with their revenue
forecasts, probably by the end of the month. So you may want to check in with them to see what they're
talking about. Because when I was looking at the OSpB forecast for June, they're still looking at sales and
use tax increases of at least 1.4%.
For the next year, they're looking at over 4% Now, clearly that can change. But I guess what I'm also thinking
is, with inflation and tariffs, while people may be backing off on some of their sales purchases, I would think
some of the inflationary impact is also going to help keep the sales taxes coming in because costs are just
higher when you want to buy something.
A couple of suggestions on your table, at least for you to consider. One, it would be great to add a line on
state grants to your revenue. I realize in your introduction, you stated that you didn't want to put in any
money from Senate Bill 230 and Senate Bill 184. But keep in mind, that's state law. And state law has said,
we have money for RTD, and please come and ask us for it. So it'd be nice if we could perhaps start thinking
about putting in that line.
Also, the way we've handled Denver with regard to the Colfax project. Just also a consideration, what might
be helpful so that when we read this and we see the large increases and decreases, is if instead of putting
the revenue and the expenditures, just combine it with our revenue and expenditures, would you consider
putting in a separate line that would say pass through, pass-through grant to Denver, pass-through
expenditures.
Because they're not our expenditures. It's not our revenue. But yet when you take a look at those budget
numbers, it's confusing. Because you start to see that we're going from 1.3 million of revenue down to 1.1,
huge drop. But quite frankly, it's because of Denver, from what I'm picking up.
Let's see. Well, I've got another question. The biggest question, quite frankly, that I have, is all of a sudden
you've got a new line in there called financing proceeds. I understand, and I've asked some questions
already, financing proceeds means debt.
So when I went back to take a look at the last five-year forecast, there was no debt in here. In fact, when I
was looking at how much money was actually supposed to go into reserves, there was quite a bit of money.
So now you're taking money out of reserves, and you've got $500 million worth of debt coming in the next
five years if I'm reading this correct. I'm sorry, Ms. Mackey, am I doing that correct?
KELLY MACKEY: I can answer all of your questions.
KAREN BENKER: Yeah, I know. I'm sorry. I have so many. It's like I've got to keep going here before I lose
the floor. But are you planning, or is the executive team planning, on going to borrow another 500 million
over the next few years?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK-KAREN BENKER: And if so, what would that be for?

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry, Vice Chair Benker, do you want to give a pause so that we can get some
answers. Because that was a whole lot of questions.
KAREN BENKER: Absolutely.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. CFO Mackey, please proceed.
KELLY MACKEY: OK, I think I wrote down the answers, but I'm happy to follow up with you afterwards. So
you requested a listing of an update on the capital projects for the 2025 budget. We'd be happy to share
that. I did not include 2025 because this is focused on 2026 through 2030, but we're happy to share that.
So you said that this changed significantly, and the sales and use tax revenue line went down from the July
Finance and Planning Committee meeting. But if you actually bring it up, there's no change at all. So the
amounts did not change for sales and use tax revenue. It's the same as it was in July.
We will present the updated leads forecast next month. But I'll tell you, for 2026, very minor increase, but
overall, for the five-year period, it did go down. But we'll present that next month.
Your next question was on the state grants if we could break that out as a separate line item. I personally
don't see an issue with that, but I'm happy to check with a few folks to make sure that that's an alignment.
I understand the ask there.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm going to interrupt real quick right there, sorry. We do need to continue to follow
our fiscal policy, which is if we don't have cash in hand, it does not go into the budget. And there's a good
reason for that. We cannot plan on money that we don't have, and I think that would be a mistake.
Although, you can add the line item, it may remain zero. Because until we have received grant funding, and
it's confirmed, there's no cash to spend. And it's wonderful that the state wants us to ask for that money.
But until they have a proper way for us to receive the granting and go through the granting process, the
CTIO and the CTEO and whatever agency that we need to go to, put the letters together, we don't have a
way to even go after the money as an agency. No agency does at this point.
So I do want to urge caution with that particular one, because we have a fiscal policy in place that prevents
the budget process from including those numbers on purpose, until we have money in hand, and we have
received the awards of those funds. Thank you. You can continue.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, thank you.
KAREN BENKER: And-- go on.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you, Chair Guzman. That was actually what I was going to say next. But I'll add
one clarification. It's not when we receive the money, it's when the grant is awarded. So the fiscal policy
states that we cannot include grants in here until they're awarded. So that's why it's not in here. But to break
out a line, that's a possibility. I'm happy to review that. So thank you for bringing it up.
Your next question was on the pass through of Colfax BRT. And that's actually primarily in 2025. So the
280,187,000, that's 2025. So it's not actually included in the Five-Year Financial Forecast substantially. So

that's why it wouldn't make sense to break it out for the five. But I did call it out here, so you could see those
amounts for 2025.
And then your next question was on the financing proceeds. So we did show in July in the Five-Year
Financial Forecast presentation during the Finance and Planning Committee, the debt service increasing
over time for financing proceeds. So we were showing that we were planning to issue more debt in order
to fulfill these capital requirements.
So for this presentation, I did add a separate line, so you can see even more clearly the financing proceeds
line, but it's tied very closely, just a few down, to that debt service line. So you can actually see that debt
service does go up in future years. So it does ebb and flow, but it goes up because of the issuance of more
debt.
KAREN BENKER: Then if I could ask, with that debt that's being issued, the 500 million over the next five
years that has not appeared in any Finance document that I've seen. So I'm sorry if I've missed that. But I
would very much like to be able to see what projects are in there.
Because again, I've gone through the Transit Asset Management Plan that's in the current budget. I added
everything up. And it doesn't come close to that 500 million. And there was no debt issued that was talked
about that I have heard.
So maybe there was a chart there that I missed. And I apologize for that. But something that large, where
we would be going to issue half a billion dollars of Debt, and I'm sure you have a plan as to how we would
pay for that debt.
But again, it's not in the current GAM because again, I just went through it and checked it all, and yes, there
are some bus purchases in 2027. I saw that, but it doesn't come to the 283 million that you have here. So
if I could get a list of those capital projects that you're thinking about bonding for or doing COPs, that would
be great.
OK, so I have other questions-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director.
KAREN BENKER: I have other questions written down to-- if I could talk about the FISA.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry, Director Benker. We have four Directors waiting to speak. Can I give them a
turn and then come back?
KAREN BENKER: Oh, absolutely, and then I can come back in and talk about FISA because I am just
absolutely stunned that money would be taken out of that particular reserve. But we'll wait until we get to
the end of the discussion. So thank you for your patience.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Guissinger, your hand was up next.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think I'm last. Go ahead with others.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: You're part of the committee. Go for it. There are four waiting, so we'll just go, keep
moving.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I know that Director Benker was asking about the financing proceeds, the $500 million
debt in the next five years and requested a list of capital projects. Can you just answer that? Are these
things that we have seen that we-- have we seen a list or what's there?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[INAUDIBLE] getting a list later. I'm just curious what the-KELLY MACKEY: Yes, so it's part of the financial planning process, the capital projects for this coming year
and for the 2026 budget. They are scheduled to be discussed next month, in the October Finance and
Planning Committee meeting with the 2026 budget.
So this is focused on the Five-Year Financial Forecast. But diving into more details for the budget and the
related capital, will take place next month, and we will provide that information for you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, so they're projects that haven't been approved at this point.
JAKE BRUEMMER: No, because they're part of-- well, they're part of the 2026 budget, which has not been
approved yet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks. Yeah, I look forward to that. And the question about a line for the state
grants, isn't our application for those grants, or at least for the CTE grant, going in in another week or two?
I know we're not set until award, but I think the award is coming in the next month or two, as well.
There was some discussion that we weren't at that point of knowing anything, but I think we do have a
process underway. Is that right?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. Debra Johnson, General Manager/CEO. Director,
Guissinger, you are correct. We will be putting forward a letter relative to what our intent is with those
monies. At this juncture, recognizing this is the inaugural year for the grant, we're not actually applying
relative to what the guidelines would be going forward.
But I am having a meeting with members of staff, just on Thursday, as we look at the various guidelines
pursuant to what those monies could be used for and having a discussion with the submittal taking place
next week. But to the point that was raised earlier relative to the fiscal policy, that would yet to be awarded.
So in adherence to that, the process is underway. But we have yet to submit and that I believe the deadline
is September 11.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks. I was just curious how we got to a 3% tariff projection. It seems like all
the talk-- it's much, much bigger tariffs. Can you answer that for me?
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, yes, of course, because not all of our expenditures will be impacted by tariffs. It's
only a subset of things like materials and supplies. And so we have to estimate based on the portion that
would actually be impacted by tariffs. And so that's how we came up with that 3% 1.2. It is an estimate, and
so it could be higher or lower.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, and we get a new sales and use tax forecast this month. It sounds like you've
seen it. What do we do with that? Does that affect what this looks like? We will have just passed this if we
pass it tonight.
KELLY MACKEY: Yeah, so we will incorporate that into the 2026 budget. It will not be incorporated into this
version of the Five-Year Financial Forecast. But it would be considered for next year in the budget.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I've gone through a few questions. I have a couple on FISA as well. If you want
me to come back on that and let others go, I'm happy to do that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I would appreciate that. Director O'Keefe, you have been patiently waiting. The floor
is yours.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No, that's OK. I'm happy to follow up to people smarter than I am. I just wanted to
echo, $500 million in debt, we must know generally what's in that. So if we could just talk about it tonight,
rather than-- I understand that we have this carefully laid out plan, but this is a big chunk of what we're
being asked to consider tonight. And it would be good if we just had generally what it was, not holding
anyone to it, but it would be good to know what that missing chunk is.
On the state grants. I just want to caution us about the numbers that we put in for that. As I understand it,
it's a percent tax on oil and gas, which means it's variable both on price and on volume. And I am not nearly
as optimistic as the Governor's Office is about the potential revenue from those sources.
We have a bunch of counter macroeconomic things that are going on. We have a president that's trying to
drive down the price of oil. We do not have good marginal pricing on our oil and gas. So we are not the first
drop or the first molecule that comes out. There are plenty of cheaper sources.
We also have a state policy of transitioning out of oil and gas. So you have those two macro factors that I
think are really going to put that money in a much-- it's going to be much smaller than people expect. And
I would take the under on anyone who wants to bet me on what the Governor's forecast is for that revenue.
So when we put it in, I'd like to see a little bit of risk weighting.
Similarly, in the out years-- I know we're not wildly dependent on federal funding, and I know that our answer
is going to be, well, it's formulaic. Well, we've got a federal budget that is not sustainable. I don't know.
When the trees stop growing to the sky, but it's probably within this planning horizon where some very
serious restructuring of the federal budget is going to occur.
We are on the edge of a bigger issue at the federal level. So I'd like to see us, if possible, do some risk
weighting on future years for that because I think that is also at risk. I wanted to put in-- I saw merit-pay
timing as a potential source of money. I work for a corporation. We did that too.
My plea that that is the last thing that we turn to. We also have a retention problem and a hiring problem
and people that are dealing with a highly inflation-prone geography. So I'd really like us to almost take that
off the board and make some other tough decisions on financial things within our control.
The only thing I see on the source of revenues that we do control, is fare revenue. And I know this is kind
of chasing a tail around the table. But I would really like to see us drive fairer compliance. I think that is the
only thing that we can directly impact. We do have land sales and other things like that that are in our
control, but that's something we can do every day.

And I guess, at some point, I'd like to see an ROI on if we put five new fare checkers on, we expect the net
impact to be x, whatever it is. And I know it'll be a model, it'll be a guess. But that is something firmly within
our control. So I'd like to put a pitch in for that.
It's probably a detailed question. But in our capital projects, have we ever considered using an ownercontrolled insurance program to lower our insurance costs on these capital projects? This works, depending
on insurance rates for construction, which would put everyone to sleep, but it is something that owners can
do if they have a significant pool of upcoming capital to take control of the insurance costs themselves and
try to drive that down.
And it's real money if it works with the risk-market timing. So I don't think we use an OSEP. I think we could
do a rolling owner-controlled insurance program as a potential way to reduce costs on upcoming capital.
And then one last thing, Mr. Chairman. On the FISA, I know this is going to come up on using that money
for the maintenance of Flatiron Flyer. If I remember correctly, some of that bus service was offered as
compensation for the lack of completion of the northwest corridor line.
If that is true, then I think it is appropriate for FISA to cover that. If it's not true, then I'm kind of with the other
Directors that might have some concerns with it. But I seem to remember that that was-- the bus service
was added as compensation. And so that compensatory cost needs to be a FISA thing. We may not love
it. It's buses, not trains. But if it came there, I'm going to be a counterargument on it is an appropriate FISA
expenditure in my mind if that's true. I'll shut up. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. You snuck that one in on me. I was taking notes about your other
questions. So, Miss Vishwakarma, I saw your hand go up. But I am going to turn back to CFO Mackey to
begin a response to those questions. And then when it comes to the OSIP, that's when your hand shot up,
so I'm assuming that's what you were ready to speak about, so you can take a turn at answering that
question.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Probably two people on the call that care about that. It's [INAUDIBLE]
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you, Chair Guzman. So actually, Melanie Snyder has kindly offered to speak to
that, but I'll touch on a couple of things first. So, yes, we are happy to show some math behind the estimated
ROI of doing fare checks. So I can take that as a follow up. I'm happy to do that.
In terms of what is in the capital requirements, it's things like more buses, rail state of good repair, facilities
needs. A lot of our buildings are 30-plus years old. It's things like that.
Todd Nikkel is actually on a flight. He was not able to join. I would prefer, if you're OK with it, to send you a
follow up very soon. I don't think you will see any surprises in it, frankly. But I can give you a listing of what
is in there. I'd be happy to do that. And I'll turn it over to, if it's all right, Chair Guzman, Melanie Snyder, to
answer the question on the OSIP.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, please proceed, Miss Snyder Thank you, General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you. And it sounded like perhaps Jyotsna Vishwakarma wanted to weigh
in. I'll just give the short answer that, yes, the agency has historically utilized the owner-controlled insurance
program. It is something that we continuously assess, and we can send you some information about the
historical use and some of the factors we consider, separately, is what I'd suggest.

PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you. I also wanted, Mr. Chair, if I can, offer a compliment to our relatively new
CFO for her ability to learn public-sector financing quicker than anybody else I've ever seen on the planet,
so.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: She also went to the legislature and represented RTD very well with Mr. Michael
Davies, our Government Relations Specialist, in front of the TLRC this week. And I could not hear the
conversation, but I was reading the transcript as the presentation was done.
And so kudos to you because that's always nerve wracking, even for me. And I'm very comfortable under
the dome, as a Colorado citizen. [LAUGHS] To go and be put in front of a Board of Legislators is always a
bit nerve wracking for me. And you did really well. So thank you, I appreciate that, all right. Director Larsen,
you are next.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I just wanted to-- I think Patrick sort of mentioned it --I guess, understand
a little bit better the hiring slowdown. I know with the struggle we've had hiring operators, I saw that, and I
think I shared some of the same concern that Patrick had.
And I just kind of wondered is that going to be the operator force or was that other people inside the, I
guess, administration? Or just wanted to understand that better and hope that we don't have to hire or slow
down the hiring of anybody who could improve our reliability, and so forth. That's it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Director Larsen, for the question. As
I have shared with members of the team, quite naturally, our core business is service delivery. In order to
do that, the first thing you need is a schedule, then vehicles, and then people.
What we have talked about, more or less, is a hiring chill. Any position that is geared toward service delivery,
regulatory compliance, safety will have a priority. I'm speaking somewhat out of school. I have a meeting
with the leadership team tomorrow whereby we're going to look at positions, for instance, that have been
vacant for a certain period of time and capitalize on those efficiencies going forward.
So that's what we mean in reference to what you saw outlined going forward. Speaking from a place of past
experience, when I came into the organization where the budget had just been approved, a couple of days
before I joined, and we were in a situation where we received federal funding to aid with our path forward
of service delivery, it's quite difficult when you're looking at frontline service workers and doing a recall of
those positions, just by virtue of certification and things of the like. We know we would be placing ourselves
at a disadvantage.
But keeping in mind, I want to manage expectations, we're going to look at operational efficiencies because
we know our core business is service delivery. So there'll be more information forthcoming but want it to be
forthright relative to some of the belt-tightening concepts that we have considered as a leadership team
moving forward. So thank you very much for that question.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Nicholson, your hand is raised.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Chair Guzman. So I have two questions. The first is, it's my understanding
that this was not-- the $500 million in new borrowing was not included in last year's Five-Year Financial
Forecast. Why is that? And then I have one follow up.

KELLY MACKEY: If I may, Director?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah.
KELLY MACKEY: I would have to go back and look specifically at the forecast to answer yes or no to that.
As I am still four months into my job, I'm not as familiar with what was done last year. However, I can say
that in reviewing the Five-Year Financial Forecast with my team, we have fewer reserves available based
on the budget that was adopted for 2025, which was substantially different than the Five-Year Financial
Forecast that was adopted this time last year. So the budget ended up having a higher level expenditures
and reduced our reserves. So that would be part of it.
As well, as you know, the team is working diligently to ensure that we are representing a complete view of
the inventory of assets at RTD, which therefore, as you're adding inventory, it would increase the future
capital requirements. And so some of that would have been from adding things like, looking out to facilities
needs, where a facility is 30 or 40 years old, and really will need some capital replacement work done in
the near future. So it would be probably a blend of those things.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Guzman-- Chair Guzman, my apologies.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, Director Nicholson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. So that actually leads well into my second question, which is, it seems
backward to me to approve half a billion dollars in new borrowing, which will come with a substantial yearly
cost to this agency, without first reviewing and approving the capital projects, in some form, that underlie
that.
And the reason that I say that, is that the Board previous to us, last year, approved a fleet-transition plan.
And I am deeply uncomfortable with the idea of us buying new buses without having made meaningful
progress on building the infrastructure to transition to hybrid and really to electric.
And so for me, there are agencies that run their buses for 15, 20, 25, 30 years because they're able to do
so. And I just really, I would be deeply uncomfortable approving this Five-Year Financial Forecast without
an understanding of exactly what types of assets and how much we're going to spend on diesel buses,
hybrid buses, facilities, electric transition. How much of this is going toward our fleet-transition plan,
fundamentally, and how much of it is going toward maintaining our current path toward oil and gas, would
be really, really helpful for me to know before I could vote yes on this.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: General Manager/CEO, your hand is raised.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I'd be remiss if I didn't add some clarifying
comments relative of the comments that Secretary Nicholson said. Recognizing that the Federal Transit
Administration puts forward guidelines in reference to operating bus fleets for the use of public
transportation services, it's generally 12 years or 500,000 miles, whichever comes first. I would find it hard
to believe that a public transit agency in the United States is running 30-year-old buses.
More to the point, there is a fleet replacement plan to which we must adhere as being recipients of federal
dollars. And keeping in mind, as we look at the useful life, there is a fleet replacement cycle of which we
adhere, as we go forward with our Facilities and Fleet-Transition Plan and as we look at our spare ratio and
in conjunction with the Federal Transit Administration, relative to us having additional buses that we did not

utilize due to the fact we couldn't pull out for service with the service reduction, we have obligations to which
we must meet.
And so we are being prudent as it relates to the path forward. Quite naturally, with the Facilities and FleetTransition Plan, we will look at various buses relative to the propulsion system.
But as we talk about clean diesel hybrid buses, we do have the facilities in which to accommodate those. If
we talk about anything else that does not have a combustible engine, we quite naturally would not be
procuring those. Hence, that's why we canceled the last battery electric bus purchase with the support of
this Board, a couple of years ago. So I just wanted to state that for the record. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right, Chief Financial Officer Mackey, your hand is up.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, thank you, Director Nicholson, for the question. I'll point out slide 3 in the
presentation that I discussed, the background slide. So the third bullet point states that this Five-Year
Financial Forecast is a basis for RTD's budget preparation. It's not an appropriation. By approving this
forecast, you are not approving debt issuance in any respect.
And what we will do is show you, in the month of October, what the budget for 2026 is, including expected
debt issuance of perhaps $20 million, as shown for 2026, and then that would be approved in November.
So this is simply a basis for us to develop the budget, which we will discuss next month in October.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson, one follow up, and then I'm going back to Director Benker, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would just say that having been on the Board for eight months now, one thing I've
learned, is how important path dependence is in making decisions here and how much the early choices,
like this Five-Year Financial Forecast, influence the things that we do later on and eat up and dominate
those decisions.
So while I respectfully understand where you're coming from, I think once we approve this, we are probably,
in many ways, locking ourselves in to those later decisions. So that's why I would say it might seem like it's
an early thing, but in practice, with the way this Board has functioned over the last few years, I think that in
many ways, we're making the decision right now.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am going to step in and challenge that. That is not how the Board has functioned
the last few years. We work through this process, as we have. And in fact, the Five-Year Financial Forecast
took the place of the mid-year budget changes so that we had a solid plan going forward to be able to work
forward with our budgets on an annual basis.
And so I think that you are speaking a little bit out of turn, and I would exercise caution as we go forward. I
understand your concerns. More is coming in this very meeting. And we have another separate meeting in
this committee to deal with more issues as a committee on this.
So please refrain from disparaging the Board, or the work that we are doing here, Director Nicholson.
Because we are fiduciaries, and a duty of loyalty is required in this situation. It's OK to ask questions. It is
not OK to point fingers. And you are a member of the body, so you will have a final vote.
I'm allowing you to speak as a nonmember of the committee because I believe that we all get to have a
voice here, but respect and decorum is still demanded in this committee, and I will enforce that rule. Vice
Chair Benker, I am returning to you as promised, go ahead.

KAREN BENKER: Thank you very much. To follow up on what Director Nicholson was saying, and to
actually point fingers on past boards, just to remind everybody, past boards did pass the FISA fund. And
the intent was for unfinished FasTracks projects. And that is why it was established a number of years ago.
And to go back for a little bit of history, I'm thinking I might be the only one that was involved in the 2004
FasTracks selection. If that is incorrect, please let me know. But I was there, and it was promised that the
money raised by the sales tax that we asked for the voters to approve was to build FasTracks.
And so when I saw that money now is being taken out of FISA reserve, you can now come up with all kinds
of reasons why you can keep raiding that fund if we go forward with this. The money for the two projects
that have been mentioned to us, Flatiron Flyer and I think something on the W Line, those expenses should
then be come-- and I would actually debate that point too. But those expenses should be coming out of the
0.4 FasTracks tax, not the FISA fund. They're separate. They're different.
And I'm guessing that when past boards appropriated the $190 million, I would wager a guess that it came
from operating base budget. And in addition, with the FasTracks rules and the way it was passed was, base
budget money could flow into FasTracks projects. However, it's prohibited for FasTracks project money to
go into base budget operating or capital.
And if you want documentation, I still have the 2014 NAM study, where all of that is explained. So I would
request that you reconsider taking those dollars out of FISA.
Because as it stands right now, when we go for a vote, Mr. Chairman, I am a no vote. I think this five-year
plan has a lot of issues. FISA is one. There's others. But I could not support money being taken out of FISA.
So with that, there's my speech. I'll send you more questions sometime tomorrow. And I also wanted to tell
you, Miss Mackey, I very much appreciate your work. I know you are very sharp, and I thoroughly enjoy
talking with you because at least we speak the same language.
And I know you are doing an outstanding job. So please, with all my comments and issues that I have
tonight, it's just budgets caused this. And I'm so glad the Board is becoming so active in budget decisions
because that's how you run the agency. This is really the only document that the Board or any governing
body will pass where it sets the rules for the next fiscal year, for the next 12 months.
A Board can pass whatever else they want, but if there's no money for it in the budget, then it just doesn't
happen. So CFO Mackey, please understand how-- you know, I think, at this point, how passionate I am
about budgeting. So forgive me if I, in any way, insinuated that you didn't have the information. So thank
you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Benker. I appreciate the way that you approach that conversation
a whole lot. I am going to skip forward to Director Catlin because she has not spoken at this meeting yet.
So, Director Catlin, you're recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I don't think Director Benker would be at all surprised that I
would probably respectfully disagree with her on the FISA situation. I think that, for the record, FISA is
different than FasTracks vote in 2004. The vote of the people was clear for FasTracks, but FasTracks also
included enhanced bus service to support those corridors. And people often forget that.
And the FISA account was established by the Board almost a decade later, to try and backfill some of the
shortfall that we experienced due to the recession in 2008. And I believe that the FISA is not untouchable,

and that it is up to this Board's discretion to utilize those funds as needed. And I would support using the
FISA for the Flatiron Flyer, given the spirit of the enhanced bus service component of the FasTracks plan.
Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I am looking for the email and who it was sent from. So, Board Directors,
you should have an email from our General Manager CEO Debra Johnson, on Wednesday, 9/03/2025 sent
out at 6:42 PM that address the question about the expenditures for the Flatiron Flyer and the 2004 ballot
text, which indicates-- and I'm going to read it with the quotes, quote "with all proceeds of debt and taxes
to be used and spent for the construction and operation of a fixed guideway mass transit system, the
construction of additional park and ride lots, the expansion and improvement of existing park and ride lots,
and increased bus service, including the use of smaller buses and vans and alternative fuel vehicles as
appropriate."
All of us in this committee are old enough to have voted on that Amendment if you were here in Colorado
at the time. And so the language does include payment for that. And the money is put into the FISA account
because the 0.04% sales tax cannot pay for base operations.
That being said, I believe the answer has already been sent out to the Board members directly in a proper
response, and I would really urge you to go back and look at that. The 2004 ballot text is also linked in that
email for your consideration. The use of the FISA account includes the use of the 0.04% sales tax to be
used for the appropriated purposes that the people allowed the collection of the tax to occur. And so it's our
job to be responsible for the use of those funds.
I'm also going to just put this out there for everybody. In pre-planning this meeting, I did go to our CFO, and
we had a discussion about what do we bring forward. So rather than attacking each other, what I said was,
bring everything forward.
Let's talk about things that we don't want to talk about a reduction in force, a reduction in service. Both of
those are the same thing. A reduction in benefits payments, a reduction to some of the funds that we have
to be able to cover the costs and leverage what we do have available to us to be able to go forward.
Because I do believe that we, as a committee and a Board, are smart enough to figure this out with our
amazing staff.
And so nothing's off the table because we're just having a conversation, at this point, about how we go
forward. And I think that the considerations and concerns that you're bringing up tonight are really key to
how we proceed. And I understand that. But let's lower the temperature and realize we are looking at a
finite resource, which is money, and we have to do a job that is expansively more expensive for different
reasons, and we can work together to figure it out.
And I just want to remember that we are basing ourselves in the work that we're supposed to be doing,
which is serving the public. And everybody's here to do that. So sometimes it feels like there's an attack,
and nobody's rating anything, and nobody's going after anything that's too prized of a possession for us to
not be able to look at.
But really, we do have to make difficult decisions. And we are the last agency standing in the state that
hasn't had to cry to the public about not having the resources that we need. But if we are not careful on
how we proceed, we may end up there, and we are not in a great position to do that right now.

So let's work through this in a logical manner and look at all of the options and determine what the best is
to do based on what the advice is that we are given, what our plans are going forward. I think all of it's
important. And I know we can do this. I believe in us, and I believe in our agency, and I think that's the right
approach to take. Chair Bouquet, your hand is up. Please go ahead.
JULIAN BOUQUET: Thank you for recognizing me, Committee Chair Guzman. And words well said. I
appreciate you saying that. Because based on the conversations I've had with Directors and with staff, it is
the hard conversations that are had. And I do appreciate concerns being brought up by Directors in regards
to touching the FISA.
It is this body's ultimate authority to do so. And the analogy that was brought up to me, and I think is
appropriate, is at the end of the day, if this is our house, and there's a major storm that hits our house in
regards to-- in our sense, a financial storm, in this situation, we might need to allocate some of that money
we're saving for the new pool to go and fix up our house.
So I personally think that we're going to be, throughout the country, going to be in some rough financial
times in the next coming years. And I think at the end of the day, that protecting our core business, our core
riders, those that are transit dependent, protecting our employees, that is something that I think this Board
should get behind in regards to going in and using some funds from that FISA account.
In this, I'm only one individual voice. But from my understanding and my conversations, I greatly appreciate
the concerns that are brought up. But at the end of the day, I would encourage this Board, we've got to
protect our necessities that we have as an agency, even if that means making tough decisions. So I
appreciate the recognition. Thank you for letting me make my comments.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Guissinger, I promised I'd come back to you, so it's your turn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair Guzman. I agree with what you say that there's nothing that's too
prized that we shouldn't look at it. And I think that both of these issues that we're talking about go to that
issue. $500 million where we're not really looking at the list of what's happening.
I agree with Director Nicholson in the sense, not what's happened in the past or anything, but in the sense
that we are setting a path forward. Three years from now, there will be different people on this Board. And
they may be saying, oh, well we've had this five-year plan for several years. The Board must have been
fine with it.
So I think it is important for us to look at FISA, what's happening there, and the 500 million and make a
decision. And I'm wavering on what to do here. I want to hear what the effect of no votes is tonight, or
tonight.
But on FISA, there are two pieces that-- what we're seeing is money coming out, and the reason for the
expenses. Is there also a decision that the money that the Board has said should go in, will not be going in
into the future? In other words, does this not have a continuing revenue stream, which I believe-- I haven't
gone back to look at the Board's direction, but my understanding is the Board has directed a certain amount
to go in every year. Is that correct, and is that going away here?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CFO.

KELLY MACKEY: Yes, for example, in the fiscal policy, it does say that sale of property and lease from
property would fund the FISA. So we did not make any changes to the fiscal policy in terms of what would
be funding the FISA.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think there's other money besides those two, isn't there?
KELLY MACKEY: Let me [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Those are satellites. I'm not sure about that. But to the extent we're not funding-putting money in. I think we need to go back to the Board's directive, and see if what we're doing here
requires the Board to take some action.
I recognize there's views all over the Board all over our group on this. But I'd just like to know what was the
directive for what's going into the FISA, and are we changing that here? So I have that concern. I have
concern with the 500 million. I guess I'd like to know what happens if we don't move this forward tonight.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CFO.
KELLY MACKEY: So we do have a discussion item coming up on the fiscal policy. We will review that.
Looking at some of the language down here, there's, for example, excess FasTracks sales and use tax
contributions as determined by the Board. So it does allow for some Board appropriation of funds. But
again, we'll be discussing the fiscal policy shortly coming up. So that would be a separate conversation.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Would it be helpful to members of the committee and the Board if we pull the
FasTracks resolution and have that sent out to everybody through the Board Office? That way we can see
what that language says, review it, and understand it better.
And it's probably been sent several times at this point because I can imagine that the Board Office didn't
want to hear that. But we'll send it again because that is the right thing to do for everybody and put it at the
top of your email boxes to read this week, so we can all understand it.
There's also, what is it that we need to move forward on this? I'm going to ask that question to the committee
members. So I'd love to hear your answers. And I would like to hear them now so that I can take note of it.
Let's put that part to the side. You will get the FISA policy sent to you promptly after this meeting. What else
do you need?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I was just going to add some additional comments relative to CFO Mackey's. So
recognizing she did indicate that there is a discussion item that's on the agenda this evening, if you look at
package page 62, under fund balances, item number 4, it talks about the four elements that would go to
fund the FISA. And I just wanted to ensure that everybody is aware of that relative to the conversation that
has ensued. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Having read the packet several times by now, before we get to the meeting, I know
that that is there, and that's a part of the conversation we're going to have. But I'm asking you all, unmute
yourselves and tell me what it is you need, so I can make sure that we get it to you right now?

Because I think we need to be on the same playing field, with the same rules, and the same understanding
with each other to be able to proceed in this moment. So I'll call you by name. Director Benker, what do you
need from us to be able to proceed forward with the conversation around this?
KAREN BENKER: First of all, as you know, FISA is my number one. But the others include the $500 million
borrowing that, to me, was quite the surprise. Trying to figure out why is it borrowing, why has it doubled
over what we've seen in the 2025 budget?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK.
KAREN BENKER: I also have a number of questions which we haven't even gotten into about the revenue
assumptions that are used. The fare box, sales and use tax assumptions, grants, investment income strikes
me as low. I mean, I'll go ahead and send my questions, but all of those revenue sources, I have questions
about.
Because again, especially sales and use tax, strikes me as exceedingly low, and it's lower than what I'm
seeing the state come up with. So I just have more questions about that. So unless I understand the
rationale for that number, I would still be voting no on that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: With respect to policy or anything related to our Board fiscal policies, our reserves, or
our accounts is there anything that you need to have in front of you to review, so we understand what is
going where currently, based on our directive to the agency.
KAREN BENKER: Here's another question that I did ask, and I didn't feel like I got the answer I needed.
Who and how decides how much of the money goes into operating, and how much money goes into capital?
I'd like to know how that is done.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO Mackey. You're on mute. I'm so sorry.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you. RTD follows generally accepted accounting principles and the Government
Accounting Standards Board requirements, as well as guidance from our internal and external auditors.
And so operating expenses, typically, things like wages.
What goes into capital expenditures, is that which extends the useful life of an asset and is significant. If it's
something that's $5,000 and under, you will typically see it in expense projects. And so it's not us deciding.
It's based on accounting policies.
KAREN BENKER: Well, OK. I understand GAAP. I understand all of that. Somebody still has to make a
decision. OK, $1 billion of sales and other revenues come in. A certain amount goes to operating and
service improvements and wages, I understand that.
But somebody then says, oh, we want this amount to go over to capital. That is discretionary. Your base
budget, there's some discretionary decisions in there. But as you know, it's mostly salary. Somehow a
decision is made to separate into two separate budgets. I want to know how that's done. Thank you.
KELLY MACKEY: May I, Chair Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.

KELLY MACKEY: Yes, so I'll just reiterate what we communicated earlier when this question was sent, and
we sent the response over. But I can elaborate to you if that's helpful.
So we did say that staff is developing the 2026 budget currently and closely monitoring expense. And as
RTD is favorable to the 2025 budget through June, staff recommends not creating a revised budget for the
three-month period of October through December. That was part of the question.
But then going on, we explained that the revenue, basically, the operating expense comes out first, and
debt payments come out first. And based on the Five-Year Financial Forecast, there's not enough funds
left over in order to fund the capital requirements. So we do need to first, with revenue, pay for the operating
expense. That is primary.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Does that satisfy your question, Vice Chair Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Does it satisfy my question? Actually, I apologize, but no, because I've been through
budget decisions. So one question, for example, would be, when you're putting together the budget, you're
probably getting pretty close to making some final decisions, how much money are you setting aside for
additional new service in 2026? Does that come before buying another 50 buses?
Those are the questions I'm asking. Because again, the Board did have a retreat. We all came together.
We all said, increased ridership is the most important thing to us.
I understand capital budgets are fungible. They are different. It is not operating. You can have a capital
plan, a capital budget, where it's either 5 years or 10 years or whatever time period you want to choose.
And then you slice it up into pieces, and you don't try to put a huge chunk in there all of a sudden. You
space it. You put together the plan.
And so it goes back to the $500 million that we were talking about. But again, because you and your
executive team have got tremendous amount of power to decide how much is going to be going into service
and service increases, versus how many more buses we're going to buy next year. And isn't that basically
one of the biggest trade-offs?
So that's my question is basically how do you make that decision between service and increasing your
riders and getting more routes out there and doing what the Board has been talking about now for a while
versus well, can a bus go a little bit longer? 13 years since we were in COVID time, and a lot of those buses
weren't hitting the street. Maybe they've got a longer life, I don't know.
But those are decisions that budget types make routinely. And if you're asking for rules or procedures, if
you have any procedures regarding that, that's what I'd like to see. So if you've got that, that'd be helpful
for me. Thank you,
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CFO.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, so in the fiscal policy that's Board adopted for RTD, it does state that it is against
our policy to fund operating expense with debt. So that is the reason why you do fund operating expense
first with revenue. So we're following the fiscal policy by making this choice.
And in terms of coming to the amount of 840 million for operating expense, it's actually a relatively simple
calculation. We're given the sales and use tax forecast by CO Leeds, and the rest of the revenue is based

on a conservative forecast. And then we have the minimum net-revenue coverage of 1.2 that we have to
achieve. And we know what our debt service is.
So if you do the math, it's a plug to get to 840 million operating expense based on our limitations and
revenue, net revenue coverage, and what our debt payments are for 2025. It is very easy to get to that
number.
And so we don't know yet what we're going to do for service and labor fully. We need to meet this target.
So when we present the budget to you next month as a discussion item, then we will show any impacts, if
there are any, to labor and service.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Sorry, Director Guissinger, your hand went down. Did you have something
else to comment on?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I might. Go ahead with the others.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right, Director O'Keefe, you are next.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I wanted to circle back on the-- and this hopefully isn't kicking
a dead horse a couple more times. But there are a couple things-- and this is just fact that FasTracks
promise of capital build-out was underfunded. It was underfunded from the beginning.
And this is not a surprise to anyone right now, but it is a gift that has been given to us. And I think when we
get the FasTracks report that I wish was in our hands now, but when it comes in a few months, we're going
to see a number that doesn't reconcile with the revenue sources. So we're going to start making some
tough choices on how that disappointment gets spread around.
And I will expect that any expenditure on new service under FasTracks, including my district, which is last
in line, carries an operations and maintenance projection specific and not a pie-in-the-sky, we'll sort it out
later thing.
We have carried this operations and maintenance. Because I will commend this management team for
digging us out of the hole of the second gift that was given to us, and that was a underfunded asset
management plan that we cannot amplify that problem going forward.
And so if we're not carrying operations and maintenance because of some wording in FasTracks, then I will
expect to see a line item that carries it right next to it, so we know when we make a decision, that we're
carrying those costs going forward, and it's clear and transparent for our constituencies that see it too.
Because right now, we're coming out of opacity into clarity, and that's great. I mean, this is a long time
coming, and I just don't want to double down on that challenge again. So if we aren't grouping operations
and maintenance within the FISA account, it should be appended to the bottom of it and never move, so
we understand what these impacts are going forward.
And so that's something that I think we'll have to work on. And I'm not picking on Joint Service. It is
everything. But Joint Service is next. GM/CEO Johnson and I have talked multiple times about that, price
has to come back with operations and maintenance projections, so we don't have this problem going
forward. Because it's this hidden massive cost that then starts knocking everything out down the road.

So that's my plea on the long-term projections once we start incorporating the FasTracks capital revisions,
or whatever we're calling this new report that's coming out. So it sounds like a lot of critique. It's actually a
lot of appreciation for the work that's been done to dig us out of the lack of clarity on our costs.
I don't want to replicate that going forward. So I want us to carry robust, contingency-loaded operations and
maintenance assumptions that go with robust, contingency-loaded capital decisions going forward. So I
think both those problems have are what's punching us in the face right now as a collective body. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Just if I may, I just wanted to ensure that
everybody was aware I did disseminate a communiqu August 27 that indicated when you will have the
opportunity to see the draft of the unfinished FasTracks report. There will be a presentation at the Board
meeting on September 30, giving you an opportunity to provide feedback relative to what it is that we need
to submit to the state legislature and to the Governor's Office.
So it won't be a couple of months. You will be getting a draft in a matter of weeks. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Awesome, thank you. Time check at 7:16. We do need to stop for a break by 7:30.
Director Nicholson, you want to help us land this plane, so we can get to a vote and find out what we're
doing? Oh, Director Guissinger, I will call on you before we do that. Director Nicholson, let's go. Thank you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Sorry, I couldn't tell if you were going to me or going to her. So one of the major longterm expenses that any entity today can face, is technical infrastructure. Major technical upgrades to our
network, to our security, to our fare payments can be millions and millions of dollars.
And I'm wondering if you can speak to what degree in this Five-Year Financial Forecast have you guys
looked at the questions, have you spoken with our CITO about what types of technical infrastructure are
going to be needed over the next five years and ballparking how much some of the more expensive
infrastructure improvements are going to cost, and whether that's baked into this?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CFO.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, so this is a bit higher level. It doesn't go into what's included and not included. As I
mentioned, it doesn't have appropriation of funds for specific projects. But as we're looking at the longrange financial plan for 30 years, I would say we're looking at different scenarios for putting in more
technical, better infrastructure. So we're considering that there and what the implications could be.
But this view really shows us more so what our limitations in operating expense are based on revenue, as
well as for capital requirements what are the base requirements without expansion, without factoring in a
lot of investment in new technology that's not included in here. That would be addressed separately apart
from this discussion.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: One more and then I need to move on to Director Guissinger.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah I promise, last question. I noticed that a lot of the decrease in the unrestricted
funds go to the capital-replacement reserves. And I was wondering how much of that is intending to be
spent on the fleet-transition plan? Because I know we have a fleet-transition plan, but I don't understand
how that's being funded. So I was wondering if there's-- what the tie is between those funds and the fleettransition plan.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CFO.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, so I wouldn't take this as implying that unrestricted funds are feeding capitalreplacement reserve. It's not exactly the math of what's happening, but I see what you're saying. Overall,
one is declining. One is growing. So this does not incorporate fleet transition to diesel hybrid and battery,
but again, we are exploring what that would look as part of the 30-year long-range financial plan that we
will present to you. I believe it's in November.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, appreciate it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And I join others, Miss Mackey in thanking you for all of this really good
work and especially coming on just recently. I totally agree with-- and always have, with Director O'Keeffe
that maintenance and operations, certainly need to be a part of this.
I don't really have that big a problem with using-- I don't have a big problem with using the FasTracks for
some of that. Where my concern is, is these things do start leading down a road. And this Board has not
looked at what money should be going into FISA, or what that $500 million debt is looking at. So I would
say, making sure that these decisions are made by the Board.
And honestly, as Miss Johnson knows very well, we've got this JSOC committee that's pushing for new rail
joint service. And I think they need to understand that these are not Board decisions that are going forward.
These are recommendations. But I also think the Board needs to be fully apprised in making these
decisions. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. All right, given what I have heard, I am going to call a roll vote. So please
unmute yourselves and be ready to vote. Vice Chair Benker?
KAREN BENKER: No.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm sorry. Was that a no?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That was a no.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Gutschenritter?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Yes.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes at this stage.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am Chair Guzman. I will be voting yes on this. It will pass. One two, three, four, five
yes, two no, and we will move that to the Board for further consideration. Thank you for an intense and very
welcome conversation around this. I do appreciate all of us taking our time with this particular one.
It is 7:21. I am going to call for a 12-minute recess, please. It sounds a little odd but 12 minutes. That way
we give our transcriptionist a break. That was a lot to type. And we can come back and finish the rest of
our meeting. I will adjourn the meeting right now at 7:22, and we will return by 7:34. Thank you.
We are returning to the Finance and Planning meeting, September 9 of 2025. We are beginning the second
half of our meeting at 7:34 PM. We are at item D of our agenda, which is discussion items.
Quickly, before we go there, I just want to thank everybody for well-informed and positive conversation. We
often have to deal with difficult matters, and we do that best when we're working together. And so I just
want to make sure that I say thank you to staff who are recording and putting these meetings together.
All of the preparation that goes into creating these meetings, it's a whole lot of work to get here and do this.
And so with respect to my fellow Directors, I know I can speak for all of us when I say thank you for the
tremendous effort that you go through to be able to let us have these moments where we engage in tough
conversation and move forward with items.
The first item under our discussion is the 2026 fiscal policy. So I would like to ask Kelly Mackey, our Chief
Financial Officer, and Brenden Morgan, our Senior Manager of Debt and Investments to present this item.
Madam CFO.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, thank you. I'm sorry. Just to clarify, fiscal policy or the investment policy?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I have the 2026 fiscal policy up right now, but if we need to reverse that, we can.
KELLY MACKEY: It's all right. The 2026 fiscal policy is a discussion item that we will bring back to the
Finance and Planning Committee on October 14 and ask for approval. This policy can be changed at any
time. The fiscal policy establishes the financial control framework and governance of the agency's financial
resources for that year. The 2026 budget and the Five-Year Financial Forecast should align to the 2026
fiscal policy, as budgetary appropriations are developed in alignment with the fiscal policy.
The redlined version shows the changes from the prior fiscal policy for 2025 that was approved by the
Board on April 29 of this year versus what we're asking to be approved for 2026. In addition to minor
grammatical and punctuation changes, we have proposed one change, changing "will" to "may" in RTD will
limit expenditure and expense fiscal carryforwards to the lesser of the life of the project or three years.
The reason for this-- a recommended modification is that in practice, in limited circumstances, program
modification opportunities or requirements may result in the extension of a project for the benefit of RTD,
such as the ticket-vending machines, capital projects that was originally approved in 2020 and then
expanded in 2024. This type of extension should be a very limited occurrence. And at this point, for example,
I do not recommend pulling back the funds for the ticket-vending machines replacement as staff is nearing
procurement later this year.

And there are no other suggested changes to the fiscal policy at this time. And Chair Guzman, I will turn it
back to you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Directors, is there any discussion or question about this matter? This is
the discussion item, so we want to make sure we have the discussion here. And we can fix anything before
it comes back for recommended action. I see Director Nicholson hand is up. Please proceed, Director
Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. To understand, CFO Mackey, is this something where you could come
to the Board and get approval to take it beyond three years, or is this something where this change
essentially allows staff for you to do this without asking for Board approval?
Because right now it's obviously-- it says, will. Could you do this on a piecemeal basis, rather than changing
the fiscal policy? Does that make sense?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CFO.
KELLY MACKEY: Yeah, I'm happy for GM/CEO Johnson to weigh in, as well as counsel on this, but I
believe, yes, if we were to deviate from the existing policy, I could come to the Board and propose, for
example, that I extend the ticket-vending machines project for more years, rather than pull the money back,
yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Vice Chair Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes. Again, going back to capital budgets, there is a very large amount of money that
keeps getting carried forward year to year because the projects have been appropriated, but the projects
haven't been completed. Do you have a list of those projects? Do you know where we are?
I don't know how many years you go back. Is it to 2021? If you do have a list of those projects with how
much money was originally appropriated, and how much money still needs to be spent for that project, I
would love to get a copy of that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, that information is available. But I would turn your attention to the agenda packet.
The last topic that we will discuss this evening is actually capital projects. And you can see there are two
pages of a list of them and when they were approved, in terms of the year.
And so off the top of my head, we can double-check, I believe ticket-vending machines really is the only
one. But we can look when we get to that topic, just to double-check. But it is few and far between.
KAREN BENKER: OK, my understanding is the capital carry forward is-- trying to remember --300 million.
Am I correct? I mean, for example, we just approved 125 million for reconstruction of rail downtown. OK,
granted, it was appropriated this year, but that's an example.
So clearly, it's not going to be paid out completely in 2025. You're going to carry forward the remaining cost
because the project's going to take at least another year. Am I explaining myself well? Maybe not.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CFO.

KELLY MACKEY: Yes, so the current deferred balance for 2025 capital needs, the 2025 deferred is 340
million. So this is basically though a different ask. This is not to extend these beyond three years, but I do
hear what you're saying.
KAREN BENKER: Yes, so again, I don't know what previous boards have approved in terms of projects.
They've appropriated monies, and I would like to know how many of those are unfinished projects and how
much money is remaining in each project.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: We are getting to that tonight in the last item under discussion to begin that
conversation.
KAREN BENKER: But if you've got a list, I'd love to see it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Scroll down further in the agenda packet for tonight, and it will be there.
KAREN BENKER: And I understand, but while we're talking about having certain time limits on projects, I
do see the relationship there.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah, absolutely valid. Director Nicholson, I apologize if there was a follow-up. You
lowered your hand, so I moved on to the next Director, please proceed.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: It's OK. I wanted to include others. CFO Mackey, so I guess my question would be if
our goal is to keep the fiscal policy at three years, and to do this only when absolutely necessary and only
in very, as I think you said, rare occasions then shouldn't we keep the fiscal policy as is, and just have you
come to the Board on the very, very rare occasion when we need to deviate from it?
It just strikes me if this is going to be a really rare occurrence, that it's better to keep our policy the way we
want it and have an agenda item once a year that deviates from it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CFO.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, I think some of these would be such small dollar amounts, it wouldn't make sense
to bring some of these to the Board and spend your time on it. And I think in practice, RTD and the Board
have not followed the existing fiscal policy because in some limited circumstances, have not been following
this three-year rule. And so we're trying to update the fiscal policy to the actual practice, which is
conservative, but we want to make sure that we're in compliance with the policy.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, go ahead, Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So my ask would be to say that you either informally, or you put it in the fiscal policy,
that if you're going to go over three years on a project, that you notify the Board, the Chair, somebody on
the Board of the fact that, hey, we've gone past three years, and we're still applying it. We're doing this.
Here's some notice to let you know. Maybe that could go in the fiscal policy, or it could be just a standing
thing that you do to make us feel comfortable.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, I would be fine with that to include that in either quarterly materials or monthly
materials.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Awesome sauce.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you, yeah, I realized when I was reviewing this, I didn't know what our
safety management system was that we talk about will be maintained to minimize exposure. So I was just
curious what that tool is.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So when you're talking about our SMS, is-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: In reference to where we're going, I don't know the name of the system off the top of
my head, but we use a mechanism where we capture the information that we use for risk management
purposes. And so I can double back with specifics relative to the program if that's the software, if that's what
you're interested in, Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you, yes, I realize it's a pretty specific question, but it just caught my
eye. And I would appreciate that, thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, not a problem. I will send a communique to the entire body, so you all receive
the same information in the spirit of transparency. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Anything further. Director Gutschenritter?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: No, that's all for me. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. I don't see any other hands raised. I am going to opine packet page 67,
which shows the red line. I'm not frankly comfortable with the language "may."
I think there's a better way to write this. I believe it's probably a wiser use of Board time to have to deal with
some of these projects that go beyond three years, even if they're small amounts. It could be a presentation
of a CIP book, which has been requested by several Directors over the last few years, a continuation of our
Capital Improvement Project discussion that we're going to begin tonight.
But I am not inclined to change that word from "will" to "may." It was my understanding, and probably just
a miscommunication, that that language was going to be changed from "will" to "shall," and this gives away
some oversight authority in terms of budget and management of our fiscal responsibility as a Board, and I
don't know that I feel comfortable moving this forward with the language as it is.
I am inclined, with Director Nicholson, to believe that there may be another way to write this language that
will respect our conservative fiscal responsibility but also give the agency the opportunity to come before
the Board on these matters. And I do understand very clearly, with respect to the ticket-vending machine,
that it has taken much longer than three years to be able to do that.
But in conversation with a few other Directors around this particular language, there was some resistance
to it. And so I want to vocalize that on their behalf and also on mine, and just say that I think we need to
consider the language here very carefully.

So for what it's worth, I don't like that change. And I would actually ask to change it back, and then maybe
add a comma or a semicolon or something else to the rest of it to say, any capital expenditures, we can set
a threshold amount if we need that are going to go beyond three years need to come before the Board for
discussion as we do this budgeting process. I'll end there. General Manager/CEO, your hand is raised.
Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. So in reference to the question that was just posed by
Director Gutschenritter, I want to clarify my comments, as I looked at the Board packet, whereby he was
referencing on package page 67, under expenditure policies, item number 5, the safety management
system will be maintained to minimize exposure to liability claims.
There is a clear-cut nexus with the corresponding Public Transportation Agency Safety plan that will be
presented tomorrow in the Operation Safety and Security Committee meeting. As a point of clarification,
relative to the Public Transit Agency Safety plan, what we are referencing in the fiscal policy, has to do with
our annual Safety Management System, and that's the SMS. It's not a software. It's a formal, top-down,
agency-wide, data-driven safety management approach.
That's prescribed by the Federal government, and that's what we're talking about. So if you were to look at
package page 31 for tomorrow's agenda, it clarifies what that is and it's contained in greater detail in the
draft Public Transportation Agency Safety plan, which we are required pursuant to Federal regulation, to
submit to our state safety oversight agency, which would be the Colorado Public Utilities Commission.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I appreciate the clarification. Is there any other discussion on this matter at this point?
Just a friendly, collegial reminder, between now and next month, is the time to try and get any changes or
recommendations through CFO Mackey and General Manager/CEO about this particular matter. I would
highly suggest that that communication happen sooner, rather than later, so that we can have a discussion
about it and move forward with a good recommendation to the full body at next month's meeting. Thank
you.
All right, the second item listed here is the 2026 investment Policy. I would like to ask Kelly Mackey, Chief
Financial Officer, to present this item. Miss Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you. The 2026 investment policy is a discussion item that we will bring back to the
Finance and Planning Committee on October 14, along with the 2026 fiscal policy, and ask for approval of
those policies. These can be changed at any time. There have been no substantial statutory changes or
investment industry changes that would impact this policy over the past year.
In addition to minor grammatical and punctuation changes, we have proposed a few other changes. First
is, we recommend indicating that the annual listing of investments held and investment returns be within
the Q4 Investment Report, rather than in the. Annual Comprehensive Financial Report or ACFR, as staff
sees this level of detail as being too much to include in the ACFR. Also, it has not historically been included
in the ACFR.
Next, we are updating the structure of our Treasury debt and investment teams and propose adding the
titles Director of Treasury and Manager of Debt and Investments to the list of roles authorized to transact

investment business on behalf of RTD. Based on the interview process underway, we may be able to
remove two other titles next month, when we bring this back as a discussion item.
Third, the Prudent Investor Standard did not previously reference a citation, so we've updated that and to
reflect the appropriate citation. And lastly, we have added clarity to the language that RTD is authorized to
issue collateralized, prime commercial paper rather than commercial paper.
More broadly, collateralized, prime commercial paper is essentially a short-term loan a company takes by
selling IOUs to investors. And "prime" means the issuing company is high quality and financially strong.
Because it's collateralized, the IOUs are backed by assets like receivables or other securities that provide
an extra layer of safety for investors if something goes wrong.
So in closing, safety, liquidity, and yield, in that order, is what we're going for as an agency. And these
proposed changes will have been reviewed by legal Counsel. And Chair Guzman, I will now turn it back to
you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Directors, are there any questions or discussion regarding this matter at
this point? Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I just wanted to commend the work on the policy. I was a pension and 401(k) trustee
for a brief minute in my life, and I think this policy reflects the amount of caution and flexibility that should
reside with staff to execute. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Any other comments or discussion? OK, gentle reminder, between now and next
month, anything that should come up, please make sure that you are communicating that promptly so that
any changes that might need to be made can come forward as a strong recommendation to the Board.
Thank you very much.
The third item is for the capital improvement projects. I would ask Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer,
and Jyotsna Vishwakarma, acting Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs to present this item.
Before I kick this over to Miss Mackey and Miss Vishwakarma, I just want to acknowledge the work by
Board members and staff that went into these discussions coming forward today.
Some of it's very litigious and technical work. It takes a whole team to do it. Having the citations doublechecked from the CRS and the previous one, or making recommendations, is great work. And so this
particular item that we're going into has been a long-requested item.
We've talked about it a lot tonight. I think this is the beginning of that conversation, not the end of it. And I
would like to see this go forward in perpetuity as a part of the Finance and Planning Committee's work,
given that we are the Planning Committee as well, and supposed to be looking at long-term plans for how
we spend money and how we plan to build infrastructure or maintain it.
And so while we deal with these ongoing capital projects that roll over from year to year, thank you for
bringing this forward. And it is all yours. I turn it over to you now. Oop, you're on mute.
KELLY MACKEY: The purpose of this discussion item is to review capital improvement projects, and I have
included information on those that are greater than 2 million and recently completed, ongoing, or underway.
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, acting Assistant General Manager, Capital Programs, is here to help answer
questions.

Capital projects are some of the most significant investments an organization undertakes. They shape, not
only our infrastructure, but also how we serve and connect with our communities for decades to come.
And that's why the role of the Board is so critical. First and foremost, the Board provides strategic oversight,
making sure that every project is aligned with our long-term vision and organizational priorities. Hand in
hand with that, is fiduciary responsibility. The Board ensures that funds are allocated wisely, that budgets
are realistic, and that taxpayer and stakeholder dollars are used with integrity.
Another essential role is risk governance. Large projects inherently carry risks financial, operational, and
reputational, so the Board helps identify and mitigate those risks early so they don't derail progress. The
Board also plays a role in performance monitoring, and that means tracking key milestones and making
sure projects deliver the outcomes that we've promised.
And underlying all of this, its stewardship of public trust. Our stakeholders, whether citizens, riders, or
partner organizations, expect us to act responsibly with the resources that we have and to ensure projects
ultimately benefit the public good.
And finally, at the heart of all of it, is connecting communities between neighborhoods and between today,
and the future that we want to create. RTD's mission is to make lives better through connections. The staff's
role is coordinating, planning, and execution of capital projects in a structured way based on years of
planning. Remember that many of the decisions around these asset replacements were substantially made
more than 20 years ago when the infrastructure was built.
When staff thinks about how capital projects move from idea to reality, it's important to recognize the
structured cycle that they follow. It begins with the need identification, understanding what's driving the
project, whether it's asset age, condition, obsolescence, or alignment with other initiatives. And then from
there, staff moves into financial planning, where needs are translated into budget inputs and long-range
forecasts.
And that sets the stage for planning and design, where detailed technical and business requirements are
developed. And once plans are clear, staff enters the procurement phase, bringing in consultants,
contractors, and services to deliver the work. Then comes the implementation and construction, where the
project takes shape in the field.
And finally, we reach closeout and warranty, ensuring the technical details are completed, business matters
resolved, and the desired end product successfully put into service. This phased approach provides
discipline, accountability, and a clear line of sight from concept all the way through to delivery.
You have seen this chart before, and we last presented it, not only today, but in the July 15, 2025 Finance
and Planning Committee meeting. Staff aims to deliver the right money in the right year, for the right
requests, for the right reasons. And the Transit Asset Management Plan is aligned to the Five-Year
Financial Forecast and the annual budget process, which then provides for departments to implement those
plans.
RTD's capital projects are completed in a structured way based on years of planning. And many decisions
around these asset replacements were made many years ago, as I mentioned.
So here's a two-page list of capital projects, at least $2 million in value, that were recently completed,
ongoing, or underway for you to get a sense of the scope of the capital projects, their size, and their delivery
lifecycle phases over the past couple of years. This schedule provides the year in which the budgeted funds

were approved, whether the actual costs are coming in under budget or still aligned to the budget, and
whether funding came from federal grants, CDOT, or local funds. Staff has also indicated whether there is
a notable challenge in the project, such as delays in the delivery schedule.
As a few highlights, the East Metro Triple Pit and roof replacement have been recently completed, as shown
at the top. The Colorado 119 BRT is in construction. Both the Boulder HVAC and the district shops rooftop
unit replacements are in design phase. The downtown rail reconstruction and Access-A-Ride and FlexRide
cutaways are in implementation. The ticket-vending machines are soon coming out of planning. The district
shops hoist replacement is in design and over-the-road coaches are in planning.
Next, the Enterprise Resource Planning software upgrade is in planning. We're implementing replacement
of server equipment. Staff is in design phase for HVAC replacement at Elati, the Security Command Center,
and Mariposa, as well as the East Metro hoist replacement. I've noted the wheel mill is in implementation,
which is a piece of equipment to keep the wheel in the correct shape so that it maintains contact with the
rail.
And there are a few others listed on this page. Note that other projects that do not extend the life of the
assets, or are under $5,000, are funded through the expense budget, and I hope this view provides you
insightful information that you're looking for. And Chair Guzman, that concludes my comments.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director O'Keefe, your hand was first.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I've talked to GM/CEO Johnson a little bit about this.
So it's probably some of this is just the ability to get this on the record because I think we have a good
answer for it.
So with capital projects, there is a cumulative risk in your procurement choices and not boring people with
procurement selection frameworks. But how do we look at the cumulative impact of projects? I would look
at that list right now and say it would be low. If we got into some more significant capital expenditure, like
downtown rail replacement, plus some other big things, there would be a cumulative impact of all the risk
you're taking by issuing those contracts.
And then related to that, we put a contingency on top of all our projects. How are we deciding that
contingency level? And I hope the answer isn't just FTA guidance, because there's not a strong record of
major rail projects being done on budget. So I think they're undercontingencied in general.
But what's our governance for the use of that contingency and the establishment of a contingency on top
of projects. And if it is FTA dictated rules, I would argue that we need a stronger owners contingency that
goes with our major capital projects, so we don't end up with that-- again, getting back to that compounded
risk of each project, if they all go over budget, you're in a big problem. So if maybe someone could talk
about both our risk assessment, our cumulative, and also our decisions on establishment and use of
contingency. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Miss Vishwakarma or General Manager/CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. I will first start, and I'll yield the floor to Miss Vishwakarma.
To your question, Director O'Keefe, yes, we have talked about it and recognizing that FTA generally does
not give direction relative to where we sit in reference to contingency. It's more or less looking at industry
practices as a whole.

Miss Vishwakarma can speak to this as we have talked ad nauseam. Generally, there's more guidance
provided within the highway Industry via FHWA that we have used as a basis as we move forward, but it's
really contingent upon the certain elements as relates to the types of projects that we are undertaking. So
I just wanted to paint that picture as we go forward because it's not a sole source relative to how we go
about doing it here at this agency because that's one of the first questions I had when I came into the
organization, recognizing that some contingencies were 20% and some are 25% So it does vary. But I'll
yield the floor to Miss Vishwakarma. Thank you,
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Miss Vishwakarma.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you, GM Johnson. So projects are looked at individually based on what
it is that we are trying to accomplish, what time frame we have to get it done in, and what are the practical
constraints around the job. For instance, downtown rail reconstruction has permitting by the City and County
of Denver.
So projects are looked at individually. And we assess our risk based on our history with that type of work,
and what's going on in the industry. And for bigger projects, we do formal risk assessments.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Sorry, Mr. Chairman, can I ask a follow-up.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: OK, thank you. So is this the forum? Do those risk assessments for those major
projects come back to this committee? In other organizations, there might be a risk committee that would
carry this. Do those risk assessments come back for-- is that something we could see?
I'm not interested in getting into the establishment of what the right number is. I would just like to know if
we're carrying major projects with something that has a risk assessment that might be above medium or
something.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: So, Director O'Keefe, the risk assessments have usually been held at staff
level.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Maybe this is probably a conversation for the future, but I think there's probably a
threshold, and I don't know what it is. It's certainly maybe it's $100 million or something. But I think that's
something that we should make a practice of reviewing, given the potential for an unexpected, significant
impact to budget.
And so not doing management's job, but certainly understanding the risk that you're seeing in projects and
making sure that we're taking the context of the overall management of the organization would be great.
Thank you. Sorry, Mr. Chair, follow-up.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: You are perfectly fine. Thank you very much. Director Benker, your hand was up
second.
KAREN BENKER: Yes, thank you. Two questions about two of the projects. Downtown rail reconstruction
was appropriated, it says here, in 2024, last year, for 152 million. And I can't remember. Was it last month

our Board appropriated 125 million for this project? Does anybody know the total amount for this rail
reconstruction project for downtown?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Actually, I assume it is.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, so for all intents and purposes, it's the $152 million. We've had different
phases. So basically when we put this forward, we're extrapolating those monies within that umbrella of the
$152 million.
KAREN BENKER: But we just appropriated 125 million. So is this in addition to the 152 million?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, it's from that 150-- no, it's not in addition to. It comes from the $152 million. When
we brought this project forward to the Board, recognizing the authority level, the delegation of authority, and
the interest in the project we were providing an overall estimate for what the project phases would entail.
And so I made a commitment going forward, that we would apprise the Board relative to where we are
under the delegation of authority that has been afforded to the General Manager and CEO position. And
we wanted to ensure that there was an understanding at the Board level of what those projects consisted
of.
KAREN BENKER: OK, so the total project is 152 million.
DEBRA JOHNSON: That's the monies that we have estimated going forward, yes.
KAREN BENKER: OK, and then my second question has to do with the transit buses. It's down here for
111 million, but it just says ongoing. So just some background detail on that. How many buses, what's
ongoing, what does that mean?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, and if I could just clarify before we address that question, if I may. I'm talking
about contract authority versus delegation. I said delegation, but I meant contract authority. So I just wanted
to qualify that.
KAREN BENKER: That's fine. That's good. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Oh, sorry, real quick, before you address the second question. The downtown rail
reconstruction progress, the downtown rail reconstruction project is an iterative process as well. It's
implemented in phases, but the work is being done as the project advances In the-- is it four phases? I don't
have it in front of me right now, so I cannot remember. --as we go through that work.
And so the total cost of that project is estimated at 152. But the iterative design and the progressive build
of the reconstruction, is also a consideration that the Board was apprised of in 2024 when you first brought
this forward, correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, and so basically, when we first brought this forward, as it relates to 2024, yes, as
we said, going forward, there would be different phases of the project and recognizing the Congressional
earmarks that we were afforded that all was encapsulated in that cost of the $152 million. The largest lion's
share was what we brought forward, just recently, relative to the $125 million that's bonds for the 152.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, thank you. The question about the transit buses, 111 million.
KAREN BENKER: [INAUDIBLE] 111 ongoing, but what does that mean?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Could that question be repeated.
KAREN BENKER: Sure, I see transit buses for 111 million, and it just says ongoing. So it's pretty open and
vague. Do you know how many buses? And when you say ongoing, is it-DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may.
KAREN BENKER: [INAUDIBLE].
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Relative to the question I responded to previously, when we were talking about our
fleet-replacement plan and how we keep vehicles for a certain amount of time, this is part of our fleetreplacement projects, as we go forward. And so that's why it's ongoing because there's different cycles.
But I'll yield the floor to Miss Mackey if she wants to elaborate. But typically, that's what one does in the
transit industry because you have different useful life elements that are hit. And generally you do a
procurement relative to certain periods of time in which you have taken delivery of those vehicles to use in
Revenue Service.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: [INAUDIBLE] I will add that the word "ongoing" is in the approved column for the budget.
So what that indicates, and what staff guided me to put on this slide, is that it wasn't approved in one
particular or even two particular years. It's an ongoing approval of budgets for transit bus replacements.
KAREN BENKER: So would that then mean that the dollar amount that you have here would fluctuate every
year?
KELLY MACKEY: I can't speak to that specifically, but I can ask my team.
KAREN BENKER: I'm good. Thank you.
KELLY MACKEY: Yep
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right, Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you, Chair Guzman. Yeah, just as somebody that has a lot of
experience in CapEx projects, and my track record is nowhere near having a 100% not being overage on
costs. So I'm just very impressed by that and curious what you all contribute that To How have we managed
to just stay under cost on all our CapEx projects, aligned or under?

Is there anything you would attribute-- I mean, is it detailed requirements gathering, a very educated RFP,
fixed contracts?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CFO,
KELLY MACKEY: I clearly have less history at the organization. So I can speak to this on a limited basis.
And then if anybody else would like to add, that's fine. But one thing I would call out is, I believe at times,
that when we make these projections and we propose the budgeted dollar amounts, we have a budgeted
dollar amount that's conservative in nature.
So that typically, if there was to be different than the actual amount, it's usually under what we estimated
the total budget amount. Because we have to appropriate the dollars. And without additional funds, they
wouldn't be available if the project was to go over.
So when teams are estimating-- apologize for the background noise. When teams are estimating these
dollar amounts, they do it basically based on a conservative estimate.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, and more to the point, with some of these aspects of projects going forward,
there's often a not to exceed amount as we look at the contracting authority that's put forward as well. So
the projects vary in reference to the elements within the capital program.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Miss Vishwakarma.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: So what I would add is that planning and delivering on a capital project takes
many steps, and it takes an excellence in the people and the process involved, to understand what it is we
are trying to do, how many variables are there, and to put a budgetary number to say, hey, we're considering
all these factors. This is what we think we can deliver it in and then keeping on track and managing our
contractors. So it takes a lot of professional services effort and expertise to pull this off.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Well done, and thank you for sharing.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Chair Guzman. So we've had a decent amount of senior staff turnover in
the last 18 months or so. So there's a number of new leaders of the different divisions that are affected by- that are dealing with or doing these capital projects that have changed over. The software architect project
from 2022, I think it was, that's been in planning since '24. We now have a new Chief Information
Technology Officer.
And so I was kind of wondering, for that kind of thing, maybe Mr. Feddersen can speak to it, to what degree
have those changes in staffing caused us to take a new look at projects like that and say, hey, the
assumptions we had with the last guy, or the assumptions we had three years ago, we are now looking at
a different way of doing this. We're looking at different software. We're looking at a different vendor.
Typically, you get that when you hire somebody new in senior level. So I'm just wondering, how has the
staff turnover affected any of these projects?

MICHAEL GUZMAN: So turnover is one term of art with respect to hiring people. I don't know that there's
been turnover. I know that there has been hiring that was done to replace vacancy. I would like to hand this
to General Manager/CEO Johnson first to begin, and then with respect to the financial and budget creation
process, she can defer to whomever she would like after. Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much for the opportunity, Mr. Chair. As a point of clarification, stating
that we've had a lot of turnover in 18 months, I would disagree with that. We have had individuals that have
retired from the organization. And as we look at where we are holistically, I would say that's typical in
reference to attrition, recognizing our CFO had been here for 15 years. What would be now the COO of
Bus, had been here for seven and 1/2 years.
So I just wanted to state that for the record because I believe that that's not an appropriate account of what
is occurring here at this organization. And Mr. Feddersen has been one that was promoted, who has been
here throughout the duration, who has leaned in and has shepherded a myriad of projects very successfully.
So with that, I will yield the floor to Mr. Feddersen to address the question which was posed by Director
Nicholson. Thank you.
BRETT FEDDERSEN: Yeah, thank you. CEO Johnson and Director Nicholson, Brett Feddersen, CITO. In
relation to this particular one, it's a matter of absolutely doing what you just said, looking at our entire
architecture stack, making sure that we have a good roadmap for modernizing, not just our internal but our
external services such as the Traveler Information System.
And this particular one, it was around making sure that our hardware that is-- much like with the downtown
rail reconstruction, where we want to make sure that our rail is in a state of good repair, it's making sure
that our infrastructure, our servers, are also in a state of good repair. And we're absolutely constantly looking
at what the next great decision is in terms of the architectural direction of the future.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you. That's very helpful.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So maybe, Madam CFO, if you wouldn't mind, I'm going to put you on the spot for
just a moment. When it comes to doing this type of work with respect to budgeting, the process, I would
assume, is that leadership is meeting, having the discussion about what those implications are, and then
they're bringing it to you and to the budgeting team to assess what that looks like in terms of dollars and
cost.
KELLY MACKEY: Sorry, ask the question one more time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So in terms of the question that was asked with respect to the budgeting process and
the creation of the budget and the plan going forward, when new ideas or new processes are identified, we
follow the same process. They just bring it to the senior leadership and have that conversation about what
the costs may look like to incorporate it into the budget to make those decisions.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, except for capital improvement projects, they're largely incorporated through the
asset management plan and through that process. So on one of the prior slides, we discussed there's a
very long process basically to have those cost models created, evaluated based on certain variables. And
then those projects are discussed, yes, among the leadership team. And then we decide from among those
which we're able to include in the budget.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Right money at the right time.

KELLY MACKEY: Yeah.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right, Director Nicholson, was there something further? Your hand is still up. Thank
you. All right, thank you. I know that this was a bit of a labor of love to get this done. I appreciate the format
in which it's presented. It makes it pretty easy to understand for the public. And that was one of the questions
that we asked early on was to provide this in a way that was understandable. So I appreciate that.
I am going to encourage other members of the body to opine on how we would like to proceed. We don't
need to do it in this meeting, but let me know. Send me an email please, so I can work with our General
Manager CEO and with our CFO on an ongoing conversation with respect to this.
And truly, with respect to Vice Chair Benker's request about understanding the complexity of all of our
capital projects and knowing that this is something that I've asked about, Director Ruscha has asked about,
I'm going to ask for a CIP book, right here and now, that we can look at on an annual basis while we're
doing this project.
Please, please, please, it makes it really helpful for us to understand everything that we're carrying and
everything that we're working on. I don't know that I could be any more eloquent than Director O'Keefe in
how he addressed the same matter. And I know that we have multiple things going on in multiple ways, but
I think it is really helpful for us to do our fiscal governance with respect to these projects and dollar amounts
if we know exactly what we're working on.
We also have a commitment to not wasting paper. So if that's a digital live CIP book, that's even better
because then it can be updated in real time, which is always super helpful. And that's all we have on this
one.
So I would like to thank you all, again, for your hard work. Miss Vishwakarma, You always come through
with amazing talent, and I have appreciated that every year I have worked with you on this Board. Miss
Mackey, wonderful presentation, I really appreciate it.
Let's bring this back. I don't know whether we do it by any-- midway through the year, in a semester process,
or if it's an annual thing, but I would like to continue to have these conversations about capital improvement
projects, especially given that the planning part of Finance and Planning, can sometimes be left behind with
all the financial work that we have to do. Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair, for your comments, and I appreciate that going
forward. As you know, there's a lot of work that we have to do here at this organization to have consolidated
information.
I wanted to go on record saying that you have my commitment. We will work towards that. The team and I
will discern the most appropriate vehicle in which to leverage and share that with you or whomever is the
Chair of this Committee appropriately. But we just wanted to state, for the record, that we needed to get
our ducks in a row as we move forward, and especially since we're in this critical phase, relative to our
transit network as it relates to asset renewal. This will be par for the course as we move forward. So thank
you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Amazing I appreciate that. Thank you so much. Under other matters, I would like to
recognize and welcome to our Senior Leadership Team from the Board of Directors, the following people.
And I hope my list is current and correct, so please feel free to correct me if I am wrong, General Manager
or CEO. Johnson, Mr. Timothy Tyron, Director of Safety and Environmental compliance and Chief Safety

Officer, Mr. Patrick Preusser, Chief Operations Officer, Mr. Brett Feddersen, the Chief Information and
Technology Officer, and Mr. Sean Faris, the Deputy Chief of Police.
We are excited to work with you and happy that you are here as we are all one RTD, and we work together
to get things done. And I just want to give you a hearty welcome. Thank you for staying late for the meeting
tonight, Mr. Feddersen and others that are going to participate in meetings going forward.
Are there any other matters to discuss at this point in the Finance and Planning Committee? I don't see
any. I will bring up one more thing. I did receive an email from Director Nicholson. It will be more appropriate
for next month's meeting, but in the meantime, I'm just going to put out this advice.
In the fiscal policy, the Board of Directors directs staff to provide us with a high-level, abbreviated version
of the budget for the discussion and to put out to the public. And that is something that we can change at
any time. We can also ask for more detail if we need to.
I was asked by two different Directors to make this point tonight as we get ready for that conversation. I
believe there's a need for more information with respect to budget line items. I have counseled both of those
Directors to have a conversation with our General Manager CEO and our CFO, or to provide me with more
information.
That being the case, you all have our current budget book and access to it. It's more than one page long.
And that's appreciated. But I do believe that there is a need to have maybe a bit more information, so we
understand some of those line items.
I know Director Benker loves to look at the pages and pages of information and dig through it. And I am
with you. I don't necessarily want a telephone book. I think that idea just scares me out of my mind. But if
it's what we need to do, it's what we need to do. I'm not suggesting that's the path we take, but there may
be more communication coming to you, General Manager CEO Johnson. And through you too, our Chief
Financial Officer, about that matter.
I just want to give a heads up here. While we're contemplating going into that conversation next month, it
would be a really great time to look at our current budget book and analyze what we think is going to be the
necessary amount of information to recommend, as a committee, to bring forward the 2026 budget before
we really hit the ground running with that discussion item. Thank you, all. Is there anything else that we
need to discuss?
All right, next Finance and Planning Committee meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, October 14. At that
meeting, we will take action on the fiscal policy and investment policy presented this evening for discussion.
Additionally, we will hold our initial conversation about the 2026 budget. I encourage all Directors, not just
those on this committee, to join for that important conversation.
Beyond the 2026 budget, we will also have a discussion on our long-range financial plan, which is the 30Year financial planning horizon for RTD, and CFO Mackey will give us a year-to-date financial update of
the agency.
Leading it off, will be the updated sales and use tax forecast from our friends at the CU Leeds business
school. And let's get ready to rumble. We can adjourn this meeting, if it is so moved by the committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. With no other discussion, we will close this meeting
at 8:25 and adjourn. Thank you very much. Have a good night.
MATT LARSEN: Good night.

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the
RTD Finance and Planning Committee Meeting, September 9th, 2025.
September 9th, 2025
Michael Guzman, RTD Finance and Planning Committee Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Chair Guzman,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) writes regarding to the following two topics:
Tap-to-pay and Cash Digitization Retail Network Title VI Fare Equity Analysis
GDT supports the overall conclusions of the Equity Analysis that concludes there will be no disparate impact
on BIPOC populations or disparate burden on low income populations.

That said, we would caution the agency to see prepaid debit cards as a solution for those that are unbanked to
use RTDs services. Such cards are known for having various fees, which can quickly add up. These can
include activation fees, monthly maintenance fees, ATM withdrawal fees, reload fees, and inactivity fees.
These fees are often way in excess of the fees charged for debit cards issued by a bank or credit union.
GDT is pleased to see RTD intends to develop a MyRide cash digitization retail network that will provide
equipment to retailers allowing them to sell and reload physical MyRide cards and thus provide an option to
pay RTD fares in cash.
However many RTD rail stations and transit facilities are located with no convenient retail locations nearby.
Because of this, and to allow those that are unbanked or need to pay cash the ability to benefit from
fare-capping, GDT strongly recommends all ticket vending machines (TVMs) are upgraded to both vend and
reload physical MyRide cards as a priority.
Capital Improvement Projects
GDT continues to strongly recommend the agency publish a CIP book of capital improvement projects, which
contains at least one page per project > $2m and a summary of all projects expected to cost less than that.
The CIP book should include a complete anticipated project schedule, details of how the project is funded and
how the funds are expected to be spent, broken down by budget year. We would hope the first version of the
CIP book is made available in time for the 2026 budget public hearing.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Thanks for all you do,


James Flattum




Emma Griffin 
CC:













Richard Bamber













Joe Meyer

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO
Angel Pea, RTD Deputy CEO

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

