2023-04-25
Board Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: --my gavel. I'm going to use it. OK. I will now call the Tuesday, April 25 RTD Board
meeting to order. We're convened as a 5:33. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted until you
are asked to speak.
Thanks for joining us this evening. As the Board has moved to in-person for the monthly Board meetings,
please note that committee meetings of the Board of Directors will still be held remotely via Zoom and will
be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meeting will
be posted, as soon as practicable, on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this
meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. Director Guzman, could you please lead us in the
Pledge of Allegiance?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I pledge allegiance to the flag-BOARD: --of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Williams, would you please read out the land
acknowledgment?
KATE WILLIAMS: The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and trains
operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal nations
that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our indigenous elders who have traveled, inhabited, and
stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations.
May this acknowledgment demonstrate our commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of
inequity of the native and all historically oppressed peoples, and to recognizing their current and their
future contributions in the district as we move forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I will now call the roll. Director Bouquet-JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I think virtual there. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Treasurer Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha. We'll come back. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am here, Lynn Guissinger. With 14 present and one absent, we have a
quorum. There are no retirees for this evening. The next retiree recognition will occur during the June 27
Board meeting.
This is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the Board. If
you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press star-9 on your
phone. Staff will meet you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star-6 to toggle your
Mute settings.
Do we have-- I have more instructions. But first, is there anyone in the queue to speak?
KATE WILLIAMS: We do not have any hands raised at this time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We'll give it just a minute since I just announced it.

KATE WILLIAMS: We did receive one email this afternoon, from Richard Bamber, which will go into the
record.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you. All right, no one no other hands. OK. With no participants in the
queue, we will close the public participation period at this time. This month, we have one external entity
report. That report is from the Citizens Advisory Committee. Mr John Fussa the floor is yours. Is he here?
OK.
I would note for the record that Director Ruscha has joined us. Is Mr. Fussa virtual?
JOYANN RUSCHA: [INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, not rushing you.
JOHN FUSSA: Director Guissinger, this is John Fussa. Can you hear me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can, John. Thank you.
JOHN FUSSA: Thank you. Sorry for the technical snafu on my end.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It happens.
JOHN FUSSA: Completely my fault. So thank you. I'm appearing tonight on behalf of the CAC, with a
brief report out from our April meeting, and again, want to thank both staff and consultants who continue
to support the CAC so that we can hopefully provide meaningful input and be supportive of our RTD.
The major presentation and discussion at the April meeting for the CAC was around our Respect the Ride
presentation and discussion and RTD's code of conduct. We had an outstanding presentation from staff
member Stuart Summers, and went through that discussion and the issues that you're well aware of with
Stuart and RTD staff.
The CAC continues to express concerns with both the actual and perceived safety of the system, which
the CAC-- especially those members who are regular riders of the system-- believe is a barrier to use and
comfort of that use of the system, both for journey-to-work trips, convenience trips, and discretionary trips.
We applaud RTD and the Board for digging into this issue, and the outstanding work that the staff has
done. And we urge the Board and RTD staff to continue to evaluate this issue, and elevate, and also
promote, wherever possible, system safety, including the perception of safety and the actual safety. It's
an important issue to the CAC and its users.
We had a brief legislative update, from staff and consultants for RTD, About this very busy legislative
session at the State House. And that was informative. A number of the CAC members expressed and
continue to express interest, for example, in SB-213, the very big and controversial Affordable Housing
Bill, which does have some application, if it does pass, to transit corridors.
And the CAC doesn't take a position on it. That is not really our role. But we do express interest in the
topic. And depending on the outcome of the legislative session in that bill, think that there might be a role
for RTD, depending on the emphasis on transit corridors in the final outcome.

Staff, myself include-- staff-- I'm not staff, excuse me, Chair Guissinger. I'm mixing my hats. As a CAC
member, myself and a few other CAC members continue to work on a charter, with bylaws and a vision
statement, for the CAC. We're planning to share that, in draft form, with the CAC, next month, in May.
And depending on that discussion and the feedback we receive, we do intend to share it with the RTD
Board and would like to get your feedback, in the future, on that.
We also had a brief discussion on the RTD fare study and just want to reiterate our support of the
direction RTD and the Board is headed, with regard to your approach to fares, and applaud you, both
Board members and staff, for digging into that issue, which is very important to the system and its riders
and patrons.
And that's about it. Lastly, we do appreciate your continued support for and willingness to meet with the
CAC in our one-on-one or small-group coffee chats. We're slowly getting those schedules, albeit slowly,
trying to make schedules match between CAC members and RTD Board members.
I will be meeting with Director Bouquet, who's the Director for where I live and work. I look forward to that
discussion with Director Bouquet. And the CAC wants to express its thanks for your willingness to have
those conversations. And that concludes my report, Chair Guissinger. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank so much, Mr. Fussa. I think your concerns with safety and appreciation of
the fare study and all the other things you're talking about are items that we all share. And you'll hear a
little bit more about some of those later. And thanks for your work with others on working on the bylaws
and vision and charter and those things. Look forward to seeing those.
JOHN FUSSA: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Director Dishell, do you have a report from the ZEV ad-hoc-- the Zero
Emission Vehicle Ad-Hoc Committee?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. Well, I got some feedback that was a little too close last time.
[LAUGHTER]
The ZEV ad-hoc committee is pleased to present the item on the agenda, which is item 16-- nope-- 17C.
And I'll defer my comments until then. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks. Audit Committee-- Committee Chair Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: The Audit Committee met earlier this month. The members of the Board of Directors
should be receiving monthly, written updates from our External Auditor, Plant Moran. During the Audit
Committee earlier this month, we also discussed internal audit and the putting together of internal audit
plans, giving a head nod of the plans in which-- the way in which we plan to proceed forward. The Audit
Committee's next meeting is on May 9 at 11:00 AM.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Finance and Planning Committee Report, Committee chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The actions of the Finance and Planning
Committee that met recently are accurately summarized in the minutes. The highlights that I would like to
present to you now-- the Sales and Use Tax Forecast was presented by Richard Wobbekind and
Company from the Leeds School of Business at the University of Colorado.

They gave a guardedly cautious picture of economic stability. The Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility
Study Update emphasized the continuing communication, collaboration, and cooperation with our
regional partners in going forward in a responsible and measured manner.
And then lastly, the System-Wide Fare Study and Equity Analysis gave us a picture of an exciting revision
to our fares that will put RTD at the leading edge of transit agencies around the country for affordable and
inclusive fares, especially when compared to agencies of similar geographic coverage. And that
concludes my report, Madam Chair. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. committee Chair. Committee Chair Williams, the Operations and
Safety Committee report.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. The Operations and Safety Committee met on April 12. The
record of that meeting is available on the RTD website, on the Board of Directors page, under Past
Meetings. And I'm going to spell out the link to that information, if anybody wants it, because it's not
pronounceable. It's https;//rtd.iqm2 .com/citizens/default.aspx. I'm not saying it again. I'm sorry.
The group discussed RTD's low and no-emission facilities and the Fleet Transition Plan scope of work,
summary approval and contract authorization, as well as the termination of contract for battery-electric
buses. Our other discussion item was a draft of a proposed amendment to our Zero-Emission Policy,
which was presented by Director Dishell. All of that information is available on our site. And the next
meeting date is Wednesday, May 10, at the same time, in the same location. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Committee Chair Davidson, is there a Performance
Committee report?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. The Performance Committee met on April 12 to
convene to discuss the General Manager and CEO's contract with the agency as well as the Gallagher
report or compensation analysis, and the strategic plan. The committee identified the need, as per the
General Manager's contract, to establish some definition around the compensation analysis. We identified
the need to have a formal compensation philosophy at the Board level for the position of General
Manager and CEO.
Chief People Officer, Ms. Charlene Pileggi, generously offered to present to the Committee at the next
meeting. Members of the Committee are now going to be reviewing that compensation analysis or the
Gallagher Report, which I would just ask my colleagues here, both on the Committee and not, to please
do so as well, follow along, and contribute any ideas to this.
We have had some scheduling issues. So there will be a memo going out later on this evening or
tomorrow with regards to the schedule. Please keep an eye out on that. We will be scheduling several
Performance Committee Meetings to come. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Word and Committee Meeting minutes were included in the Board
packet. Are there any corrections from the Directors? Unless there's objection to considering these
minutes all at the same time, may I please have a motion to approve the minutes for the following
meetings?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, it's March 28 2023, Board meeting, April 6 2023, Audit Committee, April 11
2023, Executive Committee, April 11 2023, Finance and Planning Committee, April 12 2023, Performance
Committee, April 12 2023, Operations and Safety Committee, and April 2023, Executive Committee. We
have a motion from Director Williams. Is there a second?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second. Guzman.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman is the second. Is there any discussion on this motion? OK, I'll now
call for the vote. Are there any no votes? With 15 Yes votes and 0 No votes, that motion passes.
KATE WILLIAMS: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: She's on-- Director Catlin-- yeah she's with us-KATE WILLIAMS: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Bouquet, I think, is also online.
JULIEN BOUQUET: He's right here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, somebody told me you were going to be online.
[LAUGHTER]
I hadn't looked around.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Wow.
KATE WILLIAMS: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. You're here. OK. The Chair's Report-- I'll keep this brief. But I wanted to
talk initially about some of the same issues that Mr. Fussa raised, that the CAC is discussing. We had a
great retreat recently and came up with, really, four main policy areas that we would like to focus on this
year. And one of those is one of the first that Mr. Fussa mentioned, which is safety and cleanliness, which
is the Safety and Operations Committee. And they'll be moving that forward.
Engagement and partnerships-- talking specifically about the Board's role and engaging with our
communities-- and I know that Stuart Summers and his team, and Communications have been doing a lot
of work-- and Michael Davies in Government Relations, along with our representative from Catalyst
Communication, Jen Webster, to put together appointments with some of the city councils and to put
together a program, a package, of PowerPoint and talking points that will change regularly and be
provided to the Board.
So we will keep moving that forward. I think the ball on that one, right now, is in the Executive
Committee's court. And we'll be hearing more from Stuart and others in the near future. Finances-- I
appreciate Director Davidson moving that forward. And we will be moving forward with our TABOR
committee. Right now that's Director Broom and Director Ruscha.

If any others are interested to join that, please let me know. Looking at a possible debrucing as we lose
our TABOR waiver on the base here, in the near future-- and also looking at our long-term financial
diversification and health, which will be a project of the Finance and Planning Committee-And finally, sustainability. And we'll be talking about piece of that tonight when we talk about the transition
plan. And we'll be working with our GM CEO to-- the next step to update the Agency's Sustainability Plan
and move that forward. So again, with the Executive Committee.
I think you saw this in the Legislative Tracking Chart, but HB-111 has passed both houses. It's off to the
Governor. We have every reason to believe that he will sign it. That means that we will roll over some of
the money from last year and be able to help expand our
Zero Fare for Better Air project for the summer, which was hugely popular. So I'm happy that we can do
that. I think I will hold any other comments for later and turn this over to General Manager CEO Johnson
for her report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And good evening to all
of you Board members, those that are virtually assembled on screen and to those that are present in the
room with us this evening. As introduce I'm Debra Johnson, the General Manager and Chief Executive
Officer, here at the Regional Transportation District.
This evening, I will share with you the following information centered around our strategic priorities.
Regarding community value, I will discuss meetings and events in which I have engaged since the last
regular Board meeting in March, including a meeting with Longmont City Manager, a study session
convened by the North Glen City Council, a meeting with Governor Jared Polis and his staff, as well as
meetings with the General Manager of the Front Range Passenger Rail District, and Denver mayoral
candidate, Kelly Brough.
Also in relation to community value, I will share information regarding staff's participation in activities
surrounding the Rockies' opening day, a partnership with the Denver Museum of Nature and Science,
staff's participation in the recent Douglas County Homeless Initiative meeting, outreach to recentlyelected and reelected members of Denver City Council, as well as Respect the Ride and the System-wide
Fare Study and equity analysis engagement activities.
Regarding customer excellence, I will discuss a community meeting regarding the Colfax bus rapid-transit
project and an enhancement to the next ride trip-scheduling platform, the recently launched Spanishlanguage version of the RTD Transit Watch app, and speaking to employee ownership, I will touch on a
communique that was sent to all RTD staff earlier today, regarding agency protocols following the end of
the federal COVID-19 emergency declaration, and concluding with Distracted Driver Awareness Month.
So moving on to community value, on Wednesday, March 29, I, along with Chair Guissinger and Director
Davidson and acting Assistant General Manager of Planning, Brian Welch, and our Government
Relations Officer, Michael Davies, we met with the City Manager of Longmont, Harold Dominguez, to
discuss the intersection of attainable housing and transportation, as well as the Agency's call for Projects
Partnership program.
The following Monday, April 3, Director Buzek, Government Relations Officer Michael Davies, and I
participated in a study session, held by the North Glen City Council. RTD's collective presentation
included an overview of the agency and its governing structure as well as efforts to-- excuse me-- as well

as efforts to enhance engagement with local elected officials-- which Director Guissinger just referenced
in her Chair's Report-- the agency's people-power problem and the call for projects, as well as the fare
study and equity analysis.
On Thursday, April 6, Chair Guissinger, Government Relations Officer, Michael Davies and I, along with
representatives from RTD State Lobbying Consultancy Randeberry McKenna, met with Governor Polis
and members of his staff to discuss Agency needs, RTD's holistic facilities and fleet-transition strategy,
and the Agency's commitment to assisting the state in reducing greenhouse-gas emissions.
And just yesterday, on Monday, April 24, I met with Andy Karsian, the General Manager of the Front
Range Passenger Rail District, to discuss opportunities for enhanced partnership among our respective
organizations as well as future inter-governmental agreements amongst key agencies as strategies
emerge regarding the development of rail service plans along the Front Range.
And just today, I, along with Chair Guissinger, Director Dishell, our Government Relations Officer Michael
Davies-- we're known as a little group now-- with Denver Mayoral Candidate, Kelly Brough, to share
information regarding our fare study and equity analysis, how we got to the place we are currently, and
then talked about the potential of a proposed pilot as it relates to zero fare for the youth, and steps
required for the program's implementation.
Also discussed was the value public transit brings to communities, as that's more paramount than the
volume aspect, and background information about the Agency's fares, and how the fares may shift due to
the Fare Study and Equity Analysis, when this body takes it up for its consideration.
On Thursday, April 6-- transitioning to a different subject matter relating to the strategic priorities-- RTD
partnered with representatives from McGregor Square Development, immediately to the south of Coor's
Field, in Denver's Ballpark neighborhood, to celebrate the Rockies' first home game of the season. The
Community Engagement Team, in partnership with RTD Police Department, engaged with nearly 500
baseball fans within a span of a few hours.
To expand RTD's reach in the community and leverage partnership opportunities, the Community
Engagement Team met with staff from the Denver Museum of Nature and Science earlier this month. In
addition to agreeing to partner with the Museum for one of its summer events, RTD was also gifted
museum tickets. Customers completing surveys pertaining to the system-wide Fare Study and Equity
Analysis or Respect the Ride are eligible to receive these tickets at one of the many station pop-up
events taking place this month, being April, as well as next month, in May.
On Thursday, April 13, T. Fitzgerald spoke with members of the Douglas County Homeless Initiative to
discuss a wide variety of topics, including the expansion of RTD's sworn Transit Police Force, designated
transit police sectors and the commanders in charge of those areas, internal staff resources committed to
mental health, and houselessness outreach efforts, the Respect the Ride, public-outreach campaign,
collaborative strategies to share policing procedures and policies, and the efforts underway at Denver
Union Station to reduce crime, and the potential for those efforts to expand to other areas within the
transit network.
Transitioning now to Denver City Council member outreach, following the results and certification of the
2023 municipal election for the city and county of Denver, on April 4, I reached out to re-elected city
council member Sandoval, Flynn, Torres, Sawyer, Gilmore, and Kashmann, and to Council Member-Elect
Gonzalez-Gutierrez, Parady and Romero Campbell, to congratulate them and to reinforce RTD's

willingness to partner with the city, thereby making lives better through connections. There are two
meetings pending with newly-elected council members.
On Monday, April 17, I engaged virtually with attendees of a Transportation Infrastructure Summit, hosted
by the Transportation Diversity Council and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The theme of the
Summit was Dreaming Big.
And I served as the keynote speaker, touching on topics including the shifting of focus toward transit's
value to the communities served, as opposed to the volume of ridership, engaging with communities in
the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, major infrastructure and operational investments to expand the
reach and accessibility of transit within a region. And later in the day, I was humbled to receive TDC's
distinguished Public Transit Leader Award.
Regarding the strategic priority of community value, customer excellence, employee ownership, and
financial success, staff is engaging in community-outreach events to garner feedback regarding the
system-wide Fare Study and Equity Analysis, as well as Respect the Ride, the rebranded customer code
of conduct. These events are being held at various locations throughout RTD's service area and can be
found posted on the Board's two-week calendar.
I'll call your attention to one event in particular, which is the RTD-hosted large-scale public forum, that will
be taking place this Saturday, April 29, at the Chestnut Pavilion Plaza, located at 1701 Chestnut Place
near Denver Union Station-- really adjacent to the light rail platforms. And that will take place from 10:00
AM to 11:30 AM.
Regarding customer excellence, on Tuesday April 18, representatives of Colfax Bus Rapid Transit Project
held an in-person community meeting at the Carla Madison Recreation Center, located in the City Park
neighborhood, along East Colfax Avenue. The team shared project updates and progress and garnered
feedback regarding logos, station, and streetscape designs, and preferences for public art.
Now this is an exciting announcement. A new version of the Next Ride scheduling platform went live on
Friday, April 21. Utilizing agency-scheduled data and real-time data, the system will provide customers
with real-time scheduling information over the phone in addition to the new Next Ride website.
Now when real-time data is available for a given route or a rail line, customers will receive accurate
arrival-time estimates. And the system will inform the customer when a route or line is, for some reason,
unable to service the requested stop or station. This is a major enhancement for a significant number of
customers, as telephone Next Rides typically receive approximately a thousand calls each day.
These are calls that otherwise would go to the Telephone Information Center, thereby requiring additional
staff to answer. This is also the last customer information system at RTD to be converted to utilizing realtime data instead of only scheduled data. Telephone Next Ride was designed and built entirely in-house
using existing staff resources. And I applaud the employees who were able to complete this undertaking,
from project launch to testing to go live, in less than a calendar year.
Also, with respect to customer excellence, the RTD Transit Watch app is now available in Spanish. The
English-language version of the app has been downloaded nearly 40,000 times since it was launched in
2014, with 7,000 of those downloads have taken place since the beginning of 2022 alone. The app
enables users to quickly and easily communicate with RTD Transit Police. Reports, provided by

individuals using the system, help RTD PD coordinate responses, across the agency service area, to
respond to incidents.
The work to add Spanish functionality in the app began more than a year ago. To access the Spanish
version of Transit Watch, customers must set the language on their smartphone to Spanish. And update
the RTD Transit Watch app, via the device's respective app store, to access the latest version available.
For public safety dispatchers, information submitted through the app, in Spanish, appears before them in
English and Spanish. This fact enables English-speaking employees to continue chatting through the app
with Spanish-speaking customers, even those who choose to remain anonymous.
And lastly, in relation to the strategic priority of employee ownership, earlier today, I disseminated an allemployee memorandum regarding the agency's pandemic-related protocols following President Biden's
termination of the federal public health emergency on April 10, 2023. The memorandum contains
information regarding facilities' capacity, shared areas, in-person meetings, and other gatherings, remote
work, health benefits and leave time, protocols regarding personal hygiene and personal health decisions,
among other topics.
While Colorado remains under a public-health emergency until May 11, 2023, this memorandum was
distributed to inform all employees of the forthcoming changes to existing guidelines, and to give
reassurance and a peace of mind. Commencing on that day of May 11, 2023, the Blake Street building
will officially be reopened to the public. And public meetings can resume here.
Lastly, staff members from the Marketing Bus Operation and Rail Operations Division partner to promote
Distracted Driver Awareness Month, an initiative of the National Highway Safety Administration. Posters
were distributed throughout divisions to encourage employees to sign a pledge to be safe while operating.
The effort was also promoted via internal-communications channels. And with that, Madam Chair, I will
conclude my remarks and yield the floor to you. Thank you very much for your attention.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Ms. Johnson. There is a lot going on. Does anyone have
questions? I see Director Williams-- for either the General Manager or me.
KATE WILLIAMS: My question is for the General Manager. Do we know if you have to reboot the Next
Ride app to get the new version? Or will that just automatically happen?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I believe you do have to upgrade, like you do with any other app when there's new
features that are available.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was my thought. Thank you for-DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
KATE WILLIAMS: --clarifying that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good thought. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just for the GM's knowledge, one of the contests in District 7, for Denver City
Council, one of the contenders has dropped out of the race because he's going to become a father. And
so it will be City Councilwoman Alvarez, I believe, pulled out. Yeah, so--

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to take the moment to thank the General
Manager and CEO, as well as staff from Communications and Marketing, Government Relations, Service
Planning, everybody whose touching these outreaches that we heard. They are making a difference.
I just would comment on one of the opportunities I had a chance to participate in, which was with the city
of Longmont, that the General Manager referred to. This was a very productive discussion around access
to attainable housing and access to our transit, and particularly excitement around the partnership
program. And also, it was very clear, from the meeting, that there was a real need to be frequently
communicating to understand the mechanics of this partnership program.
I think it's no secret that the relationship between the city of Longmont and RTD, because of where we
are with FasTracks, has been a very tricky relationship over the years. And I just-- speaking from my
vantage point-- that I can see a material change. And so thank you to the General Manager. Thank you to
staff, everybody who's touching that kind of outreach. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anyone else?
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, there's several issues.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I don't get those. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll be brief. Three things. Congratulations on your award.
Always good to have those kind of recognitions. I was one of the 500 baseball fans cheerfully greeted by
staff on opening day. And I thought that was really a nice touch. A lot of good conversations were taking
place as I walked by and greeted the staff members.
Thirdly and-- [COUGHS]-- excuse me-- finally, I really appreciate-- I just had a brief conversation with
Stuart before the meeting. And I believe you're referenced. But having up-to-date presentations that we
can share with our constituencies, and having them updated weekly-- I think you said Stuart-- monthly,
OK. Well, let's have a stretch goal for weekly, but-- no it would be-- let's not.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You've got other work to do, Stuart?
[LAUGHS]
TROY WHITMORE: But I think that's really helpful. And I can't wait to use one of these on May 5 in
Commerce City. So good thought to have those up to date right after our Board meeting. That's all. Thank
you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Williams.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may, just real quickly, for everyone's notification because we're
going to disseminate this-- so in light of what Director Whitmore was sharing, I believe I communicated
this out to you all, but want to state it publicly-- that following Board meetings, beginning this month, the
Friday following a Board meeting, we will be disseminating those PowerPoints to you all. And we will
ensure that they're updated on a monthly basis.

And the reason why we're specifically targeting the Friday after a Board meeting, because there could be
something germane that comes out of the discussions that ensue, and that you will have the most
available information at your fingertips. And more specifically, with that understanding, if there is
something more specific that you need tailored to meet the needs of your constituencies in your
presentations, we're more than willing to do that. Just reach out to my office directly and we'll coordinate.
So thank you very much for broaching that, Director Whitmore.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm going to speak to the next item. So can you-LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. Move on. Is that what you're-KATE WILLIAMS: Move me to the bottom of the line.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: This is in relation to the outreach efforts for Respect the Ride. And I was wondering if
you can clarify or provide any updates regarding any Spanish-language materials that we will produce, as
well as any other languages, and efforts to that effect. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're very welcome. At this juncture, I will have Stuart Summers, since he is
leading that charge with his respective team-- Stuart, if you can approach the table and address the
question, I greatly would appreciate that. Thank you. +
STUART SUMMERS: Thank you. Stuart Summers, Chief Communications Engagement Officer. I
appreciate the question. So right now, the survey is available in English and Spanish. And all of our print
materials are available in English and Spanish. And then we are doing, by request, other languages. So
when we receive a request for a different language, we're providing that translation.
And as far as events, we have a number of events scheduled for Spanish language. And if questions
come up during those events, related to the fare study or Respect the Right, we can address those.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Summers, for the update. I did look on our website earlier today. I
wasn't able to find, to locate, the Spanish-language materials. So if you might be able to walk me through
after the meeting so I know where to locate them-- and perhaps we just think about ease of use so folks
know where to go. I really appreciate it. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Sitting here and looking around the room, I can't help but notice
a number of ominous-looking black boxes and other paraphernalia. I just wonder if somebody could give
us a quick overview of what the capabilities of these boxes are. Are you going to keep track of our blood
pressure? Or just what do you have in mind?
[LAUGHTER]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Somebody--

DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Madam Chair, if I understand your question, those are speakers. And
those are cameras that are helping us provide a virtual format for those that aren't present in the room. So
are you making reference so-BOB BROOM: Right.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, so those are cameras, Sir.
BOB BROOM: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And so this is enabling us to be able to have a dual format relative to the meetings.
And so I'll yield the floor to our acting Executive Manager of Board Office, Tai-Shrae Parish, to elaborate,
as the Board Office worked in tandem with staff to convert the Board-- the meeting space-- to ensure that
we had the duality as it relates to the meeting capacities.
PARISH: So I would concur with the General Manager that they are the speakers, so that we can provide
a virtual format. And that way, we can hear everyone that's participating remotely.
BOB BROOM: Well, does the District contemplate broadcasting our meetings to the public?
PARISH: We currently do that via Zoom and YouTube.
BOB BROOM: You just do it on YouTube as opposed to channel eight or-DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, that's what you're asking. So Tai-Shrae?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: We don't currently have any contracts or any partnerships with news stations to
broadcast our meetings. But they are available to the public via YouTube and via our website as well.
BOB BROOM: OK, Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Guzman, did you have something on this topic? Yeah.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: [SPEAKING SPANISH]

I want to thank the RTD staff for doing their work in Spanish. I have reviewed the websites. I've gone on
through my phone, on buses and the trains. The QR codes are working. Everything seems to be
legitimately in order. And it's very well done. The Spanish translations are wonderful. So thank you for
that hard work. I appreciate it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may, I just received some information relative to Director Broom's
more specific question. And if I could ask John McKay to address the element about broadcasting, via a
television network, I think that would be helpful for everybody to understand where we are currently.
Thank you.

JOHN MCKAY: All right, so this is John McKay with the Executive Office, formerly of the Board Office.
And when I was with the Board Office, I spoke with the Manager for Denver Channel Eight-- the Media
Director for Denver Channel Eight, and candidly, he said that he was not really interested in broadcasting
the content of the RTD Board of Directors. So no offense to anyone here, but-[LAUGHTER]

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, well thank you, Mr. McKay. All right. Anything else? Let's see, I think Director
Williams is going to speak to our next item. But I would just join others who are thanking staff. I think
there's a lot of good stuff happening. I met with Michael Davies.
And I met with one of the Boulder County commissioners yesterday. And she was pointing out how great
the provision in the Fare and Equity study is, that we cap the fares so that somebody who can't afford to
buy a monthly fare, or whatever fare they would pay, doesn't pay more than that if they ride that much. So
good stuff. All right, there are two items on the Unanimous Consent agenda.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ms. Chair-LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes Ma'am. Let me just kick up here. And then I would love to get your-- listed
under item 16 is actions A and B. Those are termination of contract for battery-electric buses with New
Flyer of America, and holistic low-emission facilities and fleet-transition plan, scope of work, summary
approval, and contract authorization. Yes, Ma'am?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. As the Chair of the Operations and Safety Committee, I
would like to ask that both of these items be pulled from the Unanimous Consent Agenda so that we
might have more discussion on them, what led to the Committee's recommendations, and how they relate
to each other. I don't know how, procedurally, how we make that happen.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I believe all that-- required is what you just said. Once somebody asks to pull it off
the consent agenda, it moves to recommended actions. So there are now three recommended actions on
the agenda tonight, listed as item 17 A, B, and C.
And I'm going to read the first two because I think they will be-- they overlap and work together in terms of
the conversation. And then I'm going to go back and take a motion on the first one if that's OK. A,
termination of contract for battery-electric buses with New Flyer of America, Inc., for the Board of
Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO to terminate, for convenience, the contract with
New Flyer of America, Inc., or New Flyer, for the purchase of 17 battery-electric buses, negotiate
termination costs with New Flyer for work satisfactorily performed prior to termination, and pay such costs
from local project funds.
B is holistic, low-emissions facilities and fleet-transition plans scope of work, summary approval, and
contract authorization, for the Board of Directors to approve the summary scope of work for a solicitation,
and to subsequently authorize the General Manager and CEO to enter into a contract for consulting
services for the development of a holistic, low-emission facilities and fleet-transition plan, compliant with
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, Public Law 117-58, in amount not to exceed $10 million.
So going back just to the first action termination of contract for battery-electric buses with New Flyer of
America, Inc., do we have a motion to approve?

KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
TROY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I hear Director Williams as the movement and Director Whitmore as the
second. Has there discussion on this motion? Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I haven't been here for a while. Yeah, I'm going to speak. One of the reasons that I
asked to have this removed from the Unanimous Consent is because I think that we want to talk about it a
little more. I don't know if everybody has reviewed what went on in the Operations and Safety Committee.
But we did have quite a bit of discussion about how and why. And we just don't have a place to put them.
So if there's anything that anybody wants to know that they didn't get earlier, this would be the time to
bring it out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Maybe we should start with-- Ms. Johnson, I know you did a very thorough
job of presenting this at the Operations and Safety. But would you like to do a presentation here? And I
know Director Guzman has to leave. He's been accepted into the DRCOG Civic Leadership Academy
and has to leave early tonight. So yeah, nice job.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Madam Chair, I'll just do an abbreviated report. And I'll be happy to engage with
the Board pursuant to your guidance during the course of this Board meeting. So in keeping with the
Board-adopted Strategic Priority of Community Value, as well as the aspirational goals of the state of
Colorado's Climate Action Plan and Greenhouse Gas Pollution Reduction Roadmap, the agency looks, as
you stated earlier, to continue the transition of its fixed-route bus fleet, which began decades ago with a
deployment of sub fleets of alternatively fueled buses, commencing first in the year 2000 and later in
2008 and 2017.
I will refrain from restating the timeline for the procurement of the 17 battery-electric buses that are
subject of this recommended action before the Board, as that information is included in the record for the
Operations and Safety Committee that was held on Wednesday, April 12.
But simply put, without the necessary facilities in place, as we just heard from Committee Chair Kate
Williams, to house, charge, and maintain this particular sub fleet, or any new fleet of battery-electric
buses, or however they're propelled, for this matter, I can't support the expansion of the Agency's low or
no-emission bus fleet at this time due to the fact that we don't have the facilities.
As I shared with the Operations and Safety Committee, which unanimously approved this
recommendation, I am disappointed to have to recommend the cancellation of this contract, although
under the circumstances, I can endorse no other course of action. And so again, the cancellation of this
battery-electric bus contract is not a reflection of the original equipment manufacturer.
Rather, it's a course correction as RTD forges a path toward zero emissions. And forging that path with
the future in mind, one is based upon a comprehensive and holistic approach, as we look at the agency
facilities as being the primary factor, and then secondarily, as we talk about the procurement of said
vehicles.

So as you'll be hearing in a forthcoming recommendation, which you just alluded to, Madam Chair,
recognizing the Facilities and Fleet transition, that will be brought forward, momentarily, for this Board, for
its consideration as well, that we need to be intentional and deliberate as we look to transition, in a
meaningful way, to help support climate goals holistically for this region and beyond. So with that, Madam
Chair, I will conclude my remarks. And I'm happy to engage at the appropriate time. So thank you very
much for the opportunity to offer those comments. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you for the comments. Did that answer-- did you-- you're done, Director
Williams? Thank you. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Was the contractor given the opportunity to speak to the
Board? I'm surprised that there's no one here from the company to speak to the Board, after having-- they
must know that this action is pending tonight. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so thank you very much, Madam Chair. And Director Broom, thank you very
much for the question. As we look at our procurement practices, quite naturally there was communique
that was disseminated from Contracting and Procurement, recognizing that this Board took action back in
January of 2021, designating me-- or delegating to me that authority to enter into a contract.
So from a staffing perspective, we did our due diligence and adhered to our contracting and procurement
guidelines and protocols. In turn, we offered up, to the original equipment manufacturer, about the
circumstances that outlined. And they are understood, and I would say, for lack of a better term, were
supportive of the direction in which we're taking, and in doing so, basically asked us, in a communique,
how could they be helpful, futuristically speaking. So that's what I have to offer to address your question.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I guess I'm disappointed on two levels. First of all, I'm
disappointed that we have to cancel this contract. But I think more importantly, I'm disappointed, on the
Operations side of things, that the facilities and infrastructure assessment was not completed prior to the
ordering of these buses, that we should have known ahead of time that we didn't have the facilities to
store these. And as a result now, we're going to be at a financial loss. That's all I have. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a follow up to the recommended action memo. It
states-- and we've noted-- that a new facility is expected to cost approximately $85 million. And in the
memo, it says it would only be large enough for 25 battery-electric buses.
And I was wondering if you might be able to provide some comparison. For example, how many buses do
some of our current facility-- our current facilities able to hold-- our diesel buses. I think that information
would be useful for the Board, but also for the public as well.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, Ma'am.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so thank you for the question, Director Ruscha. And just for clarification, you're
talking about the recommended action that's included in the packet, not in the memorandum. Correct?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Ma'am.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, thank you very much. I just wanted to state that for the record, in case people
are following along. So in relationship to the question that you posed, about an $85 million facility, let me
be clear. That was to make modifications to an existing facility, to accommodate these 17 battery-electric
buses.
And so in that assessment, as we went forward in looking at what we could do to accommodate this sub
fleet of battery-electric buses, that are 17, that facility would have been, with a modification, would have
been able to accommodate up to 25. But it would be capped as relates to the space limitations there at
that facility. And more specifically, as we talk about where we are holistically, there are zoning issues and
other things that the like.
As it relates to our current facilities as a whole, approximately-- it's about 200 to 250 buses that can be
housed at our current operating and maintenance facilities. And those were constructed for diesel-specific
fleets.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you for that follow up. I did want to note that in the
recommended action, Board of Directors report, it states that newly constructed buildings are estimated to
cost $85 million, hence the question. So I guess my follow up is that if we did construct a new building, I
want to make sure I'm understanding you correctly, that because-- for various considerations, that we
essentially would need more space for BEBs. So even if we did construct a new building, it might not
house as many buses as we are used to, relative to diesel.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may? So recognizing, as we go forward, this was specifically
assessed for the battery-electric bus fleet. So recognizing if we had different alternatively-fueled vehicles,
we would need to ensure that we were preparing to house that specific type of propulsion system as we
go forward. So there is the potential.
But I can't answer that 100%, recognizing that we're speaking in ambiguity as it relates to space and what
type of facility might be identified because there are certain things that would have to be taken into
consideration since our previous facilities were designed with a specific type of fleet in mind.
So quite naturally, if we were talking about a battery-electric bus fleet, for instance, we would have to look
at basic harness restraints and things of the like so we could have our workforce be able to access the
battery packs on top of a vehicle. Traditionally now, we have pits where people can get underneath the
vehicle. We'd have to look at fire suppression, other type of monitoring equipment, and things of the like.
So it will depend, based upon the direction in which we go, which segues into the upcoming agenda item,
as it relates to what might be optimal, going forward. But it would be designed specifically for a specific
type of fleet that would provide ample flexibility, recognizing emerging technologies are on the rise. And
they are just that, emerging.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well done.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I guess building on Directors' Buzek and Ruscha's
line of questioning-- and I guess I'm-- and this probably goes to what we're going to talk about with the
zero-emission policy. How many buses do we have in operation now-- diesel buses?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may? So just to clarify, when you say how many in operation or
how many do we have in our fleet? Because those are two different questions. So I'm just qualifying it. So
we have roughly in excess of a thousand buses. As it relates to our daily pullout rate, we're looking at
about 600 buses holistically, as it relates to our daily service requirement. So that's why I was qualifying
whether or not you're talking about in operation or what we actually have as comprising our fleet.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And the reason I ask is because-- let's just say we have 600 in operation at any
given time. And at some point-- and again, this goes to one of the next agenda items. But it also goes to
this issue of the facilities that we're going to have to construct. If we need to construct facilities for batteryelectric buses, for 600 buses, that's multiple, multiple, multiple buildings. And that's a huge cost for this
agency, ultimately.
If one building has to be remodeled for 25 or 17 to 25 buses, at approximately $85 million, you can
imagine the cost for 600 to 1,000 buses, what we would have to do to pay for either remodeling current
facilities or building new ones. And I think this goes from-- to talk about this issue-- but also, as I said, this
also goes into our zero-emission policy, that the cost issue is tremendous, and that we must also plan for
that long term, where are we getting that funding, and making sure we have planning for it. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. I would like to provide some information,
just so there's a clear-cut understanding. Quite naturally, this will be multi-phased. And with any bus
procurement that we do, we oftentimes use federal dollars.
And there is a requirement, pursuant to the Federal Transit Administration, whereby we retain an asset
that we've utilized federal for 12 years or 500,000 miles. We do have a fleet replacement schedule. Our
next scheduled replacement doesn't occur until 2028. And as we go forward with that, we will phase
accordingly.
At the risk of jumping forward to an additional agenda item, one has to keep in mind that one important
component of our scope of work, that will be put out in the form of a request for proposal, will be looking
at our financial structure and strategies. As it comes full circle, there's a myriad of ways in which we could
do this.
This will be left to the Board as it relates to policy decision, holistically. But this will be forthcoming over at
least a couple of decades, as we talk about how we'll go about doing it, because even in the place-- if we
weren't looking at emergent technologies, recognizing that our youngest facility was basically opened in
and around 1980, that our assets aren't in a state of good repair and that we need to invest from an
infrastructure vantage point. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Just to wrap up-- and I guess when you're mentioning the source of some of that
funding being federal funds, my concern is that we can't predict what future administrations are going to
be, what Congress is going to be in the future, what President we're going to have in the future, whether
they're going to be in favor of funding for agencies like ours.
And we have a very favorable President now. And we've had some funding from prior Congress. But I
guess that's a big if. It's a big question mark whether we'll be able to get some of that funding to remodel
or to build or to replace our fleets with battery-electric buses. So that's one of my concerns. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anything further right now?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would say there's a multitude of funding sources. And so while I recognize the
comment, relative to federal funding, we usually use an amalgamation of sources as we go forward. So
recognizing that the federal government is just one source, I was just qualifying that holistically. But we
don't know what tomorrow may bring or the tomorrows to come.
And I think it's incumbent, recognizing the comments that were set forth earlier about the Board retreat,
and how Director Davidson talked about our funding policy, I think that's germane to any discussion,
recognizing the various assets that this agency does own, that we have a responsibility to ensure that
we're planning, futuristically, for the betterment of tomorrow. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: This is-- thanks, everybody. This is exactly why I wanted us to have some discussion
on this and why I feel like all three items on our agenda tonight are relevant to each other. We don't have
any idea, as you've said-- we don't even know who's going to be our mayor yet, much less higher up. But
the fact of the matter is that, from a climate standpoint and from a worldwide standpoint, more and more
attention has to go to public transit. And that's who we are. We really are the future of the climate here.
And so the second item that we have all been referring to, generically, is the fact that we are looking at a
transition plan to help us move our fleet and our facilities and our functions and our future into the next
generation. And we didn't get here in a big hurry. I hesitate to mention that most light rail cars now are low
floor.
And we have a bunch of light rail cars that are not low floor because we are committed, as a public-transit
agency, to the life of our vehicles, specifically so that we don't run out and change them all over, and
spend all the money that we possibly can get.
I also want to highlight, as most of our staff knows, that our transition plan-- that our building of facilities is
not necessarily tied to our transition plan, although it will be incorporated into how we plan for our future.
But we can look at funding for facilities, I believe, without having our transition plan finished.
There are some other things that are tied to the completion and the submission of our transition plan. But
new facilities are not. So this is a really big, broad conversation that I think we will have more than just
tonight. And then I'm really, really grateful to Ms. Johnson for having her skill in the field. And we're really
glad you're here right now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Williams. Director, Ruscha.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a follow up as it relates to Director Rosenthal's
comments and previous question. If we had been able to procure 17 BEBs, how many of those might
have been in operation on any given day, considering that BEBs need to be charged. And we might have
some challenges in that area.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Madam Chair, this is purely speculative as we go forward because
recognizing if this came full circle, and we had a place to house and maintain them, and we were training
our workforce to ensure that they were at the ready to do all of those various things, it depends on how
we were going to deploy them.
And I want to get too specific on you all as it relates to what we call runs and blocks and things of the like,
recognizing that we have an expansive service area. The notion behind this, from my understanding-- and
I say from my understanding because I was not currently present at the organization when we took this
grant in fiscal year '19-- but recognizing that our staff worked hard and deliberate as it related to putting
something forward relative to moving in this direction, that we were going to use this, more or less, as an
assessment to discern what might be optimal as related to our service-delivery model.
Oftentimes, when you think about our longest routes within the system, that you could have a bus out on
the road that's covering 500 miles. And so recognizing where we are with emerging technologies and the
ancillary systems that are required, i.e., with the HVAC system and things of the like, that we more or less
could have made modifications as to what route they were deployed on, keeping in mind that we need to
be cognizant of various Civil Rights aspects, specifically like environmental justice and service, equity,
and things of the like, that we probably, with such a small sub fleet, could have utilized them on various
routes, garnering information and knowledge about how they might work best, that would have led us to
make more informed decisions, recognizing that we could have used inductive charging or things of the
like to keep them out in the system for longer periods of time.
But as I qualified my initial response by saying it's purely speculative, we are looking to use this
information that we garner, from the deployment of these buses, to then help shape how we go forward.
Hence, that's why it's paramount, as we look at a holistic transition plan, that we would be doing route
modeling, so we can discern what might be optimal for this network and how might we change, if need
be, how we do service planning to accommodate for the emerging technologies and limitations with the
aforementioned.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything further? Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much. I just want to address a few language choices that have been
used tonight and encourage us to remain technology agnostic. There's been a big focus on battery
electric. And within battery electric, there are at least two types of batteries that are out in the world, nickel
cadmium and potassium ion based batteries. There are also carbon single-state batteries that are more
used in academia, as well as other batteries that are currently being studied, many of which are in our
backyard.
On top of that, there are also multiple charging technologies. There are level-two direct chargers, in which
the bus is primarily filled up to go out for the day in the same way that you fill up your car. There's also a
level-3 chargers, which go faster. There is also en-route charging. With an en-route charging, there is
inductive charging that comes up, comes down from the top to charge the vehicle, and there's inductive
charging that comes up from the bottom.

And so when we describe battery-electric buses, we really-- just off the top of my head. I'm a lawyer. I
didn't get hired to do math. But there are a multitude of different technologies and costs associated with
each of these. Each of these have separate electrical requirements for housing in their facilities. And so I
know it's reactive to see the numbers that are put in front of us. And then we're going to touch on this
more later. But there are a myriad of-- even just saying BEB is actually like saying, I'm wearing a shirt.
Well, what shirt are you wearing? Is it a collared shirt? Is it a cotton shirt? Is it a polyester shirt?
And so as we look at our transition policy and we look at all of these items, I would encourage us to try to
stay technology agnostic. There are hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles. There are-- folks remember the veggie
vans. While not carbon neutral, they do also have other sustainable, avoided costs. And then finally, I
think it's important, as we consider federal dollars, the social cost of carbon.
Starting with the Obama Administration, there was a social cost of carbon attached, that was supposed to
be used in certain federal fiscal note policies. There's continued discussion of, how do we use the social
cost of carbon when making these types of decisions?
And so all this to say, there's more on this tonight. But it's not one to one. And I would encourage us to
really take a step back and try to be tech agnostic, and focus instead on the goal, which is carbon
reduction-- and focused on environmental justice. So that's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Any further comments? I would just add the comments that-- I've
shared some of the concerns that have been raised. But I think we are on a good path here. I appreciate
your comments there on the various ways to go. But I think the big point is that RTD is moving forward
with, as we say, a holistic plan. And we share the region and the state's climate and ozone goals. And I
think we are working very hard.
The other way that comes up, of course, is that in addition to electrification, is providing more service
because that's what gets people out of their cars and off the roads. And really I think-- I don't know these
statistics. But that certainly does the job just as well. So focusing on our workforce and getting to where
we can bring that service back, I think, is just as important to our overall goals. Anything else?
All right, I'm going to go back to that-- we really-- we got, as I expected, we got into the discussion on both
of the next two recommended actions. The first action we have in motion was-- Director Williams was the
movement. And Director Whitmore, I believe, was the second. And that is the termination of the contract
for battery-electric buses with New Flyer of America, Inc. Are there any no votes? OK. With 14 directors
present, we have 14 Yes votes, zero No votes. And the motion passes.
The next action is be the Holistic Low or No Emission Facilities and Fleet Transition Plan, scope of work,
summary approval, and contract authorization. I'll read it again real quick. For the Board of Directors to
approve the summary scope of work for a solicitation and to subsequently authorize the General Manager
and CEO to enter into a contract for consulting services for the development of a Holistic Low-No
Emission Facilities and Fleet Transition Plan, compliant with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, a public
law, 117-58, in an amount not to exceed $10 million. Do we have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second?
BOBBY DISHELL: Second, Dishell.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I heard Director Bouquet as the movement and Director Dishell is the second. Is
there discussion on this motion? Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So with the amount not to exceed $10 million, so as I
recall, when we discussed the peak-service plan study, we were given a couple of options. Why were we
not presented with multiple options for this study?
Multiple options to choose from. So we had a low, medium, high. There was-- I think it was--I believe it
was $12 million that we originally presented with. And I believe we went with the medium option, which
was about $8 million or something like that-LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson-PAUL ROSENTHAL: --as I recall.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, just for a point of clarification, when we were talking about the Northwest
Rail Peak Service Study, there was a discussion that ensued relative to the FasTracks Investment
Savings Account. We were talking about the amount of money that this body was willing to utilize to
undertake said study.
So relative to what we're discussing, that's different in the sense of how much money that this body
decided that it would transfer out of the FasTracks Investment Savings Account. This is specific to having
a ballpark figure, relative to undertaking a solicitation, and receiving proposals, and then being able to
engage into a contractual agreement, recognizing that I'm being deliberate with my words because we
have to ensure open and fair competition, as relating to our contract-and-procurement guidelines that I, in
my capacity the General Manager and CEO, is asking this body for a ceiling relative to what it will be
because we have to ensure that we are doing this in a way in which we are not, more or less, showing
our hand relative to being good stewards of taxpayer dollars, recognizing that there will be bids submitted
with costs assigned, and that there are independent cost estimates.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: So this is probably a little bit cart in front of the horse. But as my day job deals with
sustainability, climate action and resiliency, something that I hear about regularly is called V to G, which is
Vehicle to Grid. And so recognizing that we're looking at tech, we're being technologically agnostic right
now, but if we do end up utilizing battery technology, I think we should think about the ability to utilize a
vehicle-to-grid so that if there was ever some type of major incident in the Denver Metro area, we would
be able to use our 1,000 buses to help support the grid.
And I think that would be a pretty amazing tool that we could utilize and bring to the aid of a potentially
ailing city. So just more of-- just something to think about in the future. And something for our consultants
to think about and also anybody that bids on this. So just pretty excited about that potential and how we
might be able to help our community if there was a time of need.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Very good thought. Thanks, Director Harwick, Director Dishell.

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. I just wanted to thank staff for the comprehensive scope of work that's
detailed here, in front of us. It recognizes both the need for facilities but also, again, the focus on carbon
reduction as opposed to getting tied into which technology.
It's important to keep in mind the impact, the carbon impact, not just the vehicles have, but that buildings
have and that the building sector has. And so incorporating our physical assets beyond our revenue
vehicles is a leading policy. And it's great to be working with folks, arm in arm, who are putting forth these
leading policies. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I will join in the chorus of others in thanking our General
Manager, Debra Johnson, and staff, for their hard work on all this. So with this particular proposal, we're
authorizing up to $10 million and this study to be done by the fourth quarter of 2024 or sooner.
So if people make proposals for less money, I would imagine that's a good thing. We can rise them to the
top. If they can propose to get it done sooner, does that help them get to the top in the selection process?
Because I think most of us here would like to have it done sooner and cheaper.
IAN HARWICK: What do you tell your clients when they say that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: One thing I will say, to protect the integrity of this open-and-fair competition, it goes
back to what Director Williams stated earlier, that this is a holistic transition plan. So there's different
components to it. And so yes, there are certain elements that could help us as we lay the foundation for
the tomorrows to come. So with that, there's ample opportunity. And I will leave it at that. And you can use
your decoder ring, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: I can read between lines. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a question, I suppose, for anyone who could
answer it, a clarifying question. In the recommended action before us, does this also include, if it were
needed-- at the risk of sounding like a comic strip-- consultants to help us develop the RFD process?
Because as we've established, this is very complex and highly technical. And if I may, the follow up would
be to our General Manager, CEO, if such authorization might be needed or if we might need an
amendment to do so.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Director Ruscha. And Thank you, Madam Chair. I will
address the question. We have capable staff. And we have been leveraging, quite naturally, our expertise
that we have, not only within the agency, but I, as well as Mr. Fred Worthen, have great relationships in
this space as it relates to the industry, not just in the US, but in North America as well.
And quite naturally, as we have gone down this track, recognizing we're seeking your consideration as it
relates to this, at this juncture, if we needed to bring on a consultant to help develop a scope of work, we

would not be able to adhere to the timeline that's been put forward for your consideration. But I do
appreciate the question which you pose. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything else?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No. I would like to state, in case it wasn't-- in case there was any misconception-- I
believe our staff is highly capable and able to do this work. But rather, if we did need additional funding or
an amendment to this action to ensure that our General Manager and CEO had all the resources she
needed, I would have been in support of that. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The transition plan that we are asked to approve
a scope of work for, in going forward, is not to exceed $10 billion for work that is projected to occur from
September of this year through December of next year, which is a period of 16 months.
That works out should the contract, in fact, come in at $10 billion. And wonder of wonders, if it wouldn't
come in at $10 million-- since we've said we're authorizing $10 million-- that's $21,000 a day, seven days
a week, counting holidays, Sundays, weekends-- $21,000 a day.
I submit, as was outlined in a memo that I circulated to the Board on this topic, that among other things,
by using the resources of the Council for Transportation and the Environment and other parties, that we
could do this for less than half that amount. And I have heard the discussion that well, we have these
facilities that we have to take into account too. It's not just a transition plan for buses.
Every agency has a facilities issue with their transition plan. There is no agency that has facilities already
prepped and then says, oh, now that we built the facilities, maybe we'll also buy some electric buses, fuel
cell or battery-electric. So it is part and parcel of the process. So I think it's not a reason to say that it's so
much more than other people have had to pay.
And I applaud the revised timeline as being a step in the right direction. We had heard much longer
projections. And it's much shorter than that. That's good. And I think Director Buzek raises an excellent
point. If someone presents us with a proposal for beating that fourth quarter-- and I recognize it doesn't
say December. It says fourth quarter-- but again, if someone gets a contract and they see it's authorized
for $10 million and it's authorized for the end of the fourth quarter, tell me how many bids you're going to
get, under $10 million, that will go in September or October of 2024.
For that reason, I cannot see myself clear to authorize an expenditure not to exceed $10 million. And I will
vote no. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson, will you address that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Sure. Thank you very much. And thank you, Director Tisdale, for your comments. I
appreciate them. And one thing's for certain, being in this space for the past three decades. When you
see one transit agency, you see one transit agency. There's different operating environments, recognizing
we have an operating environment of 2,342 square miles. I've worked at a transit agency that's had a
service area 49 square miles that basically provided three times the level of service that we did.

So when we talk about what it is that we're trying to do holistically, it's not apples to apples, recognizing
there's different topography, there's different weather conditions, and things of the like. But one thing that
we have done as staff, is conferred with a multitude of different agencies.
And I would like to correct you as we talk about-- it's the Center for Transportation the Environment and
things that the like-- and recognizing when we put out a communique relative to our path forward, I
personally was contacted by a multitude of people within my kitchen cabinet, talking about how we are
doing this, going forward, because I would be remiss to state that even in the Board packet, as it relates
to the zero-emission policies that we've looked at, that there are some of those plans that have been put
forward, where people are retreating somewhat, recognizing what's before them.
More specifically, if we looked at the state of California, recognizing in Southern California, that people
had to go to compressed natural gas more than 10 years ago, and that folks are using near-zero NOx
engines to the point that Director Dishell brought forward being agnostic as it relates to emerging
technologies. There's a multitude of different facets. And sure, I'm quite aware that there's myriad of
different people that work in the private-sector space that can report that they can do this in a certain
period of time. But I actually come from a place where I've done this before.
In my last agency, at which I was employed, recognizing that we did do a facilities plan and a transition
plan, that I submitted to the California Air Resources Board in June of 2020, that there's work being done
right now, in the facilities, to accommodate additional zero-emission vehicles, as we go forward.
So I recognize and respect the position in which you presented. And I think in my capacity, as a expert in
this space, relative to emerging technologies, as it relates to transit-service delivery, that I will respectfully
disagree as relates to what may be contained therein.
And the reason why we're also coming to you all, relative to having an amount not to exceed, to put
ourselves in the most optimal situation as we go forward. So I just wanted to state that for the record and
appreciate your remarks. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just have one quick follow up on that. I think it was in his statement there, this
question of, if we authorize $10 million, should we expect that to be the number that people will bid to?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Madam Chair, I appreciate the question. And I want to be careful with my
comments. I was very forthright when I talked about this, in my experience, that this is highly, highly
irregular that staff would bring forward a scope of work to a policy body because it compromises what
we're able to do from a fiduciary standpoint because we are putting out dollar amount.
So if I were one, and I'm in the space as a third-party entity, looking to garner business-- or gain business
with the public transit agency, we're hamstringing ourselves. And so recognizing that this was a decision
made by the Board, I respect that. I respect the decision.
But quite naturally, when we think about a ballpark figure, we have to ensure that we're giving ourselves
enough room in which to negotiate going forward. And so at the expense of not compromising the
integrity of open and fair competition, I will leave my comments at that, but recognizing if this body does
authorize up to $10 million, I am not going to exceed that because that's the delegation of which you've
instilled with me, as the General Manager and CEO. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: What's the going rate for-- I'm sorry, Director Dishell, we'll have to be a little careful
on the technology. For Madame CEO, or Fred, what's the going rate for a battery-electric bus like we
would perhaps purchase someday?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if we're talking about-- if I can, Madam Chair-- we have to think about it as a
system. And so when we're talking about the costs we would incur per bus, it's basically could be $1.2 to
$1.3 million. When we talk about a diesel bus, it's-- roughly, nowadays, it could be anywhere from $600-$650,000, $800,000, recognizing supply chain and a myriad of different factors that come into play.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you very much. So $10 million is a lot of money. But it doesn't buy any
facilities. And it only buys about 6 to 7 electric buses. It's a pittance compared to what we need to invest.
So I guess I'm a little taken aback by the consternation on $10 million to completely rewrite our emissions
standards and the type of agency that we're going to have to have in the not-so-distant future. Six, maybe
seven buses, $10 million.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: I just want to note, when we're talking about numbers, that the Inflation Reduction Act
of 2022 opened up a lot of opportunity for public-private partnerships, including with municipalities and
government agencies, nonprofits, being eligible for what is known as direct pay, recognizing that many of
these vehicles and assets do have tax-advantaged status. And for the first time, you can have a direct
pay versus a larger joint-venture structure.
And so it's really hard to put a number on it because it's not one to one. And then it's not one to one. And
then you open up the-- well, what if we do a joint venture? Well, what if we do what they did in Florida,
where the utility actually has procured and underwritten the batteries, but is taking ownership of them, to
then have them later be a grid asset?
The possibilities are endless. They've let a number of lawyers loose without a lot of guardrails for creating
corporate structures. And so there's a lot of opportunity for adjusting these costs, allocating these costs,
and doing it in a way that is new for everyone. We're shifting from a centralized system to a distributed
system. And that is just, by design, different. And it's going to require all of us to think differently. Director
Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would like to just state that I do believe this Board has a
fiduciary duty to pause when we do get large proposals like this. $10 million might seem small relative to
the cost of transitioning. But it is not couch change.
And so I want to state that I do-- I respect Director Tisdale's comments. I will be a Yes vote on this. And
with that, Ms. Johnson, if you could, for the Board, but also for the public, considering your expertise,
provide any additional context as to why this might cost up to $10 million, which I believe some Directors
have pointed out that just might be $10 million, not up to $10 million. So if you could speak to that, your
experience or perhaps any other comparative agency, I think that would be appreciated.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may? So thank you very much for the question, Director Ruscha.
So the words that we've been throwing around tonight is holistic and comprehensive. And just for
everybody's edification, the reason why the federal requirement came full circle, through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, is because when the bus and bus facilities or the low-no program-- low-no being low

emission or zero emission-- a federal funding program for those types of vehicles came to fruition, there
were a myriad of grant applications that were put forward by people, seeking to get these type of vehicles,
that did not understand that they need a charging infrastructure or need appropriate facilities.
I speak from a place of knowing because I can recall, in a different part of the country, whereby there was
a call that was placed to me, asking whether or not my agency could take in two buses that were
procured by a public entity that had no understanding that they needed a place to house the buses, that
they needed the charging infrastructure. And to the point. The Director Dishell raised, there was a
different charging mechanism that was needed. We didn't use overhead-charging infrastructure. We used
plug in.
And so recognizing that there were issues-- and I got this firsthand when I was with another transit
agency and went to advocate on Capitol Hill as it related to reducing the requirement to retain an asset
from 12 years, maybe, to 7 or 8 since this is experimental technology, that I wish-- I was told that folks
that had gone to Senate Appropriations staff had no understanding, as well, that was needed, hence my
experience in this place is stating why we need to have a comprehensive analysis that not only is looking
at our people-power needs, in reference to investment with workforce, it also speaks to the need of
looking at facilities to ensure they're state of the art.
And we are doing it in a comprehensive fashion because we would be in the same precarious position,
relative to the 17 battery-electric buses. Staff did what they needed to do at the time with the information
that was available because we basically mirrored what we did for our 16th Street Mall fleet. And those
technologies have emerged. And those are two different types of buses in the sense that they were being
manufactured by a different OEM, an Original Equipment Manufacturer. And more specific to the point,
those 36 buses that we do have, as a sub fleet, were customized for a designated right of way.
So what we want to ensure that we're doing is looking at everything holistically. We're not just looking at
scope-one emissions. We're talking about scope-two emissions. It comes from facilities and things of the
like. And in order to do that, to look, holistically, at what the emerging technologies are, what might we
need relative to land and facilities, all of that is all encompassing. That's why we're looking, holistically, at
a cost not to exceed $10 million, because it's not just looking at what we might need to transition how we
deploy service. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: So what I ask is-- I recognize you may not have this answer. But how many firms do you
anticipate putting their hats in the ring for this? And how many are even capable of doing it?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much for the question, Director Harwick. And Madam Chair, if I
may address-- so a couple of things. We will disseminate the request for proposal. We'll announce a
solicitation using a multitude of vehicles-- no pun intended-- but transit industry information, those that are
registered on open.gov and things of the like.
Recognizing what we are asking for-- we're looking at route modeling. We're looking at facilities. There
could be a proposer that basically-- who puts forth subs as well. So in my experience, I would hate to
quantify it. I know of several firms. I know of different entities that are interested. Will they have the
bandwidth? Will they be able to assemble their teams? Will they be able, hypothetically, to partner with
academia and things of the like?

I can't answer those questions. But one thing's for certain. With the type of inquiries I've been getting-and I know members of the team have been as well-- that there should be vast interest as we go forward.
OK, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you so much. Another bite at the apple, Director Ruscha-- OK, we've
got a lot to do. But hopefully we can move to the vote pretty quickly. Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think we're all here to take bites at the apple. That's what
we were elected to do. But I have a follow up which, I believe, we touched on in Committee. But again,
just for the sake of this body and for the public, if our General Manager CEO could quickly address where
the $10 million would come from relative to our budget.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, Ma'am.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So recognizing that we do have monies that we identified in localized funds, that
were going to be used as a match for the 17 battery-electric bus procurement, which this body just acted
on canceling. So we have those monies that are readily available, keeping in mind that it was always the
intent of staff as we looked at a transition plan, that we would utilize monies-- there were monies that
were put in the budget last year-- when I say last year, I meant in preparation for the budget that we're
currently in for calendar year, fiscal year, as it's synonymous.
For 2023 there was $2 and 1/2 million identified there, and then the supplemental monies that we have,
that I just referenced for the 17 battery-electric bus buy that were local monies. And so that's where this
money is coming from because keeping in mind we didn't forfeit any money. These are grant dollars,
which are all reimbursable. So that's how we are going to be able to fund this initiative if, in fact, this body
elects to do so. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. OK, and I will call for the vote. I think since we know there's at least one
No vote, I'm going to run through the roll here. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman is absent. Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.?
DOUG TISDALE: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am a yes. That is 14-- no, 13 Yes's, one No vote, Director Tisdale, one
absence, Director Guzman. The motion passes.
All right, we have one more recommended action. Zero Emission Policy. "The Regional Transportation
District, under the General Manager and CEO's leadership, shall achieve net-zero emissions by 2050, as
measured by scope-one and scope-two emissions as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. RTD's
Board shall reevaluate this policy after receiving an Asset Transition Plan, or similarly-named plan, which
details RTD's plans to transition to a zero-emission fleet under the transition plan, and no less than
annually, to measure progress towards this policy.
Beginning with the November 2023 Operations and Safety Committee Meeting, staff shall present
monthly updates to the Board of Directors until such time as the Transition Plan can be completed. In the
event, including scope-two emissions, will delay the completion of the Transition Plan, staff shall apprise
the Board of Directors of the same. And the Board of Directors may elect to remove the scope-two
emissions portion of the Transition Plan.

In the event working towards this policy is in conflict with RTD's ability to deliver service, staff shall bring a
recommended action to the Board to weigh the options against this policy and to determine whether
adjustment is necessary." Do we have a motion? Director Buzek, I see, has the movement. Do we have a
second?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. If I may-LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I'm sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: --as the Chair of the Board who appointed this ad-hoc committee, I want to thank that
committee for all their hard work in putting this policy together. And it gives me great pleasure to move to
approve. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that Director Whitmore? OK, I hear Director Buzek as the movement, Director
Whitmore as the second. Is there discussion? I believe, maybe, we want to start with Director Dishell,
here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Director Buzek. I want to walk through
why we're here, why we decided-- why Chair Buzek appointed the Committee in the first place. I want to
walk through the process that the Committee went through in order to bring this action forward, ensure
we're using common language, look at how this is in harmony with the transition plan that was just
approved, evaluate how this policy is aligned with our strategic plan, and then close with going over the
changes that were made, based on the feedback that the committee has received from the Board over
the past year and change, we'll call it.
So why we're here-- there is no, I think, controversy that we're in the midst of a climate crisis, one that is
largely driven by carbon emissions, whether that is CO2, CH4-- or excuse me, C4, carbon dioxide,
methane, whatever your emission of choice may be-- that's why we're here, since the Industrial
Revolution-- with the goal of ensuring that the temperature does not increase by more than 1 and 1/2
degrees Celsius.
It's been studied internationally. It's studied locally, here. So that's the why. The state and the region have
very aggressive goals. And again, it's not just vehicles. While vehicles account, in public-- in
transportation alone-- I've been challenged and say, well, the EPA shows that public transportation is only
1 and 1/2% of emissions for this area. Said differently, there are very few other public organizations who
have the ability, in their sole control, to reduce 1 and 1/2% of emissions that are currently contributing to
our climate crisis.
And so in addition to transportation, we have the ability to impact the building sector, which, depending on
who you ask and what numbers you're using, whether you're using embodied carbon or you are using just
the carbon that is emitted from buildings, conservatively, you're looking at about 7% of total emissions.
And it can be as high as 20-plus, 30-plus percent of emissions attributed to the buildings sector, of which
RTD has a sizable square-footage footprint, which also contributes to greenhouse-gas emissions. So
that's why we're here.
The process we went through-- Chair Buzek-- or former Chair Buzek appointed the Zero Emission Vehicle
Ad-Hoc Committee. That Committee met and quickly pivoted to expand from just vehicles to, how do we
get to zero emissions as an agency? We evaluated several other agency plans that exist. We had

numerous meetings with staff, for whom we are gracious for their time and the staff who support them, to
make sure that they were well prepared for those meetings.
We engaged in further conversation. We came back to the Board. We reviewed more studies. And we
continued to talk around and around about what is the most effective way to achieve the goal that we
want to achieve, which is carbon reduction. Is it important to pick a date or not?
How are we defining standards? How are we defining scope one and scope two? Why scope one and
scope two versus just carbon-- carbon dioxide? And we're going to get into that as we get into common
language. So this group presented-- the ZEV Ad-Hoc Committee presented to the Board monthly, during
committee reports, and has continued to do so, I believe, through today.
So I want to make sure we use common language. The Committee chose to go with the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol is the leading standard that's used in this space. It is managed
by the World Resources Institute and World Building Council for Sustainable Development. There are
three-- they define, generally speaking, three scopes of emission, scope one, scope two, and scope
three. Our policy seeks only to address scopes one and two.
Scope-one emissions are those emissions which are created directly by the agency or by the body.
Those would be the emissions created from our vehicles, revenue or non revenue. Those would be the
emissions created by any gas-- too loud? --gas boilers. Still good? Great. Gas boilers or steam, things of
that nature. And so those are-- if you are using a gas furnace, those are scope-one emissions.
Scope-two emissions or those emissions which are used by the power to power the buildings. That would
be the fuel mix that we receive from Xcel Energy, for the facilities that receive-- that are in Xcel's territory,
which I believe are the vast majority, if not all, of our facilities. Director Whitmore's giving me a head nod
because the only other ones would be in United's territory.
So yeah. So we would be taking on Xcels' fuel mix, noting that Xcel Energy has also made numerous
commitments to a carbon-reduced or carbon-free environment. To the extent that a organization
leverages things like solar power or geothermal power, that carbon mix would be taken into account in the
scope-two emissions.
Scope-three emissions or those emissions which are upstream or downstream as a part of your supply
chain. Those would be the emissions that are attributed with, for example, those who make our parts.
Those would be scope-three emissions, the parts that we use to service our vehicles. Those are not
emissions that we are seeking to tackle as a part of this policy. And just want to make sure that we are
using common language there.
So how does this work with our current plan we just passed? The plan we just passed is fully aligned, as
was discussed at Ops and Safety Committee-- Operations and Safety Committee. The plan that we just
passed actually follows really neatly under the policy. The plan was-- the Zero Emission Transition Plan
was discussed very openly and regularly during the ZEV Committee Meetings.
And it is aligned in furtherance of the plan, keeping in mind that we are a policy body who is setting these
goals. And then staff, and working in partnership with staff, said great, this is how we're going to manage
towards that goal, really delineating that difference between us creating the policy and staff deciding, and
working in tandem with us, to say, this is how we're going to achieve that policy.

As we look to strategic plan alignment, we have four strategic priorities, community value, customer
excellence, employee ownership, and financial success. On community value, RTD strives to be a strong
community partner, providing value to customers as well as the broader Denver Metro Region, while
sustaining planet Earth.
The community around us regularly strives to reduce carbon output, as can be seen in their policy
choices. A transition to a zero-emission fleet and zero-emission facilities allows RTD to move, with our
community stakeholders, in a transition away from greenhouse gas emissions and the fossil-fuel industry.
Further, this reduces harmful pollution in some of our most vulnerable industries-- communities.
On customer excellence, RTD strives to consistently deliver high-quality customer service. Customers
regularly ask for more sustainable vehicles and are excited when they hear that our 16th Street Mall fleet
is an electric fleet. Many zero-emission vehicles require less maintenance, or are reported by the OEMs,
Original Equipment Manufacturers, to require less maintenance, allowing vehicles to stay in use for longer
with differing maintenance schedules.
Employee ownership-- RTD seeks to attract and retain a highly-skilled and engaged workforce. The
transition to zero-emission and a more efficient agency requires cross training, training of new skills, and
preparing a workforce for the future instead of focusing on the past.
And just as a quick anecdote, there can be significant impacts, as high as 10% or higher, on a batteryelectric bus, specifically, in the way in which it's driven. The life cycle of that can be altered based on the
way in which that's driven. You cannot drive an EV the same way you drive a diesel vehicle and expect to
see the battery work the same and expect to see the same results. They operate differently. They're
different machines.
Finally, financial success-- RTD takes very seriously the management of all financial resources. While the
upfront investment in renewable resources, energy efficiency, low-emission vehicles may be higher than
using traditional sources, many of these same investments save funds in the long run through reduced
future costs. Over time, this allows RTD to make investments now that will last through our future.
As we look at the policy itself-- I did not track change every iteration of the policy. We would have been
here for a while. But as a general-- just to frame us where we are-- and I've now lost my place on my
screen.
But by and large, the first paragraph was really where we started, which was, are we going to transition?
There was a policy that was in place about hitting, I believe, a certain percentage reduction goal by 2030.
The Committee elected to back off of that policy to allow for greater, frankly, flexibility in the production of
the transition plan. It felt inappropriate to push a goal of reducing by 50% by 2030 without having that
transition plan in place, understanding what the cost would be in order to do that.
We also, just in the spirit of transparency, do not have a carbon baseline. We have not done carbon
accounting. So we don't know where we are today, in order to get to net zero by 2050. And that's a really
critical component, if you're trying to reduce by 50% or 100%, to know where you're starting. And so that's
why we backed off of the 2030 number. The 2030 number was originally put forward based on the
scientific reports that this next decade is one of the most crucial for climate impact.
The date number changed regularly. 2050 was the number that the group was able to get comfortable
with, both aligning with the scientific community while also allowing us maximum flexibility as we look to

create policy changes. Initially, I believe we started with just re-evaluating the policy after getting the
transition plan.
After going to the Board, this was updated to be no less than annually to measure progress. And really,
that was for two reasons, one, to acknowledge the fact that this technology changes regularly, in many
cases, daily, and separately, to monitor towards that goal. Is 2050 appropriate? Can we hit early? Are we
spending our money in the right way? And so measuring this annually is critical.
Originally, there was language about requiring the plan to be available in November of '23. We picked
November of '23 because, as I believe the Board knows, but for the public's benefit, the Board of
Directors is not scheduled to meet in December. And so November was the last definitive opportunity by
which we could have gotten an update before the Board adjourned for the year.
Since working with the Board-- with staff-- on creating the policy and creating the RFP, we decided to go
with just starting with November 2023 Ops and Safety Committee Meeting. We'll get monthly updates. As
Director Tisdale mentioned, this is an expensive process. And it's important that the Board is well in the
loop. And I think, as we've seen over time, this is a dense process. This is dense information. It requires a
lot of time to digest. And the more time and updates folks have, the better we are able to make strong
decisions on behalf of the agency.
The last two paragraphs were added based on feedback we received from Directors over time. In the
event scope-two emissions will delay the transition plan-- scope-two emissions would be evaluating
things like, what does it look like for RTD to have geothermal energy sources? What does it look like for
RTD to do solar-plus storage? What does it look like for RTD to enter into a Power Purchase Agreement
or PPA? All of that is premature. And in the event that-- it was clear, from talking to the rest of the Board,
that having a full plan, focusing on scope one, was more important than delaying the plan to allow for the
incorporation of scope two.
Finally, the last policy was added because it was important. And we heard feedback from our fellow
Directors that our goal is still to make lives better through connections. Our goal is still to get people from
A to B. And so if we're in a position where we might be cannibalizing service in order to make a facilities
upgrade, we want to make sure that we're addressing that in a way that is responsible because that
certainly was not the intent of the policy.
So I think I covered the changes. I think I covered everything. Are there any questions?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Excellent job. Thanks, Director Dishell. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Dishell, can you please clarify, does this proposal
include interim benchmarks, similar to the Governor's?
BOBBY DISHELL: This proposal-- when I referenced 50% reduction by 2030, that is what-- after we went
to the Board a few different times, that's what was taken out. So by design, this policy does not include
interim benchmarks. That said, the Board is evaluating this policy annually. So that carbon accounting will
be evaluated annually.
So every year, the Board has an opportunity to put a flag in the ground and say, you know what? It's
2025. I think by 2029 or 2030, now that we have the plan-- we heard that our transition is looking at 2028
for our next fleet replacement-- maybe we can set an interim target. But by design, for this initial go, it felt
more important to get the overarching goal out, and revisit annually to possibly create those benchmarks.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Director Dishell. 2050 is a long way off. And I would appreciate any
additional feedback or updated recommendations from the Committee. And thank you, also, for your
work.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to start off my comments by saying thank you
to former Chair Buzek's vision and especially the hard work of this Committee. I didn't get to participate.
And I hated that. But it just was one of those things that did not fit into a crazy schedule.
I'm very impressed by the work throughout the last year by this Committee. And a tremendous report,
Director Dishell, to really encapsulate some of the issues that we're dealing with-- when I say we, the
corporate we of Colorado, with goals in 2030-- stretch goals and things of that nature.
We've witnessed changing goals about every other legislative session, for the industry that I'm near and
dear to, the industry that's likely going to power this transition for both transportation and our buildings. I
can't tell you how much I appreciate your realistic approach in looking at the baselines.
What we don't have, in some of our industries, are good baselines. And if we don't have that, we don't
have measurements. And what gets measured gets done. But if it's not realistic, which I've been dealing
with in this session, this year, in a different industry, makes it extremely difficult and, I think, makes it
factually incorrect.
So I think that this Committee has set an example that certainly could be patterned up at 200 East Colfax
Avenue, underneath that majestic dome. So hear, hear to your wonderful work and the approach you've
taken. To Director to point, we do need goals. But we're not ready for those yet. But let's move towards
those goals to make sure that they are realistic. Thank you. Thank you for your time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Rosenthal, before I call on you, I'm going to Zoom out to Vice
Chair Catlin because I see her hand up as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I mentioned this in the Executive Committee. And I would like
to reiterate. But first I wanted to thank Director Dishell for that very thorough explanation. And it cleared
up a lot of questions that I had from last week, quite frankly.
Two points that I'd like to make. One, Director Whitmore stated it very, very well-- summarized it very well.
And I appreciate that. But I want to make sure that we recognize that technology is ever changing and
that we keep an open mind toward evolving technology and other points of view in the scientific
community as we move forward.
And the second point I'd like to make is that I really would like-- I really appreciate these annual updates-and even more frequently if more information emerges. But I really would like to see a cost-effectiveness
component presented at each of these annual updates, to make sure that we are achieving that goal of
not duly impacting service at the expense of trying to achieve these goals. I want to make sure that we're
spending our money wisely.
So that was comforting to hear. But again, I wanted to thank you, Director Dishell, for a very, very
thorough explanation. I very much appreciated it. So two things, cost and evolving technology that I want
to make sure we include in those annual updates. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And also, I would like to echo everyone's statement that,
first of all, thank you, Former Chair Buzek, and also Director Dishell, for that excellent analysis and
presentation. But I also would like to recognize any other Directors who are on that Committee. Can you
please let us know who they all were so we can also thank them for all their hard work? OK, so we have
Director Bouquet and-LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams. And I was on it, yeah.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: --and yourself. So Madam Chair, so let's all thank you very much, all of you, for all
of your hard work in support of that effort. So we were given a great analysis.
And not to reiterate all of it, but my question is to our General Manager and CEO, because we were given
an indication that your team was very actively involved in this process and drafting a lot of this language
and things like that, just to get your take and your, I guess, agreement that this is proper for us to pursue,
given current anticipated technologies and again, writ large, that there are many different types of
technologies now, that we know of, and also in the future that may evolve, as indicated by other Directors,
cost issues, funding sources, things like that.
Given all of those variables-- which each variable is already difficult to analyze into the future-- but so
many different issues in the air. Is that 2050 date achievable? And what is your perspective on that 2050
date? Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you, Director Rosenthal, for the question. So as outlined, this is a policy
which basically provides direction to staff. And recognizing that it's currently April 25, 2023, we're talking
27 years. And so as we look holistically in the direction in which we're trying to go, Director Dishell's
comments were very factual in the sense that staff was engaged.
We worked in tandem, provided recommendations relative to subject matter experts in this space. And to
the point about this being a collaborative approach, just recently made a comment relative to adjusting
the date because we wanted to ensure that it was in alignment.
So as we talk about financing and going forward, as we talk about vehicles, I reiterate the point that was
raised by Director Dishell, in relationship being agnostic to a technology, to a propulsion system, because
there could be a diesel bus, hypothetically, that has an engine that's not, basically, emitting different
particulates.
So with that as the backdrop, I feel confident. And I think it's incumbent upon me, in my capacity,
currently, or my successor, to work in tandem with this Board, or your successors, as we trek down this
path, to ensure that we are doing our parts as good environmental stewards. So thank you for the
opportunity to opine.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything else, Director Rosenthal? OK. Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I think we have to admit that the motion, as
drafted, is more aggressive, and broader in its scope, than the examples that are provided in the report,
including WMATA and LA Metro and New York MTA and King County and the rest. But the motion very
appropriately-- and I might even say wisely-- provides a series of handrails, a series of balances, that are
intended to address the realities that will inevitably be faced in a process such as this.
And I think because it is so well crafted, I find myself in complete support and also express my
appreciation, as has been expressed by many other Directors, to the Committee and our former Chair for
having put that committee in place, in order to present this to us this evening. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, I just wanted to point out-- because Director Catlin pointed out the idea of
sacrifice of service and if that outweighs it. And in the last paragraph of the motion, it does say, in the
event, working towards the policy is in conflict with RTD'S ability to deliver service, staff shall bring a
recommended action to the Board to weigh the options.
And I can't stress it enough, is what we talked about during the Committee, is one of the best ways to
lower our carbon footprint is to have a healthy service and have a healthy transit system. It's getting
people out of their cars to actually use our service.
And so we 100% acknowledged that, during our Committee, that service will never be sacrificed in the
pursuit of this because that's the core principle of public transit. It helps our environment, it helps our
Earth, to get people out of their cars and to ride our transit. So I just want to address that. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I have a quick comment. Any others? No? Are they pointing up there. I
totally agree with that. And I also would say that those two-- the money's not just money.
I see Debra nodding-- that many of the grants, facilities grants, Low or No Emission grants, other grants
that we may be able to take advantage of, are not money that will go to operations or service. They are
capital funding. So hopefully we will get our transition plan moving forward and be able to start applying
for those and move forward on all fronts. Thanks.
All right, let's move to the vote. Are there any No votes? All right, with-- what have we got now-- 14 Yes
votes and 0 No votes, the motion passes. Great. In a minute, we're going to go into Executive Session.
And I'll introduce that. We will not be coming back-- well, the motion will be that we will not come back
afterwards. So we'll finish up now if any Directors will do a report of Director Activities and other matters.
Does anyone have any activities they want to report this month?
BOBBY DISHELL: Gotta get to this-- yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Julien-- Director Bouquet-- Julien.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. So my report, for my Director activities-- well,
first off, I want to start with-- I got the chance to meet with one of our CAC members, Eric Smith. It was a
delight getting to meet with him. Looking forward to meeting with Mr. Fussa on Saturday. So that will be
exciting. And always great to connect with our CAC members.

But I wanted to bring up my Director activity, specifically regarding earlier in the month, when myself and
then Director Tisdale went down to Castle Rock for the Douglas County Homeless Initiative, as CEO and
GM Johnson brought up earlier.
I just wanted to give a huge shout out to our Chief Fitzgerald, and then our Deputy Chief, Martin Garneau,
for coming down, all the way to Castle Rock, coming to the heart of Douglas County, and presenting to
one of the County Commissioners, Commissioner Abe Laydon, several Mayors and several people
involved in the homeless initiative. From anecdotally speaking and speaking with those local
representatives, they were very impressed by our staff. And I couldn't thank you guys more for coming
down.
Douglas County understands that it is going to take partnerships, ultimately. And every single time that
RTD staff has come down and spoken with Douglas County, I've been more than impressed. And they
have been more than impressed. I just wanted to thank staff for that. So thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First of all, that was a great experience in
Douglas County. And it is important for us to build our bridges as much as we can, to demonstrate that
we communicate, collaborate, the CAC meetings that are being scheduled are excellent. Director Broom
and I had the privilege of meeting with the Cochair, Matt Appelbaum, of the CAC the week before last, I
guess it was. And it's an opportunity to let the CAC know that we are engaged with them, we care about
what they do, and we want to get them further engaged even.
Briefly, relative to APTA reports, let me tell you that we had a Diversity and Inclusion Council meeting of
APTA. So to the extent that any of you are interested in that, please feel free to contact me. I'll give you
more details. We also had the APTA Committee on Innovative Funding meeting two weeks ago. And
again, if you have further inquiry about that, I'll be happy to provide you with that.
And then we had the APTA Finance Committee meeting two weeks ago. And just this last weekend, we
had the APTA Executive Committee meeting in Minneapolis. And to the extent that you are interested in
that, please let me know.
But please let me also do a shout out now for the APTA Transit Board Member Seminar that will be held
in Birmingham this July. You are all encouraged to attend. And stay tuned because I'm actually going to
be asking several of you to speak at that conference because I chair the conference. So I just want to
give you a heads up on that. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That was an excellent conference last year, that Doug led. So if you get the
opportunity, it's worth your time. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think I'm being technology agnostic here, is my problem. I
had a lot of activities this last month. It's surprising to me sometimes, when I look back at all of them. I
want to first give everybody the information that I participated in the Lowry Spring Clean Up. And my back
was sore for days after. I ended up cleaning up an elementary school on behalf of RTD. And that was
interesting work.
I also went, in the same neighborhood, to the very first Mayoral Candidates Debate two days after the
election or something. And that was really interesting. I want to give a shout out to Greater Denver
Transit. I had a meeting with them. And their website is amazing. They have just very cool stuff there.

A couple of us, Director Guzman and I, met up on election-night rounds here in Denver. Those of us who
are part of the immediate Denver area did some of that. I went to a Climate Action Sustainability and
Resiliency Transportation meeting, the Mayor's Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting, CDOT's Monthly
Statewide Transit Meeting, The Road Ahead, which is was hosted by Transportation Solutions TMA, the
APTA Accessible Transit and Paratransit Subcommittee, the Southeast Elected Officials monthly
meeting-- and I have a day job-- the Colorado EV Council.
And I also volunteered at the Food Bank of the Rockies. And if anybody ever wants to feel really good
about helping to feed people, that is a great one. And the Operations and Safety Committee and the EV
Committee. So now I'm done. And after this, I'm going home.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so from my position, doing a lot of community
outreach for the city, I'm always in the community. So I'm always listening to folks in the community. So
given all that, but also a lot of the phone calls that I get, the emails that I receive-- and by the way, big
shout out to our Board Office and to the General Manager and her entire staff, who are responding to a
lot. And we're getting a lot of these emails.
And I just want everybody out there to know that we are listening. And staff is doing its darndest to
respond and to update and to clarify and to react to and anticipate a lot of what we've been hearing, so
things like late or early buses, signage, safety and drug-use concerns, issues with the nine-mile elevator.
I really, really appreciate the constant updates from the General Manager about that project.
But one of the big areas of excitement in the community, that I keep hearing about, is the Fare and Equity
Study, that people are so happy and delighted, especially, about the passes and the cost issue and
lowering costs. So thank you so much to staff for really listening and acting and reacting and anticipating
on so much of the information that we have been getting on a daily basis.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would just like to highlight, actually, two upcoming
activities if I may. So the first is that a DSST Senior Signing Day, where seniors announced where they've
been accepted to college, is this Thursday at 10:50 at the Denver Coliseum. I was invited to attend. I will
be attended-- attending-- excuse me. And that invitation is extended to everyone here, if you'd like to join
me. There are a few DSST locations in my district. I'm very proud of our seniors.
And on the topic of youth, I wanted to highlight-- Board Directors should have received an email from
students at Northfield High School, which is in Northfield in District B, regarding of transit equity. And I
wanted to publicly just acknowledge these students. They have been working on transit equity and RTD
issues not just this year, but for the past two years. A lot of these students are now seniors and might not
see the fruits of their labor.
But they're advocating for the younger students and those coming up through Northfield. So I just
encourage the Board to take a look at that email and respond if you haven't had a chance to. I will be
reaching out to staff to see if we can't arrange a meeting and help these students further develop their
leadership skills. And I would be remiss to not note that Director Rosenthal was a former teacher at
Northfield High School. And my son is a senior there, yes. But hats off to Director Rosenthal. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I see Director-- or First Vice Chair Catlin has your hand up.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Madam Chair. There's been a lot of activity throughout the district. I just
wanted to highlight one thing. GM/CEO Johnson mentioned the PowerPoint presentations that were
being prepared. And Lee Cryer of the Planning staff did prepare a PowerPoint presentation for the
Jefferson County Transportation Advocacy Group that Director Sloan attended.
I was unable to. But I was able to leverage that PowerPoint presentation to present to the Conifer Area
Council, which meets every other month, up in Conifer, and usually attracts about 100 people. And it's a
great forum because representatives from CDOT, RTD, the County Commissioners, the state legislature,
the Sheriff's Department, all give presentations and update to that community.
And it's a really good forum for outreach. But I just basically highlighted the Fare and Equity study, which
was well received, as Director Rosenthal mentioned, talked about the Golden Station update, due to the
derailment, and when that particular station might be opening, which affects a lot of the people that come
down the mountain to commute.
Talked about the sub-regional councils and the partnerships that are starting up right now and talked
about ways that, through the County Commissioners, we could become involved. And then talked about
the Respect the Ride program and encouraged those in attendance to provide their input into that
particular effort for the Code of Conduct. So that concludes my presentation. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Are there any other matters? Anything to raise in other matters?
Quickly, before we move on to our Executive Session, tomorrow is-- oop, I'm sorry.
BOBBY DISHELL: It wasn't a report on my activities. It's a different matter. It's the appropriate time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's the appropriate time.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I just wanted to first thank staff and publicly thank our Board Office, the General
Manager and CEO and her team. We have had a flurry, certainly, of an increase in requests. And we
have-- at least I have personally seen, also, a decrease in response time, which is pretty hard to achieve.
So thank you all for that. And thank you all for the thoughtful discussion, truly, for many of us, throughout
the past year and change, on the Zero Emission Policy. It's a great policy to move forward with. And a lot
of hours, Director Williams, Guissinger, Bouquet, and staff as well, spent on it. And so looking forward to
see what comes of it. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Broom,
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Under other matters, I was curious about the status of the
pedestrian bridge at Nine Mile Park and Ride over at Parker Road.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may-- Director Broom, can you elaborate when you say the status?
BOB BROOM: Well, the project has a long history. It was funded a number of years back. And then the
developer adjacent to it couldn't decide where he wanted it to come down, the elevator on the other side.
And so the money was reprogrammed. And then a couple of years ago, the money was again approved,
as I understand it, through DRCOG, to build the pedestrian bridge over Parker Road. And so if that's the
case, I'm just curious, is that under design? Or where is it in the process?

DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, if I may, I would ask Henry Stopplecamp, who serves as Assistant General
Manager of Capital Programs, because that's a project of which I don't have any familiarity. So Mr.
Stopplecamp?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Good evening, Henry Stopplecamp, HM Capital Programs. Great question.
Where we stand-- it isn't our project. But we have come to an agreement on the landing zone and the
maintenance agreement that would be necessary to allow them to build the bridge. But the actual
construction-- I believe it has not started.
And it does belong to the developer and to the city. But we have stepped up and agreed on the landing
zone and the plans. So we have done everything on our RTD's side to make that project happen.
BOB BROOM: Well, I hope that's the case. Before I got off the Aurora City Council, I got funding for public
restrooms at the Peoria station. which included the City agreeing to maintain the facilities. And the thing
was kicked back and forth between the engineering staffs at the city of Aurora and RTD.
It never moved forward. And the money was repurposed by City Council after four years or something like
that, figuring it was never going to be done. So I'm going to try to follow up on the pedestrian bridge a little
better than I did on the public restrooms. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Sloan-DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may-- so Director Broom, when you do follow up, if you could
apprise us accordingly because we can ensure that we're working in tandem with you to figure out what
the status is. Thank you. Thank you, Henry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. This is a follow up on Director-- First Vice Chair Catlin's mention of the
W Line Golden Station. Because we do have public listening in, it would be great to provide an update on
that. We are approaching the 10th anniversary of the W Line ribbon cutting, which was the first FasTracks
line. And the ribbon cutting took place at the Golden-- Jefferson County station. So do you have an
update for us, CEO GM?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Secretary Sloan, for the question. And for everybody's
edification, Secretary Sloan and I have been in contact relative to the status. And so what I will share,
publicly recognizing that there was some impact caused by the derailment that took place on March 11,
and with that as a backdrop, we needed to do some repairs to the overhead catenary system, specifically
the pole, and recognizing that there were some fractures to the concrete.
We had to go in and remove what was existing and then basically, relay a foundation that needed to cure.
Relative to the weather that we've had and things that like, we needed ample time for the concrete to
cure. We are on track to have service restored by the end of the month, which is just in a couple of days.
But it's contingent upon the weather. As we know, we had some thunderstorms today. So it is our intent,
relative to what I just outlined, to have service restored. But recognizing there's different elements as

relates to-- I don't want to get too technical-- but re stringing the wire on the overhead catenary system
and doing calibrations and things of the like, we anticipate that to be in a couple of days, as I said,
contingent upon the weather.
And so quite naturally, we will release information to the public, letting them know. But for everyone's
edification, we have been providing a bus bridge. So there is access to the Jefferson County Government
Center. So with that, I'll yield the floor. Thank you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. Briefly, tomorrow is National Administrative Professional's Day. And
I think we, as a Board, want to share our appreciation with all of our administrative professionals in the
agency and in particular, with our administrative professionals in the Board Office.
[APPLAUSE]
We do appreciate all the good work you do for us to keep us moving forward. All right, Executive Session.
In a moment, the Board will meet in three Executive Sessions for the March 11 W Line derailment. The
Board Office Executive Manager recruitment and security arrangements regarding active-shooter training.
I'll append the motion to move into Executive Session to state that the Board meeting will be deemed
adjourned after it adjourns into the Executive session. For public transparency, this means that once the
Board goes into Executive session, the main meeting will be adjourned.
I will now entertain a motion to move into the three Executive sessions to discuss the following-Executive session pursuant to section 24-6-402(4)(b) CRS to receive legal advice, and 24-6-402(4)(c)
CRS, matters required to be kept confidential by state law and rules, section 40-18-104 CRS, and 7 CCR
723-7, Public Utilities commission Rules, 7349(d)(1) and (4), confidentiality of light-rail vehicle accident
investigations, regarding the March 11, 2023 W Line derailment.
The agenda can be found on the RTD Board Resource Page. Executive Session, pursuant to 24-6402(4)(f)(1) CRS for consideration of personnel matters regarding interviews of candidate finalists for
Executive Manager, Board Office Recruitment, and three, Executive Session pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(d)
CRS, specialized details of security arrangements regarding active-shooter training. Do I have a motion
and a second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Williams.
SPEAKER 1: Pardon me, Madam Chair. I apologize. I think you might be looking at an older version of
the agenda. So the motion for the Second Executive Session-- I'm happy to read that into the record if
that-LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure, would you, please?
SPEAKER 1: Sure so that second Executive Session is pursuant to section 24-6-402(4)(f) roman numeral
I, CRS, for consideration of personnel matters regarding candidate finalists for Executive Manager Board
Office Recruitment, section 24-6-402(4)(e) CRS for determining positions relative to matters that may be
subject to negotiations, developing strategy for negotiations, and instructing negotiators regarding
compensation for finalists, and section 24-6-402(4)(b) CRS for legal advice regarding the same.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. OK, we had a motion and a second. Is there anyone
opposed to the motion to go into Executive Session? All right. We are adjourned. Thank you everyone for
joining us this evening. With all those entitled to participate in the first Executive Session, please get set
up. This meeting is adjourned.

