2022-03-08
Finance and Planning Committee
ERIK DAVIDSON: Take about two more minutes, and then we'll reconvene.
We'll give them one more minute.
All right. We're going to go ahead and get started. Great. All right.
The Finance and Planning Committee will now come to order. We are convened as of 6:20 PM, Mountain
Standard Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are
recognized to speak.
Thank you for joining us this evening. Please note that under our current circumstances, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety,
and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via
Zoom-- here we are-- and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable to the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to
Board of Directors. Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be
acknowledged during tonight's meeting, I would ask that you please raise your virtual hand and wait for
me to call on you before proceeding to speak, as speaking out of turn, as we all know, will add to the
confusion to both the record and the proceedings.
Directors and staff participating by phone, you can raise your virtual hands to indicate that you'd like to
speak by pressing star 9. And you can toggle your mute setting with star 6. I'll go ahead and now call the
role for the committee members, starting with Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am here. So we have all seven committee members in attendance, zero absent.
And for the record, I'd like to note that we see Directors Buzek, Director Bouquet, Director Lewis, Director
Rivera-Malpiede, Director Sloan, Director Tisdale, and Director Williams. Am I missing anyone?
Thank you for joining us, those of you not on the committee. Seeing no more, I'll go ahead and proceed.
We're going to go into the public comment section of the committee meeting. I will open up the public
comment to anyone who would like to address this committee regarding any topic listed in the published
meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on
your telephone. Staff will unmute you when it is your time to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to
toggle those mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are agreeing to be recorded. If you do not
wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. And you will not have the
opportunity to speak. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for this committee or if any
member of the public would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to our Board
Office at RTD.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During public comments, the committee will not offer any comments in response. Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names. Each speaker will have up to three minutes
to speak.
Speakers, please refrain from any profane, obscene speech, and please direct your comments to this
committee as a whole and refrain from any personal attacks. Thank you very kindly for that. And with that,
I'm going to go ahead and take a look.
I do not see any hands raised. Ms. McManus, can you confirm that I am not missing anybody from the
public who would like to speak?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: This is Tai-Shrae. I don't see anyone in the queue.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Tai-Shrae. Much appreciated. All right. Seeing none in the queue, we'll go
ahead and close the public comment period at this time. Thank you. And just a reminder, this will be
happening at all the committee meetings. So please feel free to join us in the future.
We have no information from external entities this evening, so we'll go ahead and skip through that
section. We do have one recommended action on the agenda this evening. That recommended action is
for the Delegation of Authority and Competitive Selection.
This is for the Board of Directors to approve a resolution regarding the Delegation of Authority and
Competitive Selection, which updates the delegations of purchasing and contracting, budget transfer, and
settlement authority consistent with the Board's bylaws, the RTD Act, and regulations published by the
Federal Transit Administration. Do I have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Vice Chair of this committee, Second Vice Chair Catlin is the mover. Do I have a
second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second. Whitmore.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Whitmore, thank you, is second. At this time, I will ask Mr. Doug MacLeod,
our Chief Financial Officer, to present any pertinent information regarding the action.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good evening. This is Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer.
Just a quick summary of this action item.
So the Board has delegated certain authority to the General Manager and CEO, as well as some
authority to the General Counsel. This resolution includes certain purchasing, contracting, budget
transfer, and legal settlement authorities. This delegation was last updated 15 years ago in 2007, and the
intent of this action item is to bring changes-- to bring the resolution to more current terms as well as
current amounts and provide more transparency by being more explicit with terminology and items
covered under the GM CEO's authority. So this resolution is due for an update also to make it consistent
with the Board bylaws, the RTD Act, and FTA regulations.
Just to summarize some of the changes that are included in this resolution, it clarifies certain terms such
as the meaning of the word contract. It defines items that are included in routine operational
procurements, such as utilities, facilities, and infrastructure maintenance, insurance premiums, computer
hardware and software, and the like. I'd also like to point out that one item that is not listed is safety and
security contracts. Those are excluded from routine business that the GM would have authority to
approve. So such contracts regarding safety and security that are over $2 million would still come to the
Board for approval.
In addition, there are increases to the contractual authority of the General Manager and CEO. In the form
resolution from 2007, those limits were set at $1 million. We're proposing those be increased to $2 million

to recognize the impact of inflation and bring to current costs over those 15 years. It also defines the
authority for contract amendments to be up to 25% of the original contract amount in which the GM would
have authority to make approval of those amendments. So essentially, all contracts that are $2 million or
more will still come to the Board for approval.
Authority for legal settlements up to limits established by the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act, a
reference to those limits, giving General Counsel the ability to make settlements under that authority.
Previously, the resolution included a fixed amount. So we want the flexibility for that to change with state
law.
And then small business, enterprise contracts, purchased requisitions, and sole source contract
thresholds for competitive bids, we're requesting those be increased from $100,000 to $250,000 also to
recognize the effects of inflation over the past 15 years. The final adjustment to authority amounts,
authorized amounts, is to budget transfers. Previously, any budget transfers $500,000 or above would
come to the Board. We're requesting that amount be increased to $1 million also in recognition of
inflation.
In addition, the General Manager and CEO will provide monthly reports to the Boards of all new contracts
executed during the month in the interest of full transparency. That concludes my remarks, Mr. Chair, and
we'd be happy to answer any questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Much appreciated. At this time, I'll ask anybody who has
questions to please raise your virtual hand. I'll go through any Directors who are on this call. Although,
just a reminder, we'll have the vote among the committee members whether to proceed to the Board of
Directors.
I'll go in the order that I see them come up here on the list. Director-- Mr. Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Mr. Chair. Doug, prior to this change, did the spending limit not apply to safety
and security contracts?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod, Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, sorry. Yeah.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you for the question. I'd ask General Counsel Snyder to comment on that.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Mr. Chair, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Please go ahead.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So yes, Director Buzek, the
prior delegation addressed routine procurements for operational goods and services and gave a few
examples, things like diesel fuel. But it was a list that was not all-inclusive. So historically, there were a

number of items, including safety and security contracts, that were included or addressed under that
delegation.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So with this change that's before this committee, the General Manager couldn't
approve a three-year $60-million security contract without first coming to the Board. Is that accurate?
MELANIE SNYDER: That's correct.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. That's great. Thanks. That's all I have.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Snyder, Mr. MacLeod, and Chair Buzek. Moving on down the list here,
Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. So a couple of quick questions. I had a chance to talk to General
Counsel Snyder, and so that was really helpful. And thank you also for limiting the procurement items as
Chair Buzek had asked about. That's great.
The 2007 authorization included a cumulative amount that would trigger things to be brought to the
Board. As I understand it, from talking to her, on packet page six, bottom of the page, item number six it
says, "Contract amendments and change orders as may be necessary from time to time, not to exceed
25% of the contract amount."
General Counsel Snyder clarified that that's the original contract. So my question is-- and to the extent
with our new committees, the intent is to work through some of this-- is that sufficiently clear? I mean, is
that ambiguous language and should we add the word original contract before contract?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your question. Perhaps Ms. Snyder, would you like to comment on that?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think that would be an appropriate adjustment to just
eliminate any doubt. So what you're saying is at the bottom of packet page six in section b6 at the very
bottom of the page that talks about contract amendments and change orders, you would add the
language about, "contract amendments and change orders as may be necessary from time to time, not to
exceed 25% of the original contract amount."
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And then one other, along that same line, on packet page eight, it says that
"the General Manager shall provide a monthly report to the Board of the contracts executed during the
previous month pursuant to the resolution." And as I understand, the intent for that is to be provided with
the Board briefing documents. But that's a practice that's changed or may change.
And I just thought in the interests of being clear on it and telling the world too, what about adding the
wording, "to the Board, comma, and posted on the website, comma, of the contracts executed during the
previous month." Do you all-- that's my thought. I'm happy to make a motion to amend or just leave it to
you, Chair, to how to handle that kind of suggestion in this less-formal committee setting. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Cook, and thank you for that initial change there. Ms. Snyder,
could you comment on the implications that might have, a change like that might have, and comment as
you did for the first?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think that clarification would work. We could certainly
add language to make it clear that those monthly reports will continue to be posted on the Board's
website. If I could recommend, it might make sense to go through all the comments. And then maybe we
can have one motion at the end of that discussion to make some of these adjustments we're talking about
to ensure we have consensus from the committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: Great. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for that. That was my next question for you, Ms. Snyder. Appreciate it.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Let's go through all the comments and see if we have an amendment. Director Dishell,
please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Chair. My comments may not be as globally acceptable as Director
Cook's, so if you want to do them separate, that's fine. My first question is, is there a reason that we aren't
pegging these numbers to CPI-U for Denver, Aurora, Lakewood, or whatever the equivalent is so that we
don't need to continue to update this due to inflation?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm wondering, Mr. MacLeod, if you could field that one.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, and essentially what happens is if you were to take
the 15 years doubling of each of these amounts which we're requesting is effectively approximately a 5%
compounded annual increase. That may sound a little higher than CPI, but the intent would be to set that
new amount here. And it would be in effect going forward and account for future CPI. So that was really
the intent of getting there. And also, we wanted to keep it to nice, round amounts that are much easier to
deal with and for the staff to understand.
BOBBY DISHELL: Fair enough. Understood. My second question or comment would be to the extent
General Manager is making the changes-- and I recognize that I'm suggesting this not in light of of our
current GM but trying to plan for the future and what the future might look like-- some sort of language
that states that to the extent we are making a contract amendment or executing a change order, that we
tie that to our strategic plan, that that extra spend that we're choosing to approve is somehow tied to the
strategic plan, avoiding scope creep, things of that nature to really make sure that we have that backed
up and that contract changes aren't made that aren't going to align with [INAUDIBLE].
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell, was it a question that you'd like somebody to respond to?

BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Curious if General Counsel Snyder thinks that would be too restrictive to avoid
the entire purpose of this. Just trying to put some backstop there, make sure we're making changes with
our Board of people, that it is tied to the strategic plan for the Board [INAUDIBLE].
MELANIE SNYDER: I think, if I understand the question, Mr. Chair, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure. Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you. So Director Dishell, I think your question-- you're asking if there is a way
to add some additional limitations on the General Manager and CEO's authority to amend contracts, so
that language we just discussed that Director Cook was talking about, to have language in there that
would tie it to strategic plan metrics or objectives.
BOBBY DISHELL: Correct.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK. I understand the concept. I think it might prove to be challenging and maybe
potentially unworkable. As we think about the different types of procurements and contracts that we enter
into and certainly the fact that the Board has a five-year strategic plan with metrics that are prioritized
over that period, I would defer to GM and CEO Johnson, if she has any ideas about how we might tie
each contract amendment to a specific objective in the strategic plan. It's not to say we couldn't create
language to do it. My concern is just more operationalizing that and how that would work.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Snyder. If I may, I'd like to maybe just ask to see if there's comments
from Directors. And then depending on where folks are at, we could ask Ms. Johnson how she might
approach that.
Director Dishell, I would kick things off by saying I like where your head's at. I think that's a good thing for
us to be thinking about. I would say that what that comes down to is our trust in our General Manager and
CEO and that as part of our oversight, this would be something that falls on the oversight of the CEO and
General Manager, that are we actually working towards our strategic plan? If not, we have a greater
problem.
So perhaps given the complexity of working that language in, I might say, let's not get that into this
particular aspect but continue to be mindful of that as we move forward as an agency. But let me open
the floor to just other Directors to see if there's any further discussion, and then maybe Ms. Johnson could
comment. Director Cook, is your comment along this line?
SHELLEY COOK: I was wondering too whether-- it's sort of like it, the question of whether, even if the
thresholds aren't met, there are policy implications of a contract amendment. And sort of as a signing
statement, I would say I would hope the GM in her judgment would feel free to bring those to us. It may
be that sometimes a small contract amendment has a bigger impact than one that's larger.

And I don't know how to codify that. I really don't. So all I would say is I, kind of like you, Chair, I agree
with where he's going. I like the idea that we have some hewing to where we want to go. I just don't know
how that gets added into here. But, thank you. I do have something else I want to ask about later.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Great. Thank you, Director Cook. We'll come back around for that for sure.
Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Upon reflection, I think it may be more appropriate to pull this from here, as I
think about it, and maybe flag this as a discussion item for a future matter, which is how do we
incorporate our strategic plan into our financial directives? Why limit it to the small sub-$1-million change
orders as opposed to saying, if we're going to direct fiscal policy in line with the strategic plan, that those
small change orders would be encompassed within that, right? So I think it might be more appropriate to
include that-- greenhouse gas, carbon cost, things along those lines-- as we think about fiscal policy.
Maybe [INAUDIBLE] just pull it out and request it, maybe we'd find room for a discussion item on
incorporating strategy into financial decision making, worded in a much more artful way, for the
committee's discussion [INAUDIBLE].
ERIK DAVIDSON: That's great. Thank you, Director Dishell. Well said. So given that we did have some
discussion around that-- I'm not seeing other Directors hands. Ms. Johnson, is there anything you wanted
to comment on just along those lines and tying financials to strategic plan?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Mr. Chair. Thank you very much for the opportunity to opine. And considering
Director Dishell's last comment recognizing that one of our strategic priorities is financial success, I think
that's interwoven in relationship to what it is collectively you as a Board have talked about more
specifically as you look at adopting financial policies going forward. And I think that would be the most
appropriate place in which to incorporate. Further to the point that was raised in the course of documents
that we bring forward, we have qualified what strategic plan to which whatever action we're
recommending for your consideration is tied to one of the strap plans and what we anticipate that
outcome to be. So there already is nexus there. But I would round out with saying that it would be best
suited with financial policies from my vantage point. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Yeah, I think Director Dishell, Ms. Johnson, thank you for the
comments on that. It makes sense that there can be a financial policy item as we consider future strategic
plans and modifications thereof. And Director Dishell, a good point about future discussion items
potentially for this committee of how we ensure our financial and fiscal policies are indeed in line with our
strategic plans as an agency. So moving forward, Director Cook, come back around to you.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. So I've just realized the 25% would be applied toward each contract
amount. And I don't know how to say this, but the intent-- and you wouldn't do this but-- you wouldn't want
to come in with a succession of contract amendments just underneath the 25% as a way to avoid having
to take it to a Board and doing that over and over and over and over.
I mean, I know that's not your intent. Is there a way to express that within here somehow, that you
wouldn't want to-- the reason I'm so focused on this is from what Director Buzek, Chair Buzek, brought

up, that Allied contract was a small, double-digit, like $13 or $16-million amount. And then over the period
of less than a decade, it burgeoned to $67 million.
And I don't know-- obviously, we're excluding that. That's really good. But are there other areas where we
might want otherwise to keep an eye on the cost and we wouldn't have a chance because the contract
amendments kept coming in over and over at 25 or 24.5% or something like that? Is there a statement of
intent or something that would guide that?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Snyder, is that something you might feel comfortable commenting on? Capturing
intent.
SHELLEY COOK: I don't know
MELANIE SNYDER: Pardon me. I just realized I was on mute. Sorry about that. I think it's challenging to
add a statement of intent that's a little bit squishy, if you will. We're trying to really nail down and have
clear delegations of authority.
If we're going to add language, we might be able to add some language around the-- add language in
about the cumulative impact. I think the intent of the language in there right now, "as may be necessary
from time to time not to exceed," it was meant to capture that idea, that it could not exceed 25% of the
original contract. But if we felt like we really needed to be clear, we could add-- I guess we could add
additional word that the cumulative total would not exceed 25% of the original contract would be one
option. And the-SHELLEY COOK: reasonable amount, the total-- the sum of the amendments. I don't want to
unnecessarily hamstring you either. Is 25% what you had thought when you were crafting that language?
MELANIE SNYDER: Is that question to me, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
MELANIE SNYDER: So, yes. And just to be clear, I was not-- there were multiple folks involved in crafting
this language from our procurement team to Mr. MacLeod and our Chief Administrative Officer as well, as
well as Ms. Johnson. So yes, that was the intent. But we could certainly add that additional language if we
felt like it had to be added. One other point of clarification, Mr. Chair, if I may, with respect to the Allied
agreement.

MELANIE SNYDER: So I just want to be clear that that agreement, like other safety and security
contracts, was always reviewed under that prior provision that didn't have any dollar limitations to it. It was
considered an annual procurement for an operational good and service, so in any amount. Although that
agreement, Director Cook, is correct-- it did increase over time up to around $68 million-- it was never
brought to the Board because it was within that sort of exception.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for those comments. I think perhaps what we'll do, I'll finish out the
comments. And then we can discuss the amendment that we'll make and whether we'll have that
language there or not. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Two comments. One, I think, Director Cook, I envision the 25% language, as I
read it, as I read it in the context of the document, that it does cover that contract amount cumulatively.
But I'm not opposed to greater specificity.
I do have a question as to whether there was alternative fuels or alternative fuels was intentionally left out
of B2. I noticed electricity was in there, but there's also a myriad of other-- hydrogen, biofuel, et cetera-which frankly maybe there's other Board members who think the procurement of those, to get an
alternative fuel vehicle, would need to come to the Board. From my perspective, it doesn't. If it's fuel, it's
fuel, whether it's electricity or diesel or biogas or hydrogen. Just curious if that was intentional or not.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell, would you like someone to comment on the omission of that language
and if there was intent there? Great. Ms. Johnson, is that something that you'd like to comment on?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, most definitely. There was no intent behind that it was a slight oversight.
Because basically, we need to ensure that we procure vehicles. Any type of vehicle procurement would
come to this body.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson.
BOBBY DISHELL: So to the extent, General Counsel, you or others are open to it, I'd like to add in in that
list vehicle fuel. It's probably vehicle fuel or alternative vehicle fuel is probably catches it all. But if anyone
has better language, no pride in authorship over here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Snyder, any concerns with modifying the language if and when we do that
amendment here to be vehicle fuel? Any concerns on that?
MELANIE SNYDER: So the suggestion would be to just have vehicle fuel instead of specifying diesel fuel
or gasoline?
BOBBY DISHELL: That works, or vehicle fuel, gasoline, comma, or other-- or diesel, gasoline, comma, or
other vehicle fuel. I don't really care. I just want to make sure that if we do procure an alternative bus,
alternative fuel vehicle, that we don't need to come back and amend this again. That's the intent that I'm
trying to get at. In the event we pursue not diesel, gas, or electric buses-- which are out there in the world- that you can procure the fuel as well without the Board having [INAUDIBLE].
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson, I see you raised your hand. Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. This is straightforward. We can incorporate that to say-- fuel
for vehicles I think would be all encompassing. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm comfortable with the 25% cumulative, because that's the limit
with which the GM CEO has authority to extend the contract. So anything beyond that would come back
to the Board, so I'm very comfortable with that. And I think it captures the intent very well. So I'd be
supportive if we wanted to add some clarifying language in an amendment to include that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. So I'm not seeing any other hands. And I think what we're
arriving at is that we would amend this. And so we would move to amend and go through that vote first.
I'm wondering if, Director Cook, you might start us out by revisiting the two pieces that you were looking
to change and maybe stating some suggested language. And Ms. Snyder, if you'd be willing to contribute
and help frame that as Director Cook states that.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. I'll move to amend item number six on packet page six to read, "contract
amendments and change orders as may be necessary from time to time to cumulatively not exceed 25%
of the original contract amount." And further, on packet page eight, item number f, to modify the wording,
"the General Manager shall provide a monthly report to the Board, comma, and posted on the website of
the contracts executed during the previous month pursuant to this resolution."
What I would say about that is I would be happy if General Counsel looked at that and wanted to tweak or
reword it just to capture that in a better way. I'd be very pleased with that between now and the final
approval. So that would be my motion. If you'd like, I could make the motion also to include the wording in
item B on packet page six regarding fuel for vehicles as opposed to diesel, fuel, gasoline-- however that is
better worded.
ERIK DAVIDSON: If you wouldn't mind including that in the same amendment, I think that would be great.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Let's do that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So thank you for restating that. That's Director Cook's suggestions, as well as Director
Dishell. Director Dishell, do you have any further comment on the amendment? Thank you very much.
Ms. Snyder, I might ask, just an assist here, what's the best way to restate some of this before taking the
vote on the amendment? Should we state the language? Do we have the language captured?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think we have the language captured. And if you'll allow
me just a tweak here or there to add the placement of the language, but I think I have a good
understanding of what the Board is asking for, adding the cumulative language, adding the reference to
the original contract, and adding or replacing the reference to vehicle fuel more broadly. So what I'd
recommend is I will draft that language. But if we could just get a second on that motion. And then if
there's any further discussion, I think we can move forward.
BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: I second.

BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second from-- I see Director Dishell. So that's a motion by Director Cook, a second by
Director Dishell. Any no votes to the amendment? Great. With that, the amendment passes unanimously
with seven yes and zero no.
We'll now move on, unless there are any-- are there any further comments on the main recommended
action? Wonderful. We had our mover and our second. I'll now ask, are there any no votes on the
recommended action? Wonderful. The recommended action also passes unanimously, seven for, zero
against. Thank you very much.
Please go ahead and place your microphones on mute if you haven't already done so. We're going to
move into our discussion items. We have two discussion items on the agenda this evening. The first is a
refinancing of 2013 and 2014 Certificates of Participation, or COPs. I would ask Mr. Doug MacLeod once
again, Chief Financial Officer, and Mr. Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments, to
present any of the pertinent information that they have prepared this evening for this discussion item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Doug MacLeod. And as the Chair mentioned, Brenden
Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments, is joining me, as well Dee Wisor from the law firm
Butler Snow. Dee Wisor is our Principal Bond Counsel that we use for any bond or COP refinancings.
And Dee is here to help answer any questions.
We'll have a short presentation that Brenden will go through here shortly. Just as a reminder, last month
we asked the Board for an extension to Hilltop Securities' financial advisor contract in anticipation of this
refinancing. So now we are bringing the refinancing discussion item to the Board to discuss what the staff
intends to do and so that we can begin the paperwork necessary to complete that refinancing.
What you'll see in the next few slides is we have an opportunity to reduce RTD's annual debt service by a
significant amount through interest savings. So without further ado, I will call up the presentation materials
and ask Brenden to go ahead and walk us through those slides. So hopefully you can see my screen with
a presentation on it.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BRENDEN MORGAN: I can see it, Doug.
DOUG MACLEOD: Fantastic. All right, Brenden, please go ahead.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you, Doug. Good evening. This is Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of
Debt and Investments. I apologize. Zoom is not recognizing my camera at the moment, so you all won't
be able to see me speaking. But we'll walk you through these slides, and I'll add some additional color
and some additional background that'll be helpful to collectively wrap our minds around this opportunity
and this discussion.

I will start by saying this is an interesting discussion item. It involves a refinancing or refunding a portion
of RTD's existing debt for lower interest rates and locking in potentially over $100 million of savings over
the next 22 years. I'll give you a little bit of history, talk a little bit about the savings-- [CLEARS THROAT]
excuse me. And then we'll talk a little bit about the FasTracks debt authorization from 2004.
So as far as history goes here, we're looking at these 2013A and 2014A Certificates of Participation. The
2013s were issued to buy buses, all types of buses. There were Gilligs and MCIs and the big 60-foot
articulated buses. Quite a bit of RTD's fleet was refreshed with these Certificates of Participation. It was a
mix between base and FasTracks. And as of today, there's approximately $18 million worth of these
obligations remaining for FasTracks to pay off and approximately $90 million for base to still pay off.
Now the 2014A Certificates of Participation were issued to fund a portion of the capital for the project that
became the N Line. We currently have approximately $441 million outstanding on these Certificates of
Participation. And both of them are callable next year, meaning RTD has the option to refinance, repay
this old debt, and refund it with new debt. So there's this window of opportunity approaching that we can
take advantage of. [CLEARS THROAT] Excuse me.
As far as the savings goes, the savings is fantastic. We looked at doing this a couple different ways, one
being the way we traditionally come to the Board and suggest these refunding opportunities where we
issue new Certificates of Participation to refund the old, more expensive, older Certificates of
Participation. And the savings from a transaction like that today would lock in savings of approximately
$103 million.
We also looked at this from a perspective of trying to get some extra savings, some incremental savings
on top of that $103 million. So we looked at using some Certificates of Participation but then also using
FasTracks bonds for the FasTracks portion or a major part of this FasTracks portion of the Certificates of
Participation. And through doing that, we were able to raise the savings that we can achieve up to
approximately $120 million. So it's a $17 million increase in the savings that we can generate through this
transaction. And of course, this is all in today's interest rate environment, so it's subject to change as
interest rates change.
The nice thing is-- well, there's two things here. There's a trade-off. So one hand, we would consume the
remaining FasTracks voter-approved debt authorization to do a transaction like this. But on the flip side,
we would free up the ability to issue Certificates of Participation in the future for any FasTracks projects.
The next slide here-- I think Doug's going to pull this one up-- talks a little bit about-- here we go-- our
bond capacity. So as we all know, the voter authorization for FasTracks was given back in 2004. So that
is 18 years ago.
And the voters authorized these three bullet points that you see on this slide here. There was sort of a
three-pronged limit to the debt that RTD could issue for FasTracks, and it included the $3.477 billion of
principal that we could issue. As of today, we only have approximately $295 million left on that limit.

Voters also authorized the $7.129 billion of principal and interest. So that's sort of the total repayment
cost, if you will. If we look at it through that lens, RTD has approximately $576 million left. And that's the
limit that we will bump into first in the situation that we're in currently. That will really be the limiting factor
to what we can do.
Then the final prong here was this $309.7 million manual maximum annual debt service. That's the
maximum we can pay in any given year as far as repaying the debt. So anything above and beyond that
would require additional voter authority at some point in the future.
The interesting thing here is we've been talking to our Bond Counsel about this. And we find ourselves in
a situation where there's really limited-to-no legal precedent set to issue voter authorized debt beyond 20
years. So we're sort of coming up on this point in time where the 2004 debt authorization-- I'm going to
call it expires for lack of a better word. That's not a technical term, of course. But it's sort of expiring at this
point in time. So we are in a position where we may have a chance to either use it or potentially lose the
opportunity to use this voter authorization and lower interest rates that come along with it.
So moving on to the next slide here, just really some considerations here and sort of a recap of all of this
is number one, we can generate an additional $17 million by structuring this transaction with FasTracks
bonds in addition to the Certificates of Participation. We do need to consider the fact that it would exhaust
all of the remaining FasTracks bond authorization that we received from the voters back in 2007.
However, that authorization is reaching the end of its legal life, if you will. So there's that fact to take into
consideration. And there's no current plans to use these bonds in the short term. Projects have not been
identified in the short term where we would be issuing these bonds. Our mid-term financial plan does not
include any use or issuance of this debt at this point in time.
So the savings, again, we're looking at $120 million. That's gross cash flow savings over 22 years. On a
net present value basis, that would be $57 million or 11.4% of the current debt outstanding.
The second-to-last bullet point here just, again, a reminder, this would release our ability and give us back
the ability to issue Certificates of Participation rather than bonds to fund future projects. And of course, we
would probably be issuing these as green bonds, as the final bullet mentions. But we'll get back to that
when we come back to the Board at some point looking for approval to proceed with some sort of
refunding transaction in the next few months.
With that, I'll mention that, again, Dee Wisor, our Bond Counsel, is here. So we have questions on
TABOR, voter authorization, anything like that, Dee's a subject matter expert on that. And I'm sure he'd
be happy to answer any questions. And of course, Doug and I are here as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Morgan. Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. I just would like to exercise a little
bit of privilege. There's a significant policy decision here. So the first thing I want to do is just ask one
question up front that I think will be important for Directors here and then frame, I think, the nature of the
policy decision.

So Mr. Wisor, thank you very much for joining us this evening. I did ask a question offline, which is why I'd
like to get this out here, which is the nature of the 20-year mark on those bonds as to whether or not that
was a-- as I understand, it's not a statutory. It's not statutory in nature.
It is a limited to no precedent that bonds would go beyond 20 years for a project like this-- and I think we
can all agree FasTracks is a little unprecedented-- and not necessarily that it's statutory and not
necessarily that there is existing precedent for 20-year expiration. Mr. Wisor, would you mind just
commenting on that before the Board goes forward with discussion and questions?
DEE WISOR: Yes, Mr. Chair. I think you've described it accurately. This is not statutory or constitutional
concept. It's a legal principle announced by the Colorado Supreme Court and courts in other jurisdictions.
And the real question is, at what point can you no longer issue bonds pursuant to voter authorization?
The Colorado standard-- and really adopted in other jurisdictions as well-- is that based upon the facts
and circumstances, was the delay reasonable, prudent, or necessary? So not a very bright line, kind of
squishy.
But based upon our review of the case law in Colorado and elsewhere, we would feel comfortable going
up to the 20-year mark. Beyond 20 years, it's more difficult for us to give an opinion that the bonds were
validly issued absent additional judicial action.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Wisor. So with that, I'll go to questions and comments from Directors. I
think a comment was made-- and Mr. Morgan, thank you for framing it this way. But a comment was
made I think along the lines of taking the temperature of the Board. So of the committee, at least I'd love
to hear from everybody at some point this evening. I think if I understand correctly, aside from the
decision as to whether to refinance or not-- which, Mr. Morgan, Mr. MacLeod, I know, I mean, a slam
dunk, awesome find again.
But the marginal decision here is $57 million of net present value versus $47 million in net present value,
$120 million gross versus $103 million gross in savings in exchange for consuming the FasTracks bond
capacity. So I think it's a pretty material policy. Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod and Mr. Morgan for
bringing that forward to the Board. With that, I'll start going through the list here. Director Broom, you are
up first.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Is the savings spread out equally over the life of the bond issue?
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: [INAUDIBLE] please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And I'll ask Brenden to correct me if I'm wrong. But no, it would not be. It
depends on the sale of those bonds and which tranches they're sold over. So it wouldn't be even. But
approximates, on average, $5 million in savings per year.

BOB BROOM: I guess the question really deals with annual budgeting. In other words-- and excuse my
voice-- but sometimes you take your savings up front because you're short of money. And other times,
you take the savings on the end because it gives window dressing. It looks like you're saving more gross
savings.
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct. And Brenden, would you like to comment on that?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yes.
[AUDIO OUT]

DOUG MACLEOD: Brenden, we've lost contact.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Morgan, I think we may have lost your audio.
DOUG MACLEOD: So, Mr. Chair, I think-ERIK DAVIDSON: I think we may have lost him from the meeting. Yeah, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: I can comment on that, Chair. Thank you. Yeah. And we did consider that. The
savings are significantly lower. I don't remember what the amount was to take that savings up front. And
given our current financial projections with midterm financial plan and knowing that these-- we would not
extend the term of these existing COPs, so it'd still be over 22 years as opposed to say a 30-year
issuance. Over those 22 years, we think that the benefit really comes from taking the most savings and
spreading it out over those years rather than taking a lower amount up front.
BOB BROOM: OK. It looks good to me. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, and thanks for the presentation. My first question is for Mr. Wisor. As I
understand it, the Colorado Supreme Court has said the question of whether the bonds can no longer be
issued-- I guess the term expired was being used-- is was the delay reasonable, prudent, and necessary.
Is there case law that then tied that to the 20 years, or where did that come from?
DEE WISOR: The 20-year case law-- Mr. Chairman, may I answer?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, please. Yeah, go ahead. Thank you.
DEE WISOR: In Colorado, there are three cases on this topic. And they've ranged from three to seven
years. Never has the court had a problem with that. But cases in other jurisdictions have gone as long as
20 years, and that's the basis of our conclusion.

And of course, I think the Chair talked about the complexity of FasTracks and all the things that have
happened in terms of the Great Recession and construction costs going up and so forth. So we think, on
balance, the 20-year mark is a fair mark.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I don't know if this is a question for you or Mr. MacLeod, but what's the
downside of then relying on COPs as opposed to bonds? Are their limits? I think it's a higher interest rate,
or what are the practical differences?
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: [INAUDIBLE]
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Under current market conditions, the difference between a bond interest
rate and a COP interest rate is approximately 50 basis points or 0.5% interest. So that's what accounts for
the difference in the $103 million versus $120 million. So bonds are essentially cheaper to issue.
With COPs, when you issue a COP, you have to have basically collateral. Or you have to have an asset
backing up that loan. It's really a lease purchase agreement. So in this case, the 2014 COPs are actually
using the N Line as collateral. So in the event of default, the bond holders would be able to claim-- and
I'm not speaking in legal terms, I know. But essentially, the bondholders would be able to claim ownership
of those assets.
So what happens in a transaction such as this if we do not issue COPs, it frees up the collateral of the N
Line to be used for future projects in which we could issue additional COPs to raise financing money-- a
little more expensive than bonds. Or if we refinance with COPs for the COPs, we would retain that
collateral that would be locked up with our investors until those COPs are paid off.
So there is a bit of a trade-off in terms of collateral, but I think the important point to realize is that it
doesn't eliminate RTD's borrowing capacity, cash flows notwithstanding, in order to afford that. But COPs
essentially don't fall under some of the TABOR limitations that would really fall under our ability to repay
them. Hope that answers the question. And Dee, I'd prefer to if you have anything to add to that.
DEE WISOR: Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please.
DEE WISOR: I guess the way I've thought about it is that since we think the authorization will become
stale and not be capable of being used to issue sales tax bonds pursuant to the FasTracks question in
2024, why not issue those bonds now, take the interest rate savings now, and recognize, as Doug said,
you have other financial tools available should you have a revenue stream and a project that would
require further long-term indebtedness?
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I guess I have [INAUDIBLE]-ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Director Guissinger, go ahead.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Several things to think through. And one issue is that this is giving up
our bonding capacity on a very politically charged issue. And I'm just concerned that that's a piece-- since
it's not a statutory 20-year limit-- I mean, I can see what you're saying, that the precedent is looking at
shorter terms. FasTracks is sort of a different animal.
But the 20 years is not something we can point to and say that those are going to expire. I do have some
concerns around this. But I'll think this through and potentially come back. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: I have a few questions along similar lines as Director Guissinger, which is that I
understand there's case law saying that a shorter term bond is still valid. Is there case law stating that a
longer term bond is invalid?
DEE WISOR: Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, Mr. Wisor.
DEE WISOR: There there is case law in other jurisdictions that has said that 19 years, in that particular
instance, was a valid bond issuance. There are some cases in other jurisdictions where courts have had
trouble and have invalidated an election. Some of those are unique in that they were sort of singlepurpose projects. And so, again, it's sort of this facts and circumstances test and whether the delay is
reasonable, necessary, and prudent.
BOBBY DISHELL: And on the bonds, I understand it would take away, if we did it today, if we did it next
year, if we did it in 2024, we would be eating up the rest of our capacity to issue more bonds. Because
the interest market-- this might be more pertinent [INAUDIBLE]. I understand we're also in a time of
[INAUDIBLE] historic interest rates with the Fed putting their thumb on the scale to push those back up. I
know there's some relationship there between bonds and interest rates.
But is now also the most advantageous time, even if we issued the bonds to get a hold of the cash, is this
sort of a do it now because of the interest rate market on the bond side? Is there a disadvantage to
waiting, other than the [INAUDIBLE]?
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair, I would ask Mr. Morgan to respond, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, please, Mr. Morgan. Mr. Morgan, you're on mute.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Is that better? Are you able to hear me now?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Yes. Thank you.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Great. Great. So if I understood the question correctly, I think the question was,
could we go ahead and issue the bonds today and sit on that cash for some period of time? And I think
Dee may be better suited to talk to that.

But generally speaking, there needs to be a project. There are some rules around the use of proceeds in
a timely fashion. And there are some challenges around doing something like that. So perhaps you would
want to chime in on that a little bit.
DEE WISOR: Yeah, Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please, Mr. Wisor.
DEE WISOR: Under federal tax law to issue tax-exempt obligations, the district has to have a reasonable
expectation when bonds are issued, or COPs for that matter, that 85% of the proceeds will be spent
within three years. So that test applies. And so the notion of issuing bonds now in a low interest rate
environment as a hedge against and as an opportunity to build some project in the future is probably a
limited opportunity.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Chair, I have one final question, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Go ahead, Director Dishell. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. So we saw a lot about how this would create savings for us. But it also, unless I
misunderstood the slides, stated that we were already at our annual debt service limit. So I'm having
trouble squaring those two in my mind. What would this do to our annual debt service payments
[INAUDIBLE]? Are they going up, or are they going down?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. MacLeod or Mr. Morgan. Yes, go ahead.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yeah, that's a great question. So what would this do to our annual debt service?
The answer is this would lower our annual debt service by approximately $5 million, give or take, every
year for the next 22 years. That's the way we've structured it in this current analysis that we generated,
this $103 million or $120 million savings.
BOBBY DISHELL: So does that mean as of today we are over what our annual debt service limit should
be? Or am I misunderstanding that slide?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Morgan. Mr. Morgan, would you like to comment on that? Oh, I think we lost Mr.
Morgan. Yeah. Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Sure. Thank you. Our annual debt service, including Certificates of Participation right
now-- so it includes some numbers that probably wouldn't apply. However, our annual debt service is
currently approximately $260 million per year.
And if you look out every year, it's between $260 and $300 million. So we would still fall-- and that
includes COPs. So we would still fall within the $309 million limitations on an annual debt service basis.
So we'd be fine with this issuance.

BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I think [INAUDIBLE]-- Director Guissinger's point, I think something that's on my
mind, which is even if we used every bonding capacity we could to get savings, to get more money,
FasTracks, as approved by the voters, the money's not there. There is no more debt [INAUDIBLE], even
if we had an extra $100 million a year and if you could issue that much bond money to finish out these
projects.
DOUG MACLEOD: Right. Mr. Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: And also, I think that that's a great point. The other risk that we run is interest rate
risk. So the further we go out, the amount that we could borrow actually decreases. Because as interest
rates rise, we have still a cap on the ability to repay a certain amount.
So you can imagine higher interest rates means we can borrow less up front. So let's say interest rates
rise over the approximately two more years we have until the 20-year mark. It actually would decrease
our ability to borrow. And the opposite would be true if interest rates decrease, but they're essentially at
historical lows still right now.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right. I think lots to think about on this decision. More savings, but there's a lot of
other things at play.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. Great questions Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to say that-- or clarify that the N Line, which is a
FasTracks project, was financed using COPs. And so we would still have-- it would not be shutting the
door on opportunities for FasTracks using COPs in the future if we were to take advantage of the interest
savings, the $120 million, by refinancing with the bonds.
So I just wanted to point that out that the N Line was, in fact, not funded with FasTracks bond-- or it may
have been funded in part. I don't know. But the majority of the funding was COPs. So I know that it is a
politically sensitive or charged issue. But if we were to go the bond route, this would not close the door on
leveraging future COPs for completing any FasTracks projects. Am I right on that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: Seeing the head nods. Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. Good point. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Kind of a follow-on question to some of this. So let's say Front Range Rail
garners Amtrak money, and we want to play along because we want to use the infrastructure they're
building or whatnot in order to provide some service in the Northwest quarter. Is there a difference?

Would we be able to use bond money specifically authorized for FasTracks to participate in that, if the
next two years is a reasonable time frame, versus COPs? Is there any limitation on the use of COPs to
participate-- since we wouldn't own the infrastructure, I assume. So that's a question for-- I'm not sure if
it's Dee or whoever.
DEE WISOR: Mr. Chair. I could take a run at that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Wisor.
DEE WISOR: Yeah. I think it would not limit your ability. We might as, I think it was Doug referenced,
might in fact, at that moment, if that opportunity came to pass, use the N Line as the collateral or parts of
the N Line as collateral for a project in the Northwest corridor if we couldn't use the Northwest corridor as
the asset.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And the second thing is we've-- Doug MacLeod, you said debt service savings for
bond issuance is $5 million. How much would be the debt service savings for COPs?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Just real quickly, so $103 million-- this is on average-- $103 million
divided by-- it's $750,000 less per year.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Great. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thanks for giving me a second bite at the apple. It's been 12 years since I've been
involved in this stuff closely, but is this a current refunding or an advance refunding?
DOUG MACLEOD: Brenden, [INAUDIBLE].
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yeah, Mr. Chair, if I might.
ERIK DAVIDSON: [INAUDIBLE]
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yes. At this point in time, this would be an advance refunding. The call date is not
until June of 2023 for both of these certificates.
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair, if I could add, one of the reasons why we're bringing to you this point in
time is Brenden has been monitoring this for probably well over a year. But we do have the negative
arbitrage impact of when we issue this because it's an advance refund. And we essentially have two
outstanding issuances that we're paying interest on. So every month that we've waited to bring this to the
Board has saved us additional funding by not having two outstanding issuances out there of
approximately-- I believe you look at it at one point, Brenden, we saved approximately a million dollars a
month, somewhere in that neighborhood.
BRENDEN MORGAN: That's correct.

BOB BROOM: Well, thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Any further questions, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Yeah. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right. I think this is my last bite here. But a bond is going to be-- the COPs were not,
because we can't, secured by revenue from our sales tax. But these bonds would be secured by revenue.
And as it stands today, FasTracks does not pay for itself. So we would essentially be, by issuing these
bonds, [INAUDIBLE] realizes that after $750 grand in savings, we would be, in order to make the math
work, we would in essence have to borrow even more money from the base system to fund FasTracks to
realize an extra $750 grand in savings. And that's another sort of political [INAUDIBLE].
It's net savings all around, but I'm trying to square those two things, recognizing that FasTracks already
doesn't pay for itself. But we already take away bus service from the base system to fund FasTracks and
FasTracks projects. And would this really be, even with the savings, wouldn't we still be spending more
base funding on FasTracks by doing this?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Correct. That's true. So yeah, over the longer term, the base ends up picking up
more of the tab for FasTracks. In 2024, the base system's bonds are paid off. So that frees up quite a bit
of cash flow and reduces our debt service.
So the idea was that FasTracks debt service starts increasing at that point because we start paying more
towards principal. So yeah, the base system is essentially subsidizing FasTracks to a certain extent. So
the less expenditures that FasTracks has, the less subsidization that needs to occur from the base
system.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. Director Broom, I see your hand up. Was there another
comment you wanted to make?
BOB BROOM: Sorry.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem. Thank you. Seeing no more hands, I did have a few more questions. And
while I ask those questions, I wondered if, given the nature of this and strategic decision here, if Ms.
Johnson would like to comment on implications and strategy around some of the things that have come
up.
But before doing that, I'll just ask a few questions. So the idea of potentially using COPs-- and I know
we're talking a lot about the B Line, here but there are other unfinished FasTracks projects, as we're

aware, one of which being the completion, of course, of the N Line and then-- or extension. But the COPs
are fundamentally more expensive.
So I guess just with that in mind, this may be a little bit on the spot and perhaps you want to answer this
offline, but what approximately could we raise in terms of N Line collateral for use on other FasTracks
projects if we were to do that in the future? Do we have an idea of what that might be? Is that essentially
equivalent to where we're at now with the COPs but presumably at a higher interest rate, or is that a
higher number? If Mr. MacLeod, you might be able to comment, or perhaps Mr. Morgan or even Mr.
Wisor.
DOUG MACLEOD: Sure. Great question. I'll ask Brenden and Dee to supplement my comments. But the
initial COP issuance was based on a value of approximately $440 million, I believe, for the N Line. So
those were unencumbered assets. So there was no federal funding. So we have to specifically identify
those assets to use for collateral.
So that at the time, in 2014, it was determined that those were worth approximately $440 million, I think.
I'd ask Dee and Brenden to comment on that net-- if we were to look at that in the current sense, we'd
have to go back and revalue those assets if we were to use those for collateral for a future COP issuance.
Dee? Brenden?
DEE WISOR: Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, please.
DEE WISOR: I think in the capital markets, in the municipal marketplace, the marketplace doesn't tend to
require an appraisal. It tends to look more at the use of the asset. And this is a pretty essential asset from
the District's mission. And so I don't think it's a dollar for dollar. And based upon what I see elsewhere in
the marketplace, I imagine you could probably borrow more than the $440 million if you went into the
capital markets today.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Understood. Yeah. Thank you very much. Mr. Wisor, I think this is a question for you.
And I think this is one for follow-up, perhaps for Board consideration if and when this comes to
recommended action, particularly for the marginal change.
But you've mentioned some of the case law in other jurisdictions, which does run into-- I believe you
mentioned 19 years. Wondering if perhaps some of those instances or examples could be provided to the
Board or perhaps you even want to comment on the nature of the jurisdiction or project at this point in
time. But also happy to have you take that to follow-up.
DEE WISOR: I think that's probably best dealt with as a follow-up item, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Right. Thank you. And we don't need to make an exhaustive thing of it. I noted a
number of questions regarding that.

And a question perhaps for Mr. MacLeod, perhaps for others, the construction of the N Line and the use
of the COPs-- I know, Mr. Morgan, you commented on that and just where we were at that time. Would
you mind just elaborating or expounding upon the decision to not use the bonds at that point in time for N
Line? I know you did touch upon that.
But I think one could look at this and say, we're actually utilizing the intent of these bonds by moving this
over and ensuring actually that we're using it in mitigating risk. But at some point, we had made the
decision not to use that. And perhaps the 20 years wasn't apparent or-- just maybe some of the thought
process that went into the COPs versus the bonds I think would also be helpful.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And that's a great question to point out that at the time in 2014,
what we had determined was that although COPs at the time were still a little bit more expensive than
bonds, what we wanted to do was save that TABOR capacity on the bonds for additional projects and
recognizing we finally had an asset that was sizable. So when we looked at collateral from other assets
throughout the district, we have so much federal funding and other types of funding tied to so many of
these other assets.
We really only had a small pool of assets to choose from, and some of those were properties that had
values of approximately $10 to $15 million. There was not enough really there to fund as collateral-finance enough funds to build us any project of any significance. So in order to preserve that TABOR
capacity that was shown on that slide at that point in time, it was determined, hey, let's use COPs since
we have some collateral. It gives us some flexibility in the future, knowing that we could also still
refinance, like we're talking about now, with bonds at some point in time and replace those COPs once
the call provision was up and save interest savings.
So we tried to build in a lot of flexibility in our financing going forward to maintain that TABOR capacity
within our cash flows and also with an eye towards the future of hopefully, if interest rates decrease, we
would take advantage of those to refinance and generate additional savings. And Brenden, sorry I
answered the question. I thought you disappeared on us there. So anything to add?
BRENDEN MORGAN: No, nothing else to add, Doug. I think you nailed it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you for commenting on that. And first of all, before I-- I did want to ask
Ms. Johnson if you wanted to comment on this marginal difference. But I did just want to point out for-- I
mean, Mr. Morgan, Mr. MacLeod, I think really we got some smart minds here working on this and
identifying some good opportunities.
We have a debt service issue, and as we've talked about, are in an unprecedented situation. So I realize
there's a sticky issue here between the marginal, between the $103 and $120. But good news. We found
at least $103 here and just really commend the innovation and discipline in watching this and waiting and
being patient for the right moment. So I'd be remiss if I didn't just say thank you for that and for bringing
this forward. And with that, Ms. Johnson, if you wouldn't mind, I'd love to hear just your comments and
particularly as it relates to some of the Board concerns, which I certainly share, of that marginal difference
going from the $103 growth to the $120 using bonds.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity to opine. And I want to
recognize the great discussion the Board has had around this issue and also commend Mr. Morgan and
Mr. MacLeod. Because when we first met about this issue, they were educating me. And quite naturally, a
lot of the conversation that has ensued we had as well.
Recognizing you put forth the element of the strategic plan, I would be remiss to say once again as we
look at our financial success priority, that that's paramount when we look at where we are currently and
where we're trying to go and to maximize taxpayer dollars for the betterment of the agency. So
recognizing that as the basic foundation, that was prevalent for me in relationship to how I viewed this
and the discussion that has been had tonight relative to Certificates of Participation.
I believe that as a body, I would encourage you all to have further discussion, recognizing this is a policy
matter. But relative to looking at the strategic plan, we want to optimize the dollars in the most efficient
manner possible. And so quite naturally, in reference to what Mr. MacLeod and Mr. Morgan have put
forward in support for Mr. Wisor as we look at the Certificates of Participation, overarchingly that is
something that we are leaning towards. So that's how I would round out that discussion but quite naturally
interested in listening to other aspects of the Board relative to direction in which you may want to pursue.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I'm just going to circle back, because I know that the idea
here was to try to get a sense of where staff time should go and get an idea of where we want to go. But
we're not at a vote here, and I want to avoid any kind of misconception or perception of a vote.
But I did just wonder if other Directors want to make some comments, and we could do that going around
the horn quickly. I'm happy to just share my thoughts and try to keep this to questions. I am concerned
about using of the debt-- I'm sorry-- the bond capacity and authorization on what is a fairly charged view.
And less so from the fact that it's politically charged, for example, and more just what that could actually
lead to in terms of if we use this capacity and other opportunities arise-- Director Cook alluded to the
Amtrak possibility with Front Range Passenger Rail, which I know we all know is a long ways off-- that
actually this could trigger other discussions. There's an inherent risk that comes along with this.
Certainly, the political environment, everyone's very concerned with our ability to complete FasTracks and
deliver on that. And so we are making a trade. We're definitely making a trade in saying we're going to
take more savings in exchange for eating up that bond capacity, and I think we're sending a signal and
making a decision about that we wouldn't be using those bonds on FasTracks.
I don't necessarily think that's wrong. I think there's definitely a concern there, and it's why I think looking
at that case law would be particularly interesting. Because I do think that this is a fairly unprecedented
project. And in reading the FasTracks vote and what passed, there was a clear intent that it was
completing these projects.
We are where we are. I want to throw that out there that, to me, I look at this as there is some amount of
risk coming with $17 million gross. $103? Slam dunk. No question. I think the real question remaining is is

the $17 million worth the additional risk of foregoing that bond capacity and not necessarily knowing what
we might be able to do with COPs?
So if I'm just being open, I feel a little uncomfortable not quite knowing. And I know that none of us have a
crystal ball. We can't know how this would play out with the bond authorization. We can't know what's
going to happen with interest rates, although I think we all appreciate we're at historic lows.
So I just wanted to point out that, to me, there is a substantial risk here in the trade for 17. So with that, I'll
put this out there and open up to the floor to see-- Directors, I see the hands coming up. If you want to
comment where your head's at here to give some indication to staff. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I guess I'll start by saying I think you put that all very
well. I also would like to see the case law. And I appreciate, Mr. Wisor's good counsel that it's very up in
the air.
I agree with the question that you mentioned that Director Cook asked. We're kicking off this Front Range
Passenger Rail district. We want to be a part of that. We want to be-- there's a lot of potential public
downside to this, I think, or at least risk for that marginal $17 million.
And I join in saying that finding this money is a great thing-- the $103, the $120. It's a really great thing.
But I just have concerns along the same lines as Director Davidson was commenting about using up all of
our bond authority at this point with Front Range Passenger Rail and Amtrak coming on. So thank you.
And I just want to say one more thing is that I appreciate the way this came to us, coming to us as a
discussion item. I think that that's our hope with these smaller committees that we can discuss these
policy issues. My hope is soon that we will be sitting around a table and doing that. But rather than
coming to us with an action, recommended action or something, I appreciate you bringing it this way.
Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: I echo everyone's sentiments, and thank you for finding these. I think another thing-- I
apologize to the attorneys at Butler Snow. But another thing that I-- or maybe our own legal bill.
But another thing that I'm thinking through is that, as far as I understand, if a pre-TABOR authorization
was made, that's still valid. But somehow a bond that was authorized post-TABOR has a 20-year stale
[INAUDIBLE]. And COPs that were [INAUDIBLE]. So I'm having-- and it doesn't need to be answered
now. But I'm having trouble squaring that in my mind.
DEE WISOR: Mr. Chair, could I respond to that?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Please do. Thank you.
DEE WISOR: Yeah. I don't think there's any-- maybe I misunderstand, but I don't think there's a preTABOR authorization that remains valid. This legal principle, in fact, first arose in Colorado in about 1933,

way before TABOR's adoption. And so this is not a TABOR question. It's really this independent question
of when data authorization becomes stale.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. Well, that makes that part easier. I think on the other piece, on the one hand, if we
exercise the bond, we are having the base system continue to further subsidize FasTracks. On the other
hand-- it happens all the time. It happens all the time. It happens today, and $17 million is a lot of money.
it is a lot of drivers, a lot of operators, mechanics, a lot of frontline staff.
So to-- it's probably good that I'm sort of caught in a tension between how much are we subsidizing. But
on the other hand, is that politics getting in the way of sound fiscal decisions, just purely economic
choices and up management of the system.
If I look back 5, 10, 15 years and say, well, no, I voted to say no to $17 million because I was concerned
about the political implications, what does that mean? And I think on the other side of things, political
implications are real. When we imagine the amount of staff time we've dedicated to political implications,
the soft costs that are real here and the hard costs that are really there, and I think the benefit of
exercising the bond just to get the upside of the money, we, from what I understand, have three years to
allocate it.
If we wait for two years, we may not save any money by issuing those bonds and may be left just
assuming more debt. And I'm much more concerned with assuming more debt in the future that's not
going to end up as interest savings than I am about the political backlash today.
[INAUDIBLE] everyone here is in agreement that we can't take on more debt and is waiting two years
going to effectively be that? We know today we got interest savings. I don't know in two years if that's
going to continue to be true. So those are the sort of things that I'm sitting with and thinking through.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. I'll just react and say we're certainly-- I think you
characterized that well. We're choosing between some unknowns. And I would say yeah, great
comments. Let's not vote based on political concerns. But I think we want to measure out potential risk
that come with those concerns in terms of what money's been put into FasTracks and what communities
are thinking about in terms of what could and should and would have been delivered from FasTracks.
So less so what everybody thinks or says and just more so what could-- again, you characterized that
well. We're thinking through a lot of could-bes, what could fall out of that discussion. So thank you for the
comment. And Director Buzek, thank you for joining us on the committee today. I'll call on you next.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And I'll be very brief. I just want to say that I concur with comments made by you
and by Director Guissinger and the concerns that you raised as well. I share those as well. That's all I
have. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for all the comments, and thank you for the discussion. I just would echo
some of the sentiments here. I really appreciate the opportunity to discuss this as a policy item. I really

appreciate how well this is framed and explained and the trade-offs and just the clarity of discussion. It
just was awesome. So thank you very much.
Mr. MacLeod and Ms. Johnson, I'm going to look to you. Because I know that what you're trying to get a
sense for is what to do with staff time. I certainly have my thoughts about how we might be able to-- I
don't want to go down rabbit trails of creating three scenarios here. I certainly hear the sentiment.
I don't want to overspeak for the Directors that $103, slam dunk. I hear that there's some concern. I don't
know that this is putting together two scenarios. I don't know that this is some additional follow-up and a
special meeting in there. I don't want to miss the window of opportunity.
I heard June thrown out there. But Mr. MacLeod, Ms. Johnson, I know you're kind of looking for a sense
of how to allocate staff time. Wondering if you could comment on if you have what you think you need and
what you might recommend as next steps based on the discussion.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, Mr. Chair. I think it would be prudent for us to convene as
staff to basically digest all the comments that were received this evening and basically put forward a
prudent course of action. Perhaps that could be done electronically via a Board memorandum or
something of the like.
I would ask Mr. MacLeod and Mr. Morgan to add any additional thoughts. This is collective. You guys are
the subject matter experts and want to ensure that you have an opportunity to say whether or not that's
feasible. So, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Yeah, I think that's a great course of action.
It'll also give us a little bit of time to put together some of the requested items, such as the case law,
gather some additional information to provide to the Board. So that sounds great to me.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful. Well, thank you very much. We look forward to that. Thank you very much.
I continue to be impressed by the finance team here and the thoughtfulness in this. And thank you to the
Directors as well for the discussion around this. Oh, yeah, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Sorry. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think Brenden probably wants to talk about timing a
little bit too just in terms of putting together paperwork just to-ERIK DAVIDSON: [INAUDIBLE]
DOUG MACLEOD: --give a sense of expectations and what we're looking at in terms of getting this deal
put together. Brenden, please.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yeah, absolutely, if I may, Mr. Chair. As far as timing goes, there's quite a stack of
documents that goes into a bond resolution or a certificate participation resolution. It takes quite a long
time to pull that together. We schedule meetings with the rating agencies, et cetera.

So we'd be looking at-- I always like to say about three months, a three-month runway to pull all the
documentation together. So at the earliest, I think we'd be coming back to the Board with a resolution and
asking for approval of whatever direction we are recommending we go at that point in time or thinking we
all want to go at that point in time. It would be in June. In the meantime, as Doug mentioned, we'll
certainly have Dee pull together the case law and everything else that will be helpful.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. I recognize that we created a little bit of work here today. So it's
important for us to consider and think through. But I know, certainly mindful of the fact that we have some
additional requests. And thank you for being willing to help with that. Wonderful. Any further discussion on
this matter? All right. Thanks, team.
We've got a second discussion item on the agenda this evening. We are going to be talking about the
system-wide fare study and equity analysis. This will be, I believe, Mr. Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager of Planning, and Mr. Chris Quinn, Planning Project Manager, to present information regarding
this discussion item. So with that, I'll hand it over to you two gentlemen. Thank you.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Chair Davidson and Board members. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant
General Manager for planning. And I'm pleased to have the opportunity this evening to introduce this item
and to introduce the RTD Project Management Team for the reference study for the system-wide fare
study and equity analysis. Joining us tonight-- as you mentioned, Chair Davidson-- is Chris Quinn, who is
the Project Manager. Also have Carl Green, who is the Deputy Project Manager for the project. He's also
in attendance tonight, and Chris and Carl will be collaborating and providing you with tonight's
presentation.
I would also like to recognize Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities, who's in
attendance also in support of this topic. Enough supporters. I support this project. And I would like to ask
Chris and Carl at this point to proceed with the presentation and provide you with that overview of the
system-wide fare study and equity analysis.
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah. Good evening, Board members. I will begin the presentation, and then I will be
handing it off to Carl at a couple of different points throughout the presentation. So I'm going to share my
screen with the presentation. So give me just a moment to pull that up. OK. Is that showing?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It is. Thank you.
CHRIS QUINN: OK. Thank you. So just as an overview of what we would like to discuss tonight with you
is introduce you to the consultant team, go over the project goals and scope, and then discuss the
communications and outreach plan along with the project schedule.
So starting out with the consultant team, the lead consultant on this is Four Nines Technologies. They
have worked on previous fare studies for RTD, so we're very happy to have them on board in that they
have a pretty profound understanding of how RTD's financial and fare structure already works. So they've
been able to hit the ground running. So we're very pleased that we don't really have to deal with any kind
of learning curve with the consultant.

But if you look at this slide, you'll notice that of the specialized expertise activities that we have shown on
here, the middle box, which includes community engagement and facilitation, that is the largest of the
boxes. We have the most individual consultants within that. And the reason for that-- and we'll talk about
this quite a bit more throughout the presentation-- is we really want this study to be a customer,
community-driven process. So we are intent on having a very rich public outreach effort as part of this
process. And now as we move into the project scope and goals, I'm going to turn it over to Carl to go over
the next couple of slides.
CARL GREEN: Thank you, Chris. So for these next couple of slides, the first one here I'll be going over
the technical milestones as it relates to this system-wide fare study and equity analysis project.
So first off, we have establishing our goals, which I'll cover down on the next slide. From there, our
consultants are reviewing our fare structure, as well as our Title VI program. Specifically with relation to
the Title VI program is assessing our policies in relation to how we are analyzing any potential impacts.
Additionally, there's the public participation plan for the inclusive decision-making framework, as well as
our language access plan to ensure that we're providing meaningful access to our non-native English
speakers throughout this project. From there, the consultants will be reviewing other transit agencies fare
structures. Specifically, there are three bulleted items, as we are all aware that RTD is unique in its kind
as far as its geographic boundaries and the scale of our service district, and in addition to that, the range
of services that we provide throughout our service district.
So specifically around looking at or assessing different transportation properties, we'll be looking at
benchmarking across 10 different transit properties. And the goal here is to compare RTD's fare pricing
levels as well as fare-related performance metrics in relation to these 10 different transit agencies. From
there, we'll be looking at moving with case studies where we will essentially have detailed case studies on
transit properties who have undergone fare simplification and/or have undertaken initiatives to improve
their fare affordability.
And that last bullet point, COVID-19 recovery strategies, the ultimate goal here is to look at transit
properties who have responded to the changes in travel patterns and concerns about affordability. From
there, we'll be looking at identifying fare alternatives, which will be well informed by our robust community
engagement process.
Next step is to be able to develop an evaluation methodology to ensure that we are looking at our fare
structure and analyzing data with respect to our fare structure. From there, we'll be looking at evaluating
alternatives and conducting a preliminary Title VI analysis to ensure that we are meeting the mark with
respect to Title VI. Once that is complete, we'll be moving forward with a recommendation to the Board
and then simultaneously and certainly not least is preparing a final report and a Title VI analysis to be
presented to the Board.
As you will note, Title VI is embedded throughout the technical milestones in congruence with Title VI of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964. And in addition, so we meet the requirement and are in compliance with the
Federal Transit Administration by virtue of us receiving federal financial assistance, we need to ensure

that we are in compliance with Title VI. So a primary focus of the fare study and equity analysis will be
centered on Title VI protected populations, i.e. making sure that our community engagement as
representative of those populations and that we make sure that we do not adversely impact these
populations by virtue of moving forward with any potential fare structure changes and any modifications to
our past programs. Next slide.
So as I mentioned previously in bullet point one, we have established some fare study goals. This has
dated back to our initial community engagement-- or these fare study goals have been informed by initial
community engagement that took place last summer, whether that be through our telephone town halls,
our customer feedback panels, and other engagement opportunities. So as staff came together, we are
moving forward with three goals that will drive the fare study and equity analysis project.
The first goal is equity, which supports transit-reliant, financially burdened customers and provides
equitable and fair access to fares, products, and discounts regardless of race, color, national origin,
income status, or other marginalized communities. Our second goal is affordability, which is aligned with
the value of services received. And the last goal is simplicity, where it's easy to understand, with
standardized discounts and streamlined fare payment options. Next slide.
So next, I'll be going over the communication engagement plan. As Chris mentioned earlier-- you can go
next slide, please. As Chris mentioned earlier, this is going to be a robust community engagement where
it's customer driven and community focus. As far as the milestones within our engagement strategies,
there's four milestones specifically.
The first engagement strategy is looking at the existing fare structure. So what we're going to be doing
here at the latter part of March, early April, is moving forward with a survey and our initial community
meetings where we're meeting directly with our community and our customers to identify challenges, pain
points, areas of improvement, and what's working well. From there, we'll be receiving some initial fare
structure preferences, which will then get into engagement number two, which is looking at conceptual
options.
So given that we received this initial feedback, it'll inform where the direction that we are looking at going
by providing these conceptual options of our fare structure alternatives. We will be educating and
informing our community and stakeholders on the alternative trade-offs, and then we'll be sharing the
initial feedback throughout this process. The next line is the engagement number three, where we're
moving forward with the fare alternatives.
This is where we're getting at the crux of our engagement with our community and our customers by
evaluating and identifying the trade-offs in relation to our three goals-- equity, affordability, and simplicity.
And the last item is moving forward with a formal public comment and hearing process. I'd be remiss if I
didn't mention that to help inform and support our overall engagement process is we are moving forward
with the first of its kind at RTD of a multicultural outreach and engagement services where we're directly
working with community based organizations that directly serve these marginalized and underrepresented
communities.

We want to make sure that these voices are elevated and that this process is inclusive to ensure that we
are hearing their pain points specifically in addition to that, that this whole process is inclusive of all
customer segments. With that being said, I'll now turn it over to Chris.
CHRIS QUINN: So as we move forward with the engagement process, we're looking at what we're kind of
labeling as our target audiences. And those include our customers. And by customers, we want to make
sure that we're including even our former customers, non-customers. We also want to include the
community, so social service organizations, transportation advocacy groups, and the multicultural
community groups and organizations. By stakeholders, we're referring to the counties, cities, local
jurisdictions, advocacy groups, as well as representatives from employment centers.
And then built in already, we have our own internal advisory groups. Those include the Citizens Advisory
Committee, our Access-a-Ride Advisory Committee, as well as our Advisory Committee for People with
Disabilities. And then also very importantly, our internal audiences besides the Board, the GM CEO, other
employees-- especially the frontline employees like our bus operators, fare inspectors, street supervisors,
the ones who have to enforce the fares. What are the things that are working for them now? What is not
working? And with the alternatives that we come up with, what do they think of those so that we really
know how it will work from an enforceability standpoint?
And then as far as our customer community outreach milestones, Carl went over what those major
milestones were. We'll talk a little bit more about the complete schedule in just a moment. But I want to
just focus on upcoming how they fit within the overall parameters or the overall framework of the study.
So later this month, we intend to launch our website. We want to have that up and running probably by
the last week of March. In the April time frame, we will be sending out a survey.
And then along with that, the various milestones that Carl spoke of, the feedback on current fare
structure, conceptual development of the conceptual options, as well as the fare alternatives. We'll start
those efforts with community meetings beginning in April. And the intent is those will run through the fall,
probably the September, October time frame.
Formal comment period, we would expect to be January, February of next year. And then we would be
seeking Board approval of the new fare structure in the April of 2023 time frame. And we'll go over a little
bit more detail on the schedule in just a moment.
One of the unique things about the study-- and at RTD, we've never really done a study in this way. One
of the unique things that we are proposing or will be establishing is feedback panels. We intend to have
three feedback panels so that we can weigh our options, discuss different options after we've had each
one of the sets of community meetings at the various milestones that Carl spoke of.
One of the unique one, in this case, is going to be the equity feedback panel. And our intention for the
composition of that panel will be Black, Indigenous, people of color, those with limited English proficiency,
the refugee, immigrant communities, low-income groups, those that are houseless, youth, seniors, people
with disabilities, along with lesbian, gay, bi, trans, and queer populations. So as Carl noted, we really

want to elevate the voices of those communities that may have been marginalized and who may have
been left out of previous processes when we were going over these type of studies.
Our second group would be a Pass Program Feedback Panel. And that would include employers,
colleges-- for the EcoPass, neighborhoods for the EcoPass. And then we also want to reach out to those
groups, those colleges that aren't participating and get their input as well, find out why, what it might take
for them to participate in the Pass Program groups. Also want to engage the non-profit community, since
we do have a relationship with them in terms of providing discount-- or have provided them with discount
fares in the past, find out what their needs are as well. And then lastly, employment centers and
partnerships.
The third group would be the jurisdictional feedback panel. That one's pretty self-explanatory-- local
governments, state governments, DRCOG, as well as the transportation management organizations and
associations throughout the district.
For the schedule, I'd like to focus on the gray box that's at the bottom. One of the things to take note of is
you'll notice that in April, that's when we will be beginning our public outreach. And even before we talk to
any of the feedback panels, all of our feedback panel meetings are preceded by community outreach
meetings.
So the intent is we would gather information from the communities before going to the feedback panels.
So kind of as a almost a top-down or maybe bottom-up, starting with the general public, move up to our
feedback panels, and then take the information that we have and process that to get to the next step. One
of the things you may notice about this schedule is there are quite a few activities, and they're packed into
a pretty tight time frame.
So why is the process taking so long? Well, with the robust public outreach that we're including as part of
this and to ensure that we really are able to solicit and analyze the information and the feedback that we
get from the public, this will put the schedule into early next year. So we wouldn't anticipate getting or
seeking Board approval until about the April time frame, which may be a little bit longer than it had
originally been anticipated. But again, in order to accommodate what we really believe needs to be done
for our public outreach, we figured this was the most realistic schedule.
Just a couple of other things, as I mentioned earlier, we do intend to have the website up and running by
the end of this month. And then we'll be starting a survey in April. And then just focusing just a little bit
more on the upcoming activities, as I said, be starting the public involvement activities this next month.
And at those meetings, we want to start obtaining existing fare structure input.
What are the pain points? What are the things people do like, don't like about the existing fare structure?
And then we will also be putting together the composition of the feedback panels-- so as we talked about
earlier, the equity panel-- or excuse me, the feedback committee-- or, sorry-- feedback panel or equity
Pass Program and jurisdictional groups.

We will also be conducting a review of our existing fare structure, as Carl mentioned. Then we'll be
comparing that to other transit agencies, and then we'll also be doing a review of the Title VI program.
And then lastly, we'll be assessing the-- well, our own structure Pass Program is part of the equity
analysis of those efforts. So I think-- yeah, I think that is all we have. And certainly open for any questions
that the Board may have on this process.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very, very much, Mr. Quinn, and Mr. Green. Awesome presentation. Very
helpful. Very thorough. Open up the floor for questions and discussion. I see Director Rivera-Malpiede.
Thank you for joining the committee meeting tonight. I'll hand it off to you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Chris, I have a question about your equity panels.
One of the things that I'm very concerned about is the fact that the largest employers are small
businesses. It's well over a million employees they represent. It might be one or two, or five or 10 but
clearly under 100 and somewhere under 50. Can you include them in some of your panel discussions in
terms of equity as well?
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah. And I'm going to actually defer to Carl on that one to see if he has any more
comments or can provide additional information beyond what my just off-the-cuff yes would be.
CARL GREEN: Mr. Chair, may I?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please, Mr. Green.
CARL GREEN: Yes. So as far as the equity feedback panel goes, we're specifically looking at customers
and community-based organizations that serve these communities. But another approach that we are
also tapping into is working directly with Black Chamber of Commerce, Hispanic Chamber of Commerce,
and the Asian Chamber of Commerce to be able to get a better understanding of these smaller types of
employers to be able to direct them to the equity feedback panel. So that is built into our approach of
being able to solicit and garner interest from folks in those communities to provide their direct feedback
with relation to the types of Pass Programs that they may have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. I would just ask that besides those chambers-- which are all
phenomenal-- there is a Native American Chamber, as well as a variety of other ones. But the Women's
Chamber, I just would like to see it more expanded to than just employment centers. Because those
seem to, in my mind, constitute large numbers of folks. And I'm really concerned about really the silent
numbers of those really small communities and businesses-- Mi Casa, who works with women business
owners-- just making sure we're really looking across the board at a variety [INAUDIBLE]. So, thank you
very much, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Director. And I see that Mr. Sorois has raised his hand. Would you
like to comment on this as well?
BILL SOROIS: Yes. Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to add to Carl and Chris's feedback, I think the other
thing that I identified with the group is that with the past program feedback panel, we do need to look at

small and medium employers on that. And we don't want to only focus on large. And I think we are
targeting some of those groups too as well. So to add to what Carl said is that beyond some of those
small, disadvantaged businesses that we may access through some of the chambers and some other
forces, we are going to also be targeting on the Pass Program Panel as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Sorois and Mr. Green and Director. Yeah, appreciate that very much.
Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. Briefly, The Denver Post editorial over the weekend mentioned that we have
tabled plans to reduce fares for low-income riders. I didn't know what that meant, first of all, and I don't
even know if it's a reflection of the interview that they had with some of you. But is the idea of reducing or
making our fares more affordable still a part of this study, whether it's for a targeted group or overall?
ERIK DAVIDSON: The CEO and General Manager Johnson's hand up. Would you like to comment on
that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, Mr. Chair. Director Cook, if I may, in relationship to the
comment that you just raised about The Denver Post editorial, we had a conversation about that. That
appears to be a misprint. That was never indicated by us. And going forward-- and I will defer to the team- but clearly the whole notion behind this is ensuring that we have fares that are simple and affordable. So
that would be part of it as well. But I'll yield the floor to the project team to expound on that if you'd like.
Thank you.
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah, we would have nothing to add in that. Yet, our intent is to simplify and ensure
affordability. So at this point, all options are on the table.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. One other, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please. Thank you, Director.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. When we go to evaluate alternatives, they use I think an industry standard for
elasticity of demand. But I'm wondering if we can take some extra time to look at that or make sure it's up
to date in light of changes in travel patterns with the pandemic and also with the great disparity-- the
terrible increase in housing costs and all the implications that has in terms of how people weigh other
costs. So can you do that, or are you able to do that in the course of this study?
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah. The modeling that we're relying on is we're going to have to mix and match
between some of the information that we have that is obviously pre-pandemic but then also match that
against trends that we're seeing since the onset of that. So there is going to be some art and science as
we move forward.
SHELLEY COOK: Just try to make sure it's one that's been updated or something. Thank you, Chris.
That's all, Mr. Chair.

BILL SOROIS: And Mr. Chair, if I could add to that-- this is Bill Sorois-ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
BILL SOROIS: The other thing, I think the advantage of doing our peer review and talking with other
agencies about how they're seeing impacts to ridership and impacts to their fares and how people are
responding I think give us some good information that we can add to our analysis and look at that overall.
SHELLEY COOK: Great. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. And thank you for those answers. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: I think [INAUDIBLE] I very much understand and appreciate the [INAUDIBLE]
originally did this and said, OK, [INAUDIBLE]. The other side of that is when I look at an implementation
timeline, if we're delivering a report in April of '23 and implementation [INAUDIBLE], that might be my
entire term has been, OK, we're going to do a fare equity study. We approved a fare equity study. It takes
an entire Director's term to see a fare change.
And I would just encourage you all, as we think about implementation, to shoot for the moon. Is it outside
resources? Is it not something we can throw money at? Is it not that we have a lot of money to spend?
But really think through how we can have a quick implementation, because people need help yesterday.
I mean, I know there's only so much we can do with the legislative changes that we just got. But for the
folks who are low income who are spending $10 a day on a regional fare because they've been priced out
of where they live, that's a lot [INAUDIBLE]. And are there ways that we can ramp up [INAUDIBLE] other
things we can look at to hopefully provide people relief while we wait for the next year and a half, two
years until we really have fares going-- if we do expand [INAUDIBLE] the study?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you Director. I see Ms. Johnson has raised her hand. Perhaps you'd like to
comment on that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would. And thank you so much, Mr. Chair. And Director Dishell, we really
appreciate your comments. Recognizing what Mr. Green outlined is that this agency has never done
something of this magnitude and recognizing that we want to ensure that we are outreaching to
populations that oftentimes are the greatest ones that are marginalized, this is going to take some due
diligence.
And it's the intent, quite naturally, to expedite. After we all met, we thought it was in our best interest to
manage everyone's expectations and not put forward a schedule that we thought would not be realistic
and have to come back. But quite naturally, as we go forward with this process in working with
community-based organizations and things of the like and equity panels, we're very hopeful that we could
get something shored up. So I just wanted to take this opportunity to say that.
Because oftentimes-- and I'm not trying to point fingers, but this is really a first for this agency. And I think
it will yield the results that we ultimately all want to see in reference to having simplistic fares going

forward. But want you to know that the comments haven't fallen upon deaf ears. And the team brought
that forward to me, I and I'm speaking up because I want to support them. Because they were wanting to
put this forward, and we wanted you all to know what was taking place.
And I see them smiling. So I will yield the floor. But I just wanted you to know that we want to do this right
and ensure that we have long-term relief for individuals. So thank you very much for that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Did anyone else from the team want to respond to that as
well? Saw those smiles coming up as well.
BOBBY DISHELL: You guys are great, and the plan is amazing. It's very much appreciated. Just trying to
think about the folks-- what can we do today for some folks who are [? priced out? ?]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the comments. Scanning through the-- saw some thumbs up
there as I scanned through the video. So, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And thank you for this. This is some really great work. I'm
really excited about this. I think the feedback panels are well-thought-out. I guess I would encourage you
to start talking to them soon.
Do we have the right goals in place? Certainly, I think the three major topics-- but is there anything we're
missing in terms of actually the targets that we're setting there? Because I think we learn a lot-- I'm
reminded that we had the EcoPass or the Pass Program Working Group, and I don't think people on that
group left very satisfied.
And then as I understand it, the results of doing the utilization pricing has not been very satisfying to the
staff. So I'm very excited about this new plan. I hope we can look back at what happened there and make
sure that we're avoiding those issues. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comments, Director Guissinger. And yeah, seeing no other hands, I
just would echo the sentiment. Thank you for bringing this forward. Again, a very clear presentation with a
clear plan, Mr. Quinn, Mr. Van Meter, Mr. Green, Mr. Sorois. I appreciate all the comments here and the
help in understanding the timeline.
And having a nice, organized timeline is great. And I just would certainly thank the team for-- I've said this
before, but the organization and then also the focus on customers. I know we can start seeing some of
our strategic plan values run through a lot of what we're doing and see a lot of consistency in our efforts.
Organization, as small as it may be, just even the slide where the way we communicate, the way we talk
about it-- and so appreciate that, appreciate the focus on customer. Thank you very, very much. Are there
any further comments on this matter, discussion items or questions?
All right. Being none, I think we can stop sharing the screen. And I'm going to move on. Thank you for the
patience, everybody. I know some of you had to hang out there for a lengthy discussion as well. So thank
you. Moving to other matters, are there other matters to discuss? Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I'll keep this short. I wish I had thought of it earlier when-- I
think we still have most people but not everyone. We are moving forward with the retreat.
We're honing in on getting a facilitator. I'm hoping we'll have something to report by the end of this week
even. And on that regard-- and as you recall, we sent out-- I think Ms. McManus sent out a few weeks
ago the scope of work that's part of the RFQ for the facilitator.
Before we started that, we asked all Directors to give us feedback on what you'd like to discuss at the
Board retreat. And we attached those comments to the RFQ-- I'm pretty sure they were still attached-and distilled those into four topics. But the facilitator will be calling all Board members to talk about what
we want to raise in the retreat so you can be thinking about that.
I would just say in that regard that we've had a lot of press since we first went around and asked for
people's opinions-- and most recently, The Denver Post editorial, also the ghost train and the earlier
comments. And whether we agree with all the particulars or not, I guess I've been impressed that people
are coming together, those and others that we're hearing, and are saying, hey, we need more transit and
we need more money and we need to help RTD.
And so I'm hoping that we'll start to think in our retreat, at least start to think about how we look at some of
these issues in a bigger way and how we bring in those voices and start to move towards various ideas of
how we might get more money. So it's just a side piece, but you will be getting a phone call. And we will
be updating you on the facilitator and all of that soon. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful. Thank you, Director Guissinger. Thank you for driving a lot in the
leadership and getting a lot of that arranged and moving. Appreciate that. Any other matters from other
Directors?
All right. Well, hey, the next meeting will be Tuesday, April 12, 2022. Very much appreciate all of you
being here. And I know we went a little bit long, but thank you for the discussion. Seeing no further
discussion, this meeting will be adjourned at 8:23 PM Mountain Standard Time. Have a wonderful night,
everybody.

