Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 13, 2009
Page 1 of 9

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

October 14, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
on October 13, 2009 in Rooms R, T & D at 6:37 p.m.

*****
Board
Members Present:

Directors
Absent:

Chair Brohl, Vice Chair Chacon, Directors Bagley, Busck, Christopher,
Cohen, Daly, James, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, Tayer,
Tobiassen
Director Kemp

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Paula Perdue, Bruce Abel, Mike Gil, Cal Shankster,
Dave Genova, Carolyn Conover, Lou Ha, Rick Clarke, John Dawson,
John Shonsey, Dean Shaklee, Bill Weidenaar, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Jeff Leib

*******************************************************************
Call to Order: Chair Brohl called the meeting to order at 6:37 p.m. Bruce Abel, Assistant
General Manager Customer and Contracted Services began the meeting saying that he
believed there was going to be a lot of discussion around the January 2010 Service
Changes and suggested moving that item to be the final item discussed under
recommended actions. Committee Chair Brohl concurred.
I.

Recommended Actions
b.

Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that free
rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be
extended from the presently approved date of December 31, 2009 to December
31, 2010. Utilization has been minimal to date and this extension will have a
minimal impact on RTD.

c.

Purchase Six 45 Foot Ultra-low-sulfur Diesel Intercity Buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee, to

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 13, 2009
Page 2 of 9

authorize the purchase of six (6) new 45 foot intercity buses from MCI
Corporation for a price not to exceed $491,666 each and extended warranties
for all six (6) vehicles at a cost of $4,300 per vehicle. The total cost for all six
(6) buses and extended warranties is $2,975,796.
d.

Award Contract to Supply and Install Additional Automatic Passenger Counters
(APC) in Light Rail Vehicles, Mall Shuttles and Intercity Buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee,
to award a sole-source contract to Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT), a
Chesapeake, Virginia company, for the purchase of additional automatic
passenger counters (APC) to be installed in RTD vehicles. The units will be
installed in 40 RTD vehicles to include 18 Light Rail vehicles, 10 Mall Shuttles
and 12 intercity buses. The total cost for the project is $743,585. The funding
for this contract is provided by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
(ARRA) of 2009.

e.

Recommendations from Pass Program Committee
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
RTD Board accept the recommendations of the RTD Pass Committee for pricing
of the Eco Pass and Neighborhood Pass programs as outlined in Attachments A
and B, to be implemented following the availability of utilization data from smart
cards. In addition, lift the current moratorium on new and expanded contracts
in the Neighborhood Pass program as described in Attachment B.

g.

Contract Award for District Shops Roof Replacement (ARRA project)
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to award a contract to
the lowest, responsive, responsible bidder, Douglass-Colony Roofing in the
amount of $1,964,000 for the District Shops Roof Replacement Project. The
total cost of this project is $2,075,746, including design and contingencies.
Funding for this project is contained in the 2009 RTD budget including
$2,000,000 in ARRA funding.
Motion: Director O’Boyle made a motion to move items B, C, D, E, F and G
forward to the October 20, 2009 Board Agenda.
Second:

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

Discussion: There was a brief discussion about amending the Free Rides for the
Military Board action so that it would be a permanent action. The Directors
decided they would like to keep this as a yearly action as it keeps attention on
the program.
Director McMullen brought up the issue that uniformed police officers and
firefighters can ride the system for free but that is never brought up and voted
on and maybe it should be a part of this yearly motion. He then suggested that

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 13, 2009
Page 3 of 9

this was a discussion for another night.
Director Cohen asked that Item F be discussed separately.
Director O’Boyle and Director Christopher accepted this and Director O’Boyle
restated the motion.
Motion: Director O’Boyle made a motion to move items B, C, D, E, and G
forward to the October 20, 2009 Board agenda.
Second: Director Christopher seconded the motion.
Vote on Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
f.

Award of Contract for On-Vehicle Advertising – Bruce Abel spoke about a
variety of revenue enhancements that had previously been discussed during the
2010 Budget discussions. In light of these discussions, the District put forward
an On-Vehicle Advertising RFP with three different components, 1. Interior and
exterior bus advertising and interior light rail advertising, 2. Exterior light rail
advertising and 3- exterior advertising on call-n-Ride and access-a-Ride vehicles.
Staff‘s recommendation is to award a contract that includes advertising on
interior/exterior of buses and light rail vehicles as it would generate an extra $3
million in revenue for the District over the life of the contract.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Interim General Manager or his designee be authorized to enter into a contract
with Lamar Advertising of Denver for the three year period January 1, 2010
through December 31, 2012 with a two year option for 2013 and 2014. Under
the terms of the recommended action, Lamar would remit to RTD either 1) a
minimum guarantee of $3.3 million in 2010, $4.0 million in 2011 and $4.4
million in 2012 or 2) seventy percent of net sales, whichever is greater.
Primary Motion: Director Bagley made a motion to move this item forward to
the October 20, 2009 Board Agenda.
Second:

Director McMullen seconded the

motion.

Discussion: Director Cohen said $3.3 million is a lot of money but he did not
like the aesthetics of the examples of light rail advertising that were distributed
to the Board (for a copy of these examples, please see the Committee Meeting
Minutes notebook). Director Cohen was concerned about creative control and
light rail trains turning into long running billboards. He expressed a desire to
find a middle point where the ads are not so large but we still get revenue.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 13, 2009
Page 4 of 9

Director Chacon asked why access-a-Ride and call-n-Ride vehicles weren’t
included. Mr. Abel responded that no one proposed for advertising on those
vehicles. It is a very limited market for advertising on paratransit vehicles but
staff does has some leads that they are pursuing.
Director Chacon said that it seems that we do business over and over again
with the same people and that it says to other vendors, “don’t even bother.”
Did the other proposers have more creativity? Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager
of Marketing responded that the District received three proposals. The District
looks at four qualifications and if the vendors met those qualifications, the
decision was based solely on revenue. Lamar came in with the highest
revenue proposal both on a guaranteed amount per year and a percentage of
net sales.
Director Christopher said that as presented he does not support the advertising
on light rail vehicles. He takes a lot of pride in the present appearance of our
light rail cars and while the money is very “seducing”, he does not support this
program.
Director O’Boyle also voiced his opposition to advertising on the exterior on
light rail vehicles and said he was fine with awarding a contract to Lamar for
the interior/exterior of buses and the interior of light rail vehicles.
Director Pulliam said that the advertising on the light rail vehicles hides the
identity of the train; he is not willing to sell the agency’s soul for $3 million
dollars.
Mr. McCaulay pointed out that there are three alternatives in the board action.
Alternative one which is full light rail exterior advertising, alternative 2 which is
49 light rail vehicles, and alternative 3 which is the current advertising
program.
Director McMullen shared that the advertising is not a bad thing and that the
District needs the money. Director McMullen talked about the advertising he
saw on the light rail trains in Portland and that it was well done. Lamar does
the trains in Portland and they show a lot of creativity.
Director Daly wanted to know the process of getting advertising approved. Mr.
McCaulay said that Lamar has always worked well with us in the past.
Whenever anything has been submitted to them that might be controversial,
they submit it to RTD staff for review. There are advertising standards that the
District adheres to: 1. it can’t be obscene, 2, it can’t be false or misleading, 3.
it can’t contain tobacco, 4. anything that is not commercially available for sale
must state who is paying for the advertisement. Other than that, the first
amendment does come into play and pretty much anyone can put anything on
the side of a bus.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 13, 2009
Page 5 of 9

Director Daly stated he was not in support of advertising on the exterior of
light rail trains.
Director Martinez wanted some clarification on the different contract options.
Mr. McCaulay clarified that $3.3 million is the differential between advertising
on exterior of light rail vehicles and the current program as it is now. The
contract would be a difference of $500,000 the first year, $1.2 million the
second year, and $1.6 million the third year due to the ramping up of the light
rail vehicle advertising.
Director Martinez spoke about how much service the advertising could buy. It
could pay for some services that were cut last year. As much as he does not
want to see the light rail vehicles wrapped in advertising, he would support
that over cutting service.
Director Busck said this isn’t an issue of advertising but rather how they
advertise and we need to have some controls over the size and placement.
How do we develop a policy that is still appealing to advertisers?
Mr. Abel said that we may need to negotiate with the proposer and see if a
smaller area on the train will still generate revenue.
Director Bagley wanted to know what kind of revenue other transit properties
receive from light vehicle advertising and do they have similar issues about
aesthetics and how have they tried to resolve it?
Director James pointed out that the content of advertisement is controlled by
the advertisers. Director James said that aesthetics are not the job of the
Board, everyone advertises and the amount of advertising in public spaces in
increasing. We will do it at some point. The question is now or later?
Chair Brohl stressed that we are in a revenue crisis. She referenced some of
the service cuts that have been made and that those constituents that were
affected would probably accept the advertising given the choice between that
and having their route cut.
Director Pulliam spoke of wanting to lay this action over for further discussion.
Director Brohl stated there was already a motion on the floor.
Withdrawal of Primary motion: Director Bagley withdrew his motion. Director
McMullen withdrew the second.
Motion to Lay on the Table:
over.
Second:

Director Pulliam made a motion lay this action

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 13, 2009
Page 6 of 9

Mr. Abel stated that in order to get specifics we need to have a vendor. He
recommended that the Board approve at least alternative 3 with Lamar for base
bus and interior light rail advertising.
Director McMullen said are we going to micro manage the advertising program?
Staff needs to be able to make the decision and get out and get us some
revenue.
Withdrawal of Motion to Lay on the Table: Director Pulliam withdrew his
motion and Director Christopher agreed to withdraw his second.
Motion: Director O’Boyle made a motion to forward alternative 3 (Award a
contract to lamar Advertising of Denver for the three year period January 1,
2010 through December 31, 2012 for the sale of on-vehicle advertising to
include interior and exterior ads on RTD buses as well as interior ads on light
rail vehicles, with no exterior light rail advertising) with the understanding to
pursue light rail advertising and come back to the board with the parameters
and revenue impacts with light rail advertising so the Board can decide whether
to pursue partially, fully, or not at all.
Second: Director Martinez seconded the motion.
Vote on Motion: The motion passed 13-1 (Director McMullen opposed); this
item will be moved to the recommended action portion of the Board agenda.
a. Approval of January 10, 2010 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the January 10, 2010 Service Change package as
revised and summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of
approximately $499,200, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose
service is impacted by these changes.
Motion: Director Daly made a motion to move alternative 3 with the caveat to
keep service enhancements and service adjustments on the recommended
action forward to the October 20, 2009 Board Agenda.
Second: Director Chacon seconded the motion.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 13, 2009
Page 7 of 9

Discussion: Director Daly stated that we are getting $23 million from the
vendor payments and most of it will go into the reserve. However, our
ridership is down and if we make cuts it will go down again. Once you lose
service it is very difficult to get it back. Customers will find alternatives and
unfortunately most of that is driving a car. We are in a recession; there is a lot
of unemployment. Some of these routes have dropped below our service
standards because of this. This is not the time to cut service.
Amended Motion: Director O’Boyle moved to amend the motion to remove Pine
Junction and Route 205 from service cuts and keep the rest of the cuts.
Second: There was no second to the amended motion so it died.
Director Christopher supported the original motion and said he is comfortable
tapping into the windfall revenue from the vendor’s fees. He would not
support going beyond the $660,000 that is before the Committee right now.
We want to keep the rest of that new found money going into the cash
reserve.
Director McMullen said that this is so appropriate. It is found money. Let’s
keep service going, let’s keep buses moving, this is our role. Let’s move
forward keeping in mind our goal of providing service to our customers.
Director Tayer thanked staff for putting together this package, he knows it is
difficult. Service is our business. The continued paring back of service is a
“death by a thousand cuts.” People do need service during off peak periods
when they need to get back home for emergencies. Service cuts lead to lower
ridership. Let’s hold the line on service and keep doing the job that we are set
here to do.
Director Bagley wants to make sure this in not precedent setting decision and
that when we have a $5 million service cut in April that we are not saying the
same thing. The District had a determined process that we have utilized all
along and he is concerned that the process is being abrogated at this time. In
all the processes that we go through, we are being asked to be effective
managers of our resources and services by our constituents. There are going
to be questions from constituents on this move and how are we going to
explain not cutting service just because we have a supposed “windfall.”
Director Martinez said that we asked staff to fill the gaps in the budget and
service adjustments are one of the ways to do this. Throughout the year, we
make adjustments because of different funding issues. This is an adjustment
to the 2010 budget not precedent setting. Come April or October of 2010 we
may be looking at some additional service cuts. This is all part of our process
and we make adjustments as we move along. We have an opportunity tonight
to make an adjustment that does not affect our customers. These issues may
be back in April of next year but for now, we can do this.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 13, 2009
Page 8 of 9

Director Chacon spoke about cuts and how we have been doing minimal cuts
every time at what point do we stop delivering what our core mission is? Staff
has a really tough job and she wishes at some point we could say, “No more
service cuts.” The public need to know that we are still going to be there for
them after this tough economic time is over.
Director O’Boyle agreed with Martinez this is a budget management tool.
Director O’Boyle wanted to know if these cuts would come back in May of
2010 if they are not made now. He supports retaining service whenever
possible and balancing the budget.
Mr. Abel said the May run board would be the next opportunity to implement
service reductions. The Board’s direction for 2010 was to make service cuts
between $500,000 to one million. With the motion that’s on the table we lose
the $500,000 savings. This motion increases expenses, the net change is
above and beyond the $500,000. The ongoing implementation of this is that
we are not realizing the changes but creating expense that will flow through
the 2010, 2011, and 2012 budget.
Mr. Abel wanted clarification from the Committee. There are three sections to
the service changes; section 1 – service efficiencies, section 2 – mixed service
efficiencies and enhancements, section 3 – service enhancements, section 4 –
routine service adjustments. He believed the motion was to implement the
enhancements and adjustments and not the efficiencies but he wanted to know
how the mixed service efficiencies and enhancements would be handled.
Director Daly spoke about item 2 – mixed service efficiencies and
enhancements, he did not want that to go forward and it was not part of the
motion. He thanked staff for their hard work.
Director Martinez said part of the Board’s job is to make adjustments to the
budget. When Mr. Howerter presented the Vendor payments in the Financial
Administration Committee (see Financial Administration Minutes of October 13,
2009) it was not part of a recommended action. If it was, you would probably
see the board saying to move $6.5 million into the reserve and keep the
$500,000 to prevent service cuts. We may have to face these cuts in 2011.
Director Tobiassen reminded the Board that there is a possible shoe that may
drop that could have an effect on the budget. We are still waiting on the
arbitrator’s final decision regarding the ATU contract. We might not want to
count on these fees until we know what that effect of the ruling is going to be.
Director James said that he cannot vote for anything but the proposed service
changes and encouraged others to vote the same way given the reasons
Directors Bagley and Tobiassen discussed.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 13, 2009
Page 9 of 9

Interim GM Washington spoke and said that this is a budgetary impact.
Efficiencies are things that staff really looks at, it is not just cuts. Service
efficiencies eliminate the possibility of running empty buses. Service changes
are about doing good business.

Director Martinez stated that he would support the motion tonight but if there
are service efficiencies that staff feels that could be made without
discontinuing service, please bring them to the Board by Friday.
Director Daly restated that the motion was to retain items 3 Service
Enhancements and 4 Routine Service Adjustment of the January 2010 Service
Changes and eliminate items 1 Service Efficiencies and 2 Mixed Service
Efficiencies/Service Enhancements.
Vote on Motion: The motion passed 10 – 4 (Directors Bagley, Cohen, James,
and Tobiassen opposed). This item will be on the Recommended Action
portion of the Board agenda. A revised Board report will be coming from
Customer Services with these changes.
II.

Other Matters – Director Tobiassen asked for an update on the fare box installation.
Mr. Abel said that one would be provided at the next committee meeting. Director
Tobiassen also expressed his concern about counterfeit passes and the selling of
transfers.

III.

Adjourn– Hearing no objection, Chair Brohl adjourned the Operations and Customer
Services Committee at 7:55 p.m.

