Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
July 16, 2015 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to OrderExecutive Committee Agenda
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 12:05 p.m.
Committee members present:
Committee member absent:
Other Board members present:
Others present:
II.

Chair Sisk, 1st Vice-Chair Tobiassen, 2nd Vice-Chair
Menten, and Treasurer Hoy.
Jeff Walker
Director James, Director Folska (via phone)
Interim General Manager Genova, Paula Perdue

July Board Meeting Agenda Review

Chair Sisk requested a review of the agenda. He noted the special awards to the winners
of the International rail roadeo. Interim General Manager Genova indicated that he will be
doing a special recognition for the APTA Gold Safety Award. Interim General Manager
Genova also noted that there is an action item on the agenda for the approval of the 2016
Interim General Manager Goals so the Chair of the GM Oversight and Performance
Management Committee may have an update. Paula Perdue noted that GM/CEO
goalsetting is a session on the APTA TBM seminar this week and it will be interesting to
hear how other agencies are handling this responsibility.
Chair Sisk noted a number of items were on the recommended action agenda.
Motion:

Discussion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve
moving this agenda before the full Board on July
28.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Chair Sisk noted that the award of the contract for group 26 fixed
route service was approved 13 to 1. The US 36 BRT Service Plan had
passed 10 to 4. He understands there are still some issues coming

from Boulder around midday service express and anticipates members
from that community will speak at the Board meeting on the 28th.
Director Hoy reflected on the vote in committee and observed that
although Chair Sisk had indicated he would vote no to keep the
conversation alive, several other Board members indicated they would
vote no also. This leads him to conclude that their reason for voting
no may be different than just keeping the conversation alive. Director
Menten inquired about the reason for the midday service. Interim
General Manager Genova talked about the ridership and stated the
midday service would require four buses per hour at each station.
This would give the expectation of 15-minute service from each
station which is not the service station planning model for US 36.
They have worked diligently with the US 36 community and have
heard clearly the US 36 community desires predictability and this
would not provide that type of predictability. There is a cost factor
to providing the midday service of approximately $400K just for the
service plus an additional amount of $1.2M for capital. Director Hoy
expressed there could be some concerns and tradeoffs from the
other communities along the way who would see express service
with low ridership breezing down US 36 while they would not have
access to this service. Director Hoy conveyed his understanding that
the proposed all-stop service will be five minutes faster than today’s
express service but five minutes slower than the proposed express
service. Director Folska requested clarification of how this was
determined and what does it really mean. Interim General Manager
Genova took an action item to provide a better explanation of this
issue of impact on travel times and how it compares with current
service.
Chair Sisk concurred that definitely predictability is needed and that
he has heard different discussions on impact to RTD for express lanes
that we have contributed to but not getting the use.
Chair Sisk noted the voting from the committee on the other items on
the recommended action that includes the SE Rail extension and the
2015-2020 strategic plan. Interim General Manager Genova shared
that the approval of the interim General Manager 2016 goals actually
passed committee unanimously. Paula Perdue responded that
although it appeared to have passed unanimously, what she heard in
that discussion was the need for more discussion and that what she
has heard from other Directors is a desire to discuss this item. She
preemptively made the call to move this to recommended action.

Vote on
motion:



The Committee approved moving the agenda as
is to the Board meeting on July 28.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Contract Amendment; 2nd Optional Year of 2013-2015 Street
Improvements & Shelter Installations Contract; # 33DM005
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the second
optional year of a three-year contract for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter
Installation contract with Manion Construction, Inc. for $390,318.35. Funding for
this contract amendment is provided by the annual 2015 – 2016 Engineering
Expense Budgets.



Recommended Action
B.

Award of Contract for Group 26 Fixed Route Service

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Interim General Manager, or his designee, be authorized to enter into a contract
with First Transit for the provision of contracted fixed-route transit services in the
Boulder and Longmont areas. This package of service, named “Group 26”,
represents the re-bid of service currently operated by First Transit under a
contracted service package named “Group 22.”
This contract is for three years plus two one year extensions for a total of five
years. The total not-to-exceed five year contract total amount is $63,168,544 for
service and $7,019,978 for fuel. This recommendation represents the most
responsive and responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals
(RFP) 15-DH-064 to provide “Group 26” Public Transportation Services. The
contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective on January 17, 2016.
C.

US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the US 36 BRT (Flatiron Flyer) Service Plan package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A, resulting in an annualized cost of
approximately $991,000 funded through FasTracks and, further, to authorize the
General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for
private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.

D.
Resolution No. _________, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of
Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”),
authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation District Certificates of
Participation, Series 2015A.
E.
Authorization to Amend Contract with NewPush for Expansion of Smart
Media Technology Hosting Service
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to amend
the contract with NewPush to expand Smart Media Technology (SMT) hosting
services to increase the contract not-to-exceed amount by an additional
$1,440,000 to a total contract value of $1,729,500 and extend the period of
performance for the current and additional services for three additional optional
years. The additional services are needed for SMT stored value system security
and high availability. Of the $1,440,000 contract value, the Board of Directors
approved $500,000 for these hosting services in March 2015 along with other
SMT items. The remaining $940,000 equates to $333,333 per year for the
remaining three years of the contract that will be funded in the 2016-2021
operating budget.
F.
Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General Manager
to Execute a Design Build Contract and other Agreements for the Southeast Rail
Extension
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached resolution authorizing the Chair of the RTD Board of
Directors and the General Manager, whether interim or permanent, or their officers
or delegates to execute grant agreements, a two phase design-build contract,
intergovernmental agreements (IGAs), purchase and sale contracts, documents
evidencing property interests, and such other agreements as are necessary or
appropriate for the construction of the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) and to
accept third party contributions and increase the project budget by such third party
contribution amounts to implement third party requested betterments, all according
to the terms set forth in the Resolution.

G.

2015-2020 Strategic Plan

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2015-2020 RTD Strategic Plan.
H.

Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee that the Board of Directors approve the Interim General
Manager’s goals for 2016 as defined in the attached General Manager’s
Performance Evaluation Form.

III.

APTA Transit Board Member Seminar Update
Paula Perdue provided an update status of this event. Things are progressing nicely and
the team is engaged to work out the last set of details. Board members have been given
their packets and if they have any questions, now is the time to ask. We are depending
on them to help us move our guests efficiently through our system which will be
complicated a little on Monday evening with the Rockies game. The official opening starts
on Sunday at 8:30 and culminates in the Coors Field BBQ hoedown. Everyone including
the Board members will need to check-in for this event. Sunday is “Meet in the Street”
mall day so no shuttles will be running on the 16 Street mall. We will have a couple of
artic buses to pick guest up from the Hyatt beginning at 5:30 p.m. and looping every 15
minutes.
Monday is the day for interesting discussion around transit as a catalyst for economic
development. We will also have presenters on fundamentals of transit financing.
Tours will start promptly at 12:00. We need the “hosting Board members” to help keep
us on task and time.
We are also challenging our Board members to be engaged with our guest Board members
and come back with at least one nugget that they heard that could be applicable to RTD.

IV.

Other Matters


Director Folska identified two items: (1) It appears the light rail has been having
more problems with switching and wet surfaces. She wonders if it has anything
to do with state of good repair. She asked Interim General Manager Genova to
review some of the causes for service delay. Interim General Manager Genova
indicated we have not had more problems than before Austin Jenkins had left and
he just thinks that as usage increases, we start to see issues for a variety of
reasons.

(2) In honor of the ADA Silver anniversary, she would like to see a proclamation
expressing RTD’s support and plans to be proactive in the employment of ADA.
Paula Perdue requested a point of clarity around the request for a proclamation.
She explained that proclamations can be ceremonial or can be an action item
approved by the full Board. Is the desire to make this an action item or ceremonial?
She expressed concern that the full Board has not taken a position on this
employment issue and would it be appropriate to include this type of language in a
proclamation. Dave Genova indicated that he thought we already have equal
opportunity in the area of employment. Director Folska used as an example the
language on the application form that talks to ability to lift weights, be able to see,
etc. that is a generic comment on each of our applications. She recognizes this is
important in some positions but having this as a unilateral statement for other
positions where sight is not mandatory is viewed as a barrier to the visually
impaired to apply for positions. She perceives this to be discriminatory.







V.

Chair Sisk indicated it would be his desire to have a proclamation expressing
support of the ADA silver anniversary but that an action item on employment or
other issues should come out of the civil rights committee.
Chair Sisk referenced the article on the front page of the Denver Post in regard to
former employee Kenn Hardin. Interim General Manager Genova recognized this
could be damaging to RTD and indicated they have been monitoring calls from the
media and so far had not received any about this article.
Chair Sisk indicated that Director Lubow had requested a meeting on protocols and
how to handle especially as we prepare for the openings in 2016. Director James
asked what was the specific concern and Chair Sisk shared the concern around the
CDOT event where he had been asked to speak. Paula Perdue added that the issue
of protocol is more inclusive than this and that if we are addressing protocols, we
need to address other concerns expressed around protocols such as Directors going
to other Director’s district or events without notification to the representing
Director.
Chair Sisk referenced the private citizen who had been arrested at our last meeting
due to being a disruption to the meeting. Some discussion was held around the
cause of the arrest and that this is not a normal occurrence. Director Menten
expressed some concerns around the arrest and 90-day suspension and wanted
more details on the implications. Interim General Manager Genova agreed to follow
up on this issue with her.

Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 1:15 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

