2025-04-22
Board Study Session
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, folks. Thank you very much. Thank you. I'll now call the Tuesday, April 22
study session to order. We are convened as of 4:02 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted
unless you're recognized to speak. During tonight's meeting, we're providing Communication Access
Realtime Translation, also known as CART.
Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can
automatically be translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript for this
meeting in Spanish. I will now call the roll. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek is an excused absence. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I see Director Gutschenritter on line. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: It's debatable.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick is debatable to be here. Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: He is present as well. Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I am here.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson is here. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Potentially.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Potentially here. We'll take it as a yes. Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present. And I'd like to note, we switched seats with-- I switched seats with Guzman,
Director Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Thank you for the note. Director Ruscha. Director Ruscha, I do not see
present. Do not see Director Ruscha online. And Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I'm here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. I have 13 present, 2 absent. We do have a quorum. Please note that the study
session does not have a section for public comment this afternoon. However, the public can still offer
comments by email or by participating in person or by participating remotely during next week's regular
scheduled April 29, 2025 Board meeting.
Tonight, we have one task at hand, which is to have a facilitated conversation regarding the process to set
the GM/CEO goals prior to the approval of the annual budget. I want to thank Directors Larsen and Directors
O'Keefe for their work to date to bring us all together for this important conversation. I also would like to
recognize Directors Guzman and Gutschenritter, who will be leading the charge on the Performance
Committee over the next few months to ensure the process we agree upon is successfully implemented.
Likewise, I want to thank GM/CEO Johnson for her engagement and partnership in this process. And finally,
thanks to all of you as Directors for making the time to engage in this important Board priority. As a reminder,
this is part of one of our Board goals for this year. Our facilitator this evening is Skip Spensley from the
Executive Forum. Skip is joined by Lea Almagno.
Skip is going to guide our conversation tonight regarding the process to set short term GM/CEO goals. Skip
brings many years of experience as a facilitator for similarly situated organizations, including DRCOG and
various state departments of transportation. I'm grateful for Skip and Lea for joining us tonight. Directors,
please look to Skip and Lea to run the conversation tonight.
They will structure our discussions and call upon Directors to speak. I know they have a few interactive
elements as well. So with that, Skip, the floor is now yours. I understand you may have some opening
remarks, and I know too that we're expecting a quick presentation from GM/CEO Johnson to help frame
tonight's discussion. So Skip, I'll-- excellent. I'll give it over to you, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair, Members of the Board. Skip, Lea, thank
you for being with us this evening. As the Chair indicated, he requested that I provide a quick presentation- we spoke this morning around 11:30-- that could help ground us in our path forward relative to how the
strategic plan comes into play.
For you all's edification, I think where we're going is a good place, in the sense that us working in tandem
to set short-term goals, as we all know it, should be a bilateral process, not unilateral. So I look forward to
the engagement. And more specific to the point at hand, I think understanding the short-term goals versus
long-term goals, which I know I've spoken with some of you and we've had dialogue around that.

And I believe that this presentation, which may be familiar to most of you sitting around this U-shaped dais,
is something that we have referred to in the Performance Committee and other discussions, which we have
had thus far. I will go through it quickly, just for a grounding exercise, and then yield the floor to our facilitator.
So for all intents and purposes, we know what we're here for today.
And I've already said that in my opening comments. And see, we're already on slide 3. This is the
performance assessment framework which the Board of Directors adopted in January 2024. The blue boxes
basically incorporate the agency values, the core-based job function that were extrapolated from the job
description that the Board retained the services of [INAUDIBLE] Meyer and Associates to do an active
recruitment and, through the engagement of this Board, develop that job description to which I was hired.
Then we have short term goals and then the agency performance metrics that you have seen previously.
And then it just showcases on the left and right side of the slide, the Board accountability, as well as the
General Manager and CEO's accountability, getting back to the phrase that I used before about the
collective approach that we're taking here.
I talked about this. This was derived from the strategic plan as it relates to values. I know there's been
questions about why do we actually look at values. It's about how we show up. And I would equate this to
being analogous to, well, at least when I was in elementary school, we used to have citizenship grades.
Right? If you were disruptive, what did that do for everybody else in class?
So basically it's like, can you be congenial, professional, possess the attributes needed to perform the job
duties at hand? Speaking about the core job duties at hand, we've already talked about that. The short term
goals. That's what will be done in the period of time that has been identified. And then more specifically,
the agency performance metrics that are embedded into this organization's strategic plan, upon which the
Board approved August 10, 2021, in a special Board meeting that is guiding the agency's direction.
And so with that, this pyramid that you all have seen more or less has the strategic priorities in the middle
of the pyramid. I will go through now on the next slide showing the how, the why, the who, and the what so
we can clearly understand who's on first and all of this. And so as it relates to the why, it boils down to the
Board of Directors, right? As it relates to the vision oversight.
And then as we talk about where we are clearly defining the outcomes. Here, also, it's the what. What are
we actually doing? And so the Board of Directors once again providing that oversight. And then monitoring
progress about where the agency is going collectively. And that's critically important as we look at the
discussion before us and how we align. And so then as we get to the how, recognizing that while I may be
sitting in a certain seat, I can't do this job alone.
And so as we talk about the strategic initiatives, that's more or less what are we doing in the short term,
recognizing that there we had a five-year strategic plan. And looking at members of the team, holistically,
it's like, what are the tactics that we're leveraging to ensure that we are making progress on our short term
initiatives that are basically derived from the various inputs that we utilize?
Be it an employee engagement survey, community value survey, or customer satisfaction survey, we're
basically taking the pulse on where we are and what we need to do. And short term goals, i.e. strategic
initiatives, allow us to pivot in order to make good on the long term strategies that we've identified as our
priorities. And the who. Once again, the individual contributions of employees that comprise the Regional
Transportation District. These are all embedded into their short term goals during the course of their
performance review periods.

And so then this just showcases in a different viewpoint the strategic priorities which I spoke about. It's
encapsulated in the agency performance scorecard. Basically the metrics and things of the like, whether
we're talking about OKRs or we're talking about KPIs. For all intents and purposes, this gives us a level of
measurement of how we're performing as an agency.
And then basically with the strategic initiatives, more on a short term basis, looking at the annual scorecard
so we can discern what we're doing and how we're showing up. And as a gentle reminder, the strategic
priorities are community value, customer excellence, employee ownership, and financial success. I won't
read the definitions to you. I know you're quite familiar. But wanted to ensure that these are more or less
embedded relative to agency long term goals, considering the nature of the period of our strategic plan.
And I would be remiss if I didn't state at any time this Board could decide, relative to where we are, if we
needed to quickly pivot and adopt a new strategic plan, considering all the factors that I just mentioned
briefly in my previous remarks. And as it relates to the success outcomes, what was adopted back in 2021,
it's looking at community value, considering that this agency did not have baselines.
At the time in which we did this, we're talking about increasing the community value index for the community
value survey, the success outcomes by 5%. That was indicated over the course of the plan, not on an
annual basis. And the same for the other strategic priorities relative to the outcomes that are before you on
the slide. And then the agency alignment, as you can clearly see. The vision.
We know we want to be the trusted leader in mobility, delivering value and excellence to our customers and
community. But a vision, simply put, is where we aspire to be at an organization. The mission, while we
make lives better through connections, that more or less encapsulates what we do on a daily basis. The
values, how we show up. We talked about strategic priorities, the strat initiatives.
Then you have the department KPIs and individual employee contributions. And so each individual
comprises the agency, but also they're a contributor. And this provides a continuous loop. And we actually
use the Plan Do Act Check model. And so the initiatives, just as a gentle reminder, as we focus on where
we are back to basic. More specifically, asset management, renewal, things of the like.
Considering that we are now an aging transportation network, 30 years, we need to ensure-- 30 years in
the rail business, that is. We need to ensure that we do have our assets in a state of good repair. We won't
be able to deliver on our core business of making lives better through connections, through transit service
delivery.
And then people power. Recognizing that any transit agency you look at, probably at least in the United
States and North America, I could qualify 70% of one's budget is going to be geared toward labor because
it's labor intensive the way we sit currently. And then a welcoming transit environment is critically important.
And as we've honed in on our strategic initiatives being one's personal security and safety, that's important
to employees because that leads into how we can retain individuals.
And then more specifically, as we look at customer and community connections, that was derived through
our last pulse check last year when we engaged with our community and customer survey, as well as with
our employees. We want to enhance that customer experience. So I think all of these are intertwined. I
don't think. I know they're all intertwined. And so basically this talks about the back to basics. I'm not going
to read through these. You guys know these as well.

People power, as I talked about before. Critically important that we're providing the tools and resources to
ensure that we can retain the people power that we need for service delivery. The welcoming transit
environment. You guys have heard about this ad nauseam. We've made great strides as it relates to
reducing cost of service year over year from February of last year. Reduction in calls by 52%.
Increasing the presence, having sectors added, leveraging our Transit Watch app and other mechanisms
that we can leverage going forward. Customer community connections. We have really honed in on how
we're communicating at the Operations and Safety and Security Committee meeting being held on May 14.
We will provide information relative to real time information. I know a couple of Directors have inquired
about that, and we made a commitment to share that information as well. And so that's it. And I will yield
the floor. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Ms. Johnson. Skip, I'm leading over to you. And I just wanted
to mention, because we are in a somewhat more formal setting. Skip, obviously, and Lea, you guys are
going to be the ones who are going to be facilitating calling upon hands. So you guys do not need to look
to me and ask to be recognized or not. So thank you guys.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope I can bring this down a level in more informal in a
workshop is the way I think of this. So I don't have a script to read, but I do want to, first of all, apologize for
the fact that Margie Mauldin, who is the Present of Executive Forum, was supposed to be here with me
today. And unfortunately, she had a family commitment that she could not get out of. And she's in Alabama,
where the weather is not quite as nice as it is here.
In any case, she and I have worked together for a number of years on a lot of different agencies. We worked
with Peggy at CDOT. We've worked with about four or five other state transportation agencies as well as
local agencies as well. So we do have a little bit of knowledge, but I have to tell you, my two-week orientation
to where things are-- I haven't been back at RTD for about 25 years, so things have changed a lot.
And to try to get up to speed, and even listening to your presentation, Debra, my head is still spinning just
a little bit. So we're going to keep things simple, I hope. In a couple minutes, I'm going to ask you to go
around and to tell me your name. Of course, I can see what it is. But I want you to tell me what you think I
should know about you. OK?
Now, it can be either what your passion is. It can be what you do in your spare time. It can be where you
like to travel. But I'd like to know something about each of you. Is that all right? So I'm going to start just to
give you an example. My background is as an engineer and a lawyer. I've spent most of my career working
in the public sector. But my passion is really teaching. I love to teach people about collaborative processes,
about working together, about avoiding different kinds of conflict.
The last 40 years, I've been an adjunct professor at the University of Denver, the last 10 years in the
business school. Even though when they hired me, I didn't know anything about business, and I still don't.
But, you know, for some reason, they hired me. In any case, that's my 15 or 20 seconds of who I am and
my background. So I'm going to come over here, Melanie, and even ask you to join this conversation. Can
we?
MELANIE SNYDER: Good afternoon. My name is Melanie Snyder. I'm the General Counsel here at RTD.
One thing to know about me is that I do love being a lawyer, but I also love doing that in the context of
public service.

SKIP SPENSLEY: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Debra Johnson, General Manager and Chief Executive Officer, and I pride myself
on being a servant leader. I think public transportation is the great societal equalizer. While we weren't born
on a level playing field, in order to take advantage of opportunities, first you have to access them. That's
where we come in. Thanks.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Michael.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Hey, y'all, I'm Michael. I represent District C. I love to drink coffee. Simple, hot brewed
coffee. It's gotten me in trouble before with this body, but. Yeah. That's the way to my heart.
SKIP SPENSLEY: That's a simple one. Brett?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Hi, I'm Brett. Something you should know about me. I was born in Colorado, and I take
pride in our state in the future of where we're going.
SKIP SPENSLEY: I agree with you. I'm all there. Peggy?
PEGGY CATLIN: Hi, I'm Peggy Catlin. I've known Skip Spensley for 40 years and I've known Margie
Mauldin for 25. So that tells you how old I am. What?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: 10 years old?
SKIP SPENSLEY: Yeah, that's what she said. She was 10 years old when that happened.
PEGGY CATLIN: Right. I have a great passion for cooking, actually. I enjoy preparing meals for lots of
people and entertaining. Thank you.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Kathleen.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: My name is Kathleen Chandler and I represent District F, and I love Colorado.
I'm a fourth generation native, grew up mostly in Southern Colorado. I love this state. I want to see this
state succeed. And I love Arapahoe County, where I live.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. Very good. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm Lynn Guissinger. Like Peggy, I hadn't spoken to Skip Spensley for 30 years till
the other day, but he had come to speak to my class when I was teaching at the law school. And I guess
one thing about me. I came to this after many years in the bike industry and doing bike advocacy. So my
passion is around all kinds of alternate transportation.
SKIP SPENSLEY: I want you to know, Lynn, we've taken-- I think it's 28 bicycle vacations.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Nice.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Unfortunately, I didn't know you or I would have been a better deal.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.

SKIP SPENSLEY: Chris?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. I'm Chris Nicholson. I represent District A in Central Denver. And I think the
thing to know about me, I'm a full time transit rider. So I'm one of, I think, two Board members that don't
own a car and take public transit, take RTD pretty much every single day. And I'm also a public policy
consultant, a political consultant. So I look at everything through a political lens, as probably-SKIP SPENSLEY: We've got some stories together to tell.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Oh. Yeah, a couple.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Troy.
TROY WHITMORE: Troy Whitmore. I represent District K, which was almost entirely Adams County. So
that's my home. And I was probably smitten with the transportation system back while I was a young-- and
I'm not young anymore, but a young city council member in Thornton. And boy, has that city grown and the
needs grown as well. And I'm recently retired and my passion is playing really horrible golf, but I do it
anyway.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Julien Bouquet. District G. So I think most of you know that I'm a full time teacher just
coming from the classroom. And a lot of the time, if I seem a little stressed or tired, it's because I've been
dealing with 12 to 14-year-old middle schoolers all day. So balancing that out and then chairing this Board,
it's a lot, but it's very rewarding.
Active transit rider when I was going to college. Went to the University of Denver. Took the E and F line
almost every day to get up there. And that my experience with RTD, and that's what got me to this Board.
So grateful for it every day.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: am Patrick O'Keefe. I was elected last November, so I've spent 10 years since January
on the Board.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is that all? Only 10 years?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Well, tonight hasn't gone through yet. And I'm a hockey player and a beekeeper. And
I think I'm the only hockey playing beekeeper on the planet.
SKIP SPENSLEY: And it turns out we have a lot of mutual friends at CH2M Hill, what used to be CH2M
Hill.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Learned everything from him. Yeah.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Karen.
KAREN BENKER: My name is Karen Benker. My passion is rescuing homeless dogs and cats. And so I
am a board member of the Fort Morgan Humane Society. And we have a very big fundraising dinner coming
up on Saturday, which we call Spay-ghetti and No Balls, since-- we're hoping to raise a lot of money for our
homeless dogs.

SKIP SPENSLEY: That is very good.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: We're available to be booked for parties in this-- eight days a week.
SKIP SPENSLEY: We might have to strike some of this from the transcript, but. Matt.
MATT LARSEN: I'm Matt Larsen. I represent District D. I've spent the last 20-some years of my career in
the medical device industry. A lot of it I spent on the management team, often negotiating with our board
on performance plans and budgets and just general plans to grow the business.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Thank you. Ian.
IAN HARWICK: My name is Ian Harwick and I feel like I could add on to a lot of-- I share a lot of interests
with my other Board members, but the one that was not mentioned, sadly, is my absolute love of aerial
trams and that we should bring them into the metro area.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Aerial trams? Lea.
LEA ALMAGNO: Hello. I'm Lea Almagno with Executive Forum. I'm a project manager here. Love taking
on new projects and meeting former and past clients of Margie and Skip. It's always fun. Something
interesting about me is I'm a dumpling seeker. I go on dumpling tours where I'll go to six restaurants in a
day.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Dumpling tours, you said? Dumpling tours? OK. That's good. It's a wide variety of
interests here. I appreciate that.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Hey, Skip. So I'm remote. This is Chris Gutschenritter.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Oh, Chris. Well, join us.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you. Yeah. Sorry I'm not there. Interesting thing about me. New dad.
Currently actually feeding my little girl. My background is in HR consulting. And then a passion of mine is
travel, and when traveling, I like to explore the public transit.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Wonderful. Thank you, Chris. You know, when you started talking, I was thinking,
where's this coming from? When I bought these hearing aids a couple of years ago, I didn't realize they
connect to my phone, and I was walking down the street, and all of a sudden, somebody started talking to
me and I couldn't figure out where it was coming from. It was my hearing aid.
So anyway, maybe some of you don't have those maladies, but. All right, well, let me just say, by way of
background, Margie and I have spent a lot of time the last two weeks trying to get up to speed on things
like the strategic plan. We also took a look at some of the-- what do I want to say? I'm forgetting here. The
assessment framework, the annual survey results that have been done, trying to get an idea of where things
are.
And I got to tell you, as I said before, my head is still spinning a little bit. We did have a chance to talk to
some of you Board members and Debra, of course, and some of her staff as well. So I think I've got at least
a beginning of a grounding of why this is so important. Maybe I don't need to say this, but you guys turn
your cell phones off. I have to say that to my class all the time.

Make sure your cell phones are not ringing. I appreciate that. I want to start by telling you a story. Some of
you may have heard of it. It's called the Trip to Abilene. You know it, Troy? Anybody else heard of it? Well,
it's a great story. It's about a family who's in Coleman, Texas. 102 degrees. They're staying in a little motel,
and they're on the porch and they're playing dominoes.
And the father says, you know what? Let's get in the car and drive to Abilene and I found this cafeteria
where we can have lunch. So they all sort of agreed to it and they get in the car and they endure this 53
mile trip to Abilene, and they eat in the cafeteria less than the best food they'd ever had. And they drove
back and they get back to their motel.
And the mother says, you know, that was the worst trip. I didn't want to go on that. Why did we do that?
And the daughter says, yeah, me too, Mom. Why did we do that? And the son said the same thing. And
finally the dad said, well, I just thought it would be a good idea. I didn't really want to do it either, but nobody
objected, so we all went. So what's the lesson in this? What's the paradox in this story? Anybody tell me?
Go ahead, Kathleen.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: You need to speak up when you are feeling less than heard or less than in a
situation. It's appropriate.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Absolutely. It's a kind of a problem with groupthink, if you will. Somebody suggests
something. Nobody says anything. All of a sudden it becomes a decision. It's described as the decisions
that contradict individual interests, or individual choices. And we do it because we're afraid. We don't want
to embarrass somebody by saying they don't want to do it. They don't want to create a conflict in a situation.
So in a sense, that story, I think, is applicable today because I want you all to participate. I want to make
sure that everybody gets heard. If you have a contrary point of view, that's fine. We should hear it. We
should get it on the table and have a chance to talk about it. And of course, the last thing of this is we want
to focus on what our outcome is and what we hope to get from that.
So you can see up there what the study session agenda looks like. We are going to start just-- I got a few
introductory slides. We've already covered number one. Let's see if I can work this. OK. So again, the
Chairman mentioned this. Julien. I've got to be less formal here. This was what came out of the February
retreat, and that is what we are focused on and hope we can complete today.
I want to start. This is my graph, a little bit different than what Debra put up there. But it's kind of, in my
mind, the same thing. Your Board retreat focus was on short term goals and budget. But there's a bigger
picture here, and I think we all know that. It has to do with things like vision, mission, long term goals, and
so forth.
And one of the things that I was asked to take a look at by Jack when we were putting this together is to
get an idea of what other large, medium sized, small public transit companies do when they go through
goal setting. I don't know if you can read that. Is that readable by most of you? Maybe you guys can read
that up here. But I'll just summarize it very quickly.
All of them follow the same steps, if you will. They start with aligning vision and mission and strategy, if you
will. That's that first crossbar, and all those little orange are the similar ones. Then the next one, if we look
at the big company, is breaking down those goals into action objectives. And usually these end up-- a lot
of times they become long term at this point, but then they're translated into short term goals. And as you
can see, you use the term as that.

In a large company, you'd use SMART goals. Those are specific. They are specific to the large term goals
that are within that particular boundary. And then finally, a couple of them you see where we have
stakeholders involved. And I know that's not formally part of this, but you all represent stakeholders when
you come to the Board, so that part of it is sort of covered.
And then finally, you have where you get to beginning to track progression and make changes as necessary.
And what I found interesting about that in looking at those, if you see the colors, they're all pretty much the
same across there. Those steps are pretty common for any kind of goal setting process. So I wanted to
start there and think about, when we talk about goals, how we're going to do that.
What I'd like to get a sense from you in terms of this process is, what do you see as the essential pieces of
that? And I want to mark these up here. It's up there on the board, but if you were to generalize those, how
would you describe them? And I already did part of that for you, but let's just repeat those here. Michael?
What's the first step in goal setting?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Can I ask a question real quick? Can you get a copy of that? Because it's hard
for us to see it.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Actually, I did make a couple copies. But only made a couple, so.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: OK. Let me share with our neighbors.
SKIP SPENSLEY: I've got two more. Who needs? Who's got bad eyes like me?
IAN HARWICK: If you give me one I can make a copy.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK, good.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry.
SKIP SPENSLEY: That's all right.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Where were we? So I'm to identify what the first step in the goal setting process-SKIP SPENSLEY: When you start goal setting, where do you start?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I think for us, it's understanding our mission and values.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. So that's that first thing. Mission and vision. Right?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mhm.
SKIP SPENSLEY: And where does your mission or vision come from?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It comes from our strategic plan.
SKIP SPENSLEY: But before that. Before you had a strategic plan.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: This body, we decide what's important for our respective constituencies.

SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. How about anybody else? Thoughts about that?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I think it's from the state legislature, where our mandate came from. Whoever set
up this agency as a special district, our mission was described in the actual legislation itself.
SKIP SPENSLEY: 1973. Right? When they passed the Organic Act that set up RTD. Right? Was the first
time the mission, vision. Now it's-- you're right. I'm sorry, Troy. It was '69. It was '73 when they first hired, I
think John Simpson was the first Executive Director at that time. OK, so Organic Act is where that comes
from. What's the next step? You can cheat and look.
TROY WHITMORE: All of our 15 districts. And many of us are the same, many of us are not. So next step
I would think to feed off of-- oh, I'm sorry. My bad. Get my goodies. Since we have some similarities, but
many demographic differences, there comes a point in time where we have to meet in the middle. So I
would say maybe it's not step two or three, but it's fairly soon that has to happen. That's collaboration, which
then helps with the prioritization.
SKIP SPENSLEY: And that's collaboration between who or among whom?
TROY WHITMORE: Well, first I'd say it's agreement among us 15, and certainly staff has to jump into that
process.
SKIP SPENSLEY: And what are you collaborating about? What are you collaborating about, Troy?
TROY WHITMORE: Well, we could be looking at our goals for ridership. And some districts, it's not as big
a deal as it is to others. Just because of the wild swings in population and need. I mean, Chris's district is
much different than my suburban district and rural district.
SKIP SPENSLEY: So would you say sort of looking and collaborating and thinking about the long term
goals, which is one of the things that they establish up there? Would you buy that?
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Chris, would you buy that?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. I mean collaborations. Obviously on a 15 person Board, you don't get anything
done without some amount of collaboration. And yeah, I would agree. The next step, I mean, on the pyramid
you were showing us earlier is developing the long term goals based on the mission that we've established
in the strategic plan.
SKIP SPENSLEY: So do your constituents come up to you and say, this is a long term goal I think RTD
should have?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No. They're all long term.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. Would you would you define them as long term goals? Do they have metrics? So
give me a long term goal, Chris.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Long term goal? Build more BRT. Operate more BRT, I guess for us would be.

SKIP SPENSLEY: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm going to jump in, if you don't mind. I think overall, an overarching goal is to provide
mobility to the broader region, and how does this Board best address mobility across this 200-some squareSKIP SPENSLEY: Can you buy that, Chris?
PEGGY CATLIN: I guess so the collaboration, then, is how do we best do that and what does that look
like?
SKIP SPENSLEY: So the goal, though, is as you first stated. OK. Does it have a metric?
PEGGY CATLIN: It has several metrics, I think.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Or does the metric come at the next stage?
PEGGY CATLIN: I think the metric comes at the next stage.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. Kathleen, you said you thought there was a metric with the long term goal.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Well, I think we need to decide not only the process but potentially, what is the
overarching goal? Is it to provide transit for this district? And then I think maybe we should look to that farreaching goal and then back up and start planning, because otherwise we're going to never know what
target we're trying to get to.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Right. So that's an opening to remind you all we're not picking the goals today.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Right. Right.
SKIP SPENSLEY: We're talking the process. But I got your point, Kathleen.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: The point is, is that we should at least all, depending on the 15 of us, know what
our specific district's expectations are. Whether they're short term or long term expectations, that's for us
to talk to our community about. But the point is, is that there is an expectation. And then from that
expectation, we need to back up and figure out the process to get to that expectation.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Which is part of what we're talking about tonight. Right? The process.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. Could I jump in just real quick, Skip? So again-- and excellent points, Kathleen. I
think the question got brought up is, you know, what is established right now is our long term goals, our
long term process is the strategic priorities, which is going into 2026. And as a reminder, community value,
employee ownership, customer excellence, and then financial success are the four strategic priorities,
which we have now become synonymous with our long term goals.
But it is an appropriate conversation. Probably not tonight. It would be hard for us to decide, but it is
something to later on have the conversation. So again, based on those frameworks-- and sorry if I'm
overstepping, Skip. But based on those frameworks, that's where we live right now. You know?

Those are really our four parts of our box when it comes to setting our short term goals, because that's
what exists based on the timeline is from 2021 to 2026, we have the strategic priorities already established,
as Ms. Johnson presented, and that's what our long term goals are. But again, a future conversation is, you
know, what is the future after that? So I appreciate you bringing that up.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. So I heard you talk about short term goals, right? Is that the next step? Next
element?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, sir.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. And those we typically associate with the SMART goal. Right? Which do have
metrics.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, sir.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Timeline. They do have, you know, material parts of that, whatever.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Excuse me. Pardon me.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Can I jump in?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Pardon the interruption. I just-- I had my hand up and I didn't know if I-SKIP SPENSLEY: Oh, I'm sorry, JoyAnn. Go ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: For the state of the record, JoyAnn Ruscha has joined us.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks. I didn't-- thank you, Mr. Chair. I just didn't want to ask my question after we
moved past that topic. I just wanted to restate and similar to what Director Chandler, I think, was getting at.
You know, when we have long term goals, we obviously will have metrics and KPIs. But KPIs are not just
very specific data subsets, like a percentage.
I mean, KPIs are also, when we talk about long term goals or projects, they can be measured in stages.
And I just wanted to put that out there. You know, to Director Nicholson-- Secretary Nicholson's comment
about establish more BRT, there would be multiple stages in that process. Those are also KPIs. When we
talk about meeting long term goals, we don't necessarily call them KPIs from an HR or goal setting
perspective, but it's the same concept.
The second thing I just wanted to note was a bit of, I guess a concern. Maybe this is for later, but our
strategic plan that we had passed in 2020 had KPIs in them, as well as several SMART and longer term
goals. Although SMART doesn't necessarily mean it has to be very fast, it just means time bound. And
there was a lot of specificity in that strategic plan. The revised version that we're being presented with is
much slimmed down and does not have those that similar language.
Those strategies have been removed or they're more generic. So I just wanted to say, whether it's this
conversation or another conversation, we don't lose sight of long term planning. And while the current
strategic plan might need an update, I don't think we need to completely reinvent the wheel in that regard.
There was a lot of good material that we didn't follow through on, or the Board just wasn't apprised of in
terms of progress. Thank you.

SKIP SPENSLEY: Thank you, JoyAnn. And I apologize. I got to remember that we got two people still. I
think the other Chris is still-- Chris, the other Chris on virtual, do you have any thoughts?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: I mean, I guess just broad level of thoughts. I mean, I think it's-- as we go
back to the-- as we think about that pyramid, my perspective on it is that it's the Board setting the vision,
the long term goals, and then it's really the agency that is accountable, responsible for saying, here's how
we're incrementally going to get there in the form of short term goals.
And if we don't-- as a Board, I think it's fair to say, hey, we think you could be a little more aggressive or
provide feedback. So I guess just to sum that up, I think of us as, i.e. the Board, long term and vision. And
then I think agency is responsible and accountable for the short term to get there.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. Yeah, Lynn?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. You know, I'm trying to think through what long term goals should look like
here. And, you know, we talked about the four areas in the strategic plan, community value, customer
excellence, all of those. Those are topics. But I don't think we, as a Board, have spent enough time talking
about the long term goals.
We've gone straight to-- at least the last couple years. And I think we've made progress in terms of getting
to short term goals, but I don't think we've really looked at customer excellence. Yeah, it's a value. But what
is the long term goal there, and how do we define that? And I think that's something that should be part of
this process.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Great.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yeah. I just want to add that on our list of essential parts of a process, I believe that the
they're the mission, vision, collaboration, long term goals. I think before you get to short term goals, you
define how you measure and the metrics for your long term goals. I think that you can't set short term goals
before you set the vision for the long, how you're going to measure the long term.
So an example hypothetically is if you set 30% mode share, transit mode share in the Denver region within
RTD district as your long term goal, that you would know that you succeeded your long term goal when
you've reached that. Maybe it's building a rail to Boulder. Maybe it's just bringing value into the community.
But there has to be a measurable way so you know when you've reached your long term goal. That's what
I would add.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Chris. Chris. Yeah, Chris.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: That's fine. I'm a very informal guy, as everybody here knows.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Got two Chrises here. I keep-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. We fight over which one gets the-- I think it's also important to think about what
defines short term and long term. We are talking about a year long goal as short term and some amount of
time, I guess the strategic plan length, as long term potentially. But I mean, in practice there may be short
term goals that take three months or take two years.
In some ways. We're scoping our goals based on how long we're giving ourselves to complete them. We
don't want to give a goal to GM/CEO Johnson that she's not going to be able to complete in one year, but

it might be a really important goal, but it might not be so big as to fit into a long term goal. So I think thinking
about how we time bound our goals influences what we're going to decide the goals can be.
SKIP SPENSLEY: You took the words right out of my mouth. I was going to come back to the question of
what's long term. Is it 3 years? Is it 5 years? Is it 10 years? What would you say? The strategic plan is,
what, five years? Yeah. Is everybody comfortable with that as a long term?
BRETT PAGLIERI: I think long term for me would be more like decades. Like, what does RTD look like in
2050? Mid-term would be 5, 10 years. And short term would be anything probably under three years.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry, I-- can someone just allow-- oh.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sorry. I agree with Brett, and I'm kind of modeling after what the Governor's Office has
come up with for its 2035 plan. And I think we ought to have something that's-- I mean, that is a decade,
but I still think that it would be better to look a little longer than five years.
SKIP SPENSLEY: So do you think it's possible when the Board-- and hopefully with the input of the
management executive team, who are going to have a lot of the metrics that have been measured to help
with that, we might come up with a graduated set of long term goals. There might be-- maybe as you said,
Brett, there might be a 20-year goal. There might be a 10-year goal, a 5 year. I mean-JOYANN RUSCHA: May I? I'm sorry. Just, I know this is a more informal meeting, but just as a for the good
of the order. Can someone explain for those of us who are remote how we are supposed to chime in? We're
used to raising our hands, but if we're popcorning, I don't want to interrupt anybody.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Well, I think, JoyAnn, if you raise your hand, does it come up there on the screen?
MATT LARSEN: Yeah.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Yeah, we can see it now. Yeah, it will come up on the screen, JoyAnn, and I just got to
keep my eye out for it. So thank you. OK?
JOYANN RUSCHA: So do I just wait until I'm-- I don't-SKIP SPENSLEY: Go ahead if you have a comment.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I did, yes. I have been. Again, I can't tell from the screen if other members are raising
their hands or if we're just jumping in when you ask an open question. So I don't want to interrupt if other
people are raising their hands or they're starting to speak. So if you could give me some instruction. I guess
it sounds like I'll raise my hand and wait to be recognized, but thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: JoyAnn, I hate to interrupt. So Skip will call on you, and we'll advise him when your
hand comes up. That'll be the best practice.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. All right. Well, thank you. I was going to say I concur with what Director
Gutschenritter said about the pyramid and where the direction comes from. It comes from the Board. I also,
you know, when we talk about long, medium, short, it does get a bit subjective, which I think we are almost
in agreement with.

But ultimately on this idea of SMART goals and our GM/CEO and this very short 1 or 10 month time bound
process, a SMART goal can be a component of a larger goal, whether that was mid or long term. It can
also be a KPI, even if it's done within a shorter time period.
I don't want to speak for Director Paglieri, but that might have been what he was getting at. Either way, that
model has been well established both in public and private industry, and I think we should think-- I think
that would be a better direction for all of us and also be more fair to our General Manager as it relates to
her goal setting process. Thanks.
SKIP SPENSLEY: So if I could just mirror what you said, JoyAnn, you were saying that long term goals
would have or could have metrics of something similar to a SMART goal. Is that right?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. There's actually nothing that says that long term goals can't be SMART. They
should be SMART. It just might look different depending on the timeline.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. Thank you for that comment. Anybody want to respond to that? Anybody feel-- does
that make sense to you? OK. So it could be a 10, a 5, and a 3. I'm hoping we're not complicating the process
here. But I do understand that there is that point of view in that.
So when we go to short term goals and we go to SMART-- and we're usually talking a one year, next year,
annual. Right? But as somebody said-- Brett, was it you, that could be less than that? Or maybe it was
Chris. I can't remember. One of you said it could be three month goal. Chris said that as well. OK, good.
Just to complete this then, once we have those things, what are the other two steps in that? What's it say,
Ian?
IAN HARWICK: I don't know, to be honest. I'm a little distracted by something else.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Oh, OK. You can't be distracted by something else. Matt?
MATT LARSEN: What? After we've determined what the short term goals are?
SKIP SPENSLEY: Yeah.
MATT LARSEN: I mean, I think the process, the way it should work is that after the goal-- after the Board
identifies what it thinks the short term goals should be or what it aspires to, they should work with
management to determine if those goals that they aspire to, what needs to change in order to achieve those
goals or to what degree those goals are maybe not possible within the constraints that we have as an
organization.
But I think most importantly, within the range of options that we as a Board have to decide how we want-what trade offs we want to make in order to come as close as we can to achieving those goals, we as a
Board need to work with management to make decisions about which trade offs to make.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. So we could add collaborative in this point too, then. Short term goals, a
collaborative process.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah. I mean, I think it absolutely has to be a collaborative process. I mean, we have to,
as a Board, have at least eight votes to agree with it. And I think that if we're not working with management
to understand the constraints that management has towards achieving those goals, then we're not doing
our job.

SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. Good. Thank you, Matt. Other comments?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I think to Matt's point, a recognition of dual accountability in the sense that, you know,
if we're setting goals for management, we're also setting goals for ourselves realistically. And so it's not a
question of, oh, did the GM/CEO Johnson increase ridership by 20%? It's, did the person we hired, did we
increase ridership by that much?
And so I think in the way that we think about the goals that we're setting and the way that we frame them
to the people we're accountable to, the public, we have to recognize that these are just as much a reflection
on all of us as they are a reflection on the person that we've hired.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Absolutely. That's a good point.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha has her hand up.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. Who was it?
JULIEN BOUQUET: JoyAnn.
SKIP SPENSLEY: JoyAnn. I still didn't see her come up there, but JoyAnn, comment?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So I would say that when we have our discussions about short term
goals, they absolutely should be collaborative. And to that end, you know, when they should also be-- how
do I say this? Whether it's coming from the agency or it's coming from the Board or Director or set of
Directors, they need to come with data, evidence, or some kind of case as to why we would make these
items as a priority.
Whether it's proposing a goal or the agency even saying this is not a reasonable expectation. Because that,
I think, shows mutual respect, but it's going to contribute. We'll all have a better understanding of not just
what we're doing in the shorter term, however we define that, but the longer term as well. And those
constraints, they may be HR related, they may be financial, et cetera.
I just know that that communication piece is really important, and I'm glad we're having this conversation
now, because as a Director, I don't want to hear about constraints at the end of the year or right before
something is due relating to goals before a contract deadline at the last minute. I want that to be an ongoing
conversation. I think that Director Larsen was on point, and I would just emphasize that this has to be a
continuous process. Thank you.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Good. Thank you, JoyAnn. Yes. Go ahead, Karen.
KAREN BENKER: I wanted to emphasize what Chris had said about setting goals. It's not just for our
General Manager. I would like to be able to have a good, strong exercise talking about, as an RTD Board,
top management, drivers, mechanics. We've set some goals for all of us and not just one person. We set
goals for ourselves.
I'm hoping-- and perhaps they're different. Slightly different. Perhaps some are more short term goals for
our General Manager and we have some longer term goals that might last a year or two. But then, of course,
we have to keep it measured. We have to keep track of them, and we need to be able to report on them to
see where we are. So make sure that we stay on track because it's very easy to get off track.

SKIP SPENSLEY: Well, thank you, Karen. I'm feeling a lot of consensus in the room. You going to give me
less than that, Michael? Go ahead. Sorry.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I want a clear understanding on some of what was just said. Long term goals belong
to the Board with the mission and the vision. Right? Cool. Mid-term goals. Somewhere in between
management and the Board. Short term goals, we own after we approve. But that approval process should
come through negotiation with the General Manager CEO, agnostic of the individual in the role. The
process-SKIP SPENSLEY: The short term goal?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: The process to get to the short term goal is not me giving a performance improvement
plan to an employee.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Right.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: The short term goal is an agreement that they are bringing forward what is the most
important aspects of what they see, and us working with them to negotiate what a short term outcome could
look like in the time frame that we have established for that goal setting period. So really, I am struggling
so hard to bite my tongue every time I hear we set the goals for. No. That is the wrong approach. We set
the goals with.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Together.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: We can influence, as Director Larsen alluded to earlier. But the idea that we are
pointing a finger at and saying, you will do this, that's a different type of conversation, which I don't believe
we have had in my time on the Board. We came really close this year, but we were all reminded that when
we approved the goals, we own the goals at that point. Short term, long term, mid-term, does not matter.
We own the goals along with the individual who is fulfilling the role of the General Manager CEO. And while
we are the employer of that position, there is a difference between leading and being bossy. And I want to
be really careful and very clear about that. We could absolutely be bossy. It's possible. It may not be the
right tack in every situation. And when it comes to that, the General Manager CEO position is not the only
position that we should be reviewing and setting goals with the individual fulfilling that role.
We're here for this purpose right now, but we also have one other employee that we often neglect in making
sure that work gets done. So without getting too convoluted in it, I would caution my fellow Directors to
consider the ramifications of their words when they say we set for and we work with on something, because
this is a collaborative process, which there was agreement on. But language matters.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Yeah. Thank you. Good point, Michael.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I agree. Because I also think I don't know everything. And my expectation is that
hopefully the GM/CEO knows a lot more than I do. And so we need that collaborative effort because I don't
have the time, the energy, and no one hired me to do that. So I cannot plan everything.
I have to be a little bit bigger picture and allow whoever that is to do their job, that we help framework. But
we are definitely not into the minutia, because otherwise this transit agency will never go anywhere because
there's too many of us putting too much input in. Right? So there has to be an accountability, but there also

has to be a person who will make those decisions based on their expertise and knowledge that I certainly
don't have.
SKIP SPENSLEY: I want to come back to that in a minute, Kathleen, but I want to hear what Chris has to
say. Thank you for that comment.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So I disagree with Michael, but I want to let JoyAnn go first because she had her
hand up before I tried to raise mine.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Secretary Nicholson. There is no she waiting with their hand up, but I
appreciate it. I actually wanted to lean into what Director Guzman was saying about the collaborative effort
and good faith effort. I do concur. In organizations I've been in, I've been asked to set my goals for the year.
And I would set them and then they would be approved or there would be a conversation with the CEO or
the VP.
But when I did that, though, there was absolutely no question in my mind of what my job was or what my
expectations were or where we were going as an organization. I mean, that's in part how I got the role of
the job that I did. I had a good understanding of where we were moving as a body. So I would just-- that's
where I go back to the strategic plan.
And even if it shouldn't be broad, there should be some specifics in there, even if we can't achieve them in
a year. But I do think there is a collaborative process and a joint ownership. I also just wanted to state that
it's my opinion moving forward as we do this that when we are doing goals, long, medium, short, however,
we're defining them, that it is not just one or two Directors that are leading.
And traditionally, this has been the Chair. It's not to disparage anybody in the room. This is how RTD has
done it for 20 plus years. But that we do this more as a Board, as a collective body so that we don't have a
situation that transpired earlier this year, like-- so I'll stop there. And thank you, Secretary Nicholson, for
letting me go ahead of you.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Thank you, JoyAnn. Chris?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. And my apologies, Director Ruscha, for getting your pronouns wrong.
From a pure mechanics perspective, the short term goals are not a negotiation the way the contract is. We
vote on them. We set them. There is no formal negotiation. It is our responsibility.
And I think that while I point out that while there is absolutely consultation and there is absolutely dialogue
and we absolutely should listen, in every job I've ever worked, my boss set my goals for me after having
long, honest, forthright one-on-one conversations with me, with the CEO, with the VPs, that was the
process. And I say that not to minimize the need for collaboration, not to minimize the need to listen to the
person that we have hired as a Board, but because we are the ones responsible for the agency.
We are the ones at the end of the day that the taxpayers hold accountable, not the GM/CEO. And we need
to be the ones 100% responsible for those big choices and not foist onto the GM/CEO and say, well, we
set bad goals because we had to compromise. We set bad goals. We made bad decisions. It's on us.
And so I'm just going to emphasize again and again, it is our responsibility to do these things well. It is our
choices that matter. And we need to take very public ownership when we make good choices and we
succeed, and yay, we did everything right. Or no, we set bad goals and we didn't get something done and

everything blew up, and we screwed up. And so that's why I say it's on us and not a question of a
partnership.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Chris, I don't hear that much difference. In all due respect, I would say it's a distinction
without a difference. The Board does approve the short term goals. You are the final body to do that. But
everything's a negotiation. Everything you enter into is a negotiation. When you get more information, you
make adjustments.
And so that collaborative process maybe is not a formal negotiation in the sense of what you may be
referring to it, but clearly, I don't hear that different than what Michael is saying, because I think you both
take responsibility for it. She takes responsibility the General Manager takes responsibility, but also the
Board for setting them. So it's joint.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. It's the difference between a-- it's a difference between a formal negotiation
and a-SKIP SPENSLEY: Right. Right. Yeah. Agreed. Mhm?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. And I think this has been a process that we've been trying a few things. And
two things I'm hearing, I don't think-- I'm glad we're having this conversation. I'm glad the people who
brought this forward have done that, because I don't think we've had the conversations around our long
term goals that we need to have.
I agree with Brett. I think he said what I said earlier, better than I did, which is that that's a conversation we
need to have. We need to talk about do we need more specifics than where we are. I know that the staff
has come up with strategic initiatives. That's a start in that direction.
But I think we need to have it. And I also think that because of the timing this last year and this year, partially
because of that and partially other things, we did not do a good job of collaborating before putting together
our short term goals. So I'm hopeful that out of this process we'll be able to focus on those.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Thank you, Lynn, for those comments. Little question in my mind that we're having this
discussion because things haven't gone the way we'd like them to go. You know? I mean, we only want to
look in the rear view mirror for so long, and then we want to be looking ahead and saying, what do we do?
It's going to be tough to catch up in '25 or '26. OK? Well, we'll talk about that when we're going to talk about
timing and give you all a shot at that. But I think what we really want, something that is going to endure for
more than just the next year. That was the idea. Julien?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, just real quick. I think the whole idea of this conversation as well is that, first
name basis, Debra has gone through the process. This is the fifth time that she's gone through the process.
We need to establish as a Board, what does that process actually look like? And I think that's the whole
idea of this conversation. What does it come down to being appropriate?
Everyone's brought up-- you and Kathleen have brought up excellent points of looking at the long term
goals itself. Again, conversation for a later date, but I think that's what we hope to walk away, is that we all
have a common understanding of not only-- of what we want that process to look like, not for only '26, but
years ahead. So that's really the hope of this meeting today. I do see Director Gutschenritter's hand online.

CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you. I guess this isn't really a question. It's more of just sharing a
thought. When I think about the long term goals in the vision which really, we all agree should come from
the Board, should be defined by the Board, there's no incentive like there is an incentive for the short term
goals. And I guess that's a financial incentive.
And so I think maybe sometimes that's why we get hyperfocused on the short term goals. It's like, well,
that's where we can more influence and have impact. And then just the other thought I'll share is-- and I
may be naive here, but the reason I'm not hyperfocused on short term is because, how much can we really
move the needle in one year for an entire agency?
Again, maybe I'm naive in that and the answer is, Chris, we can move it a ton. But that's why I, again, go
back to the long term goals, to me, is really what's most critical in the vision. And then it's step by step, the
agency, the people that know better than we do, pretty much all the time, of, OK, how do we incrementally
move those steps to get to the long term. So I just wanted to share that. Thanks.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Thank you, Chris. Again, I think there's pretty much agreement on what he said. I don't
see anybody moving their faces.
MATT LARSEN: [INAUDIBLE]. All right, I guess-- I mean, I don't know how much we can move things on
in any year. But I mean, the long term goals are ultimately composed of multiple years of achieving or not
achieving short term goals. And I think it is our role to identify what the goals are, much like we did with the
strategic plan.
One of the goals is community value, so on and so forth. That is our job. And then it's also our job to
translate those longer term goals into short term goals for each year. And I think a negotiation with
management is a good way to describe it, but it's not something that we would normally want to just kind of
throw it down from on high to our managers.
That's not a good way to have success. But I do think ultimately we are the agency. We are the ones who
have been empowered by the public to decide everything about the agency, and it's our responsibility to do
that. And that means holding anybody who we delegate our powers to responsible for achieving the goals
that we devise.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I'm-SKIP SPENSLEY: Excuse me. Go ahead, JoyAnn.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry. I have conflicting feedback on whether or not if you can see my hand. I just
wanted to say that I think both Director Gutschenritter-- and he-- oh, he just put his hand down. OK. And
Director Larsen are correct. It's a matter of how we're framing this. You can't meet your long or medium
term goals, whatever they are, without some short term goals.
Four months on, I do feel almost agnostic about the ones we passed in January because I know they tie
into a bigger picture. It's the bigger picture that I don't have a full picture of. I can only make my best guess
based on what the agency shares, and I would also just offer that. It would be helpful if the agency shared
with us what their departmental plans and goals are, because I know each department and each department
head manages those.
But if the Board is not apprised, then how can we really be involved in this process on a micro or a macro
or even when it comes to an evaluation? I don't want to get too off the-- I don't want to get off topic, so Mr.

Chair, call me back in if I'm going off topic. But I'm thinking back to the review process of our General
Manager, and it was largely in part on those short term goals, but also, there were a lot of other questions
that related to her departments.
And I had a hard time answering them unless I knew for sure that something had been accomplished. So I
would just say that the agency, I think it benefits everybody if the agency also shares what goals, what
plans that they have for the departments that they're overseeing, particularly ones that come before our
respective committees, because we only know what we know. Thanks.
SKIP SPENSLEY: I want to go back just for a moment to your comments, Matt, because again, I don't find
them different than others. And maybe that's my problem. You can help me understand, because I didn't
hear that that was a dissent from anything in terms of a collaborative approach.
MATT LARSEN: I don't think they were really that different in a major way from what most people have
been saying. I mean, I guess what I would like to kind of add is one of the more important things that I think
we need to do in this group is decide what we're measuring. Like, what the specific measurements are that
matter to us when we're setting goals.
I think that, unlike the private sector where there's pretty standard measurements for a company, a handful
that you might look at to see if it's successful, we have not-- it doesn't seem-- as a Board decided on those
measurements consistently over the years. And I think it'll be really important for us to nail down exactly
what we think those metrics should be as they relate to the goals that we are trying to achieve.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Good point. I think there would be agreement. Chris?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So I think one other piece with regard to the measurement issue is, you know, one
reason why I think we end up with goals like ridership and on-time percentage and things that are every-they're baked in every year to what we do. Hiring was, I think, one of the ones last year. It's something that
you can always measure every time. It's the same thing every year. As opposed to, for example, if we had
a long term goal of finish FasTracks.
And it was literally finish out the N line, the L line, the-- I forget what the Southwest lines are. But the point
being, if that was-- I'm sorry. I don't ride light rail that often. Thank you. Sorry. C and D. I should remember
the C. Point being, if that was the long term goal, then an obvious short term goal becomes something like
finish all the planning for the N line and get a cost estimate and whatever.
And that's your year one goal. And then year two becomes-- but because-- and I'm just saying this. I don't
think we have any concrete long term goals as, by 2030, we're going to finish all the FasTracks, or we're
going to do the fleet transition plan. We have a fleet transition plan, but it's not like this is going to get done
by 2032.
And then you back that into, OK, this-- so it's like without a concrete long term goal that requires 10 steps,
we are not going to have a short term goal that gets you to that thing. So I think that's one of the challenges
and why we end up having ridership and stuff like that, that is just baked into daily operations, instead of
something like transition all the vehicles to green energy or whatever.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Point well taken. And I think we're walking kind of a fine line here between process and
then getting into the weeds of how do we define a long term goal, although some of these are things will be
helpful in the discussion. But I would like to go back just for a moment and get your thoughts about-- I can't

spell collaboration, but other than that, what does it mean that we have collaboration? What does that mean
to you? Give me some thoughts about that. Yeah? Brett?
BRETT PAGLIERI: I think collaboration is unique given that we're a publicly elected body. But I see it as
multi-directional collaboration with goal setting. Since we're elected, we have an agreement with the people
who elect us to collaborate with their vision and goals and desires. And ultimately, I think that's the most
important piece.
But we also have collaboration with staff and what's possible. We also have collaboration with each other
and what we all want to achieve. And theoretically, we all are perfect representations of our district and
what we want, but there's also making sure we listen to the groups in our district. So not really a long winded
answer.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Relating it to constituents desires, what they want.
BRETT PAGLIERI: I personally rate that as number one.
SKIP SPENSLEY: All right. What else? Somebody says they want to collaborate, what does that mean?
Peggy?
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I think to add on to what Brett said, and I do agree. If we go back to my original
premise that we want to provide mobility for the region, there are other players that also do provide mobility.
There's the City and County of Denver. There are the counties. There are the other bodies. There's CDOT.
They have long term visions and plans. And to the extent that we can collaborate with them to help them
achieve their goals, and we in turn can achieve ours. So I might cite as an example, we could have a goal
of a modal shift to transit over the next 20 years of x percent. And what do we do to provide that in the
region?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Can I quickly add that I think to summarize, we have a lot of government collaborators,
whether that's our bosses in the state legislature who created the district, the people who elected us, or the
other adjacent agencies that we're basically peer to, like CDOT, and then all the municipalities underneath
us or within us, not underneath us.
SKIP SPENSLEY: I feel like the professor who always asks a question and knows what he wants the
answer to be and he doesn't get it yet.
JOYANN RUSCHA: May I?
SKIP SPENSLEY: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry. It's difficult to hear. It's difficult to hear you, sir. Collaboration literally requires
us working together by definition. I mean, that implies joint ownership, but that is a joint process. But
collaboration requires people to listen. And I don't know if-- is that getting written up? Is that getting written
down? Listening?
OK. It's something that is important. Yes, we listen to our constituents and constituent groups, and we
should also be listening to each other as Directors. It doesn't mean we always agree, but it requires listening
in all directions. whether we're speaking with management or management is speaking with us, we have to
be able to listen. Thank you.

SKIP SPENSLEY: Good point. Does it mean sharing information?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
SKIP SPENSLEY: That was the answer I was looking for. Pretty soon you just have to-- so it's sharing
information. And we've heard a couple of times that-- I'm sorry that I can't write very well with this thing on.
But sharing information means that it has to come from both sides. It has to come from the constituents'
side, from the Board's constituents, has to come from the executive management side. And so I won't go
back to the word negotiation, Chris, but it is finding the balance in those things, right? That what
collaboration is? OK. Anything else?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Go with collaboration. It's a collaboration. I like that.
TROY WHITMORE: So Skip?
SKIP SPENSLEY: Yeah?
TROY WHITMORE: Collaboration is a fluffy word.
SKIP SPENSLEY: That's why I'm asking for definition.
TROY WHITMORE: So you hope after a decent collaboration process that we find consensus, and that's
not always easy. So we have to have a mechanism to get to that. And hopefully it's not an eight to seven
vote.
SKIP SPENSLEY: I like that. I happen to believe that consensus is the best way to make decisions. You
don't have winners and losers. OK? And people tend-- even if you give them the opportunity to have a
different point of view and if they don't have that different point of view, you acknowledge it and you move
on and ask somebody whether they can live with it. Right?
TROY WHITMORE: That's consensus.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Thank you.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I also think collaboration is the art of compromise. Right? You need to take a
step toward somebody and somebody needs to take a step towards you so that you end up with the best
decision for the most people.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: So, you know, it's that art of compromise so that no one feels like they are the
loser and no one feels like they are completely the winner either. It has to be that balance, I think is more
appropriate, because it is the best for the most.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Yeah. Absolutely. You know, I do a lot of mediation work these days, and 50% of the
mediations I do are barking dog mediations. And either the dog barks or it doesn't. Right? So where's the
middle ground? OK? So I mean, that's kind of where we are in that process is finding what I would call

balance, Kathleen. But it is the art of compromise. Absolutely. Anything else we want to add to this?
Because I think this really helps get the fluff away, right?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah. So Director Tisdale was really good at this. It's just the C words. So we've
added two more. We're going to call it five C's now, but there were three. Communicate, which is listening
and speaking to understand. Cooperate, which is to lead together in the same direction. And then
collaborate, which is to work on things together. And without those three things happening, none of it
happens.
But that's also the challenge for the elected Board of RTD, as we are a two way advocacy role. Right? But
when it comes to the goal setting, yes, it is important for us to listen to constituents. But we've discussed
the idea of being here as both delegates with authority elected and also as trustees being entrusted by our
communities to make the right decision.
And if we can't have the proper communication to reach consensus, if we are not purposefully working
towards the long term goals, then there's no way we can collaborate on writing those goals out. And each
of those words has a very specific definition, but those three things lead to the consensus through
compromise and understanding what's important to each subdistrict, represented by one of the 15 Board
members.
That still is exclusive to the elected Board and does not take into consideration the piece that is the internal
advocacy role we have, which is our cooperation, communication, and collaboration with the agency staff,
specifically the General Manager CEO in this case for this purpose. But that's overall. We know people
power is how we do things, and we need to deal with that.
So we need to take the advice of our subject matter experts into consideration while we are having the
wrestling match among the 15 Board members to figure out where we'll come out with the priorities. But it
still is not-- and I'm going to say it again. It's not the legal negotiation. It is a communicative negotiation
between what is possible from a financial, from a people, from an individual to create the goal. And I would
add this one piece in.
We're all super passionate about why we're here. There is no doubt about that. But our staff is too. And so
if we're just setting random goals without taking into consideration any input or feedback from them, we
lose their passion, because this becomes a check box list of things to do. And that's boring in any job. And
the passion comes out. That's where the work begins, and that's where the work accelerates.
And we see the rock star ability and the superstar ability of the team that we have garnered and gathered
under our General Manager CEO currently. But they have to be given some room to breathe. Oxygen has
to be given to a fire for it to grow. And if we suck the oxygen out of the room by making this process a one
way process, we lose that ability. So again, iterative process, going back and forth, working together is what
will make this a successful situation.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I want to piggyback on what you said about compromise and collaboration, if that's
OK.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Yeah.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I think one big part of that is knowing what you care about personally. So, for
example, for me, I've done a lot of thinking in advance of this process. I don't care what the goals are. I

care that they are ambitious. Some people are going to care that we have a goal is about people power or
it's about on-time percentage or it's about this other thing.
I am comfortable going in whatever direction the Board wants to, but whatever direction we go in, I want it
to be something where I can go to my constituents and say, this is ambitious. We're pushing for best in
class. We're not settling for what we can do just by waking up in the morning. And so I think for each of us
understanding, what is it you actually want to fight for?
What is it in advance you really care about? And what is it you're willing to just be like, all right, that's fine.
I can live with that, before the negotiation gets heated. That, to me, gives us-- at least gives me the selfawareness around, what do I actually want to see us get out of this? And I'm willing to be very open about
what that is for me in advance.
SKIP SPENSLEY: I think that's good. JoyAnn?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I don't know if this is part of our conversation tonight, but I just wanted to
point out that traditionally we have had three goals for the GM/CEO in terms of short term goals. And there
might have been 20 put forth, and then it becomes a rat race to figure out what three goals we're going to
end up with.
No organization only has three goals, and most CEOs don't only have three goals. And I just want to
emphasize again, we need to see departmental plans and their goals. We can't get a big picture if that
picture is not being shared. So in a more concrete-- to make this concrete, because I think we're talking
very abstract tonight, we have corrective action plans that are outstanding with the PUC.
Some of them have been open in excess of three years. Some of them are also part of our budgeting
process. Whether or not our General Manager-- it could be any General Manager. Whether or not their
performance incentive is tied into that, I still want to know those metrics. So previously, I just wanted to
note, we've had GM's where they had goals that were not tied into a contract or a financial incentive, but
they were still very clear.
So I don't know if we've already passed that point or if it's another conversation, but I would like to do away
with the idea that we only settle on three or four very big things. That's not how transit agencies work. That's
not how large organizations work. And I think that just keeps us in the cycle we're in right now. Thank you.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Yeah. Thank you, JoyAnn. We did say and emphasizing we're not setting goals tonight.
There definitely will be a discussion about how many goals get set when we get into that process. I want to
do something now. I want you all to take a break. But before that, as you notice, we've got a timeline up
here that's empty that says short term goal setting process.
And so what I'm going to have you do is to pair up with a person beside you, and you guys are going to
pick a couple of those that you want to put a time on. And so you're going to have to write on this sticky.
For example, review vision and mission, and then stick it up there along where you think it belongs. OK?
So we're going to see how this works. And I'll have you take a break at the same time so that-- let's see.
Here, over here.
MATT LARSEN: Is that this year or just any year?
SKIP SPENSLEY: This is for we're looking forward. So it's going to be tough for this year. So let's think of
it for '26. OK? Chris, you and Lynn together. Right? Kathleen, you and Peggy. And then Michael, you guys.

Why don't we take 10 minutes? You guys can be talking in that time. I only see one of your colors up there.
You guys only had one you wanted to add? I wanted three or four from you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Simplicity is the new sophistication, right?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Welcome back, everyone, and welcome back those who are virtually assembled, who
are listening to our special study session or who will listen to this on the YouTube recording later on. And
hopefully JoyAnn and Chris, you have come back to join us. I appreciate you guys and your patience, and
I'm going to give this back to Skip whenever he's ready.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Thank you, Julien. So we got three all here, long term goals being set probably in the
January time frame. Does anybody have any problems with that? Yeah? Brett?
BRETT PAGLIERI: I agree with that. I agree with that. But just, it was very difficult because around every
two years we have an election, and that also can muddle things up. So I just wanted to make people aware
of that. It's not-- I would also point out, I think we talked about that long term goals are probably something
that isn't set every year. They're reviewed and they're adjusted. But there should be a process determined
on when you actually set the long term goal and probably not change it every year.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Yeah.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Skip, in fairness, I mean I agree with Brett. We put our post up there. It's just a review.
Like, where are you on your long term goals in achieving them, not resetting them.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Right. It could be new-- a review could end up in being new long term goals. But that's
the point. Has to happen early in the process. Next timeline, it says in this Performance Committee reviews
short term goals. Now, who-- this is yours?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: This is ours.
SKIP SPENSLEY: So tell me about that Michael.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Process for the Performance Committee to get something ready to go before the
Board. If the goal is to try and make something sustainable and a repeatable process, if the end date is to
really try and have a discussion and Board agreement between the General Manager CEO and the Board
of Directors around the budget beginning time so they can discuss assumptions and new initiatives to create
a budget that comes to the Board later, we need to work backwards.
The backwards work would be that budgeting work is June, July. The month before, we should have goals
pretty close to finalized in a public meeting. The month before that could be an Executive session or a
public meeting where we're still working with the General Manager to get to a finalized point. So that would
be a second meeting. And the first meeting would have to be at least three months before.
And the way that our meetings work, we usually have a discussion. With these, we would probably need a
second discussion. And then we would recommend an action to the full Board that would happen at the
same time that they're bringing up new things for the budget. It's not a quick process, but working
backwards, we would probably need to have at least three meetings prior to this going to the full Board.

And we work in committee to get the work done, but every Director is available to join those meetings, so
it's not like it's done in a silo. But what we would want to have is public review of the goal setting process
prior to it going to the full Board for the first time. And so we need to talk about that layout and what's
required there.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Nobody put a sticker up for this. When does this happen? Executive staff identifies short
term goals.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I would say it doesn't. I don't think that it's the job of the executive staff to identify the
short term goals. I think it's the job of the Performance Committee.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Well, in my-- if I could jump in. In my defense, I did mention that it would be really nice
if we did have executive staff's own plans, since every department has a plan in the agency for their goals
and their projects. So maybe there's a blend. I also just wanted to-- but I did want to touch on what Director
Guzman had said about the public review process. I think that is really key.
Just because I do still feel like short term goals are cart before the horse. But I understand why we're having
this conversation. I wanted to point out that previously, like years ago, when the Board had conversations
like this, they were also public meetings. So that's good that this is a public meeting.
And we had joint strategic planning, so I think that's something that we need to return to. And then as we
have ongoing discussions from large to-- I don't want to say small. They're still impactful. Shorter term, that
we continue to have these conversations in public as much as possible, because that also ensures that all
Directors are apprised of what might be transpiring.
Even before we had a rollover of almost half of our Board, the majority of the Board was not necessarily
fully apprised of what we might be voting on in January. And so I think this is a good first step, but we should
continue this model. Thanks.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I want to highlight actually something that Lynn pointed out that I think is really on
point here, and that is that this is all meant to piggyback on the budget process. The whole idea here is we
are doing something that informs the budget process. We're setting the short term goals. Those short term
goals inform the budget priorities, inform the budget, and that creates the budget.
The needs of staff, the needs of Debra, the needs of the CFO, all of those people, are, in many ways, what
should inform the calendar for us. I don't know when they do x and when they need y. I know what input I
want to provide. I know that we want to have short term goals for them and we want to do these long term
goals and these pieces. But I think we need to know from staff, where do those slot in? When do they need
to hear from us for it to be effective and useful?
SKIP SPENSLEY: This word is identify, not set.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Good point.
SKIP SPENSLEY: And I think that was, though, the point you're making, Chris, is that, would it be helpful
to the Board to have input in a collaborative process? I was going to ask earlier, I said, who should do what
first? Well, if it's collaborative, it shouldn't make any difference. Right?
MATT LARSEN: No. Because we're too big not to do everything. We need committees.

SKIP SPENSLEY: You want to be on your mic there.
MATT LARSEN: Sorry. I mean, yes, want to be collaborative, but the committees exist for a reason so that
we all don't have to think about everything all at the same time, and that we have a process that can get
representative recommendations. That's all I was going to say.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: And I agree with that as well, because I think what happens with this is I don't
know when a bus fleet needs to be replaced. That is up to the executive staff to identify that goal. It impacts
the budgetary process. Right? But so we need that input because we don't-- I don't know those things.
And so I think it's not only collaborative, but it's absolutely necessary, because otherwise what's the point
of having a budget? Because she's going to come back and say, well, we can't do that because this has to
be done. I mean, there's no if, ands, or buts. This must be replaced this year. And if it's not on that list, then
what do we do?
SKIP SPENSLEY: Right.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Right? So I think that's part of it.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Well, and I think the intent-- and again, I will take responsibility for trying to identify these
in a way in which the thought was having executive staff, because of the work they're doing with their
surveys and their departmental plans, as JoyAnn keeps mentioning and other things, to have them come
and say, here are some areas where we think short term goals are maybe appropriate.
And then the Performance Committee starts reviewing that and begins to formulate what they think they
should be. And then there's another discussion with the GM and executive staff. To me, this is that
collaborative process. And then-- I'm sorry, it goes down to here. And then the Board and the GM agree on
the short term goals.
So goes down there. And really, then the Board moves forward with making sure that gets inputted into this
budget process so that the budget then can reflect what those short term goals that are set-- that are agreed
to.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may. I am just beating a dead horse, I feel. And maybe I am not right for this body
or this conversation. I feel like what I'm saying is not landing. But actually, Director Chandler, you brought
up a really good point. We have multiple strategic plans already. So in terms of our bus replacement and
our fleet, all of our assets may-- well, most of our major assets are on a replacement and asset management
schedule.
It's part of our transit asset management plan. The last one the Board had seen was 2022. We don't have
another one due until next year. But that is actually something where that's the communication, the sharing
information process. And that was-- I'm not trying to be rude, but we have not seen an updated TAMP plan- not just some things that were put in our budget, but an actual plan-- since 2022.
That is the kind of thing that would help me as a Director, whether I'm voting on a budget or presiding over
something in my committee, because, again, we have more than one strategic plan. That's why I kept
emphasizing the departmental plans and these other plans that we have and sharing that information.
Thank you.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Yellow stickies. Who did those? You guys did?

MATT LARSEN: The yellow one.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Yeah. So we've got down here PC reviews short term goals and then again over here,
short term goals here is the first public review, I guess. This is the second public. Board should be ready at
this point. Right? You guys? Board agrees on-- what is that? Aspirations for major short term goals?
MATT LARSEN: Yeah.
SKIP SPENSLEY: How is that different than these other things? Is it?
MATT LARSEN: That it necessarily conflicts with those.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Use your microphone.
MATT LARSEN: I don't know that it necessarily conflicts with those. I mean, I think Michael was highlighting
some of the logistics and timing, which is important for how we do this. What I was sort of saying is that I
think that very soon from where we are now, we should-- ideally, we would already have in mind targets
that we would like to see achieved for next year.
Maybe they won't end up being the targets. I mean, they almost certainly won't end up being the exact
targets that end up being set. But I mean, we should-- knowing that we don't know all the constraints and
haven't discussed all the trade-offs that we as a Board would have to make, we should come-- ideally, we
would come into this at around that point, I think, with what we would like to see happen.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Why wouldn't this come over here before you determine metrics? Just determine metrics
for-MATT LARSEN: Well, because at least this year-JOYANN RUSCHA: Excuse me. For those of us who are participating-- excuse me. For those of us who
are participating online, could you try to explain what this means? Because we can't see the stickies.
MATT LARSEN: I'm not sure.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Not you, Director Larsen. I mean for the facilitator.
MATT LARSEN: To the first yellow sticky, but said this.
SKIP SPENSLEY: The first yellow says determine metrics.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah. I think the reason I put that there is because I don't think we've done that yet. And
so I think we need to do that.
SKIP SPENSLEY: You're talking about for '25?
MATT LARSEN: No. Well, no, we actually have done it for '26. But we're talking about '26-- I'm sorry. We
have done it for '25. We haven't done it for '26.

SKIP SPENSLEY: Right.
MATT LARSEN: And I think we need to do it for '26, or it should have already been done.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. But again, I go back to this one. Board agrees on aspirations for short term goals.
MATT LARSEN: By that I mean specific numbers. So in my mind, the metrics, we would agree on what the
actual metrics are. Is the metric ridership? Is the metric reliability? Is the metric survey results? What is it?
Let's agree on those, or those should be agreed on by that point in time.
SKIP SPENSLEY: So this is the number.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah. And then we get to where we are close to right now. And we would-- as I believe
the staff is starting the process of thinking about the budget for 2026, beginning that process, before they
really get too deep into that process, we should be coming to them and saying, hey, this year the Board
really wants to, say, grow by 10% on ridership.
So when you do your budget, do it so that it's going to-- do what you can to get as close to that number as
possible would be kind of the direction that staff would be given. And so they might do that, and the result
might be they can get to 10% but the expenses would be beyond what is possibly affordable. And so they
would come back to us, well, this is what we would need to do.
So Board, you would need to find $300 million of incremental tax dollars for us to get there. So can you?
And then we-- and that's the process that we're going through over the course of the summer is sort of
resetting what our-- getting our aspirations reset to reality but also discussing amongst ourselves what the
trade-offs we have to make as a Board. Well, gosh, maybe we could get 10% growth, but we'd have to cut
all the service out to everywhere but Chris Nicholson's district. You know?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Hey now.
MATT LARSEN: Do we agree on that or not?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'll vote for that.
MATT LARSEN: I mean, I'm being facetious, but that's the kind of, you know, we have to make those tradeoffs as a Board during that process, too, I think. That's how I'm envisioning it.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Hi. OK. So this environment unfortunately, it's not conducive if we're trying to
participate online, particularly if you're hard of hearing, of which I am. So I'm just going to ask one more
thing and then I think I need to hop off so I don't frustrate anyone else, including myself. But if someone
could just do me a favor and put it on a sticky note anywhere you think is appropriate for that chart, two
things. Number one, an update of the TAMP. T-A-M-P.
And two, an update on where we are regarding capital projects that we have previously approved. We have
a very generous five-year capital carryforward policy, and that touches all of our committees and everything
we do as an agency, and that's also key to communication. So I don't know where that fits on that timeline.
I do think that's a key part, though. And that would be from me. But if someone could just maybe--

SKIP SPENSLEY: So JoyAnn, would that go in the first quarter?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. Yeah. And it should be-- but also there is an ongoing-- so we should get, soon as
practicable, sorry, we should have an updated TAMP.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: The last one we had was 2022. And then also in terms of our capital projects, so dollars
the Board has authorized in a budget, we should have an update on those, at least on a quarterly basis.
That would be ongoing. That helps us know where we are because, as we've pointed out, everything we're
doing here is tied to dollars. Thank you.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Who did the blue stickies? Chris and Lynn?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, that was a-- sorry. Colorblind, so I wasn't sure which one was blue. I'm dead
serious. I couldn't tell if it was pink or not.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Why is this so late, Chris?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Well, I think the idea there is it takes a meaningful amount of time to really come to
a strong consensus. And there's also the concern that I think Lynn expressed that if we're doing the finalizing
of the short term goals too early, we'll be setting short term goals for 2026 18 months before the end of that
point. And so you want to be able to consider and reconsider what you're aiming at closer to when you're
actually going to be making that decision.
Now, I think it's a reasonable discussion to have around where in that timeline and how comfortable you
are in a given year. If this were, for example, 1997, there wasn't much happening economically that made
changing your short term goals or rethinking your short term goals a meaningfully difficult conversation.
If it's 2008, your short term goals in September of 2008 are going to look very different than they would
have in even May of 2008 before Lehman crashed. So I think there's a realization there that you may want
the ability to take into account new events and changes and whatever. Michael is gesticulating why. OK.
Never mind. I think that was-- is that a fair assessment of-- OK. Yeah.
SKIP SPENSLEY: So just to make clear, when you say agree, this means the Board and the GM agree?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. As far as I understood it, that's basically the end of-- that's, we've made our
decision. This is what we're doing.
SKIP SPENSLEY: So that's-- sorry?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Can I ask a clarifying question?
SKIP SPENSLEY: Board and GM agree on short term goals. And we got another one over here. The white
sticky says Board and GM agree on short term goals, late September. Which to me makes more sense
because you wanted to get into this budget process as soon as possible. Yeah. So you want-- this would
go back over here?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No, sorry. That white one is mine.

SKIP SPENSLEY: No, I know.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah, yeah. No. So Lynn, I moved it to keep in the good faith of trying to line it up
with the budget. But the note right now is that by September, when we publish the budget per state law, we
have to have agreement on these goals. That's the latest we could have agreement on the goals.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Yeah, that's middle of October.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: If we have the agreement closer to June and July when they're starting that budget
process, it would make more sense.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Can I just say, sometimes we set goals historically for our GM/CEO that are metricsbased. They're hard numbers, and sometimes they are strategy-based. So I think that's-- I feel like there's
a disconnect. Are we talking about strategic initiatives or are we talking about more granular, more detailed,
what we're going to measure in terms of goals? Does that make sense?
Because I think we should be aligned on key strategic initiatives as early as possible. But then the finer
aspects of how are we going to the KPI process, which doesn't always have to be just a number, that comes
a little bit later. I think one follows the other. I guess I've been pushing maybe to deaf ears-- ha ha-- an
objectives and key results, OKR model.
And I hear it from committee members a little of both, but I don't see why we can't have-- I don't see why
we can't have objectives and key strategies figured out, at least in a good solid draft, earlier on. And then
we agree on what those details look like as we progress. But we're already at 6:11, so that will just-- that
will be my final comment, and maybe that's where some of the disconnect is coming from on my end.
Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, JoyAnn, for your comments. Skip, if you're OK with me taking the floor real
quick, or-- further comments?
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah.
SKIP SPENSLEY: The green sticky. Who was that?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: That's ours.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. This is-- explain it.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Well, we saw this not as a continuum, but as a circle. So some of these things
need to be done in the year prior to that year. So it's almost as if the January on this side needed to have
a December because-- so we put ours over there for the next year because it is a continuum. It's not a hard
and fast.
And I think part of the difficulty I think we're having is everyone's definition of short and long term are
different. So perhaps that is why some of these things are all over the map as far as where we would like
to place them, because a short term goal that's only three months is going to be a different budgetary
implication than something that's long term.

And so I think that might be part of it, is that we don't have-- and not that we need hard and definitions, but
we should have some idea of what the term short term, what the term mid-term, what the term long term
means, because it will, I think, especially if it's from the executive staff identifying those, it could be different
in the budgetary process because of-SKIP SPENSLEY: Yeah. I think earlier, Kathleen, but correct me if I'm wrong. But we said long term could
be 3, 5, or 10. Short term would be the next year or it could be shorter. It could be a three or six month.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: And everyone's agreed upon that? I just think that for me, maybe I need to ponder
that a little bit more, because I agree that short term is probably a year or less. But that, you know-- I guess
we need to identify that short term goal and what metrics is long with Matt is saying is different than a goal
that's only three months long.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Yeah. Oh, definitely. That is something you're going to have to make a decision when
you look at the specifics of the kind of goal you're talking about.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Right.
SKIP SPENSLEY: OK. Any other comments about this? OK. Well, I'm not going to push it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So my recommendation for this Board-- I do hope this was a hearty discussion for
everyone. I hope this has been important discussion. I think one of the bigger themes that we're looking at
in this-- again, as a reminder, our main short term goal as a Board is to establish us setting our GM/CEO's
short term goals prior to the setting of our budget.
Again, the motivation behind that is I heard from the campaign trail, I heard from all of you that we wanted
more say, as Directors when it comes down to the short term goal setting process for our GM/CEO, and
again, for us, as we have brought up. This is a collaborative process. From the suggestion of Director
Benker, which I appreciate it, I think the next steps going forward-- and this, feel free to correct me if I'm
wrong on this or I'm just totally off base.
The best steps forward is to take a picture of what we've collaborated here in real person. Make this into a
graphic for myself, Director Guzman, as the Performance Committee Chair to look at, have the conversation
with Ms. Johnson in saying, this is what we're looking at. This is what we've heard from this collaborative
process today of what specific dates we would be setting forward, not only going into 2026, because in
theory, this is our first pilot year of this.
But years going forward. And this, in theory, would be the blueprint that we would go with going into '26,
going into '27, and forward. During that time, after we have the conversation with Ms. Johnson, Michael,
my hope would be we collect feedback from the Board in saying, this is where we're at. This is the written
notice of where we've compiled information.
And then based on the Board feedback, we 100% can adjust. That would be my biggest suggestion going
forward. Other big things I think about as well is, I've talked with Michael about this, is going into the process
of actually setting the 2026 goals.
I think it would be more than appropriate to send out a form, a survey to all of you as Directors to kind of
give us a little insight going into the June retreat, because the June retreat would be, hey, me and Michael,
and Debra, obviously, saw what is the common consensus we are hearing from you as a 15 Board body.
That's the conversation. That's the debate we would be having on our June retreat. Are there any Board

Directors who are not comfortable with the next steps that I've presented? OK. I just wanted to land the
plane there, Skip, if you're all right with that, so.
SKIP SPENSLEY: I just wanted to make two comments, and I think we can wrap this up, if that's OK. First,
I heard important messages. Iterative and collaborative. I heard open, transparent communication. I heard
focused involvement of the key people. Those were ones that we'd actually talked about earlier. They're on
the agenda. But I heard those things. Chris, did you have a comment on that?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. In terms of next step, I wanted to suggest-- I wanted to add one other thing.
And that is we have subregional service councils that include stakeholders from all of the major cities on
them. One thing that we might consider before we sit down and have the discussion ourselves, is sending
out a form, an email, whatever, to the members of the subregional service councils and say, hey, we're
about to set the short term goals.
What do you think they should be? What feedback do you want to give us? Because we're all accountable.
I hear from a bunch of elected officials. But giving them the opportunity to come to us and say, hey, we're
doing this, let us know what you think, could be a really nice, easy way to involve them in the process and
inform our conversation in June.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent suggestion. I'd be more than open to it. I would just have to see the feasibility
with where our timeline is. But excellent suggestion.
SKIP SPENSLEY: The very last thing, if I can say that. Are you guys ready to finish this up? Margie said to
me, you got to go around the room and ask them what they liked about this afternoon's process. And you
don't have to say you liked me, but tell me what you liked about this process. So, can I start with you,
Debra?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I will share that I think it's great-- sorry. For those online, I apologize. Debra Johnson,
CEO. I would say this is a great opportunity for everybody to come together and coalesce around what the
intent is going forward so there's no surprises. So that was long. I usually do a one word close.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Thank you, Debra. Michael.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I appreciate getting to hear the other Directors' points of view on the matter, because
I've been trying to understand where everybody's at. So this provides some clarity. Still more questions, but
some clarity.
BRETT PAGLIERI: I really enjoyed seeing that there was more consensus than disagreement. It gives me
faith in the process that we're heading in the right direction.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Brett. I guess there's a reason we sat together, but I found that there was more
in common than in disagreement. And I really appreciated hearing everybody's perspective.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I appreciated seeing this as a continuum and seeing where everyone's definitions
fall so that we can come to that consensus and seeing where everyone's heart really is, because we all
want this agency to move forward. And I think it's exciting to see that we can actually come to an agreement
and that we can actually put it on a timeline that makes sense.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I think that we'll be able to make better decisions for spending the time to look
at the process.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. I would say I mean, the first step to having a healthy discussion is establishing
a common language, and I feel like there was a real understanding of, what are we talking about here, and
what's this conversation going to look like in June? And so I think that that's going to be very helpful when
we have that conversation.
TROY WHITMORE: I would be redundant, but one of the highlights was Director Guzman channeling the
ghost of Doug Tisdale with the triple C's.
SKIP SPENSLEY: Dude, where's your pipe?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I was excited to see our turnout tonight for all of you guys as Directors. I really
appreciate you being here either virtually or in person from the session itself. It was very beneficial because
during our break, I think that was one of the highlights is I saw everyone engaging and having a
conversation. And again, in context, we really only need to see each other once a month. And so for us to
actually have the opportunity to discuss and have that engagement, I was really pleased by.
KAREN BENKER: A journey starts with the first step. So I think we've taken the first step, but we've got a
long ways to go.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah. I was definitely glad to hear everybody's views and I appreciated how everyone was
able to speak briefly and to the point for the most part.
IAN HARWICK: For me, I think that this is really key that we set this up now. And I think once we have all
found that consensus, figured out what this looks like for us, that we're really set up for long term success.
While we may not all be psyched about being here right now, this is good for the long term success of RTD
and this Board and everyone who's a part of it now and in the future.
SKIP SPENSLEY: JoyAnn, are you still there?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: She left.
SKIP SPENSLEY: She left? Chris? The other Chris still there? OK. Well, I've been disappointed nobody
asked me what my button meant. Does anybody know what it stands for? Well, I'll tell you what it stands
for. For this, it means-- it says make short term goals happen. Or if you turn it over, it's how short term goals
work. Actually, there's another version for the S, but I didn't bring that up. Thank you very much for your
participation. I appreciate it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: If I want to-- thank you, Skip. Just wanted to give round of applause for him. Is there
any other discussion at this time? Thank you all for your afternoon. We're adjourned. Oh, I'll take a motion
to adjourn. Everyone. Good night, everyone. We are adjourned as of 6:24 PM.

