2022-10-25
Board Meeting pt 1
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I will now call the Tuesday, October 25 RTD Board meeting to order. We are
convened as of 5:32 PM, and I would respectfully ask everyone remain muted unless you are recognized
to speak. Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the official meetings of the RTD
Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare.
The official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. Visit RTD-Denver.com. And a livestream of this meeting is also
available via RTD's YouTube page.
Colleagues, being elected as a member of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to
enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As the Board of Directors, it is our collective
duty to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual
respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality.
These are virtues upon which we can all agree. As such, I encourage each of us to review the operating
guidelines adopted by this Board, and to Act in accordance with those principles, which are available on
the Board of Directors page on the RTD website. Thank you. We'll start with the Pledge of Allegiance.
And Director Whitmore, would you please be so kind as to lead us?
TROY WHITMORE: My pleasure, Mr. Chair. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of
America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice
for all.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Rivera-Malpiede, would you be so kind as to read
out loud the land acknowledgment? Do we see you, Director Rivera-Malpiede?
KATE WILLIAMS: She was here. I do not see her now.
VINCE BUZEK: Argh. She seems to have some internet issues from time to time. I will read the land
acknowledgment. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and trains
operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal nations
that are historically tied to these lands.
We honor our Indigenous elders who have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and
plains throughout generations. May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to
dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of the native and all historically oppressed peoples, and
recognize their current and future contributions in the district as we move forward. OK, I'm going to call
the roll. Director Bouquet. No. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Buzek. Here. Director Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede. are you out there? Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Sloan. Director Sloan, you're muted. You have to say "here" even though I can
see you. No, you're here.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here! I don't know why my space bar doesn't work to unmute.
VINCE BUZEK: Always blame the equipment. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
VINCE BUZEK: So we've got 12 present and three not present. We do have a quorum. We'll move
forward from there. First up are the Retiree Awards. There are no Retiree Awards for this evening. Fourthquarter retiree. Awards will be announced at the November Board of Directors meeting. We'll move on
now to the public participation portion of our meeting, which is open to anyone who would like to address
the Board, including RTD staff who would like to offer their comments about the paid family medical leave
insurance, family consideration.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press Star-9 on your
phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press Star-6 to toggle your
mute settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do
not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing.

If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public
would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at
RTD.boardoffice@RTD-Denver.com. During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses.
Directors or staff may contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend
themselves to follow-up. Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and they will have
up to three minutes to provide their comments. And Ms. Parish, has anybody raised their hand to speak?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yes, Chair. We have two hands raised. The first speaker is James Flattum.
VINCE BUZEK: James, why don't you state your name and give us your comments?
JAMES FLATTUM: Hi. Good evening, everyone. This is James Flattum with Greater Denver Transit.
Thank you very much for taking my comment. So today, I would like to congratulate RTD on updating
their policy to allow e-bikes on buses and trains. Our group views this as a real step forward that will
accelerate both the resurgence of transit ridership for RTD and expansion of low-carbon mobility across
the district.
The last-mile challenge that transit passengers face in reaching their destination is not unique to RTD, but
is certainly a factor that limits RTD ridership. So today, when we talk about last-mile solutions, or even
last-five-mile solutions, we are excited about e-bikes in RTD, because when transit gets combined with ebikes, as in cities like Seattle that have done so, we see new journeys that previously would have felt
impractical with only transit or only e-bikes alone now feeling much more achievable.
RTD allowing e-bikes will help install a new contingent of RTD riders who will choose to ride RTD buses
and trains more frequently because they can expand the practical range of journeys that previously would
have been more attractive to be done as a car journey. This is the punch line we are excited about. By
allowing e-bikes, RTD has extended the range of low-carbon mobility across the district.
Between RTD's Zero Fare for Better Air this past August, and the very successful e-bike rebate program
that resulted in major e-bike adoption across the city in the state, we feel so encouraged to see more and
more people trying out new ways to get around the Greater Denver Metro without a car.
E-bikes on RTD was a key campaign for Greater Denver Transit, and we are happy to share that the
news of e-bikes becoming allowed on RTD was received with huge enthusiasm by our members and
Twitter followers. We see a big appetite for Denver Metro residents to further expand their safe, lowcarbon mobility range.
And there is still more that can be done to make this easier, whether it be working with cities of the district
to expand adjacent bike lane infrastructure to be safely separated from car traffic, or installing more
secure bike parking infrastructure around RTD and city property so that transit journeys can become more
comfortable.
We are excited to work as a partner for RTD to expand transit ridership in the district and more broadly to
expand the share of low-carbon mobility over gasoline cars. This is essential for our region to meet its
environmental sustainability and social equity targets, and this was a step in the right direction for both.
Thank you, and congratulations.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for your comments, Mr. Flattum. Tai-Shrae, who's next?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Next, we have Richard Bamber.

VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Bamber, please state your name and give us your comments.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi, guys. It's Richard Bamber, Greater Denver Transit. I'm going to talk about the R
Line derailment tonight. So basically, the prolonged closure of the R Line in Aurora is now a highly
unusual situation.
To give you some context, in 2015, an Amtrak train derailed on the outskirts of Philadelphia. The primary
cause was overspeed into a curve. That incident caused widespread damage to the track and overhead
catenary system infrastructure, and sadly, eight fatalities. That said, the train was removed and the track's
infrastructure repaired, and the line was reopened six days after the incident.
Another one in 2016 in Croydon, United Kingdom, a light rail train derailed on a 90-degree curve after a
straightaway. And again, sadly seven dead. Widespread and more extensive damage than the Aurora
incident to the infrastructure and track. The line was reopened nine days after the accident and that is
after a complete and thorough investigation by the UK's rail accident investigation branch.
Primary causes of that, overspeed, secondary and causal factors, inattention and fatigue on the
operator's point. So normally, the post-incident infrastructure inspections are completed quickly, allowing
for repairs to commence as soon as possible in these incidents. And this facilitates the reopening of the
line with a minimum disruption to riders.
With the train line back in service, the investigation can then turn to examining the train cars, for example,
and interviewing the operator to establish a full set of causal factors in the incident. I think it's fair to say
that RTD owes its Aurora-based riders an explanation on why their train service has been taken away for
an unusually extended period of time. Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. Bamber for your comments. Tai-Shrae, are there any more people in the queue?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No, I do not see any additional hands raised.
VINCE BUZEK: And did we receive any email comments?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No, there were no emails.
VINCE BUZEK: With no emails and no further participants in the queue, we will now close the public
participation period and move on to our external entities reports. The Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory
Committee, APAC, report, will be presented by Julie Jennings. Ms. Jennings, the floor is yours.
JULIE JENNINGS: Thank you. I'm Julie Jennings presenting for APAC, Access-a-Ride Paratransit
Advisory Committee. These are just our meeting minutes from September 13. Larry Buter started the
meeting by introducing five new APAC members whose terms will and August 31, 2025. I volunteered
and was approved to be the APAC liaison to these Board meetings.
We received updates on five items previously discussed. The first was QRyde software and mobile app
that will replace the Route Match software and the RTD mobile app. The launch date is still to be
determined based on satisfaction of all functionalities within the system and the availability of the mobile
app. APAC members have volunteered to test the mobile app for accessibility.

The Access on Demand program vendor selection process was our next item. Over the summer, RTD
released a request for qualifications for Access on Demand providers. The staff will be reviewing vendor
proposals and offering their recommendations to the Board of Directors at the November meeting.
Update on the Zero Fare for Better Air August. Compared to July paratransit ridership numbers, August
ridership increased 51% for all paratransit trips. 56% increase for Uber pilot rides, 38% increase for
Access-a-Cab rides, and 23% increase for Access-a-Ride scheduled rides.
There will be another look in September comparing numbers-- [AUDIO OUT]

VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Jennings, you've muted yourself. There you go.
JULIE JENNINGS: Am I back? Access-a-Ride vendor selection process. RTD is currently reviewing bids,
and RTD Board will review the recommendations and select vendors at the November meeting. The
wayfinding improvements survey, wayfinding includes any messages like signed plaques, audio
messages, Braille, that type of thing.
So the survey to assess wayfinding closed in August, but did not receive as many respondents as was
hoped for. So they are going to continue to find ways to get feedback before making any
recommendations. Two common themes from the feedback that was received included more audio
announcements and more common formats and locations for Braille. And that was the end of our
meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you so much. Thanks for your report and thanks for your dedication and
hard work to this Committee. I'm going to move on now to the Citizens Advisory Committee, the CAC.
And this report will be presented by Matt Appelbaum. Mr. Appelbaum, please begin when you are ready.
MATT APPELBAUM: Thank you very much. Appreciate it as always. So we had our meeting just a week
ago, actually, and we had excellent presentations and very good discussions as well. I'll give you a brief
summary. The first presentation was account-based ticketing.
And the first thing for me to say on behalf of the CAC is, we are thrilled with this. It's a fabulous upgrade.
Frankly, about time. It's gotten modern functionality. It really will make a difference, we think, for riders
and for RTD as well. We realize it's going to take a while to implement all the possible features in the
system, but I'll just give you some of the comments that were offered by CAC members that I think all of
us were interested in.
One was to broaden this so that you could use your wallet, in other words, an electronic payment of any
sort, to pay to ride transit. It didn't have to be a previous amount deposited in the RTD account. In other
words, if you are depositing money in the RTD account, to finally have an auto refill mechanism so that
you don't run out of money at just the wrong moment and not know about it.
And the third of course, is to integrate this card with other mobility providers like e-bikes and rideshare
and so on so that you'd eventually wind up with a seamless way to access first and final mile as well as
transit, which we think would be really important for people. We realize all of this, as far as we understand
from our questions, all of this is possible with the system. It will take a little while for it to roll out, but we
think that doing so will make a big difference.

And although we understand some of the difficulties in eventually getting there, we also think it would be
great if we could get to where all boarding was done electronically, because that would speed things up
on the system, especially on the buses, which is a big deal. So it's a great presentation, and we are
thrilled that you've finally implemented the system.
Second one was on the fare study. And I guess our first comment would be, yes to lower fares. We are
thrilled about that as well. We certainly understand that could have an impact on RTD's revenues, and we
need to balance it. But I think a lot of our members have thought for a while that RTD's fares were kind of
on the high end relative to other pure transit agencies. So if you can make it work, that's great.
And then kind of the banner headline, I suppose, of our conversation is, we agreed quite unanimously
that the better option was what you're calling option B, which is the single fare concept. And we
understand that these are not final proposals, and these will change and be worked on and so on. We get
all of that.
But as a concept, we really did like the single-fare approach with, yes, possibly an outlier for the airport.
And we liked it for three reasons. One, of course, it's much simpler for people to use, much less
complicated, and therefore, we think people will use it more. Secondly, it certainly appears to be more
equitable in the sense that RTD's costs for ride are not necessarily related to the distance somebody
travels. In fact, often, that's not the case at all.
And thirdly, single fare just seems a lot more feasible and a lot more enforceable, especially when you set
up your light rail and train to not have tap in and tap out, as you see in other systems around the country
and the world that actually have distance-based fares. You know, we've got to decide whether this really
is the way to go. But we think it's the right approach. And again, we're really excited you're looking at it.
Two other comments to finish up here. One is the airport. Yeah, we get why you have higher fares to the
airport. Not clear it's justified by the costs, but you know. And not every city does have higher fares to the
airport. It's probably worth looking at again, especially since we think the goal is to get people out of their
cars, and the current airport fares actually are high enough that it is not that much, or not enough of an
incentive, to get people out of their cars.
The second thing was, we were asked whether we thought a single fare for discounted customers would
be a good idea. Well, it's another reason why having the single fair overall is a good idea, because the
answer is yes, we do in general agree with that.
And I guess the last comment kind of came up in a different conversation, but it belongs here. It's
EcoPasses and how that all works, and getting the rates for the EcoPasses rate in this fare study. And a
particular concern about making them easier for smaller companies. Large companies to figure it out.
And of course, we're an area with an awful lot of smaller companies that often have trouble justifying
EcoPasses, and we think that would make a real difference if we could make it easier for them. So that's
the report. Again, two great presentations, and in both cases, we on the CAC are really excited about the
direction RTD is going.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, Mr. Applebaum. Thanks so much for your report and for the input with regard to
the fare study. Next, we're going to see the Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities, ACPD. They
will present their report next month. We're going to move on to the Audit Ad Hoc Committee report.
Director Catlin, would you and Mr. Marino provide an update for us?

PEGGY CATLIN: Sure, Mr. Chair. I'll start off. We have met as an ad hoc committee a couple of times
since this Board last met as a whole, and we did provide input on the Audit Committee Charter, as well as
the Audit Functional Charter, and received comment at the Planning and Finance Committee meeting.
And we'll be offering up amendments tonight with regard to adjustments that we've made to those
charters as a result of those comments. So I will wait until then.
Secondly, the Committee decided with the advice of General Counsel Snyder that we proceed with the
selection of Audit Committee members, of which we've received a good number of candidate applicants,
with two Board members to review and then make recommendations to the rest of the group and
subsequently to the Board.
And Directors Davidson and myself drew the short straws, and we will be-- no, we're happy to review
those very capable applicants, and we'll be making the recommendation at next month's Board meeting. I
don't know if I left anything out. I will ask Directors Davidson and Dishell if they have anything to add, or
Matt Marino and Dave Haronik from RubinBrown, or also Doug MacLeod and Melanie Snyder if I've left
anything out I don't see anyone chomping at the bit to respond, so that concludes my report. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Perfect. Thank you so much, Director Catlin. I also want to make note that Director
Rivera-Malpiede has joined us. She had an internet problem and has now joined us by phone. So
welcome back, Angie. Next is the Zero Emission Vehicle Ad Hoc Committee report. I don't believe
Director Dishell is there. Who's going to fill in for Director Dishell? Director Guissinger, is that you?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I wasn't-- when I talked to him about covering the meeting tomorrow, I thought he
was coming tonight. So I think the plan, and we'll be meeting tomorrow to finalize it, is to have some
recommendation to the Board in November. And we have the November 8 roundtable with a number of
experts, and we're finalizing questions tomorrow, or close to. And I invite you all to join us for that.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thanks for that update. Next is the Finance and Planning Committee report.
Committee Chair Davidson, do you have anything to report?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I do. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We had another busy meeting on Tuesday, October 11
with a number of recommended actions, many of which you'll see on this evening's agenda. We had
some public comment via email that was entered into the record with regards to the family program that
we'll be speaking about this evening. We had no information from external entities. We did have several
recommended actions. The first two were with regards to what Director Catlin just spoke about with our
Ad Hoc Audit Committee.
First was the audit committee charter. This passed unanimously, but we did have a lengthy discussion
and, I think, a productive discussion around adjustments that we would all like to make in terms of
clarifying Board versus Committee authority. We agreed informally that we would work on an amendment
and receive input from Directors. Thank you to everybody who verbally communicated, and then, also,
Directors Cook and Guissinger for submitting some thoughtful written comments that the Ad Hoc
Committee reviewed and used to create amendments that we'll see this evening.
Similarly, the internal audit function charter also passed unanimously with a similar consideration that we
would be discussing tonight and amending. We did have a discussion regarding a third recommended
action, which was with respect to the Family and Medical Leave Insurance or family program participation
consideration. We had a discussion and heard a presentation from Ms. Leah Riley. We will again hear

from her this evening because this passed, but this was not unanimous. This was a 5 to 2 vote after some
discussion around that particular item.
We also had another recommended action, which was with regards to the second amendment to the RTD
Salaried Defined Contribution Plan that did pass unanimously out of committee. We also reviewed the
2023 fiscal policy and did approve that and move that out of committee unanimously. That was after an
amendment that was proposed by Director Dishell that ultimately was defeated.
But, again, after what I think was some productive discussion, Director Dishell had proposed an
amendment, which is in the minutes, asking to consider the social cost of carbon in our fiscal policy. We
heard from staff, including Ms. Johnson, Mr. MacLeod that we can perhaps consider this as a more
comprehensive environmental consideration plan and that the fiscal policy wouldn't be the place that we
would start in putting this. So, certainly, everyone was appreciative of Director Dishell for raising the item.
The amendment triggered some good discussion, but ultimately did not pass, and the fiscal policy did
pass unanimously with all committee members.
We also reviewed the investment policy, the 2023 investment policy. We had some discussion and did
hear some items that had been raised by Director Lewis and Dishell offline with Mr. MacLeod-- was
appreciative of some of the discussion and things we learned about our investment policy. That also did
pass unanimously with some good discussion.
We had two discussion items at the meeting. One was with regards to the call for partnership program.
We got an update as to the initial proposal that staff is working on. It was an interesting presentation as
usual. I typically call attention to one part of a meeting that's worth listening to. I think that section is
definitely worth listening to to understand what's coming down in terms of the partnership program. And
then, we also had our first look at the 2023 proposed budget. While you're at it, with watching the
discussion items, also worth review there.
In other matters, Directors Broom, Guissinger, and myself had some comments to make, some of which I
believe will be coming up at future meetings. Our next meeting date will be Tuesday, November 1. That is
different timing in terms of the week, so just be aware that is happening next week. And with that, that
concludes my report. Mr. Chair, thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Chair Davidson, for that report. We'll move on now to the Operations and
Safety Committee report. Committee Chair Rosenthal, do you have anything you'd like to report?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure, Mr. Chair, thank you. So first of all, on the 12th of October, we had a
presentation about the Title VI service equity analysis for January 2023, and then we adopted that report
unanimously. We also had a discussion about January 2023 service changes, and we also adopted those
unanimously as well. And both items are on our agenda tonight.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thanks for that report. Next, the Performance Committee. Committee Chair Lewis,
do you have anything you'd like to report.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. During the last Performance Committee, we had one action
item and no discussion items. During our session, we discussed the drafted amendment to the GM CEO's
employment agreement to address the criteria for this year's performance appraisal.
As you'll see within the Board packet, the red line language reflects the new term that removes the
employment and employee ownership success outcome from the appraisal because only the baseline

employee survey was completed this year. The timing for the employee ownership metric is on a slightly
different cycle or survey cadence than the community value and the customer excellence metrics.
You should also know that now that we have the baseline for all three metrics that rely upon the survey
information, the percent improvements can be measured for each in 2023. So that's important to note.
And so the GM CEO's appraisal for January 1, 2023 through December 31, 2023 will discover all four of
those metrics. The committee did vote unanimously to approve the amendment to the GM CEO's
contract.
Our discussion included requests for the COLA adjustment, some discussion around peer salary, a
request for a discussion around subjective measures, and a request for additional meetings, to which the
committee was reminded of the following dates. And I'm going to read these dates because I think it's
important for you all.
So November 2, we will have a Performance Committee meeting. As far as I know, if that's changed,
someone please let me know. On Tuesday, November 8, the GM CEO will provide a self-evaluation.
That's when that will be due. On November 11, the evaluation period the evaluation period for 2022 GM
CEO's performance begins. So that's for each of us to know. We'll then have another Performance
Committee in which we will do a compensation-- or we'll have a presentation of the compensation
analysis to the committee. And so I encourage folks to attend if they're interested in that.
November 21 is when the evaluation period ends, so an important date as well. We'll follow that up with
another Performance Committee on November 30, in which we will be considering the 2022 GM CEO
performance appraisal.
And then we'll bring that to a special Board meeting for consideration of the 2022 GM CEO performance
appraisal. You all are always welcome to attend and are encouraged to attend any of these meetings. I
will ask the GM, Johnson, General Counsel, or any members of that committee if I might have missed
something in this update, to please share. If not, that concludes my committee report. Oh, go ahead.
Thank you. Oh, well, sorry, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: That's OK. That's your report.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, General Manager Johnson
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you Committee Chair Lewis, and thank you Chair Buzek. Just a point of
clarification I wanted to provide-- the performance review period in which the Board members will have an
opportunity to review me commences on the 11th and then concludes. So I just wanted to clarify a
statement that was made. So thank you very kindly.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. I'm back on the internet. I apologize. Director Lewis, several
meetings have been canceled, and I just want to make sure that we are on target for the timeline that we
need to have in place to make sure doing our due diligence. So I know the last meeting was canceled and
there's a new one. Do you plan on changing the meeting dates in the future, or are we going to stay clear
or stay hold to the meeting dates that was sent to us by the Board Office?

SHONTEL LEWIS: May I, Director?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So that's why none of the meetings have been canceled. We did have a Performance
Committee meeting-- I don't remember, last week or the week before.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It was Thursday.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, it wasn't canceled. We had a short discussion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, I got a cancellation notification. Oh yeah, no, we did have a
discussion. It was just a quick discussion. General Manager Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, if I may, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So point of clarification-- the cancellation notice you received was a placeholder that
was sent out by the Board Office which was on Thursday, November 3. It should have been for Tuesday,
November 2, of which Performance Committee Chair Lewis just referenced. So no meetings have been
canceled.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, anybody else? Committee Chair Lewis, does that conclude your report?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does. Thank you so much.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, thanks very much. We're going to move on to the approval of the Board meeting
minutes and Committee reports. The Board and Committee minutes were included in the Board packet.
Are there any corrections from Directors? I don't see any, and unless there's an objection to considering
these minutes all at the same time, may I please have a motion to approve the minutes for the following
meetings-- September 28, 2022 regular Board meeting; October 11, 2022 Finance and Planning
Committee; October 12, 2022 Operations and Safety Committee; October 13, 2022 Performance
Committee; and the October 20, 2022 Executive Committee. Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll move, Director Williams.
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale.
VINCE BUZEK: I heard Williams movement and Doug Tisdale as the second. And any discussion on this
motion? Are there any no votes to approve these minutes? Seeing none, that passes unanimously, which
is 13 to 0.
Next is the Chair's report. That's me. At the Executive Committee, we had some good discussion about
the Board retreat. Nothing concrete, but it seems that the consensus is to do something similar to what
we did this year, aiming toward the end of March for the timeline for that retreat so that the new Board

members will have their feet under them just a little bit, and also doing a similar format in that we would
have a facilitator, and it would be just the Board along with General Manager Johnson and General
Counsel Snyder to bounce questions off of.
So that's kind of where we're at there. If anybody on the Board has any input or any ideas on the retreat,
please contact me offline about that. I really appreciate that.
We talked about the contractual delegation of authority which is going to be coming up later in the
agenda. So I'll hold off on discussion for that. But just as you know that this was prompted by a concern
among Board members that the contracts for our local, state, and federal lobbyists, which were once in
the purview of the Board, that kind of got sideways, and we're bringing that back to be a Board action
item, along with some other things that I think the Board believes are appropriate for Board discussion
and action. So that'll come forward in just a little bit.
We also talked a bit about the timeline for the recruitment of the Board Office Manager. I think today was
the closing day for the submission of applications for that position. I understand there were a number of
applications submitted and a number of qualified applicants. The next step will be for a subcommittee to
review those applicants and conduct initial interviews. That committee consists of Director Cook, Director
Davidson, John McKay. They will take a look at those and sift through those sort through those and then
pass on finalists to the Executive Committee for final interviews, and then presentation of a or maybe
more than one applicant for full Board decision on that.
So that I think concludes my report. I guess Thursday we're going to have a press conference about the
free election-related fair days Thursday at 10:00 AM somewhere at Union Station, I think.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, Chair, actually, it's at the Broadway and I-25 station.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, Broadway and I-25 Station. OK, I guess I won't go to the Union Station then. So very
good. If you all can make it, please do. It should be interesting. So that concludes my report. General
Manager Johnson, do you have anything you'd like to report?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And good evening to you, Board members,
and to all who are virtually assembled. I'm Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. This evening I will
share with you the following information centered around our strategic priorities speaking to community
value.
I will brief you on the upcoming zero fare day to encourage voter participation. I will also share information
regarding speaking engagements and other external meetings in which I have participated on behalf of
the agency related to both community value and customer excellence. I will discuss our RTD's e-bike
policy regarding employee ownership. I will touch on a recent employee all-hands meeting held in
October, as well as the agency's ongoing COVID-19 pandemic responses.
Following the Board's approval for the General Election Day 2022 zero fare and ballot drop box
deployment partnership's recommended action in July of 2022, the agency is partnering with the Colorado
Secretary of State and the County Clerks Association to provide two zero fare transit days to encourage
voter participation in the upcoming general election. In recognition of National Vote Early Day and
General Election Day on Friday, October 28 and Tuesday, November 8, respectively, all RTD services will
be available at no cost to the public.

As you just heard from the Chair, to kick off the event and promote these zero fare days, a media event
will take place at 10 AM on Thursday, October 27 at the I-25 and Broadway Station.
Transitioning to community value, regarding some of the events, speaking engagements, and other
external meetings in which I have participated on behalf of RTD, on Tuesday, October 4, I was honored to
present the opening remarks for the Institute of Asset Management's 2022 Conference, which was held in
Denver. The conference was attended by asset management professionals from across North America
and beyond-- across the country and beyond.
Later that day, I, along with Chief Fitzgerald, met Denver International Airport CEO and former RTD
General Manager Phil Washington, and Den's police command staff to discuss how RTD and Den's
police departments can further collaborate to ensure a welcoming environment onboard the A line at the
airport station as well as cross-agency employment development and training opportunities.
From Saturday October 8 through Wednesday, October 12, I participated in this year's TRANSform
Conference, hosted by the American Public Transportation Association with support from King County
Transit in Seattle, Washington. During the conference, I attended and participated in the APTA Board of
Directors meeting, the commuter rail CEO committee, as well as several other APTA committees on
which I serve in addition to conference sessions.
I participated in a panel discussion entitled The Value of Public Transportation-- Modernizing our
Storytelling, which was moderated by Dorval Carter, APTA Chair and President of the Chicago Transit
Authority. The panel discussed, among other topics, how the conversation shifted in the past few years
with regard to the value of transit, the messages resonating most powerfully with the general public and
key community stakeholders, and the data and metrics agencies are leveraging to quantify the value of
transit in their communities.
I was joined on the panel by Randy Clark, General Manager and CEO of the Washington Metropolitan
Area Transit Authority, Rich Davey, President of the New York City Transit, John Lewis, CEO of the
Charlotte area transit system, and Caitlin Vargas, President of the Board of Directors of Lane Transit
District in Eugene, Oregon.
On Thursday, October 20, I met with Longmont Mayor Joan Peck to discuss potential local public
transportation partnerships. On Saturday, October 22, I participated in the Gaining Ground in the Black
Communities social equity summit, hosted by the Colorado Black Roundtable.
I had the honor of participating in a leadership roundtable discussion entitled A View from the Top that
included Congresswoman Ayanna DeGette; Dr. Michael Benitez, Vice Present of MSU Denver; Robert
Kinney, President Xcel Energy Colorado; Jim Rutter, CEO of First Bank Holding Company and President
of American Bankers Council; Dr. Anthony Smith, Deputy Superintendent Denver Public Schools;
Malcolm Evans, Chairman of the Board, Colorado Black Chamber of Commerce; and Dean Littleton, Vice
President and General Manager at Denver7.
Additionally, Chief Fitzgerald participated earlier that morning on a panel entitled Social Equity and Public
Safety-- Where Do We Go from Here. He was joined by other local law enforcement executives, Attorney
General Phil Weiser; Ron Thomas, Chief of Police City and County of Denver; Elias Diggins, Sheriff City
and County of Denver; Armando Saldate, Executive Director of Public Safety City and County of Denver;
Beth McKane, District Attorney City and County at Denver; Justin Cooper, Deputy Director of Colorado

Criminal Justice Reform Coalition; Jonathan McMillen, Director of Gun Violence Prevention State of
Colorado; and Dr. Thomas Mayes, who is a pastor at the Living Water Christian Center Church.
This week, RTD is hosting the Eno Multi-Agency Exchange or MAX cohorts here in Denver. The program
led by the Eno Center for Transportation group's high potential and high performing transit agency
employees from all organizational disciplines, including operations, finance, planning, administration,
engineering, and other fields many of whom have participated in internal management development and
training programs.
The participating agencies include RTD, LA Metro, Dallas Area Rapid Transit Authority, the Metropolitan
Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority, Valley Metro in Phoenix, and Sound Transit in Seattle, Washington Metro,
Charlotte Area Transit System, and Pittsburgh Regional Transit.
I had the pleasure of kicking off the week with the Eno participants yesterday morning and speak with
them about their why and values and how RTD leverages these two critical elements to make lives better
through connections. The leadership team and I will continue to engage in informational sessions with the
participants the remainder of the week, including the six Eno participants from RTD and we'll share best
practices and information regarding agency practices.
Transitioning to community value and customer excellence, I was pleased to share with the Board last
week that beginning Tuesday, November 15th, the agency will allow customers to travel with their battery
electric bikes on buses and trains. E-bikes weighing under 55 pounds can be loaded onto the front bicycle
mounts of buses including over the road coaches such as those used for the Flatiron Flyer Service or in
the vehicle luggage compartment underneath those over-the-road coaches.
Between now and November 15th, staff will continue to confer with the American Public Transportation
Association and other transit agencies to garner an understanding of best practices with respect to ebikes in relationship to transit vehicles, and training materials will be developed for front-line employees.
Transitioning to employee ownership. On Wednesday, October 5th, I along with the leadership team
engaged in the latest session of dialogue with Debra, an all hands meeting, which were held quarterly for
the purpose of sharing information with employees. These sessions are also an opportunity for all
employees to ask pertinent, timely questions, and for leaders and subject matter experts to engage in
dialogue. For this session, the main topics included Cybersecurity Awareness Month and precautions
employees can take to mitigate potential cyber threats as well as initial takeaways from the August Zero
Fair for Better Air Program. The state-run family and medical leave insurance program, known as Family,
and the implementation status of the five year strategic plan. And last but not least, Chief Fitzgerald
shared some of the initiatives currently underway in the transit police division.
According to recent health data reported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, new
reported COVID 19 cases in the US have fallen by approximately 20% in recent weeks to an average of
fewer than 40,000 cases daily nationwide. Community COVID 19 transmission remains at a substantial or
moderate level across all counties served by RTD, which represents an improvement from the levels I
cited in my September General Manager Report.
As of today, one RTD operating facility remains in outbreak status with two other facilities being
monitored as potential outbreak sites. As cooler weather returns, the leadership team and I will continue
to monitor COVID 19 and seasonal flu cases in the region and among employees to determine whether

any agency response to these threats is warranted. And with that, Mr Chair, I will conclude my remarks
and welcome questions at this time. Thank you very kindly.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you so much for that report. Anybody have any questions for our GM CEO?
OK, great. Thanks for all your hard work. Thanks for being out there and being the face of RTD and all
these events. It's really important. Next is the-- let's see, the Unanimous Consent Agenda.
We have six items on the Unanimous Consent Agenda listed as sections Romans 16 actions A through F.
Those items are Second Amendment to the RTD salary Defined Contribution Plan, 2023 fiscal policy,
2023 investment policy, January 2023 Title VI service equity analysis, January 2023 service change, and
the Fourth Amendment to CEO and GM employment agreement.
If anyone has a change to or has questions on a specific action, please feel free to advise me at this time.
And I will, of course, be happy to pull it from a unanimous consent agenda for consideration under
recommended actions. Seeing no hands raised, do I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?
PEGGY CATLIN: Submit approval.
BOB BROOM: Submit approval.
VINCE BUZEK: I heard Director Catlin as the movement and Director Broom is the second. Thanks so
much. Are there any no votes on the consent agenda? See none. That passes unanimously. Great.
Next, we're going to move on to the recommended action items. There are four recommended actions on
the agenda tonight listed as sections Roman 17 actions G through J. And the first recommended action
is, and I'll need a motion on this, for the Board of Directors to approve resolution number blank series of
2022 regarding delegation of authority and competitive selection which updates the delegations of
purchasing and contracting budget transfer and settlement authority consistent with the Board's bylaws,
the RTD Act, regulations published by the Federal Transit Administration, and the Board's historical
practices with the exception of certain contracts and other matters enumerated within the resolution. Do I
have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll move, Director Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Williams. The second?
DOUG TISDALE: The second by Tisdale.
VINCE BUZEK: The second by Tisdale. OK, and I gave a little bit of a brief discussion about this in my
report. So this is before us for a number of reasons, not the least of which was our local, state, and
federal lobbying contracts. Those are now excluded from the General Manager's contract authority. We
also have some other things in there, transit security personnel contracts, certain consulting services,
internal, external audit services, and amendments to and change orders to those.
And in that regard, I am going to make an amendment to this delegation of authority as it relates to the
section that reads currently. Any amendments, change orders, or exercise of options to renew or extend
any such exclusions exceeding $200,000. And what I would like to amend that to read is as follows, any
amendments, change orders, or exercise of options to renew or extend any such exclusions exceeding
$200,000 period.

This provision will not apply to section two above regarding local, state, and federal lobbying or legislative
liaison services. That would be my amendment to this delegation. Ms. Snyder, your hand is up.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair. So just for a point of clarification, so you're offering a
motion to amend. And that motion or the form of the motion was circulated by Tai-Shrae Parish to the
Board of Directors on October, 22nd. So the language you were just referencing is essentially an
amendment to the proposed amendment I think that you're trying to offer.
VINCE BUZEK: Correct.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK, so you just need a second now on that motion to amend.
VINCE BUZEK: Got a second?
KATE WILLIAMS: I can. Director Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Director Williams. Any further discussion on that amendment that would exclude the
lobbying contracts from the $200,000 limit? Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'd say I'll wait.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm seeing other hands. Director Lewis, please go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Do you mind just shooting me a quick email with your newly
amended language so I can see it visually?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I was going to ask to read it again too.
VINCE BUZEK: This came off the top of my head, but I think I can do it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Any amendments, change orders, or exercise of options to renew or extend any such
exclusions exceeding $200,000 period. This provision shall not apply to the exclusions contained in
paragraph two above regarding local, state, and federal lobbying or legislative liaison services period.
Director Lewis, is OK? So I'm trying to-- what the amendment does is really make it clear that when it
comes to local, state, and federal lobbying services, we have say on those contracts and changes to
them and so forth. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, actually you kind of just got to that. I just wanted this proposal to be put in
plain English for us who are non-lawyers. But you're also talking about renewals. So I think you put the
word renewal in there too.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. Renewal is in there. Yeah.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you for that.
VINCE BUZEK: First Vice Chair Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I apologize. But shouldn't it say that the $200,000 limit shouldn't apply, so we're still
reviewing options and renewals?
VINCE BUZEK: Correct. Yeah, that's the intent.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So the provisions should apply, but the $200,000 limit shouldn't, I think.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. Good point. And that's what happens when you make this up off the top of your
head. So let me see. Let me make a new motion to amend and see if my second will go along with this. I
would make the motion to amend section five of the delegation to read any amendments, change orders,
or exercise of options to renew or extend any such exclusions exceeding $200,000 period. This $200,000
limit shall not apply to any of the exclusions listed in paragraph two above regarding local, state, and
federal lobbying or legislative liaison services period. Does that work?
So make it clear that it's just the limit, the dollar limit, and not that this doesn't apply to them at all. Director
Williams, did you second that, I believe? Are you OK with that?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am, Chair. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. You know what? Could you just explain a little bit
further for me in layman's terms what this is and what it means?
VINCE BUZEK: The amendment that I just proposed?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: So what the end result will be that when it comes to local, state, and federal lobbying
contracts, we not only have the say on who those people are going to be and what the initial contract
looks like but any kind of a change, regardless of dollar amount, any kind of an option to renew or
anything else, regarding those contracts, regardless of dollar amount, will come back before the Board for
approval.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So further clarification if you don't mind, is it just for those contracts or is it
for all contracts?
VINCE BUZEK: So the $200,000 limit will apply to the other contracts listed in this delegation as
exclusions. The $200,000 limit will not apply to the exclusions for the local, state, and federal lobbying
contracts.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, it's still a little confusing. But OK. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Anybody else? Any questions or any further discussion on the amendment? Director
Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My understanding of the intent of the amendment
is to say no matter what the dollar amount is, if it relates to these three lobbying contracts, it comes back
to the Board.

VINCE BUZEK: That's correct.
DOUG TISDALE: I believe that's the intention. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. Thanks for that clarification. And I hope that helps direct you, Director RiveraMalpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Thank you so very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Perfect. Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah. I just want to make sure that our Counsel, Ms. Snyder, has that text in front of
her. And that is clear for her as well as to what you are proposing.
VINCE BUZEK: General Counsel Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you. I think we have that clear now after the second reading. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Great. Any no votes on the proposed amendment?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis? No vote?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. Sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: Let me then call the vote just to be safe. So this is just for the amendment, OK? Director
Bouquet, not here. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Buzek is a yes. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell? Not here, right? Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis, you're a no. Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.

VINCE BUZEK: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. That passes 11 to two. So now we're back to the main motion regarding the
amended and restated delegation of authority and competitive selection as amended. We had Director
Williams as the movement and Director Tisdale as the second. Is there any further discussion on the main
motion?
Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was wondering if you wouldn't mind just walking through just
some of the logic and some of the discussion that happened in the executive committee onto what's
included and why and what's not included and why? Just maybe to make that more succinct, what
problems we're looking to solve here?
VINCE BUZEK: Right. I think the delegation clearly states the problems that we're looking to solve. And
this was a process that took us several months of executive committee to go through. It initially started
with the local, state, and federal lobbying contract, was the impetus to delegation, and also see what
other types of contracts the Board believes it should have more of a say in discussing. And that's how we
had the transit security personnel item in there, consulting services for major studies, the internal and
external audit services, and also the change to those things.
So it started with one item, the lobbying contracts and then with further discussion, the board that
participated in the executive committee determine there were other matters that really were within the
purview of policy, more like policy than [AUDIO OUT], and that's how we-- [AUDIO OUT]
Davidson, am I have frozen?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. We lost you for a moment there, Mr. Chair. But I think we got most of it.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Good. Thank God, I don't have to repeat that again. Does that help at all?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you for talking through that, Mr. Chair.

VINCE BUZEK: Great. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So I actually didn't catch it, Director Davidson's question was what problem are we
trying to solve for. And it broke up a bit. So I didn't catch the what problem we're trying to solve for here.
VINCE BUZEK: You mean with regard to my response.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's correct.
VINCE BUZEK: The problem we're trying to solve for is the distinction between we wanted to make sure
that there are certain items that the believes are more closely related to policy than to operations. And we
want to make that clear in the delegation.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you for that. I just have a few questions of clarity around the delegation of
authority and the policy versus the operations of the agency. So those three contracts specifically, at least
in my experience and how the Board has been situated thus far, has actually fallen into the purview and
the delegation of the general manager. And I understand that we're trying to change that.
But it's also my understanding that that's a part of the operations of the agency, those three contracts. So
if I'm missing something can you, or maybe not you, Director Buzek, but someone on the call, maybe
expound a bit on what I might be missing.
VINCE BUZEK: And when you say three contracts, are you referring to the local, state, and federal
lobbying, three contracts?
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's correct.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Director Tisdale, I see your hand. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A little bit of history may be helpful, but I'll try to
keep it very short. In the past, the Board had always reviewed, approved, and weighed in on the contracts
for our federal, state, and local lobbyists. It was a matter that was simply without question. While this
speaker served as Chairman of the Board for one term, I had a conversation with our then general
manager, David Genova, regarding the renewal of one of the contracts.
And I said, gosh, it looks like it's actually within your purview. I think you can do it. He did go ahead and
approve that contract. It caused a maelstrom, a storm of significant proportion on the Board. Because the
Board pointed out, rightly, that the practice had always been to bring such contracts to the Board.
Therefore, when the occasion arose to consider a recent contract and the general manager proceeded as
was her right under the delegation of authority, there was a further outburst of discontent with that
process.
This is intended, among other things, it's not the only matter that's addressed in the resolution, and you
know that, and you've read it. But the point is relative to this matter, it was intended to restore the historic
practice of the Board that had existed for at least 20 years prior to the incident that I described with former
General Manager Genova.
And the lobbying contracts very much are a policy matter and do not relate to operations. They address
the formation and informing of policy decisions by local, state, and federal regulators and governing

bodies. That is clearly central to our governance policy model that we have here at the RTD. And that is
why I am in support of the resolution. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I appreciate your support. I just wanted to clarify. So it
sounds like it's a process that we're trying to solve for. That the process in which the contracts were
recently negotiated or came about was in conflict maybe potentially with how the Board assumed that
process would be? Is that fair? Is that what I'm hearing?
VINCE BUZEK: I think as Director Tisdale indicated historically this was a decision of the Board.
However, GM/CEO Johnson acted within her right under the delegation as it was written and approved by
the Board when members of the Board discovered that that had been changed-- not changed, but that
was the result of the delegation than where we are today.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I do understand that. But I also heard Director Tisdale say that the process in which
that this had taken place caused frustration potentially with Board members. And that is the reason for the
change. And so I wonder if we're answering the right question with this policy change? Right, if it's a
process question, and I guess I'm not really sure what it means for the Board to have involvement in that
process. And that's really where I'm trying to seek clarity is how we come about. Like is it, is the Board
going to be reviewing RFP's, or is that the nature of this request?
Or does the Board-- I guess I don't know what the ask is of the Board, and what the General Manager
would do, General Manager Johnson, or any General Manager in the future, would do in the future in
terms of this process? Like how does it change the process for how we successfully implement these
contracts?
VINCE BUZEK: Sure. Director Williams, I'll let you-- you look like your hand is doubly raised.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think I can contribute a little bit to this. In my experience, and I've been doing
this for a couple of years now, the Board always had a representative involved in the process. And this
time, I, at least, was not aware of any ongoing of the process until it was a done deal.
So I think, Director Lewis, what we're trying to do here is make sure that we don't have a situation again
where a decision that Board members feel affects them is made without any input from them. And if
anybody thinks I'm not saying that correctly, let me know. But that was just kind of my take on the
situation. Does that help any, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does. Oh, go ahead.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis, I don't necessarily believe this addresses process. It may be the process
gets-- is the exact same process except for the final say, OK, you get the contract. That comes before.
We may decide what the process should be, a process happens, but the ultimate decision on the letting
of that kind of a contract comes back to the Board. So it's really more a distinction of the policy versus
process.
I don't think we don't address the process in here at all.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you. It looks like others want to chime in, and I'll come back in line if their
answers get to what I'm seeking.
VINCE BUZEK: Sure. Director Davidson, I'm going to go to General Counsel Snyder first if that's OK.

MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Chair. So just one minor point of clarification on there is one bit of a
change in the process which is that for these contracts that we're talking about, this amendment is
requiring that the Board is going to approve the scope of work in advance of any solicitation going out. So
that is one change in the process.
VINCE BUZEK: True. Thanks for the clarification. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So that address that we've spent some time talking on packet
page 174 about items two, and I think by extension, I understand the intent with three with business with
regards to local, state, and federal lobbying as well as item three being the public and community liaison,
I think, to me, that also explains the intent of item five which is with respect to internal audit. And that is
that these are entities that typically are heavily engaged with if not working on behalf of the Board.
I'm wondering if somebody from Executive Committee who has worked on this item might comment on
items one and four? My question on item one, which with respect to the security or personnel safety
services, is just the intent and why that is included in this as a exclusion of the delegation? And then item
four, perhaps just an example for the sake of the record of what might be included in the consulting
services for studies analysis or data compilations and kind of how that's bounded?
So I know that's a two part question but just looking for that further context for the sake of the record of
the discussion on items one and four from the exclusions.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I'd be happy to take a stab at that. So I have those items one of three in the
exclusions. So with regard to the transit and security personnel issue, we had a situation a number of
years ago where our current contract was led to the current contract that caused a great deal of concern
in the community and with some people on the Board.
And we felt that was something that should come back before the Board to avoid that situation occurring
in the future because our security personnel are the face of RTD when they're dealing with the public.
And we felt that the potential policy implications there were strong enough to have this become one of the
items that we have in the delegation, the exclusions. With regard to the consultant services, this goes
back to the scopes of work for RFPs that go out that ultimately will come back to the Board to create a
policy, right?
So and I talked about this at our retreat back in March of this year, and just so you all know that these
changes in this language was created not just by the Executive Committee, but it was done in
consultation with General Counsel and GM/CEO Johnson. So we all kind of came together on this as a
unit.
So with regard to those consultant services-- and it just from a major study, so, initially, we had the
language that left the scope of work coming before the Board for all kinds of things that were minuscule
and not important enough that we should really be bothered or slow down those processes. So that's why
we've added the major studies and significant modifications to the policy.
So because as I said before, when you create a scope of work to send something out to get a consultant
to do a study that's ultimately going to come back before the Board and the board will base a policy on
that study, I think that's important enough for the Board to have a look at the scope of work and help
address some of that because that can really drive what the ultimate outcome is. Does that help?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you for the additional clarity, Mr. Chairman. That does help. I appreciate
the further context.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Anybody else? Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just have two more questions. The first is on packet page, let's see here, 177, the
last red line says, the Board's power is not delegated to the General Manager or reserved to the Board.
Are there things within the discussion that you folks had in the Executive Committee that might fall within
that?
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale, I'll ask you to address that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Yes, that's actually a language borrowed from
"The United States Constitution". And it just seemed an appropriate thing to put in. Power is not delegated
by "The Constitution" or reserved to the people. And the authorizing act or the enabling act vests all
power and authority in this Board, and only that which is delegated outside by the Board in a positive
action is to be exercised by others.
So I thought it was just good to reflect what "The Constitution" says, and it says anything not delegated
remains with us.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks, Director Tisdale. I appreciate that. And final question, do, in your discussions,
you know how many contracts would be affected by this change in the past year? Like is the Board
expected to have more contracts coming to them because of the change within this delegation? Did you
all have any discussion in that regard?
VINCE BUZEK: We did not down to the micro level. But it was important, yeah, sure. There will be some
other things that come before us that typically don't. But not that much, which is why we changed the
language regarding the consultant services. Because the way we had it initially where we didn't talk about
major studies and significant modifications, we would have had things at every meeting to approve. And
we didn't want that. We certainly didn't want to burden our staff and our General Manager and CEO and
General Counsel.
So that's why we chose the language we chose to really narrowly define what comes before the Board.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair Buzek. Does staff know if, or does anyone on the call know, what
that could potentially look like, or maybe what contracts potentially would have been affected say in the
past year by a change in this delegation if that were applied obviously retroactively?
VINCE BUZEK: GM/CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much, Mr. Chair. After conferring with our Director of Contracts
and Procurements, there are several, it's hard to quantify because we don't know what lies ahead in
reference to the parameters that are being prescribed with this action. So to the point that the Chair
raised, there will be additional. But it's hard to foresee what that is. We do have a myriad of different
contracts.

You received information in your Board briefing documents that outline the magnitude of those. So that
just gives you a ballpark understanding when you look at the dollar amounts and the specific contracts
that have been excluded.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And do we know the impact to the work for General Manager Johnson or
any of the staff? Like is this going to-- is it maybe it's too soon to tell, but is this going to have a significant
impact on the work that folks are currently performing in terms of increase?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So recognizing that our systems are very manual, and we do not have a software as
a service that we use to manage these, there could be some initial impacts as we go forward. We're
looking to leverage other systems in the near term. But we will have to prepare and do additional legwork
in relationship to bringing things forward to account for the additional preparation time and review by the
Board.
So I would say roughly there could be four to five weeks that would be added on.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Wow. OK. Thank you so much. I really appreciate it. Those are my only questions.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, thanks. You know, I kind of had those questions myself. But if you look at, I
think we're talking now about section three, consultant services for major studies and analysis that may
result in significant modification to the agency's current framework. And where the product of the
consultant's work will be presented to the Board for approval, adoption, or consideration in connection
with significant agency-wide Board policy decisions.
It's repeatedly circumscribed. And, you know, so the things that come to mind for me are the fare and
Equity Study, Re-imagine, the Northwest Trail Study, some big studies. But it seems like something that
the Executive Committee and Ms. Johnson should be able to work out in the process.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, thank you, Director Guissinger. I think that makes sense. The thing is is that
those currently come to us, at least they have in the past. And I wouldn't imagine that those would
change. And so I guess I'm not really sure what would come to us in addition to the larger studies that
you've listed.
VINCE BUZEK: Right, so it's not just the study, not to sign off on the study, this is with regard to the
consultant services that we retain to help us do those studies that ultimately come before the Board. So,
for example, the Fare Inequity Study that's going on now, we've got a consultant that is gathering all this
information, doing all kinds of work, that will be brought to us as a policy to decide, what is the fare look
like, the structure.
That service, the hiring of that entity is something that needs to come before the Board for approval. And
to work on the scope to make sure that we're all on the same page, whether we're solving the problem we
want to solve, right? That they're going to actually address the issues that need to be addressed. So,
yeah, I think this is a great compromise.

I mean we went around and round, back and forth with GM/CEO Johnson and General Counsel Snyder
to really try to refine this in such a way that, hopefully, doesn't overly impact our staff. Director Guissinger,
do you have any more?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, just, yeah, I think that's a good description that by looking at if we see the
scope of work and all of that, initially, for these major studies, it may not be any different from the ones
that are brought to us ultimately. But it helps the Board define what direction those studies are going,
what the goals are, those sorts of things.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you for commenting on the statement of work. That's
an important piece, I definitely understand that. I have one question that may be for staff, perhaps
General Counsel Snyder or Ms. Johnson or perhaps for you Mr. Chair, or all three of you, which is just
given that this does require then the approval of some of these contracts, do we have to make any
adjustments to our procurement practices? Or are there any concerns or risks in terms of discussing final
selection in session? If you might just comment on whether we need to make any modifications to our
procurement practices that would be helpful.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Director Davidson for that question. It's a very good one.
So as we look at various things, say, for instance with exercising an option here, if there were a
discussion to ensue about the performance of said contractor that could be something, and I would yield
the floor to General Counsel Snyder recognizing that we could potentially be talking about some elements
that would not adhere to open and fair competition if there was a decision not to exercise an option as we
go forward.
But General Counsel, if you could please opine. Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, GM/CEO Johnson, Mr. Chair. So I do think that there will be some
adjustments needed to the procurement process really kind of frontloading things and bringing things to
the Board much sooner. So that is going to essentially mean that the Board is going to be looking at each
of these categories of exclusions, each of these things twice. It will come to you first on the front end for
review of the scope and then, again, for final approval after the solicitation prior to the award being made.
I do think there are some opportunities to manage what that conversation looks like with respect to the
discussions on the scope of work. Because you'd be having those in open session, and certainly potential
bidders would be hearing that information. There is a possibility that could put our team at a competitive
disadvantage.
So we'd have to be mindful about those discussions as they arise and kind of address those
conversations as they are had in open session.
VINCE BUZEK: Davidson, does that answer your questions?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It does. I do have a quick follow up, Mr. Chair, if I may. Thank you, that's very helpful.
Can the discussion of scope of work fall within an executive session? I know that this may be a little early
to be thinking about this. But if this were to pass, and we do need to make those modifications, are there

things that we can implement to make sure that we don't put ourselves at a competitive disadvantage for
these exclusions?
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think we're going to have to look at that on a case by
case basis as we look at what particular scope. Certainly there's an opportunity to receive legal advice in
executive session. So some portion, I could potentially see a discussion of a SOW, excuse me, the
statement, of scope of work could potentially be done in executive session. But really most of you should
assume that most conversation would be in open session and would not necessarily be eligible for
executive session.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that. Thanks for the good discussion. So we're back to the main
motion. The motion to approve the amended and restated delegation of authority. And I'm going to call
the roll. Director Bouquet, not here. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Buzek is yes. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell? Not here. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Rivera-Malpiede? Is Director Rivera-Malpiede is still with us? I'm not seeing her.
OK.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: She's by phone. Let me see if I can get her unmuted. One second.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: I think she's still having some issues. I don't know if this would count, but she did
text me, yes. So I don't know if her vote counts by text to me or not.
VINCE BUZEK: General Counsel Snyder, can you weigh in on that?

MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair, I am seeing her as a list, she's on the attendees, and
she was just muted. I think we will allow that for the record.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Sounds great. Thank you. Director Rosenthal? Director Rosenthal, you're muted.
You're not muted, but I can't hear you. Didn't hear you. No, can't hear you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Can he gave us a thumbs up?
VINCE BUZEK: Thumbs up or down? I take that as a yes. Is that a yes? OK. Good. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: I heard that. Good. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. So that passes 12 to one. I want to thank the Executive Committee, Director
Dishell helped out with this, Director Tisdale and anybody else that helped get this item done and on the
way. So thanks very much for that.
Next, I think that takes care of that one. I think we got through all the amendments. OK, next second
recommended action is the Audit Committee charter. We need a motion for the Board of Directors to
adopt the Audit Committee charter.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: And I guess we'll get a motion by Whitmore. A second by-SHELLEY COOK: Second by Shelley Cook.
VINCE BUZEK: By Shelley Cook. And how about discussion? Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No, I just wanted to add my thanks to the committee members and the staff and Matt
and his folks at RubinBrown for taking into account our input and for the end product here. I really
appreciate that work.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Second Vise Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I think, and General Counsel Snyder can correct me if I'm wrong, but I think we need to
formally propose an amendment that these two, or that this attachment will serve as an amendment to the
original document that was included in the Board packet. So I'm proposing that the document that you all
received earlier, I believe it was yesterday, serve as an amendment to this resolution. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: I just got a motion and second on the Amendments to incorporate the documentation that
was sent to the Board yesterday regarding the same item. Do we have any discussion on the
amendment? I'm sorry, Director Guissinger, did you want-LYNN GUISSINGER: Just briefly. Thanks from me too as another person that gave comments to the
committee, and RubinBrown, and everyone for the hard work and the good result. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that. So we've got a motion to amend this action item. Are there any no
votes to the amendment? Seeing none, that passes unanimously 13 to zero. Oh, wait hang on. We don't
have Angie Rivera-Malpiede again. And there's Julian Bouquet, I see his smiling face.
Do we know if Director Rivera-Malpiede is back with us? And, Director Bouquet, where you present? I'm
sorry. I just noticed you there. Were you present for enough of this discussion to be able to cogently and
intelligently cast a vote here?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Probably not, Chair. So I'm going to abstain from this vote.
VINCE BUZEK: You'll abstain. OK. Sounds good. All right, so I'll just call the roll then. How does that
sound? I like calling roll. I'll start from the top. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I will abstain.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Buzek, yes. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell? Not there. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Rivera-Malpiede? Nothing? Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.

VINCE BUZEK: I heard you that time, Paul. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yes.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, so that's I count 12 yes votes and one abstention. We didn't get Rivera-Malpiede on
that one. So OK. That's the amendment. Let's go back to the main motion for the Board of Directors to
adopt the Audit Committee charter as amended. Are there any no votes for that? And, Director Bouquet,
are you going to abstain again?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So we'll have a 12-- I didn't see any no votes. I should wait a second. No, no votes.
So we've got, again, 12 yes votes, one abstention to add to that item. Great.
Next is the internal audit function charter. I need a motion for the Board of Directors to adopt the
amended internal audit function charter.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll move, Director Williams.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Guissinger.
VINCE BUZEK: Williams and Guissinger. Is there any discussion or other further amendments to this
one? Second Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I would like to offer up a similar amendment to what we had done for the Audit
Committee charter that the documents that were circulated yesterday serve as our proposed amendment.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds good. So let's address-- there's an amendment. Do we have second? Who is the
second on the amendment?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Davidson. OK. We've got Peggy and Davidson. All right, so let's talk about the
amendment. Any further discussion on the amendment? Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks for indulging me. I just want to take a moment to say thank you as well to
everybody, and thank you to RubinBrown for taking the time to take the input. Thank you to the directors
who commented, participated, been at some of these meetings. And really appreciate all the work on staff

as well. Mr. MacLeod and Ms. Snyder, just a special call out for the work that was done to get this all put
together and just really appreciate all of the discussion and help that went into this by all parties. So thank
you.
VINCE BUZEK: That's great. Thanks for that. So let's call the roll on the amendment. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'll be abstaining.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Buzek, yes. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell, not here. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Rivera-Malpiede, there? Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Count this as one of our major accomplishments of 2022, by all means yes.
VINCE BUZEK: And Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yes.

VINCE BUZEK: That's great. So 12 yes and one abstention. The amendment passes. Move on to the
main motion which was for the Board of Directors to adopt the amended internal audit function charter
that was moved by Williams and Guissinger. Are there any no votes on that? And Director Bouquet, will
you be abstaining from that as well?
So we have the same tally there, 12 yes, one abstention, that passes. Thanks, everybody. All you audit
function people for all your hard work. It's been a long time coming, eh? Good job. Next, the fourth and
recommended action is the Family and Medical Leave Insurance Family Program participation
consideration. Looking for a motion for the Board of Directors to opt out of the Family and Medical Leave
Insurance Family Program. Is there a motion?
SHELLEY COOK: I'll move, Shelley Cook.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: The second was Whitmore? Got it. And any discussion or presentation on this? How
about Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Just for clarification, could somebody talk about the funding for this benefit? It seemed like
what we're saying is that we're opting out, that we're going to be in administratively and so forth. And my
concern is that once this thing gets sets up, then we'll be in a position where everybody will be back on us
to actually opt in and pay for this.
VINCE BUZEK: GM/CEO Johnson, can you respond or have someone respond?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, for the questions. And we will address that as we
look at where we are. I see Ms. Riley. I'm trying to discern as we talk about costs, we have to factor that
in. And CFO MacLeod, there he is.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [INAUDIBLE]
LEAH RILEY: So, Director Broom, the cost of the programs are funded by premiums on employee wages
throughout the state of Colorado. So if our team chooses to participate fully in the program, RTD would
be compelled to pay 0.9% premium on all employee wages that would be split equally between the
employer and the employee. By choosing to opt out, we're allowing our employees to voluntarily choose
to opt in and voluntarily choose to remit the half of that 0.9% which is 0.45% of wages to the state and
allowing them full benefits of the Family Program.
Because there's a special provision for local governments to opt out of employer participation, RTD can
take advantage of this option. Private businesses are not allowable to opt out. So this is a statewide
program. So funding will be going into the State Department of Labor and employment for all employers
throughout the state of Colorado.
BOB BROOM: Thanks for the explanation.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. And Director Broom, does that address your questions?
BOB BROOM: Yes, it does.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much. Director Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I will confess, I did not have the opportunity to give this
as much attention as I know it deserves. I was struck by one thing, and I wondered if someone could
address it. In the Board report as found at packet page 196, in the penultimate paragraph, it says the
governing body of a local government that elects to decline participation, whether fully or for the employer
only, must take testimony and provide notice to employees and the opportunity to submit comments
through a public process prior to final action.
I know we received some written comments by way of email. The question is, A, have we complied with
this? And B, is there some reason that we are actually exempt from complying with this requirement?
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Ms. Riley?
LEAH RILEY: Thank you. So, Director Tisdale, we have fully complied with the provisions of the Family
Act. The public comment that was available at the beginning of this Board session was made available to
anyone from the public or our employees to provide comments. This was also made available during the
committee session. In addition, RTD has gone above and beyond the notification requirements to
employees by doing the following.
On Monday, September 26th, the General Manager and CEO provided a memorandum to all employees
with information regarding the Family Programs premiums and benefits. In addition, I, Leah Riley, Chief
Administrative Officer facilitated a virtual lunch and learn session for all employees on Wednesday,
September 29th 2022 to further educate and inform employees on the Family Program and provide
notification of this recommended action. In addition, we have put informational posters outlining all
benefits available to employees, including those that can be available from the Family Program in all of
the break rooms in all RTD facilities.
In addition, on October 6th 2022, Adam Barnett, who is our Manager of Total Rewards, provided notice
via email to all RTD employees informing them of this meeting and the upcoming Board vote on this date.
And in that email we also provided information to our employees on how to submit written comments or
provide public testimony during this meeting.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And if I may, Mr. Chair, just add on one additional comment to Ms. Riley's remarks-VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please do.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, I'm sorry. As stated in my General Management Report during the all-hands
meeting dialogue with Debra, this was a subject of which we discussed on October 5th. And subsequent
to that, our Total Rewards Manager, Adam Barnett, of which Ms. Riley referenced, sent out additional
communique. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that info. Director Tisdale, does that address your question?
DOUG TISDALE: It does. And I thank you, Ms. Riley, for making a comprehensive record on the point. I
just didn't want someone at some later time to say that there were procedural steps that we had
neglected to take. So thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for all that. I'm doing to-- any further discussion? So we're going to go to
the vote. And I just got a text from Second Vice Chair Catlin, who informs me that her computer quit. So
because I have no idea who's left in this meeting, I'm going to call the roll again. Director Bouquet?

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin has her hand up. I'm not sure if you would like to address her first?
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was able to log back in. It just quit, and I was able to log back in. So thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks so much for being here. I'm still going to call the roll. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm a yes.
VINCE BUZEK: All right. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Buzek is a yes. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell, you're not back in? Are you? OK. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
VINCE BUZEK: And Director Rivera-Malpiede, are you back up?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm back. And yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. OK. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore?

TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: And Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. That passes, 13 yes votes, one no vote. Excellent. So we have one discussion
item-- that concludes, I believe, all of our recommended action items. Thanks everybody for your
comment, your input on all of those.
Discussion item is safety management systems update. Tonight, we're going to have a safety
management system update. General Manager Johnson, would you or Dan McLain, a Senior Manager
Safety and Environmental Compliance, present this item?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Just to provide some context as a follow up to
the PTASP, the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, of which Mr. McClain presented to this body at
the September Board meeting. There were some questions relative to the data. Hence, we're coming
back to you to provide you with additional information and provide more context to that. So without further
ado, I will yield the floor to Mr. McLain. Thank you very kindly.
DAN MCLAIN: Good evening. I'll go ahead with kind of a review from what we presented and why the
PTASP is aligned with the strategic plan. We want to have one mission, one vision. Our priorities are
aligned. So now we're not chasing two different goals or two different performance targets.
And so we intentionally align these. When we went with the PTASP, this was stated last month, we were
ensured that the alignment still existed and strengthen them in areas where we could. Again, it's safety
performance, it's for our employee contractors and customers. Again, making lives better through
connections, emphasizing that our values support the safety management systems, particularly in
ownership, trustworthiness, respect, and passion. And those shared values we use throughout our
initiatives that we have in our safety management systems.
Why do we do this? There are regulations. And, again, these are regulations from the Federal Transit
Administration part 673, part 674, the Colorado Public Utilities Commission which recently updated their
program standard and the 2021 Bipartisan Infrastructure law.
And that will have significant impact in the next several years in both our safety management systems
and how we address risks throughout the agency. Again, just a refresher, what is a PTASP, The Public
Transportation Agency Safety Plan. It's an annual snapshot of our management system. It documents the
safety management systems, processes, and activities. It includes our safety performance targets. And it
is required to be reviewed and updated and approved annually. As we did back in September, and it was
submitted last week to meet the November 1st deadline by the PUC.
What is a Safety Management System? And this is a formal, this definition is from FDA. But it truly is a
formal, top-down agency-wide data-driven management approach. It's a series of interconnected and
interdependent processes that enable safe workplaces and healthy workplaces. They prevent workrelated injuries and illness. And continually improve safety performance.
Again, I'll just contrast. A management system is different than a programmatic approach. Programmatic
approach has one goal. Efforts to get to that goal once it's done, it moves on. A Safety Management

System follows the plan do, check, act cycle. And it really is wholly dependent on the leadership and
management commitment to be successful.
So let's go into the performance data. This is year to date through September, and it compares against
our performance last year, year to date. A little bit about what we're going to talk about as our safety
performance targets. One thing that was changed from 2021 to 2022 because of our strategic plan
objectives is we now do a combined preventable accident rate for bus and rail.
It's less than one per 100,000 miles. And that's what was settled on as the strategic plan outcome,
success outcome. A 5% reduction year over year and on the job injuries, the number of loss time days we
have, the number of slip and fall injuries we have, a number of strain injuries, and to maintain our system
reliability without increasing costs.
That's a little bit definitions. So maybe the charts that are to come will be better understood. First report of
injury is how we find out something happened where there may be an injury, there may be something
happened enough to where someone says, hey, I might need to see a doctor about this. They don't
always have that happen. That's when we come report only. Medical only means they just went to the
doctor to get something taken care of. Maybe multiple times, but they didn't lose, they weren't injured
enough to lose time to take them off their job.
When you're looking at the OSHA statistics-- when they say the OSHA incident rate or the rate, which is
the number of injuries per 100 employees-- OSHA only deals with lost time and medical. So when you'll
see this next slide, you'll be able to understand that, and I'll point it out. And we further classify this for the
ability to prioritize our resources. What are we going to work on? What is our highest risk? What is the
most occurring type of injury that we can try to work on that and whittle it down?
So this is the rate per 100 employees. As you can see, the red bar is 2022 data, the blue bar is 2021
data, and the yellow bar is 2020 data. As you see, for the total cases in 2022, we are exceeding what we
did in 2021. But if you compare that to the OSHA rate, which is just the medical and lost times, we're
actually well below our 2021 performance. What does that mean-- and I'll show you in the following chart- is that we have a higher number of record-only cases that have came in.
These black marks here are the benchmark data. These are BLS statistics-- Bureau of Labor Statistics-numbers that are tracked for the sole purpose of seeing what's a typical performer in that space. What are
their rates?
Here's the trend per month. Again, as you can see, we have red is 2022, blue 2021, and yellow '20.
Typically, you can see we're running about the same number of reports. And again, the data in the
previous slide show we have higher reports. But as I stated, we typically in a normal year-- at least in the
last four years that I've been keeping track-- record always been around 30% to 35%. And so far this
year, it's higher than that. That means we've got a very pro-reporting culture. We're not hiding injuries.
We're getting stuff in when things happen, which help us attack and try to prevent these from occurring.
The different types-- the causes, just to call out here. Again, slip and fall and strain have been some of
ours that are focused over the years. And that's why they're specifically called out in the targets we have
struck by here. These are just different ways that we look at where we need to focus our priorities.
As for our performance on our goals as compared to 2021, our goal was 5% reduction of OJIs right now.
And this is the total OJIs. So that's the total number, and that's why the red bar on the incident rate was

higher. Again, that's the total number, and that includes the record only. Slip and falls were down 22 and
1/2%. Injuries from strains were down 4.9%. And the number of lost times due to OJIs were down
14.72%.
And currently, this is kind of the baseline year for this metric. That's the combined preventable accident
rate. And we're currently at 1.04 with a strategic plan preventable accident rate per 100,000 miles.
Just what did we do to affect those numbers this year? This year, we cascaded training to all employees
around event investigations. Why we do investigations, they're looking for systemic causes. We're looking
for prevention. Training on the PTASP roles and responsibility to all managers-- actually from the AGM
down through the supervisors. What's their roles and responsibilities and expectations is described in the
PTASP. For those in Light Rail and in Capital Programs that are affected by the PUC regulations, they
were also trained in the new public utility commissions program standard.
We also have a select number of individuals, both in the Safety group and the Light Rail group-- and
working to expand that across RTD-- getting trained in the Department of Transportation's Public
Transportation Safety Certification Training program. In fact, we're holding, I believe, four sessions with
the Transportation Safety Institute of this training in Denver this fiscal year-- so starting from October 1
into next September 30.
And then we've updated the policy posters-- or in the process of it-- to actually have what's in our PTASP
that follows our strategic plan. And that's signed by CEO Johnson and myself.
Another big step that's happened this year is the implementation of Operational Risk Management. The
policy and framework were published. We used several different communication tactics, just like we did
before. We did the weekly newsletter. We did the virtual all-hands meetings. And we did cascaded
training on this. And we have scheduled the week of November 14 to do the on-site using the existing
safety committees to basically go out and say, hey, what's the top-25 risks that you work in every day?
What do we do to keep them safe? How do we do this? And just start building a catalog of risk, or what
they call a risk registry, to help us prioritize efforts and minimize risk exposed to our people and
customers throughout the system.
Questions?
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thanks for that report. Any questions, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. If I could ask you to please take a look at page
211 again. That's the incident rates on injuries per 100 employees. Just to make sure that I'm
understanding this right, Dan-- looking at OSHA 2020 urban transportation average, which, of course, is
more appropriate than looking at the National average-- we want to compare like with like-- I look at-forget last year-- look at the 2022 data where it's 10.71 per 100 employees as opposed to the 6.1.
So for 1,000 employees, the urban average is 61 employees. And for us, it's 107. I shouldn't say
employees. 107 injuries versus 61 injuries. Is that attributed to the difference between just reported stuff,
or is it real injuries? Because if you're saying it's, well, we report more, wouldn't that be true of the urban
transportation average, too? And I'm just trying to get a sense of, do we have an issue here as to which
we should pay more attention, even than we are doing? And I acknowledge we are paying attention.
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah, Director Tisdale-- if I can, Chair?

VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please.
DAN MCCLAIN: So the OSHA rates here, which are the bottom three of the red, blue, yellow, those are
only the events that met the medical threshold, or the individual lost time. These up here-- the 18.45-- that
includes our events that, at the time, someone thought they were significant enough that I needed to
report them in case I had to go to the doctor.
So as we saw, I think 42% of those were record only. So really, the best benchmarkable number is this
data here-- the 10.71. You see as in 2020, we had a 9.18. 2021, we were 12.15. We still have opportunity
to improve. And we still have mechanisms in place that we need to mature to start moving us towards the
6.10, and the operational risk management is one of them. Event investigation is another one of those.
Did that answer the question?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, sir, it did. I appreciate that. I mean, as I say, that's comparing apples to apples.
The OSHA RTD 2020-- well, whichever of the three years you want to use-- compared to the urban
transportation average-- you're right, there is room for improvement. I thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. Just to follow on to that question and then a couple of others, if I
may. So back when we started looking at your approach here, I think one thought-- or at least something
that was discussed at the time-- is the level of mandating. We were mandating a lot of overtime hours.
And the thought was that that was contributing to the injury level. Do you find that in fact reducing or
eliminating the mandating has had the effect we hoped for? Is that what you see regards the decrease in
OSHA reportable for the current year? Just give me a sense.
And then also, if we've realized the benefit of that, what, beyond the procedural pieces that you're talking
about, do you see as our major focus in getting back down to that OSHA industry average at the urban
level?
DAN MCCLAIN: I think, Director Cook, the mandating had some effect. We really had a decrease in 2020
in our numbers for a couple of reasons. We had less service, which equates to less exposure. But all that
said, we took the time to have less operators, and we did a lot of training. I know Bus did a lot of training
on their folks and tried to do driver training and the Smith System 5Keys. And so we had that extra time to
do the training.
I think it's hard to say just the lack of mandating had an effect. I don't actually see any substantial effect of
the mandating, except we're not mandating as much now. So we can kind of take that off the table as
that's the cause.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Then on the preventable accident rate- and so you know I have this problem with
it-- I won't restate that-- with regard to the Rail side. But when you combine the Rail with its great number
of miles and frequency, do you have what the Bus alone would have been compared to that, instead of
combining the two? What, instead of 1.04, would that number have been?
DAN MCCLAIN: I believe the Bus the last-- and let me say, Director Cook, Fred's group, Greg Smith's
group, who includes Aaron and our contractors, they get granular down to the garage. And so they have
that ability to make those adjustments, granularly, at the garage when they see something that's going on.
We've got some work going on with Fred's team to even in the future look at benchmarking-- what the
privates do-- because they seem to have a little better preventabilty rate than ours.

So the last rate that I remember with the Bus that was the Bus RTD alone was 1.81.
SHELLEY COOK: So at least for your purposes, you want those broken out, right? I think you ought to
keep them broken out. But just putting that out there. You haven't had the chance to tell me why you
combined them, but that would be one [INAUDIBLE].
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah, and I've had those same discussions with Bus. And so the reason you want to
spread them out is you want to see who's contributing the most, who's performing the best. And so part of
that is whoever is performing the best, you want to grab the good-work practices they're doing. What are
they doing that's right? And then over here, what do these folks have that are doing wrong? And actually
get deeper. What routes are they running? Are they more safe or less safe? And what's the issues that
we have? So really digging into the numbers a little deeper.
So yeah, that's how we manage that. Part of the other thing is we need to get deeper into causal factor
determination. My anticipation was we would have that in place by now, but it's been delayed. And
knowing the causal factors-- so then you can say, OK, these are the causal factors on these events,
whether they're injuries or preventable accidents. It allows you then to focus on that training, prevention,
route design, all of those things that need to be looked at to have an impact to that number.
SHELLEY COOK: I appreciate all that analysis. One more, Mr. Chair, if I may?
VINCE BUZEK: You bet, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: To the extent your carrying out the risk assessment at these more micro or operational
levels to identify areas where your work needs to focus, I kind of wonder if some of that can percolate up
and be input into the overall-- the corporate-- risk assessment. Just wanted to suggest that as a thought
for the committee and so forth.
DAN MCCLAIN: If I may, Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: You bet, Mr. McClain. Go ahead.
DAN MCCLAIN: So one of the things that I think is very commendable of what we got through is the
operational risk management framework that was in the exhibits package on the PTASP. But it applies to
all of RTD that's not covered by the Audit Committee. So Legal and Finance is carved out for the internal
audit. Everything else in RTD is covered by operational risk management.
And yes, we're just in the infancy of implementing it, but it applies to everything. We even worked to apply
it on the battery electric bikes and some of the other events we have and also, looking at this. I'll give you
an example. Sometimes when we sell a wrap for Lamar Advertising on our rail cars, we also sell a photo
shoot. But now we need to look at what are the operational risks to that. So someone would pay for that.
So we're looking at things through a different lens now that we've applied operational risk management.
Or hopefully we will continue to be more fluent at doing that.
SHELLEY COOK: But to the extent you identify things that are both somewhat likely and have
catastrophic or very serious implications for the Agency depending upon the scope, that could be
reflected upward into that audit process, correct?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah, actually, if you look at the operational risk management, it comes up through the
garages, through the existing committees, up through the committee structure. FRA has it different. So

they'll do it in Commuter Rail and go straight to the leadership. And where we'll come up and actually
incorporate in to the Joint Union safety committee and then up to the Leadership Safety Committee
meeting. So everyone will be aware of it.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks so much. That's all I have.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks, Director Cook. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Does heavy turnover and a lot of new employees lead to higher
accident rates?
VINCE BUZEK: Mr McClain?
DAN MCCLAIN: Director Broom, the answer is typically, what we try to do is look at these things each
individually and to see what we have. Higher turnover means that we're spending more time in training,
but I'm fairly confident our training program isn't taking shortcuts to get more people out there quicker. So
they're getting the same amount of training. I think the higher turnover is more of an issue for service
than, I think, for Safety. Fred may have more granular data.
But there's other things that are bigger and more obvious effects right now of why we're having injuries
and preventable crashes than just turnover. We run those statistics, Director Broom, on years of service,
hours of service, time of the day. We're running those statistics right now, and we share those with Bus,
and we share them throughout the agency to determine where our priorities are. And we work with Bus
Transportation-- Chris Deines and Laura Dean-- so we can get them into the training curriculum.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Broom. Any more questions for Mr. McClain? Seeing none. Thank you,
Dan, very much for the report and the update. That's very informative and helpful to us.
DAN MCCLAIN: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm going to move on to report of Director activities. Would any Director like to report on
their activities for October? Director Broom, your hand is still up. Thanks. Director Kate Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think this is a great thing. So I have a couple of notes. In the month of October,
I went to the CDOT statewide monthly transit meeting. I went to the Denver Streets Partnership Steering
Committee.
I went to the Denver's Climate Action and Sustainability and Resilience-- wow, CASAR, that's a mouthful-Committee. I attended the Vision Zero meeting with DRCOG. I went to the Advisory Council for People
with Disabilities. I participated in the Zero Emission Vehicles Committee-- both APTA and RTD's. I went to
the Transportation Solutions TMA meeting. I went to DRCOG's Regional Transportation meeting. And I
think there was probably more, but that's all I can think of at the moment. Thank you for bringing this
back.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for your report. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to report that in the last two weeks, I
attended the American Public Transportation Association Transform conference in Seattle, Washington.

At that time, I chaired the APTA Transit Board member committee meetings that we held. And I also, in
my capacity as Chair of the TBMs, went with the head of the Business Members Board of Governors-- the
BMBG-- and the CEO Coordinating Council. And we spoke-- the three of us-- at each of our respective
committee meetings, pledging ourselves to increased communication, collaboration, and cooperation
amongst the Transit Board members, the CEOs, and the business members, which was a message that
was very well received by everyone at APTA.
And then today, I had the privilege of addressing the Ann Arbor Area Transportation Authority Board
Retreat in Ann Arbor, Michigan-- where I spent many happy years-- and presented on the topic of local
advocacy. And I am told it was well received. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So during this month, both Director Dishell and myself were
contacted by a mutual constituent, which means they're right on the border of our districts. And so she
was concerned for her sons riding RTD. So she said, hey, would you like to do a ride along with my sons
because they're going to high school? And so both Director Dishell and I did a ride along on the train with
them. And so we both enjoyed the ride, and we thought that it went very well. So we're going to-- in the
future-- ride along at a different time to just see if we can experience what they do. But just so folks know
that we're certainly out there trying to support members of the community.
Also, my car broke down earlier this month. And that was pretty unpleasant, but needless to say, I got to
ride RTD quite a bit. And I have to say I was very impressed with the service, the timeliness, the drivers,
the cleanliness. It was just a really good ride. It was speedy and actually, I just loved it because I could
work on my cell phone while I'm sitting there on my way to work or on my way somewhere. So I really
have to commend, certainly, the GM/CEO, and all the staff, and all the drivers, and all the mechanics, and
all the administrative, and everybody who's at RTD. And I could just see it right there that things were
really, really moving.
And I also saw a lot of people on the buses and a lot of people on the trains. I think that the statistics are
certainly-- hopefully-- bearing out that people are staying on the buses and trains after the Zero Fare for
Clean Air campaign. So I just have to really commend everybody. And hopefully, let's just keep this going.
Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: That's good to hear. Thanks for your report. I've got Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just wanted to make sure that this body knew that Director
Guissinger and I meet with several staff members, including GM/CEO Johnson, several times a month
with our local, state, and federal lobby teams to keep abreast of what's going on in all of those arenas.
And obviously, things will be picking back up with the state legislature with some new faces. And we will
endeavor to give you more regular reports during the legislative session. But we appreciate the talent that
we have contracted that keeps us going on a myriad of issues. So just a reminder that is happening and
needs to continue to happen, whoever the two may be next year. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Treasurer Whitmore. Any other Directors care to make a report of their
activities? I See none. I'll move onto other matters. Are there any other matters to come before the
Board? Director Rosenthal.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So as we move into the new year, we will have new Board
members. And I think it's another opportunity for us to gather in person. And so my hope is that starting in
January, we will be able to, as a full Board-- particularly, I believe for full Board meetings, not necessarily
necessary for our committee meetings-- but for our full-Board meetings like tonight, we should gather
together.
And so I had a discussion earlier today with Barbara McManus. She is away, and I regret I called her.
She is away on bereavement, but she did spend a few minutes to chat with me. And so she kind of
updated me a little bit about the technology issues that they are remedying. And then certain parts are still
awaiting arrival for the conference room in the 1660 Blake Street address. And I also brought up the
proposal to say, look, what if we're all on our own laptops, and we're all on Teams? We could still all be in
that room.
And as the General Manager mentioned, there is that conference that RTD is wonderfully hosting that is
in that room right now. And I stopped by and talked with some of the participants. And some of them are
also on their laptops using the Wi-Fi. So what I requested from Barbara is to ask IT if we would be able to
do that-- if we would be able to just use our laptops and go on Teams-- if that would be acceptable for
January if they're not able to actually complete all the installations for January.
So the goal, she said to me, is for January for us to be in person. That's what we're anticipating and
hopeful to do. But I also believe we really need to meet in person to develop relationships between each
other, especially the new Board members, and between the Board and our General Manager. So what I'd
like to do-- I know that's a bit of a long speech. But what I'd like to do is sort of gauge all the Board
members and see what their opinion is on the matter, and to see, hopefully, that you will also like to meet
in person, especially, as I said, for our full-Board meetings. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. I saw Director Tisdale with a thumbs up. Other people, yay, nay?
SHELLEY COOK: Mr. Chair? It's Shelley.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, Shelley Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I would kind of think that the opposite might be better to have the committee meetings
in person down there because they can be accommodated on that third-floor conference room. They can
be live streamed because the intent of going to the smaller committees was to provide for more give and
take and slightly less formal way of talking about policy and potential changes.
So my thought was if we've still got those technical issues on the main level, maybe the committee
meetings could be in person in that third-floor conference room around a table, which really does foster a
sort of sense of collaborating and working with each other. And then the Board meetings, to the extent it's
still technically difficult to meet down there and to stream it, might be remote for the time being or
something. That would just be an added thought.
VINCE BUZEK: So maybe it might be best to try to get a list of the options that may be available to us
coming in January regarding Board meetings, committee meetings, where they are, whether everybody is
in a room on their own Zoom on their laptop, or whatever. So GM/CEO Johnson, I'm not sure if that
should come from the Board Office staff. Or would you need to weigh in on putting something together in
the next week or 10 days that gives us some idea of options?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Mr. Chair, if I may.

VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So in full transparency, this has been an undertaking of the Board Office and Board
Staff. I am willing to lean in and provide whatever assistance, especially as we talk about the needs of
staff outside of the purview of the Board, i.e. Information Technology and the things of the like. I would
offer up it may be advantageous for maybe a designated person of the Board with whom Board Office
staff can coordinate. And I, in turn, will ensure that we have staff support. And then options could come
full circle in that vein.
VINCE BUZEK: That sounds great. And, Director Rosenthal, since you have already started the process,
why don't you be the go-to guy on this, and work with Ms. McManus when she returns, and Tai-Shrae,
and the rest of the Board staff, and see if you can develop a number of options for us to consider and
what might work? Is that OK with you?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I would be glad to. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I've got a couple of items I want to briefly discuss. First of all, the R Line
has been shut down for an inordinate amount of time. I don't have any national statistics, but it always
seems like when Amtrak or something has a derailment, they get their trains back on the track in the next
day or two. And within a week, normal service is restored. And so I'd sure like to have some explanation
of why it's taken us so long to restart the R Line.
The other is that there was a large article about two days ago on the front page of the Denver Post talking
about the RTD Board. And I guess there's a lot of misinformation in that article. And one of the things that
I think a lot of people don't realize is that with the pandemic going on, it was kind of like robbing banks to
go to people's doors with a mask on to knock to get signatures. So the signature gathering process is
really incredibly difficult under the current circumstances. And people are still reluctant to come to the
door. You might as well be selling vacuum cleaners as opposed to trying to get signatures.
The other thing that kind of counters what they're talking about is that the meeting attendance at our
Board meetings and so forth is really outstanding for a Board of our size and how easy it is to skip things
when you're on Zoom, as opposed to meeting individually, which I certainly support, and I would like to
see us start in January. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that, Director Broom. Any other matters to come before the Board? I see First
Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I think we're in the middle of it, but is there any report on our job fair and
how that's looking?
VINCE BUZEK: GM/CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so if you give me a minute, I will provide some information, as I have to pull that
up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I guess in the short term, I like the idea of finding a meeting a month to get
together. I was also thinking maybe the committees made the most sense. I'm just filling the time while
you're pulling that up.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, if I may, I am prepared at this juncture.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
VINCE BUZEK: Go right ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So recognizing that we have had some job fairs, I did receive information this
morning from Mr. Worthen-- Fred Worthen-- who serves as the Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations. And what we did learn earlier this morning is that we had 15 bus operators, two vehicle
mechanic candidates at the open house yesterday. Now, this is strictly as relates to bus operators
because this is the only report I have at this juncture. And we saw a good turnout this morning at the
Platte open house today.
One thing that was shared with me as well is we currently have 50 operators in our training program. And
this is the most we have had in concurrent training classes in quite some time. And recognizing that when
we talk about we have people in a training course, there is normal attrition. So factoring that in, we
anticipate graduating about 35 to 40 out of that bus operator training course. I don't have any information
relative to Rail at this juncture, but I could be prepared to speak to that at a future meeting once we
complete these job fairs and have better numbers, relative to people who applied and met the eligibility
criteria. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you so much.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thanks for that. Sounds positive. Any other matters to come before the Board?
Nope. In a moment, the Directors are going to meet in Executive session, hopefully, to receive legal
advice regarding the September 21, 2022 R Line derailment. Please note that the Board will reconvene in
open session after the Executive session ends with no further business on the Board meeting agenda.
I will now entertain a motion to move into Executive session, pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(b) CRS. to receive
legal advice and section 246-402(4)(c) CRS. That should be 24-6, not 246. My apologies. Matters
required to be kept confidential by state law and rules. Section 40-18-104 CRS and 7 CCR 723-7 Public
Utilities Commission Rules, 7349(d)(1) and (4). Confidentiality of light rail vehicle accident investigations
regarding the September 21, 2022 R Line derailment.
Is there a motion to adjourn into Executive session?
KATE WILLIAMS: I move. Director Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Is there a second?
DOUG TISDALE: Seconding. Director Tisdale.
VINCE BUZEK: Tisdale. Are there any no votes? I see we have 13 present. We need 10 to go in
Executive session. So we've got 13 Yes votes. We are going to convene an Executive session at 8:05
PM. We're taking a 10-minute break. We'll see you all there. And then come back to this meeting.

