Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, June 24, 2008 at
5:30p.m. Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

June 25 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday June 24,
2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Directors Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Elfenbein, Kemp,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Ruchman, and Tayer.

Member Absent:

Directors Daly, Pulliam, Quinlan, Yamrick

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Bruce Abel, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Ron Dodsworth, and Phil Washington
Jeff Becker, Kenn Hardin, Caitlin Magee, Tony McCauley, Bill
Porter, Daria Serna, John Shonsey,

Others Present:
***
Call to Order:

Jeff Lieb, Ty Perry
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.

I. Service Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Cal Marsella opened up the discussion by sharing that in response to the
Board members questions on how staff determines ridership, service
standards, route adjustments, etc, the purpose of this meeting was to update
and educate the Board members on their processes. He then turned it over to
Bruce Abel.
Bruce Abel stated that the information presented was a followup to questions
raised at the Board retreat and in other subsequent meetings. He stated that
while they cannot produce ridership, they can explain how they produce an
hour (or a mile) of bus/LRT service. He then turned it over to Jeff Becker to
provide information on their process.
Jeff Becker spoke first on the process to compile key performance indicators
using APC data. APC equipment is purchased for use on the bus and light rail.
Right now, RTD does not have APC on all their vehicles so these vehicles are

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, June 24, 2008 at
5:30p.m. Page 2 of 4
rotated among the routes—averaging every 4 months. APC equipment counts
and collects data which is downloaded daily to a central server which
interfaces to a global statistic server to collect data. RTD deploys various ride
check validation processes and data quality standards to ensure the integrity
of the data. Approximately 11% of the data is discarded which is standard
for the industry. Using service monitors, staff has validated that data against
the data obtained from the APC equipment and verified the APC data is about
99.4% accurate. Future plans are to include AVL equipment on vehicles
which will improve our process even more.
There are various types of reports used in the collection and analysis of data:
Ridecheck plus reporting, vehicle loads, boarding and related measures and
mapping.
Several questions/comments were asked by the Board of Directors:
Director Brohl inquired how does the mapping of the data allow to drive down
since aggregate data will give different results than dis-aggregated data. Jeff
responded that one of the next steps they do on the data is statistical
analysis.
Director Chacon wanted to know if any of these tools could be used to predict
farebox revenue. Cal Marsella responded that farebox is currently a manual
ticker process where the drivers click as riders board. The goal is to have
smart buses where all this can be integrated but we are not there yet.
Director Chacon responded that at a minimum some of this data should show
patterns that will trigger some form of further investigation.
Director Ruchman wanted to know if ramps usage had an effect on run time
data. Jeff Becker responded it depends on routes and other factors but it
could especially since ramps are used more and more for loading of baby
strollers in addition to handicap access.
Director Martinez acknowledged the process used for ridership counts and
rotating APC vehicles but stated he had a concern about the confidence in the
data given that frequently passengers are challenging the accuracy of the
counts and wanted to know how can we improve the Board’s confidence that
they are getting good data on the routes being considered for elimination.
Cal Marsella stated the elimination of routes is something that is monitored by
FTA and that in addition to the APC data, we use monitors and bodies who
perform counts on the routes. This is normally done on routes that are up for
elimination.

Director Busck made it clear he was not challenging the technical process but
sometimes there may be an influx of passengers on a route during the time
the APC equipment is not being used or no monitors are on Board. How then
does RTD capture the data? Jeff Becker responded that the APC is a
snapshot in time that is constantly updated every 4 months. Cal Marsella

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, June 24, 2008 at
5:30p.m. Page 3 of 4
then added that when buses overflow, the drivers call in and report that
information.
Director Tayer felt there is a fundamental issue that is a communications and
timing issue. He felt there should be a checklist of procedures that RTD
follows when a route is on the “endangered species” list and this process
should start earlier upstream. It would include such items as checking the
data and when counts were performed, steps taken to educate the public, etc
so that Board members will know what has been done to help remove some of
the political and emotional issues that arise. Cal Marsella responded with
information on how it is suppose to work and referenced page 18, Appendix A
of the handout and page 8& 9 of the RTD Service Performance 2006 to show
these standards are established.
Director Brohl reiterated Director Tayer’s concern and stated there is no
disparity with the mechanics of how the process works. However, the Board
is looking for a process that will remove some of the politics upfront. They
would like to see a process/tangible checklist that will show notifications,
check and balances and other steps followed by staff to get to the point of
recommendation for elimination of route.
Several ideas were thrown out on how this might work. Director Ruchman
suggested using the local government groups to get on their quarterly
schedule to talk service planning components. He also asked Cal if when he
presents the APC data, if he could include the differences in agencies
demographics that might affect the benchmarks (i.e. free mall shuttle).
Director Elfenbein suggested having a Board display at the meetings indicating
the steps taken on routes that are in dispute or problematic. Director
Christopher agreed with the education component but indicated it will not
remove the emotion or the politics from the decision and the decisions will get
harder as we move ahead. Director Busck just wanted some clear bullets on
what has been done so he can have an informed discussion with his
constituents. Director Chacon pointed out that the Board itself must take
leadership roles on these issues and not give into the horse trading that tends
to take place. Director Martinez pointed out they are all politicians and horse
trading is part of what they do. However, it would be good if staff can inform
the respective Board members of targeted cuts in their district and it would be
incumbent on the Board member to work with the local governing body to
seek options. The key element is to make sure new Board members
understand the process so they will not get blind sighted by it.
Director Martinez also requested more consideration for growth areas since
once a cut occurs, it is nearly impossible to bring the route back.
Director Kinton asked some pointed questions on the elimination of the AT
from Highlands Ranch. Bill Porter explained the steps they had gone through
to confirm the count on this bus but did indicate that the Skyride buses do not

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, June 24, 2008 at
5:30p.m. Page 4 of 4
have APC devices on them.

Director Kemp requested a recap of what the staff had heard from the Board
related to service changes. Cal Marsella responded that when they identify a
route to first inform the Board member of that respective district and notify
the elected official as well. In addition to the public notices, on buses, trains
and the marketing efforts, they should work with the local channel 8 and local
government on this issue. They should also provide the Board members with
upfront information on the process they used in arriving at the
recommendation. Such steps would include a Board display of history and
activities for that route.
Director Christopher queried if the 2007 Service performance review was
available and was told no.
In the interest of time, Jeff Becker then reviewed only one of the slides on the
Comprehensive Analysis for Service Efficiencies/Enhancement (COE). This
slide stated that the weekday off peak productivity on nearly all service
classes exceed the peak period productivity. Jeff indicated this was counterintuitive and explained why this is so.
Director Tayer stated this might help to address the empty bus syndrome that
People are complaining about and requested Scott Reed’s PR team to come up
with some language the Board members can use on why they see so many
empty buses. Director Kinton reiterated the need for this information to
combat the complaints that he frequently receives.
II. Other Matters/Adjournment
Hearing no other matters, Chair Kemp adjourned the meeting at 8:08 p.m.

