Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Julien Bouquet, District G
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe, District H
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore, District K
Secretary – Chris Nicholson, District A
Treasurer – Karen Benker, District I
Vince Buzek, District J
Peggy Catlin, District N
Kathleen Chandler, District F
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Chris Gutschenritter, District D

Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L
Matt Larsen, District E
Brett Paglieri, District M
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, January 28, 2025
5:30 PM
IN-PERSON/REMOTE MEETING
MONTHLY BOARD BRIEFING DOCUMENTS LINK
To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 890 8917 5408#
Passcode: 1660#
For Public Participation in the meeting: raise your virtual hand
in Zoom or indicate you wish to speak via phone by pressing *9
If you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment(s),
please email the RTD Board office using the address below.
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Land Acknowledgement

IV.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

V.

Statement of Employee Appreciation

VI.

Retiree Awards
Scott Hiddle – Bus Operator – 40 years
Anthony Hopkins – Bus Operator – 33 years
Susan Johnson – Manager, Civil Engineering – 24 years
Shaun Montoya – Bus Operator – 31 years

VII.

Public Participation

VIII.

External Entities Reports
•

External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts

IX.

Audit Committee Report

X.

Finance and Planning Committee Report

XI.

Operations, Safety, and Security Committee Report

XII.

Performance Committee Report

XIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports

XIV. Chair's Report
XV.

General Manager's Report

XVI. Unanimous Consent
A.

2025 Committee Appointments

For the Board of Directors to ratify the 2025 Standing Committee appointments.

XVII. Recommended Action
B.

2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals

For the Board of Directors to approve, pursuant to the GM/CEO’s performance framework
adopted in January 2024 in alignment with the Board’s employment agreement with the
GM/CEO, the proposed short-term SMART goals for the performance period commencing
January 28, 2025, and continuing through October 15, 2025.

XVIII. Report of Director Activities
XIX. Other Matters
XX.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

8.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts

January 28, 2025

REPRESENTATIVE
Berrick Abramson, President, Confluence Policy & Strategy Group
PRESENTATION LENGTH
20 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Colorado General Assembly passed Senate Bill 24-184 (SB184), Support Surface Transportation
Infrastructure Development, and it was signed into law by Governor Jared Polis on May 16, 2024.
SB184 created collaboration, planning, and reporting requirements for various entities involved in
developing and providing surface transportation in the State, including the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT), the Clean Transit Enterprise (CTE), the Colorado Transportation Investment
Office (CTIO), Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR), and RTD.
DISCUSSION
Confluence Policy & Strategy Group President Berrick Abramson will present an update to the Board of
Directors regarding on-going joint rail planning and reporting efforts required by SB184.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with this presentation.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation

(PDF)

•

RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jack Kroll, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

8.1

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 5

8.1.a

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

January 28, 2025

Joint Service
Overview

A Process for Delivering Phase I of
Passenger Rail Service to Northern
Colorado

Packet Pg. 6

Joint Service
Overview
3
45
6
7
8
9
10
11
1213
1415
16

8.1.a

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Baseline Assumptions
Joint Service Origin
So, What is Joint Service
Transportation Entity Review
Joint Service: Advancing NW Rail and FRPR
Collaboration Efforts
Joint Service Timeline
Joint Service Assumptions
PR/FRPR/JS Station Sites
Joint Service Financial Packet
Scenarios
Pg. 7
Key Takeaways

8.1.a

➔

Joint Service is an ongoing planning study to identify pathways to deliver a hybrid passenger rail service
of Northwest Rail and Front Range Passenger Rail

➔

No one Agency or District can currently deliver their planned independent service alone in the near-term

➔

Previous RTD studies have concluded it won’t be able to deliver Northwest Rail until 2050

➔

Each entity has its own assets and tools which could be contributed to Joint Service on the North
Front Range.

➔

A Joint Service operation will be a hybrid between the route and stations identiﬁed by both FRPR and
RTD’s FasTracks B-Line

➔

Ensuring Passenger Rail service seamlessly embeds within the state transportation network is key to
driving ridership and reliability
Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

First: Assumptions We Know Today

8.1.a

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

Joint Service Origin: How did we get here?
2004

2022

2023

2024

FasTracks

FRPRD Formed

FRPRD: Corridor I.D.

Joint Service Paper

Voters approve
expanded transit
service from Denver
to Longmont. The
sales tax increase
was approved to fund
expanded service
within the district
boundaries.

The General
Assembly creates
the Front Range
Passenger Rail
District. The enabling
legislation directs the
District to prioritize
the northern
segment to be
completed ﬁrst.

FRPRD’s selected
route is accepted by
the FRA and received
IIJA funds dedicated
to passenger rail
projects. FRPRD is
one of two corridors
nationally to be in Step
II of the Corridor I.D.
Program.

In February of 2024,
CDOT, FRPRD, and
RTD release a White
Paper laying out a
pathway to deliver
Phase I of FRPR
through a Joint Service
effort.
Packet Pg. 9

8.1.a

2024

2024

SB 24-184 / 230 Signed

Joint Service Collaboration

In May 2024, Gov. Polis
signs SB184 and SB230 into
law establishing State
revenue sources for transit
expansion and multimodal
projects, as well as the
authorization for Joint
Service to proceed between
RTD, CDOT, and FRPRD.

During the summer of 2024,
the three transit entities meet
to begin Joint Service study
efforts, spurred by legislative
deadlines to submit their ﬁrst
legislative report to the
Transportation Legislative
Review Committee and
Governor's Office by
September 30, 2024.

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

Joint Service Origin: How did we get here?

Packet Pg. 10

8.1.a

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

So, What is Joint Service?
The Colorado General Assembly, via SB24184, directed the Stateʼs three leading transit entities to use
their statutory authority to collaboratively study how they could deliver the first phase of Front Range
Passenger Rail.
Joint Service is exploring pathways towards delivery of Phase I by a target date of January 1, 2029.

This is a streamlined planning process with the goal of:
➔

Accelerating the timeline to deliver starter service from Denver Union Station to Fort Collins

➔

Reducing costs of delivering service and increasing efficiencies.
◆
Pursuing NW Rail and FRPR independently increases costs and complications with BNSF.

➔

Fostering collaboration amongst Coloradoʼs transit leaders and entities to deliver Passenger Rail
service
Packet Pg. 11

8.1.a

●
●

●

CDOT
Responsible for Coloradoʼs
transportation system
Leverage the Colorado
Transportation Investment
Office (“CTIOˮ) for creative
financing structures
Leverage Clean Transit
Enterprise financing
opportunities

FRPRD
● Created in 2021 by the
General Assembly
● Ability to refer ballot
measures and taxing
authority

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

What does each transportation organization bring to Joint Service ?

Colorado Department
of Transportation

●

Front Range Passenger
Rail District

Regional
Transportation District

●
●
●

RTD
Created by the General
Assembly to develop,
operate, and maintain a
mass transit system
Dedicated FasTracks
sales-tax revenue
The BLine as a route
Access point at DUS
Packet Pg. 12

8.1.a

Colorado Department
of Transportation

Joint Service

Front Range Passenger
Rail District

Regional
Transportation District

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

How does Joint Service advance Phase I of FRPR?
Joint Service seeks to:
● Leverage the strengths from each
transportation entity
● Drive collaboration amongst CDOT, FRPRD,
and RTD
● Pool their collective resources:
○ Financing options CTIO, CTE, FasTracks
Revenue, SB184 & SB230 Revenue]
○ Technical analyses, reports, and findings
to draw from
○ Capacity and technical procurement
capability
○ Contract negotiations capability and
experience
○ Expertise in operations and enterprise
management
○ Access to and understandingPacket
of funding
Pg. 13
mechanisms and their limitations

8.1.a

Collaboration is one of the core principles of SB24184, and the legislature authorized the three
agencies to examine one of three options to jointly deliver Phase I of FRPR, while simultaneously
reporting to the legislature of their decision:
➔ Feasibility of new legal entity, such as a Regional Rail Authority, or
➔ Independent corporate entity, or
➔ Enter into Intergovernmental Agreement(s)
Funding
&
Finance

Governor's Office

Joint
Service
PMT

Operations

CDOT, CTIO, CTE
FRPRD
RTD

Governance
Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

How are the entities working together?

NW Fixed Guideway Report
Legislative report that summarizes all
ongoing and completed studies to
accelerate approval of Northwest Rail.
The report also detailed all ongoing
modeling, as well as plans to study an
IGA or new rail authority.

Implementation Plan
Legislative report that details a
roadmap to begin providing
Phase I service no later than
1/1/29. Due to TLRC and
Governor's Oﬃce.
Q2 - Q3 2025

Q1 ‘25
Sept. 30, 2024

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

What are the milestones related to Joint Service planning efforts? 8.1.a

March 1, 2025
February 2025
-RTC Modeling: 3x and 5x daily
roundtrip data
-Financial Analysis of Revenue
Sources
-Governance framework for
Joint Service

Next Steps
Governing Boards of jurisdiction
evaluate March 1 report and studies
and plan next steps on Joint Service.
Packet Pg. 15

8.1.a

➔

➔

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

What are the basic Joint Service assumptions for service?
Foundational:
◆ One operator running the service between Denver and Ft. Collins
◆ One access agreement with BNSF to allow for passenger rail service
◆ One route - RTD B-Line before transferring to the BNSF freight rail line
to Ft. Collins
Explainer:
◆ Operator: By having one operator, we reduce inefficiencies and
make it easier for all parties to coordinate and ensure that service is
frequent and reliable.
◆ Access Agreement: By having a singular access agreement, this
ensures the host railroad, BNSF, can more easily and efficiently work
with the operator.
◆ One Route: By utilizing RTD’s B- Line, a route widely studied,
well-known, and accepted across the region, we can more easily plan
and execute passenger rail service on an expeditious timeline.

Packet Pg. 16

➔

Joint Service:
a. Hybrid between commuter and intercity passenger rail
service. But for federal purposes defined as intercity
passenger rail
b. Studying 8 stops

➔

Original NW Rail
a. Commuter Service
b. 10 stops

➔

Front Range Passenger Rail
a. Intercity Passenger Rail Service
b. Studying 5 stops

8.1.a

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

How do Peak Rail, Front Range Passenger Rail, and Joint
Service Station Sites differ from one another?

Packet Pg. 17

Front Range Rail
Intercity PAX

RTD Peak Service
Commuter)

Joint Service
Hybrid/Intercity PAX

Denver Union Station

Denver Union Station

Denver Union Station

Boulder

41st & Fox

Westminster*

Longmont

Pecos Jct.

Broomfield*

Loveland

72nd & Westminster

Louisville*

Ft. Collins

Downtown Westminster

Boulder

Broomfield - 116th

Longmont

Broomfield - Flatiron

Loveland

Downtown Louisville

Ft. Collins

Boulder

Reminder: Joint Service is a hybrid
service option that takes from both
Packet Pg. 18
FRPR and RTDs Peak Service Study.

Longmont

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

What are the station sites related to Northwest Rail, Peak Service, and Joint Service?8.1.a

8.1.a

Scenario 1: Fully Funded Joint Service
●

RTD

FasTracks: One-time
capital injection,
ongoing contributions

State

State:
- SB184 Congestion Impact
Fee
- Partial SB230 O&G
Production Fee
- CTE & CTIO Funding

●

●

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

What are the ﬁnancial scenarios regarding Joint Service?

Under Scenario #1, the State via
CDOT enterprises – CTE and CTIO –
and RTD have enough funds
between the two to begin a starter
service.
RTD Contributions:
○ Source: FasTracks Revenue
■ One-time capital
investment
■ Annual contributions
State Contributions:
○ Source: CTE & CTIO
○ Use of amounts distributed to
CTE and CTIO under SB184 and
SB230 will be determined
Packet Pg. 19
annually by each entityʼs Board

8.1.a

Scenario 2: Joint Service Financial Gap

RTD

State

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

What are the ﬁnancial scenarios regarding Joint Service?

●

Important Facts: The State will
receive financial modeling, as well
as RTC modeling of 3x and 5x daily
round-trips in February 2025 that
will inform Joint Service efforts.

●

Under Scenario 2, Joint Service
has a financial gap that needs to be
closed before service can begin,
even with RTD and State revenue
sources taken into account.

●

There are pathways forward,
however, both require strategy and
buy-in from varying stakeholders
Packet Pg. 20
across the region and State.

GAP

8.1.a

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD Presentation (5052 : External

Key Takeaways
➔

Joint Service seeks to accelerate the timeline to deliver starter service from Denver Union Station
to Fort Collins

➔

CDOT via CTIO and CTE, RTD, and FRPRD are collaboratively working together to seek a solution
to deliver Phase I

➔

A plan to deliver Phase I moves CDOT, RTD, and FRPR towards completing a major transportation
project, and broadly, instill trust in entities to deliver on a hybrid passenger rail service

➔

Joint service is a hybrid between RTD Northwest Rail Service and Front Range Passenger Rail
Districtʼs intercity passenger rail service

➔

Governing Boards of jurisdictions will need to decide how, or if, to proceed with Joint Service in
Q2Q3 in lieu of other planned rail projects

➔

To meet the State climate goals, increasing transit options, like implementing and enhancing
passenger rail service, is a key tactic to saving Coloradans time and money while providing a safer
Packet Pg. 21
transportation option

8.1.b

Summary
In 2024, the Colorado General Assembly passed Senate Bill 24-184, directing the Colorado
Department of Transportation (“CDOT”), the Regional Transportation District (“RTD”), and the
Front Range Passenger Rail District (“FRPRD”) to collaborate together on a plan to deliver the
first phase of Front Range Passenger Rail (“FRPR”), which includes the RTD’s Northwest Fixed
Guideway, a project of the voter-approved FasTracks program. Since SB24-184’s adoption,
each transportation entity has met regularly to study the feasibility of an effort, Joint Service, that
delivers this hybrid intercity passenger rail service from Denver to Fort Collins, and supports the
completion of Northwest Rail and initiates the build-out of FRPR. Beginning in the summer of
2024, the three entities met to establish three working groups, composed of staff from each, to
study what the governance structure may look like under Joint Service efforts, as well as
identifying relevant revenue streams that could be leveraged, and identifying operational
efficiencies to deliver service by January 1, 2029.
Joint Service is a hybrid model of delivering passenger rail service between Front Range
Passenger Rail and RTD’s Peak Rail Service service options. It seeks to leverage existing
strengths of each entity involved, and ultimately drive for operational efficiencies. Examples of
Joint Service efforts that are modeled across the country include California’s Capital Corridor.
By studying a Joint Service model, the project can utilize funding and contractual expertise
across all the entities that will ultimately accelerate the project's completion date. If both RTD
and FRPRD were to advance their projects separate from one another, costs to utilize the BNSF
Front Range Subdivision would increase substantially due to multiple operators and the need for
multiple access agreements, leading to a delayed completion date and service.
On September 30th, 2024, the working group submitted their first report to the General
Assembly, and by December 31, 2024, identified intergovernmental agreement(s) (“IGA”) as a
pathway to delivering the necessary components of a Joint Service effort. By March 1, 2025,
this working group is required to submit its next report concerning a plan to begin providing this
proposed service. The following materials provided to the Regional Transportation Districts
Board of Directors provides the following information:
●
●
●

Joint Service Explainer
Joint Service Project Inception White Paper
Joint Service September 30th, 2024 Legislative Report

1
Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

To: Regional Transportation District Board of Directors; Debra Johnson, General Manager, RTD
From: Diane Barrett, Special Advisor on Joint Service; Berrick Abramson, President,
Confluence Policy and Strategy Group
Date: January 28, 2025
Subject: Joint Service Summary Board Packet

Joint Service Background and Overview
Background
A convergence of factors – new State revenue for transit, ongoing rail planning, and political will
across the region – has emerged that presents an opportunity to deliver Passenger Rail on the
Northern Front Range from Denver Union Station to Fort Collins on an expedited timeline by
bringing together the Colorado Department of Transportation (“CDOT”), the Front Range
Passenger Rail District (“FRPRD”), and the Regional Transportation District (“RTD”) to
collaborate and study how they could leverage their existing powers, revenue streams, and
technical expertise to deliver passenger rail along the Northern Front Range. Joint Service is a
passenger rail starter service that explores between three and five daily roundtrips that would run
from Denver Union Station along the RTD B-Line tracks to Westminster onto the BNSF Northern
Front Range subdivision to Broomfield, Louisville, Boulder, Longmont, Loveland, and Fort
Collins.
More than ever before, the State is making bold investments to expand transit options and increase
transit ridership with new State revenue streams that will total nearly $200M annually.
Additionally, federal funding through the CRISI grant program resulted in a $93M downpayment
on infrastructure upgrades that would benefit both freight and passenger rail operations. Senate
Bill 24-184 authorized the three transportation entities to explore three broad options for governing
joint exercise of their powers: the first, a new standalone rail authority, two, a separate legal entity,
or three, an intergovernmental agreement to deliver the first phase of Front Range Passenger Rail
service. Through their Summer and Fall workgroups, they have identified that an IGA, or series
of IGAs, is most likely the pathway to partnering and sharing resources to deliver Joint Service.
Ultimately, Joint Service provides for a streamlined, cost-effective way forward to providing
passenger rail service by seeking one access agreement, one operator, and operating one route. No
one singular agency can deliver their singular project alone, whether that’s Northwest Rail or Front
Range Passenger Rail. Recently RTD concluded their Peak Rail study that concluded that it would
cost RTD over $650M or over $50M annually to run 3 bidirectional trains from Denver to
Longmont. As it stands today, RTD would not be able to provide service to the Northwest for
another twenty five years at the earliest with existing RTD resources. . Similarly, FRPRD is
statutorily charged with the exploring of a passenger rail service along the Front Range, and
eventually refer the project to the ballot. In RTD’s Peak Rail Service Study, RTD identified that a
collaborative approach between RTD and FRPRD would yield operational efficiencies should the
two explore those optionality’s. The railroad tracks between Denver and Fort Collins are currently
owned by BNSF and used for freight operations. BNSF has been steadfast in his message that
pursuing independently RTD’s passenger rail to Longmont and Front Range Passenger rail on their
rail line as independent services will have a greater impact on their freight business than one joint
service which will result in greater costs for both passenger rail projects and complications from
an operations perspective. Should RTD and FRPRD also continue to build their projects separate
from one another, we should expect increased infrastructure costs for both protects to deconflict
freight business with two passenger rail services, rising costs and increased inefficiency, greater
operational complexities, that may delay the project completion date. Thus, a Joint Service
endeavor amongst CDOT, FRPRD, and RTD seeks to leverage their strengths, funding, and
existing technical work could allow for the completion of Northwest Rail and initiate Front Range
Passenger Rail to occur on a faster timeline, be delivered earlier, and in a more efficient manner.

1
Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

8.1.b

8.1.b

•
•
•
•
•
•

RTDs FasTracks sales tax revenue
SB24-184 Congestion Impact Fee revenue
SB24-230 Oil & Gas Production Fee revenue
SB21-260 Transportation Fee Revenue
SB24-190 Rail Tax Credits
Federal Funding: IIJA Passenger Rail Funds, and the FRA RRIF program

In October 2024, the Department of Transportation awarded Colorado $66.4M in grant funding
from the Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements (“CRISI”) Program, with the
State matching almost $28M, totaling $94.3M to improve safety on the BNSF line north of
Denver and helping to proactively prepare the state for fast, convenient, and safe passenger rail
service. This award delivers improvements to several highway grade crossings, constructing a
new passing siding, and deploying the safety overlay of positive train control across a portion of
the corridor.
Dubbed “The Year of Transit,” the General Assembly adopted two new bills, signed by
Governor Polis, that will invest upwards of $200M annually into the state's transit network. The
first bill, SB24-184, imposes a Congestion Impact Fee for the purpose of reducing congestion on
public highways, mitigating the impact rental cars have on Colorado roads; the second bill,
SB24-230, imposes a production fee on oil and gas to expand transit service, frequency,
ridership, and fund passenger rail projects. SB24-184 is estimated to raise $70M annually and is
expected to fund multimodal transit projects. SB24-230 is estimated to raise $116M in its first
full fiscal year. The funding from SB230 will be a State revenue source which is then credited to
the Clean Transit Enterprise (“CTE”) within CDOT. The funding is then granted to transit
authorities following this formulaic breakdown:
•
•
•

70% to expand transit service, increase transit frequency, and improve transit networks to
ultimately increase ridership,
20% to fund passenger rail projects, and
10% to provide competitive grants for operating and capital expenses

2
Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

Costs, Funding Sources, and Partnerships
Currently, the State is studying the costs associated with Joint Service through two workstreams.
First, HNTB is fulfilling the statutorily required Rail Traffic Controller modeling (“RTC”) of
three and five daily roundtrips mandated by SB184. Second, Ernest and Young (“EY”) is
examining the revenue sources and financing scenarios that have all three entities – CDOT,
FRPRD, and RTD – contributing to the capital and ongoing expenses of Joint Service.
Additionally, there are several revenue streams to finance this project that include the following:

Figure A: Fiscal Note, SB24-230
Table 1
State Fiscal Impacts Under SB24-230
Budget Year
FY2024-25
Revenue
Oil and Gas Production
Fees Fund
Clean Transit Enterprise
Sub Funds
Wildlife and Land Fund
Total
Expenditures
Oil and Gas Production
Fees Fund
Clean Transit Enterprise
Sub Funds
Wildlife and Land Fund
Centrally Appropriated
Total Expenditures
-

Out Year
FY 2025-26
$68,291

Out Year
FY2026-27
$7,328

$52.7 million

$116.3 million

$56.6 million
$109.4 million
$68,291

$59.0 million
$175.3 million
$7,328

$52.7 million

$116.3 million

$56.6 million
$173,246
$109.6 million

$59.0 million
$167,284
$175.5 million

Figure B: Fiscal Note, SB24-184
Table 1
State Fiscal Impacts Under SB24-184
Budget Year
FY 2024-2025
Revenue
Transportation Special Fund
$28.5 million
Total Revenue
$28.5 million
Expenditures
General Fund
$42,399
Cash Funds
$272,354
Transportation Special Fund
Up to $28.5 million
Centrally Appropriated
$69,587
Total Expenditures
Up to $28.9 million

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

8.1.b

Budget Year
2025-2026
$58.2 million
$58.2 million
$7,328
$237,404
Up to $59.0 million
$65,635
Up to $58.5 million

3
Packet Pg. 25

Joint Service
With multiple service options for delivering both an intercity passenger rail service and commuter
rail system, this section seeks to drive clarity and differentiate the options being studied and
evaluated. First, the Front Range Passenger Rail District is studying a 181-mile intercity passenger
rail system that connects cities from Fort Collins to Denver to Colorado Springs and onto Pueblo
and Trinidad. Second, RTD has completed their Peak Service Study which examined a commuter
rail system from Denver to Longmont; Peak Service is an option presented to RTD for the B-Line
extension as part of the 2004 FasTracks program approved by voters. Third, Joint Service is a
hybrid service between FRPRs intercity passenger rail system, and RTDs commuter rail service;
this plan will not encompass the full build out of FRPR, or Peak Service.
Overview Table
Service Assumptions
Service

Frequency

RTD
Peak
Service

3 AM inbound
3 PM outbound
Weekdays Only

Stations

Operation Type

10
DUS, 41st & Fox, Pecos Jct,
72nd/Westminster, Downtown
Westminster, Broomfield, Flatiron,
Louisville, Boulder, Longmont

Dedicated AM and
PM operating window
for passenger rail.
Directional fleeting
(RTD trains will follow
each other into or out
of DUS)
Modeling and cost
estimates did not
consider any other
passenger service

FRPR

Joint
Service

Bidirectional all
day Ultimate
buildout of 6, 10,
or 12 RT
7 days a week

5
DUS, Westminster*, Broomfield*,
Louisville*, Boulder, Longmont,
Loveland, Fort Collins

3-5 Roundtrips
7 days a week

8
DUS, Westminster, Broomfield,
Louisville, Boulder, Longmont,
Loveland, Fort Collins

Operations with
intermixed freight
traffic
Bidirectional
Hybrid commuter and
passenger rail service

4
Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

8.1.b

Feb. 19, 2024

Passenger Rail Service for Front Range Passenger Rail
Phase I Along and Beyond the Northwest Rail Corridor
It’s been 20 years since voters approved a sales and use tax increase within the Regional
Transportation District’s (RTD) service area for FasTracks in 2004 that was to provide, among
other transit services, commuter rail service from Union Station to Boulder to Longmont by 2017
(Northwest Rail). Due to project cost increases and lower than expected sales tax collection,
the corridor project and service has not been delivered. Currently, RTD is conducting a
comprehensive feasibility study to move forward with starter service between Denver and
Longmont that would operate a limited number of commuter trains in the morning and evening.
RTD’s planning efforts suggest that the service will not be available until the 2040s at the
earliest under current revenue and cost assumptions. Contrary to popular belief, the money
taxpayers have paid for train service to Longmont did not disappear; RTD has been putting
aside funds to build the project, but given the cost to provide commuter rail service, RTD is
projecting it might take another 25 years before the agency alone will have enough money to
cover fixed costs and the ongoing expenses for operations and maintenance. Since the
FasTracks vote, the Legislature passed SB 21-238 to expand rail service on the same line in the
2021 Act that created the Front Range Passenger Rail District (FRPR District).
The delay in Northwest Rail service casts a shadow on other passenger rail and transit funding
and development initiatives. One of these initiatives is Front Range Passenger Rail, which is
envisioned to eventually run between (and beyond) the New Mexico and Wyoming borders. In
fact, as a result of the unresolved voter promise, the FRPR District enabling legislation gives
direction to prioritize the initiation and completion of the unfinished FasTracks segment when
delivering Front Range Passenger Rail service. (C.R.S. 32-22-103(3)). In addition to this
segment being highlighted and its initiation prioritized in the enabling legislation, the technical
review recommends this alignment as well.
Currently, there is an opportunity to combine the RTD Northwest Rail and Front Range
Passenger Rail efforts to accelerate and deliver Front Range Passenger Rail first-phase
intercity passenger service between Denver Union Station and Fort Collins using the existing
BNSF Front Range Subdivision through Boulder, Longmont, and Loveland (FRPR Northwest
Phase 1). Within the last couple of months, the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) accepted

1
Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

8.1.b

the preferred track alignment and the FRPR District officially selected its route to be the BNSF
Front Range Subdivision from Union Station through Boulder to Longmont, along the same
route called out for Northwest Rail in FasTracks. Also, the FRPR District’s proposal was
selected in the first round of grant recipients for the $36 billion (currently $3.8 billion remaining
for competitive selection by FRA) Corridor Identification and Development Program created in
the federal Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act of 2021 (IIJA). While the Federal Railroad
Administration selected 60 corridors to develop, Colorado’s Front Range Passenger Rail
proposal is one of only two corridors selected into Step 2 (of three steps) of the process making
federal investments uniquely available to Colorado at this time.
In 2023, the RTD board commissioned the Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study; this
study is expected be completed by mid-2024. This study will provide a technical review of
existing track conditions, estimated ridership, updated engineering analysis, and an up-to-date
cost estimate, as well as conduct public engagement, for the Northwest Rail peak period starter
service. This study will provide an additional layer of technical analysis, cost estimates, and
public engagement to accelerate the process for initiating service along this segment, as it
provides foundational knowledge for the Service Development Plan also currently underway for
the full Front Range Passenger Rail. Due to the work of RTD’s Northwest Rail Peak Service
Feasibility Study, it is safe to assume a quicker timeline for NEPA to initiate service in the
northwest corridor, as much of this work and deeper understanding of this segment along the
Front Range Passenger Rail route is being achieved ahead of the Service Development Plan.
Further, RTD is conducting this study with the host freight railroad, BNSF, ensuring mutual
understanding of how freight and passenger rail service can co-exist on this segment.
This is just one of the many converging factors that make now the right time to deliver on the
first phase of Front Range Passenger Rail service, while we continue to work on funding and
delivering the entire corridor from Fort Collins to Pueblo; additionally: (1) this phase is further
along in the technical review and cost estimates; (2) this segment has funding already approved
by the voters for commuter train service; (3) depressed usage of the BNSF Front Range
Subdivision for freight (currently 3-5 trains per day); and (4) a time-limited opportunity to use
IIJA grant funds directed to for intercity passenger rail. 1
This White Paper explores the option of using some of the sales tax money already and still
being collected by RTD for passenger rail service from Denver to Longmont, a partnership that
uses joint powers provided to RTD, CDOT, and the FRPR District to unlock the federal
investments available now to deliver rail service on a much quicker timeline than RTD can do
alone. This will build off the FasTracks program and the Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility
Study, along with ongoing FRPR District and CDOT planning efforts.

1

IIJA contains fewer dedicated funds for commuter rail (i.e., within a metropolitan area like
Metro Denver with frequent stops) than intercity rail (i.e., serving across metropolitan lines to
Fort Collins or Colorado Springs and with fewer stops for faster times), so the current
opportunity is focused on intercity service along the Front Range.

2
Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

8.1.b

This outcome of near-term passenger rail service from Denver Union Station to Longmont can
be accomplished by extending the service to Fort Collins to trigger the federal benefits available
for intercity passenger rail, which are not available to commuter rail, and get a head start on the
whole FRPR corridor. The effort can be governed through legislation that creates joint
governance and implementation between CDOT, RTD and FRPR. This White Paper describes
potential options to achieving this joint governance and implementation, including creation of a
joint entity, and/or other arrangements through legislation or intergovernmental agreements.
Local governments and other parties with funding or other support could also join.
The FRPR Northwest Phase 1 would be a foundation to build from for further Front Range
Passenger Rail, as well as delivering passenger rail on the Northwest Rail corridor, and would
enhance chances for a voter approved ongoing funding source that could expand service and
increase frequency in 2024 or beyond. These near-term steps would be crafted to support, and
not negatively impact, the efforts already in motion for passenger rail service from Pueblo to
Fort Collins; they would, if anything, accelerate the timeline for full service and help build
ridership for a full service. This initial step of a partnership between RTD, the State, and the
FRPR District focused on the Denver to Fort Collins corridor would leverage strengths, funding,
existing technical analyses, and the authorities of the parties in a way to overcome the historic
challenges for providing a starter service for Northwest Rail.
Swift action could permit Colorado to maximize its chances of securing and using maximum
discretionary grant funding from the IIJA to deliver on both Front Range Passenger Rail service
and the FasTracks promise. All available IIJA rail grant opportunities are competitive and local
matching and operations/maintenance revenue will be needed to successfully compete for
funds. Loan assistance through the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing
Program (RRIF) is likely to be available into the future.
Why start with the FRPR Northwest Phase 1 to run train service from Union Station to
Fort Collins?
-

-

-

-

Voters are paying a portion of sales and use tax already for train service from Union
Station to Longmont but will not get that service for another 25 years without a new
partnership.
RTD will need additional funding for both capital construction (e.g., rail cars, track
improvements, stations) and to operate the service and maintain the investment, but
needs another two decades at least to save enough money with existing sources.
RTD is developing valuable information through the Peak Service Feasibility Study, but
does not have the capital, operating and maintenance resources to start any service
itself soon.
The large IIJA funding opportunities exist for intercity passenger rail.
BNSF owns the existing track from Union Station to Fort Collins and currently runs over
5 million train miles of intercity Amtrak passenger service on BNSF lines nationally.
Intercity rail has substantial advantages over commuter rail, because Federal law gives
Amtrak supremacy access rights over Class 1 freight companies like BNSF for the

3
Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

8.1.b

8.1.b

How to establish a joint power district or authority to provide train service?
- The Legislature could direct RTD, the FRPR District, and CDOT/CTIO to enter into a
Joint Authority and IGA to share powers through the existing entities or create an entity
under existing law. Such entities are typically created as non-profit corporations with
powers and governance structures that are agreed between the founding entities to
deliver specific projects. Notable examples of authorities of this kind include the Denver
Union Station Project Authority and the National Western Center Authority
- RTD, the Front Range Passenger Rail District, and CDOT/CTIO could enter into an
intergovernmental agreement without new legislative direction.
- The Legislature could establish a dedicated revenue source for debt repayment,
operations and maintenance, and other costs for this service, subject to applicable law
- The Legislature could ensure that the initial Denver to Fort Collins service would roll up
into a next phase for full service covering the entire Front Range, once the FRPR District
secures additional funding through a successful ballot measure and the Service
Development Plan is completed.
- The Legislature could also alter the FRPR District enabling legislation to allow/add a
voting seat for RTD, or to form sub-boards for joint service with RTD representation, an
implementation/operations-phase board, and/or allow the District to refer ballot initiatives
by segments as well as the District as a whole.

Why Denver Union Station to Fort Collins?
●

The corridor was identified as a priority in the legislation establishing the Front Range
Passenger Rail District: “the preferred alignment for the northern segment of the main
North-South passenger rail line is through the northwest rail corridor. The district shall
prioritize the initiation of construction and completion of that corridor.” (C.R.S. 32-22103(3)).

●

The corridor contains the highest concentrations of transit-dense communities with
universities and other centers best suited as first adopters of intercity passenger rail
service in Colorado.

●

Because FasTracks committed to providing rail service from Denver to Longmont and
RTD has been collecting funds for it, there is a longstanding expectation of service and
some funds available from the Regional Transportation District FasTracks Internal
Savings Account (FISA) that could be leveraged with Federal and State funds to help
start passenger rail service from Denver to Longmont.

4
Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

purpose of intercity passenger rail and provides statutory cost structures. (e.g., 49
U.S.C. Sec. 24308, 24712). No similar right exists for commuter rail.

●

There is a window of opportunity to seek and secure Federal discretionary grant funding
between now and 2026 for intercity passenger rail. 2 There is likely to be a longer ability
to seek federal low-interest loans through RRIF that would be secured with dedicated
State revenue and some of the ongoing FISA annual receipts. Service would need to
extend past Denver to Longmont to count as intercity rail (intercity rail services connect
cities over longer distances than commuter or regional trains). Maximizing federal
investment using available state and local funds will buy down costs for the entire Front
Range Passenger Rail corridor.
BNSF has an existing rail line from Denver to Fort Collins with capacity for passenger
rail with some capital improvements, given recent declines in freight rail activity on the
line. By comparison, the route south of Denver will involve coordination with two freight
railroads (BNSF and Union Pacific) and a much higher level of freight activity, meaning
that phased delivery starting with the north, and extending service south as planning and
freight negotiations are completed, will serve to expedite delivery of rail to the whole
Front Range Passenger Rail corridor.

●

In December 2023, as part of the Service Development Planning process, the FRPR
District Board of Directors formally designated the existing BNSF rail line from Denver to
Fort Collins as the preferred track alignment for FRPR north of Denver, which has also
been accepted by the FRA. This route would be considered intercity passenger rail
service under federal law (as opposed to commuter rail), which has several important
benefits of accessing IIJA funding and RRIF.

●

Starting service north of Denver would utilize some of the existing voter-approved RTD
funding for the Northwest Rail if coupled with state resources, funding otherwise sitting
idle and growing in a savings account, missing the once-in-a-generation opportunity to
match those dollars with federal money in IIJA and start basic service. Service would
also take advantage of engineering and planning being conducted under the RTD
Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study. 3

●

Starting service north of Denver allows expansion to Colorado Springs and Pueblo in the
next phase as soon as resources are available to do so. FRPR and CDOT are pressing
efforts to complete Service Development Planning, which will include planning to enable
service to the entire corridor, including south of Denver.

2

While the IIJA discretionary grant funds are likely to be awarded by 2026, actual expenditures and
federal grant reimbursements can occur in the following years once a grant agreement is in place.
However, local match revenues will need to be pledged in the next couple of years for grant applications
to be competitive.
3
While there would be some differences between more frequent and bi-directional intercity service from
Denver to Fort Collins and the directional commuter service in the Peak Service Feasibility Study, much
of the analysis overlaps and would be helpful.

5
Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

8.1.b

8.1.b

RTD has set aside funds in and an ongoing stream of revenue for its FISA, which was created
by the RTD Board using proceeds from the FasTracks sales and use tax, as well as other
proceeds, in order to build funds for unfinished portions of the FasTracks system, of which the
largest piece is Northwest Rail. 4 In the 2023 Budget, RTD estimated a FISA balance of $168
million for 2023, and $236 million by 2028 in its Midterm Financial Plan, reflecting the addition of
about $13.4 million annually from 2024 to 2029. The 2023 budget also shows the FISA account
rising to $251 million in 2029-2030, with additions of about $7.5 million per year. From 2031 to
2040, the 2023 budget shows the FISA account to increase to $525 million, on average about
$27 million per year. According to RTD long-range projections, FasTracks funding, including the
FISA account, will not be able to cover maintenance and operations of the current RTD
FasTracks system once current debt is repaid. New funding will need to be identified to support
current and any additional operating segments implemented in the future. Existing FISA funds
are available, with the RTD Board’s approval, to support initial capital and operating expenses
for a starter service in the near-term, but will need to be bundled with dedicated state and other
revenue.
Northwest Rail is not the only unfinished FasTracks project. However, a portion of this funding
could be combined with other funds to enable the FRPR Northwest Phase 1, while growing
funds for the other FasTracks projects if and when feasible.
In addition, $50 million has been set aside by the State as potential match funds for IIJA grant
applications for passenger rail. Federal grant program opportunities funded out of the IIJA are
discussed below.
These RTD and IIJA-match sources of funding are still insufficient for RTD to begin Northwest
Rail revenue service in the short- to medium-term, and exhausting existing FISA funding in the
near-term will necessitate new revenues to be identified for RTD to maintain and operate the
current system. However, when combined with possible new state funding for passenger rail
expansion and other sources discussed below, it could allow implementation of passenger
service as part of combined service in the short term. Implementation includes both building
and funding operation and maintenance of the initial service.

Possible Immediate Funding and Financing for FRPR Northwest
Phase 1
Colorado has the opportunity to bundle existing and new sources of funding to accelerate
providing passenger rail service in a first phase from Denver north (and accelerating service to
the entire Front Range). The best and most certain chance of connecting with the
unprecedented federal grant opportunities under IIJA is in the next three years, when FRA has
4

In addition to the Northwest Line, unfinished elements of FasTracks include: (1) the extension of the N
Line to Northglenn; (2) the extension of the Southwest Line to Highlands Ranch; and (3) the extension of
the Central Line from 30th and Downing to the A Line.

6
Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

Existing Funds for FRPR Northwest Phase 1

8.1.b

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

billions in advanced appropriations that will be awarded through competitive solicitations.
Securing these grants will require local match money both for the specific capital projects for
which the grant is sought, and also ongoing state or local funding to cover the operations and
maintenance costs to put these capital investments to their intended use. When IIJA’s
authorizations expire in 2026, Congress will develop a new surface transportation
reauthorization bill (possibly requiring one or more temporary extensions of IIJA) that hopefully
will include further authorizations for passenger rail funding. But, there is less certainty about
future grant funding than the certainty of IIJA advanced appropriations. There will likely be
remaining available loan capacity under RRIF, although more of this capacity may be tapped
with increased rail investment nationwide.
IIJA Funding
An historic and time-limited opportunity exists through IIJA, which reauthorized surface
transportation programs and provided advanced appropriations for a number of programs that
support intercity rail. The President signed IIJA on November 15, 2015, authorizing $1.2 trillion
overall. For rail, IIJA authorized $102 billion for freight and intercity passenger rail programs,
and provided advanced appropriations of $66 billion of that amount (i.e., not subject to annual
appropriations by Congress). This reflects a massive increase in funding for passenger rail
development that will be advertised and awarded through 2026.
Four competitive grant programs funded out of IIJA are of particular importance to advancing
passenger rail along the Front Range.

Caption: Federal-State Partnership for Intercity Passenger Rail (FSP) and the Corridor
Identification Program. From Fiscal Year 22 to 26, $66 billion in total funding is available as
stated above.
The largest IIJA rail program is the $36 billion Federal-State Partnership, which is subdivided
between the Northeast Corridor and the rest of the country. IIJA specifies that at least $12
billion of the FSP would go to grants outside of the Northeast Corridor (and FRA is expected to

7
Packet Pg. 33

8.1.b

IIJA also directed a new planning pipeline program for passenger rail, the Corridor Identification
(Corridor ID) Program (CIDP), using a five percent set-aside of funds from the FSP. Corridor ID
selects candidate corridors for planning and development grants, including development of a
Service Development Plan (SDP). Colorado is a leader in FRA’s implementation of corridor
development, given that it is already underway with an SDP partially funded by a CRISI grant
awarded in 2020. The FRA announced on December 8, 2023, that the Front Range Passenger
Rail District has been accepted into Corridor ID Program and was awarded an initial grant to
complete and advance SDP activities. FRPR was one of only two corridors brought in at Step 2
of a three-step process.
IIJA created statutory preferences for projects in FSP that, among other things: come out of the
Corridor ID Program.
Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety improvements (CRISI)
IIJA provided $5 billion of advanced appropriations for the CRISI program, which supports a
wide variety of safety, freight, and passenger rail projects. IIJA quadrupled the amount of
funding available under the CRISI Program for projects that improve the safety, efficiency, and
reliability of intercity passenger and freight rail. CRISI provides for a maximum 80 percent
federal share, but provides statutory preferences for projects with a maximum of a 50 percent
federal share and that maximize the benefit-cost ratio for projects.
FRA expects the next CRISI Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) to issue in March 2024,
with applications due in Second Quarter of 2024.
A critical opportunity exists for funding Positive Train Control (PTC) on the BNSF Subdivision
from Denver Union Station of Fort Collins, which is a regulatory requirement for adding
passenger service to existing lines. This PTC has independent value in enhancing safety for
existing freight operations and for the previously approved RTD Northwest Rail operations.
5

FRA has already awarded $8.2 billion of this Federal-State Partnership funding but has made clear that
Colorado is well-positioned to be competitive for the remaining approximately $3.8 billion. Dedicated
local funding will be essential for being successful in that competition.
6
Intercity passenger rail is separate from commuter rail, which is conducted within urban or suburban
areas like Metropolitan Denver. The RTD A Line to Denver International Airport or the RTD Northwest
Rail Line to Boulder and Longmont are examples of commuter/regional rail and ineligible standing alone
for Federal Railroad Administration grant programs. Intercity passenger rail crosses metropolitan area
boundaries, e.g., from Boulder into Larimer counties. Thus, service from Denver to Loveland and Fort
Collins would be eligible for these FRA funds, while Denver to Boulder or Longmont would not. Congress
did provide advanced appropriations through the Federal Transit Administration that commuter rail
projects could seek, but in much lower levels than for intercity rail and which are already heavily
subscribed.

8
Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

provide $12 billion). 5 FSP is available to cover a wide range of passenger rail and planning
expenses to start and expand intercity passenger rail. 6 FRA can fund up to 80 percent of a
capital or planning project, requiring at least a 20 percent match with state, local or other
money.

8.1.b

Railroad Crossing Elimination
IIJA provided $3 billion in advanced appropriations for the Railroad Crossing Elimination
program, which pays for projects to eliminate or reduce safety risks at rail crossings. Some
grade separation and other projects (like SH 66 in Longmont or Timberline in Fort Collins) can
provide benefit to passenger rail service north of Denver by improving safety, reducing noise,
and increasing speeds. FRPR District and CDOT will continue to work with stakeholders to
identify and seek grants for appropriate projects along Front Range Subdivision and elsewhere.
This program has a maximum federal share of 80 percent. The most recent FRA schedule
anticipates the FY 2023-2024 Railroad Crossing Elimination NOFO will be issued in May 2024,
with applications due in August.
Restoration and Enhancement Program
The Restoration and Enhancement Program funds operating assistance grants for initiating,
restoring, or enhancing intercity passenger rail transportation, and includes $250 million of
advanced appropriations from FY 2021 to FY 2026. Examples of eligible expenses may
include: staffing costs for train engineers, conductors, on-board service crew; diesel fuel or
electricity costs associated with train propulsion power; station costs such as ticket sales,
customer information and train dispatching services, station building utility and maintenance
costs; lease payments on rolling stock; routine planned maintenance costs of equipment and
train cleaning; host railroad costs; train yard operation costs; general and administrative costs;
and management, marketing, sales, and reservations costs. This program is noteworthy as the
only FRA program providing operational assistance for intercity passenger rail, as opposed to
capital investment assistance.
Pursuant to statute, FRA may not have more than six grants open at a time and must apply a
long list of statutory priorities, including projects for which planning, acquisition, access and
other elements are complete or nearly complete; whether the route is a former Amtrak route;
inclusion in the Corridor ID Program; and Amtrak as the operator.
FRA has not issued a NOFO for the Restoration and Enhancement Program since 2019 (before
the IIJA), but has indicated an intent to issue a NOFO for FY 2023 and 2024 in March 2024. 7

7

Other USDOT grant programs such as RAISE and MEGA that include, but are not limited to, rail could
also contribute to funding for passenger rail in Colorado. CDOT and FRPR will assess possible uses for
the RAISE grants.

9
Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

Thus, CDOT is working with stakeholders to examine submitting a joint CRISI application as
soon as 2024 to support PTC. Because PTC could cost around $200-350 million (exact
amounts to be determined in discussions with BNSF), federal assistance would greatly help
paying down costs for Northwest Rail and Front Range Passenger Rail.

8.1.b

In addition to grant assistance, USDOT provides financing tools, including RRIF, to help
accelerate rail-related projects. The Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21)
and amended by the Safe Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: a
Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, and the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act all provided RRIF as a powerful tool to finance
railroad-related projects. Under this program, USDOT is authorized to provide direct loans and
loan guarantees up to a total of $35.0 billion to finance development of railroad infrastructure
(Colorado has used RRIF in the past for the Denver Union Station redevelopment). 8 Unlike the
IIJA competitive grants, which are expected to be advertised and awarded by the end of 2026,
RRIF loans are awarded on a rolling basis as applications are received and availability is likely
to continue past 2026.
RRIF allows for financing of 100 percent of rail project costs at a low interest rate, the cost of
federal borrowing (usually based on 30-year Treasury Bond rates, which are currently around
4.3%, as compared to the Prime Rate of 8.5%). 9 RRIF also does not require the payment of
accrued interest until proceeds are drawn and provides flexible amortization provisions with up
to a 35 year repayment period and the ability to defer repayment for up to five years after
substantial project completion.
These RRIF provisions could allow for favorable bonding against future RTD, State, District, and
other dedicated revenue streams to provide the required local matches under the IIJA grant
programs and enable the capital development of FRPR Northwest Phase 1 or the entirety of
Front Range Passenger Rail.
Possible State Funding
Unlike many states, Colorado does not currently have designated and consistent state-level
funding to support passenger rail. With such dedicated funding, Colorado could successfully
compete with other States in the next few years of IIJA discretionary grant availability for Phase
I service, buying down the cost of the overall project. It would be an essential tool for providing
matching funds for USDOT grants and basic operating funds. Tens of millions annually would
provide a solid basis to start service from Denver to Fort Collins as a first phase, along with
RTD’s FISA funds, federal grants, local funding, and RRIF financing.
In addition, the following sources may provide at least one-time or time-limited grants that could
buy down the capital costs of the project.

8

DOT has issued approximately $7.3 billion in loans under the RRIF program, leaving more than $27
billion in available loan capacity.
9
RRIF does require borrowers to pay for a credit risk premium, usually between zero and five percent, to
cover the costs attributable to the risk taken by USDOT in making the loan. Further analysis will be
needed to determine the exact risk premium, although the State’s credit rating and track record in
delivering projects are likely to reduce potential premium amounts. And, other forms of federal and nonfederal project finance may be available and should be explored.

10
Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

Federal Financing – Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program

Some funding may be available through the Nonattainment Air Pollution Mitigation Enterprise
(NAAPME) or Multimodal Option Fund that was established under S.B. 21-260. This enterprise
was created within the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) to support mitigation of
the environmental and health impacts of increased air pollution from motor vehicle emissions in
nonattainment areas that results from the rapid and continuing growth in retail deliveries made
by motor vehicles and in prearranged rides provided by transportation network companies.
NAAPME funding is for eligible projects that reduce traffic in the Nonattainment Area, which
includes the entire length of the route between Denver and Fort Collins.
North Front Range Metropolitan Planning Organization (NFRMPO) also has a matching fund
that could be used to help provide local matches for CRISI or other programs. Between
$400,000 and $1.5 million are expected to be available for NFRMPO funding from 2024-2033. 10
Possible Local Funding
Additional local funding is also possible from local governments or through the creation of
Regional Transportation Authorities (RTA) under Colorado statute (and subject to vote
approval). E.g., C.R.S. 43-4-601, et seq. RTA funding could be a dedicated stream of funding
that may be especially helpful to support construction of PTC, line, stations, and operations
north of Longmont for which there is no equivalent of the FISA into which RTD constituents
have already been paying.
FRPR Northwest Phase 1
The FRPR Northwest Phase 1 project would be an intercity rail project to run from Denver Union
Station to Fort Collins using the BNSF Front Range Subdivision tracks. 11 This project is similar
in scope to other transformative projects that CDOT is delivering and has delivered in recent
years, including North I-25 Express Lanes ($1.6 billion); Floyd Hill I-70 improvements ($700
million); Central 70 ($1.2 billion); and US-36 ($512 million in two phases).

10

NFRMPO also advertised for over $22 million in FY26 and FY 27 projects in Summer 2023 under the
Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality (CMAQ), Carbon Reduction Program (CRP), Surface
Transportation Block Grant (STBG), and Transportation Alternatives (TA) programs. Funding may be
available under these programs for FY 2028 forward.
11
Both CDOT and the Front Range Passenger Rail District have conservative estimates of capital cost
that are being refined based on levels of service, host railroad impacts, station choices, etc. They
anticipate working together in the next couple of months on a refined total corridor and Phase I approach.

11
Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

8.1.b

8.1.b

Fund Source Potential:

Note:

State IIJA Match

$150M has been appropriated over the last
two budgets for the executive branch to
compete for IIJA grants and IRA, $50 million
of which can be used for passenger rail

RTD FISA Savings

One time funding currently sitting idle in the
FasTracks Internal Savings Account, $168
million for 2023, and $236 million by 2028
according to RTD’s public financials

RTD Annual Sales Tax FISA Contributions

$13.4 million feeding FISA in 2023, increasing
more than $25 million annually from 2031 and
beyond; portions of future years’ contributions
could support debt repayment and O&M for
portion from Denver to Longmont

Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement
Financing

DOT has $27 billion in available loan
capacity; dedicated revenue for repayment
would need to come from FISA, State and/or
other sources

State Sponsored Financing

The federal programs created under IIJA
assume state matches; the State of Colorado
or the Front Range Passenger Rail District
could provide an ongoing revenue stream to
unlock these programs and for ongoing
operations and maintenance

Local Match

A Regional Transportation Authority could be
created to join in as a party to the joint power
authority. (Voter approval would be required
to impose a new RTA tax.)
There is potential grant money in the
Nonattainment Area Air Quality Mitigation
Enterprise created in S.B. 21-260 and
regional MPOs.

12
Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

Summary Of Potential State and Local Revenue Sources to Support
Capital, Financing and O&M Costs

8.1.b

Currently, CDOT/CTIO, RTD and the Front Range Passenger Rail District have statutory
authority to construct and implement passenger rail service on all or some of the FRPR
Northwest Phase 1 alignment. E.g., 32-9-119(1)(l) (RTD); 32-22-106(c), (g) (FRPR); 43-1117.5(3)(a) (CDOT Division of Transit and Rail (DTR)); 43-4-806(2)(c), (3)(d) (CTIO). Similarly,
all have the power to enter into intergovernmental agreements or public-private partnerships to
construct and/or operate passenger rail service. 12 See e.g., 32-9-119(1)(r) (RTD); 32-22-106(c),
(g) (FRPR); 43-1-117.5(3)(a) (CDOT Division of Transit and Rail (DTR)); 43-4-806(6)(f), (g).
Through an IGA, these entities can contractually establish understandings regarding planning,
design, financing, construction and operation of passenger rail service. The IGA can also
determine how decisions will be made among the parties on financial contributions, grants and
matching shares, procurement, contracting, operator selection, oversight, etc. for Northwest Rail
Plus. IGAs can be flexible regarding the specific decision making, approval, or consultation
responsibilities.
Of course, the Legislature could also provide specific direction on governance issues, including:
(1) reforms to the FRPR District Board to include an RTD voting seat;
(2) providing direction to the parties to enter into an IGA, with or without specific direction on
substantive elements, to deliver FRPR within their existing legal authorizations;
and/or
(3) providing direction to the parties to enter into an IGA, with or without specific direction on
substantive elements, to create an project-specific entity under existing law (such
entities are typically created as non-profit corporations, like the Denver Union Station
Project Authority and the National Western Center Authority, with powers and
governance structures agreed in the governing documents; such an entity could have
the ability to issue tax exempt debt.
How Would FRPR Northwest Phase 1 Fit into Front Range Passenger Rail Service?
As contemplated in the FRPR statute, intercity service on the FRPR Northwest Phase 1
segment would be a first and key segment of Front Range Passenger Rail, providing initial
service based on the available funds from FISA, State fee revenue, federal grants and other
sources. Simultaneously, FRPRD would continue to expand and extend into the full Front
Range Passenger Rail corridor service when a successful ballot measure and/or other funding
mechanism allows. Using the FISA funds for their intended purpose or building rail along the
Northwest Rail route helps reduce the future ask to voters, and that is an important step in
securing a successful ballot measure. Furthermore, fast action allows Colorado to secure IIJA
funding to buy down overall total FRPR costs and maximize service. Beginning on a segment
of the FRPR will reduce costs and risk for this and future phases of the FRPR project.

12

There is a question regarding the ability of RTD to operate outside of the District, which could be
addressed in legislation.

13
Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

Legal and Governance Arrangements to Jointly Exercise Powers

8.1.b

The FRPR Northwest Phase 1 service would put joint passenger rail on the Northwest Rail line
and make use of the Peak Service Study and its analyses, albeit with a reduced number of
stations. And, by making critical investments in PTC, stations, track, possible access
understandings with BNSF, and other elements, the project would reduce the costs of providing
more service on the Northwest Rail when RTD has funding to do so.
Starting with intercity development and service now makes sense because IIJA provided more
advanced appropriations for intercity passenger rail development through FRA than new
commuter rail development through the Capital Investment Grant (CIG) program at the Federal
Transit Administration (FTA). 13 Federal law distinguishes between commuter rail, which is
within a metropolitan area, and intercity passenger rail, which connects different metropolitan
areas or metropolitan areas and rural areas. And programs like the Federal-State Partnership
are limited to intercity rail projects. 14 Because Northwest Rail – like other FasTracks projects –
has previously been characterized as commuter rail, extension of service north of the RTD
service territory would be needed to unlock intercity funding.
With PTC, track improvements, primary market stations, and other elements in place, it will be
easier and less expensive for RTD, FRPR District, and/or an entity in the NFRMPO to add
stations for more “local” service. Additional investment in stations, track access, rolling stock,
and operations/maintenance are likely to be necessary, but will work from a base of an
operating passenger rail service. Consideration will need to be given for issues such as
negotiations with BNSF for additional passenger train service, platform height issues, and trip
times.
How Would State Passenger Rail Funding Affect Consideration of Other Transit
Funding?
Providing a reliable ongoing source for State passenger rail funding would be in addition to
potential additional funding for regional and local transit in Colorado. Both efforts would be
synergistic, because an intercity passenger rail spine would better connect regional and local
transit and support transit-oriented development, while improved local, regional, and statewide
transit will increase the mobility, environmental and other benefits of passenger rail service.

13

FTA also has an extensive pipeline already for these CIG funds. The field is currently more open for
FRA funding.
14
While FRA cannot fund a project that is entirely or primarily commuter rail, it can fund projects that will
benefit commuter rail when the service is on a shared corridor. For example, the 2022 Federal-State
Partnership explained: “For projects that are on a shared corridor with Commuter Railroad Passenger
Transportation or freight transportation, applicants must clearly demonstrate how the proposed project
directly benefits Intercity Passenger Rail Transportation and that funding the proposed project would be a
reasonable investment in Intercity Passenger Rail Transportation, independent and separate from
consideration of the proposed project's benefits to other transportation purposes.”

14
Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

How Would the FRPR Northwest Phase 1 Fit into Possible Future RTD Peak or Full
Service?

8.1.b

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

Further, providing a clear path to the implementation of passenger rail service for Northwest Rail
as part of a first phase of Front Range Passenger Rail will address concerns about the historic
inability to provide this service as promised to the voters of metropolitan Denver in FasTracks.

15
Packet Pg. 41

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION
PLAN AND REPORT TO THE LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR
SEPTEMBER 30th, 2024

Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

8.1.b

8.1.b

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR

Background .................................................................................................................................3
Report Requirements ...................................................................................................................3
I.

Studies and Modeling to Facilitate Implementation ................................................................4
A.

Recent Completed and Ongoing Studies and Service Development Plans ..........................4
1.

Northwest Rail Peak Service Study (2024) ......................................................................4

2.

Front Range Passenger Rail Service Development Plan (Ongoing) ...................................4

B.

II.

Other Studies ...................................................................................................................7
1.

State Rail Plan ..............................................................................................................7

2.

Front Range Passenger Rail Alternatives Analysis ...........................................................7

3.

FasTracks Unfinished Corridors Report (2019) ...............................................................7

4.

Northwest Rail Corridor Environmental Evaluation (2010) ..............................................8

5.

Northwest Area Mobility (2014) .....................................................................................8

Creation of a Cooperative Unit for Joint Service ......................................................................8
A.

Creation of a Standalone Colorado Rail Authority ..............................................................9

B. Creation of a standalone legal entity such as a Colorado nonprofit corporation under Title 7
Colorado Revised Statutes ........................................................................................................9
C.

Creation of a Binding and Perpetual Agreement among the Parties ................................... 10

D.

The Parties’ Decision Process for Governance and Implementation .................................. 10

III.

Finance and Funding ...................................................................................................... 10

A.

Financial Analysis ........................................................................................................... 10

B.

Funding Sources ............................................................................................................ 11

IV.

Exploration of Potential Operators of Front Range Passenger Rail ..................................... 12

V.

Stakeholder Outreach ......................................................................................................... 13

VI.

Looking Forward ............................................................................................................. 14

Glossary .................................................................................................................................... 15

2

Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

Table of Contents

8.1.b

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR

In the spring of 2024, the Colorado General Assembly adopted Senate Bill 24-184 (“SB – 184”.) SB –
184 contains a legislative mandate to the Colorado Department of Transportation (including its
High Performance Transportation Enterprise, dba Colorado Transportation Investment Office), the
Regional Transportation District and the Front Range Passenger Rail District (individually CDOT,
CTIO, RTD, and FRPRD in this report and collectively the “Parties”) to work together to implement
the completion of construction and operation of the Northwest Fixed Guideway Corridor, including
an extension of the corridor to Fort Collins as the first portion of Front Range Passenger Rail (the
“Project”.) Front Range Passenger Rail service is intended to connect communities from Fort
Collins, through Denver and on to Trinidad. The General Assembly has declared that accelerating
the provision of fixed guideway service on the Northwest rail corridor as the first phase of Front
Range Passenger Rail service will not in any way slow planning, development, grant-seeking, or
other activities needed for the expeditious delivery of the remaining elements of Front Range
Passenger Rail service or unfinished FasTracks projects. The General Assembly intends that
completion of the Project will expedite completion of the entire rail service.

Report Requirements
With SB-184, the General Assembly is actively encouraging the Parties to combine their powers and
authority to build and operate infrastructure improvements and to use their available local revenue
sources to take advantage of available federal moneys for such purposes. The federal government
has made billions of dollars available to states, local governments and private entities in the 2021
bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA). Many of these federal grants provide an
80% federal share and require only a 20% match from the grant recipient’s own revenue sources.
The Parties acting collectively can boost the total amount of revenue available for the local match,
as well as operate and maintain the Project.
Among the requirements of the Parties in SB-184 are:
•
•
•

•

•

Prepare an Implementation Plan to be included in a report to the Transportation Legislation
Review Committee of the Colorado General Assembly due on or before September 30, 2024
Identify all ongoing and completed studies and service development plans that could be
leveraged to accelerate approval and permitting for the Project
FRPRD and CDOT must use existing contracts to the extent possible to conduct rail traffic
controller (RTC) modeling and other analyses for intercity passenger rail service from
Denver Union Station to Fort Collins for at least 2 scenarios, including a scenario of 3 round
trips (RT)/day and one of 5 RT/day
The Parties must identify and evaluate options for creating a new standalone entity such as
a Colorado Rail Authority, a separate legal entity created under Sections 29-1-203 and 203.5
Colorado Revised Statutes (CRS), a separate legal entity created pursuant to Articles 121137 of Title 7, CRS, or a standalone IGA as a business model
Explore the viability of Amtrak or other entities as potential operators for intercity passenger
rail service
3

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

Background

8.1.b

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR

I.

Studies and Modeling to Facilitate Implementation
There has been considerable analysis over time planning for Northwest Rail and Front Range
Passenger Rail.

A. Recent Completed and Ongoing Studies and Service Development Plans
The Northwest Rail Peak Service Study and the ongoing Front Range Passenger Rail Study reflect
the most current and detailed review of passenger rail service on the corridor.
1. Northwest Rail Peak Service Study (2024)
The Northwest Rail Peak Service Study (NRPS Study) was conducted for RTD to assess the
feasibility of providing a peak service operation between Denver Union Station (DUS) and Longmont
consisting of three weekday peak period trips from Longmont to DUS in the morning and three
weekday evening trips from Denver to Longmont. The study identified the infrastructure, fleet,
BNSF Railway (BNSF) requirements, and capital and operating cost estimates needed to implement
the peak period service on the 45-mile corridor that would operate on the existing RTD B-Line (6
miles) and existing freight tracks (39 miles).
The Study was conducted by RTD and its contractors and used rail traffic simulation modeling to
determine the infrastructure improvements necessary to meet both RTD’s requirements and the
freight needs of BNSF. BNSF conducted a portion of the study to generate 30% designs and capital
cost estimates. BNSF did not provide costs for easements to provide access without a full
understanding of the total number of passenger trains that would use the corridor. While the Peak
Service is different from Front Range Passenger Rail service (which will be bidirectional, weekday
and weekend, and extend into Fort Collins and eventually to Pueblo), the findings of the study can
provide valuable insight toward the advancement of the Project. It is believed that the capital
improvements for signals, sidings and other infrastructure for a similar number of trains will be
used to assess what will be needed for initial service between Denver and Longmont and can be
useful for assessing costs for improvements north of Longmont. Discussions with BNSF and
operations modeling are ongoing.
2. Front Range Passenger Rail Service Development Plan (Ongoing)
CDOT is leading the development of a Service Development Plan (SDP) for Front Range Passenger
Rail service between Pueblo and Fort Collins. An SDP is a study that is a product of a formal
process created by the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) to support initiation of new or
expansion of existing intercity passenger rail service. According to FRA, the main objectives of a
SDP are to identify the draft purpose and need statement for intercity passenger rail development;
4

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

The following first Implementation Plan and Report addresses the requirements set forth above and
is a faithful accounting of the actions and activities of the Parties to date in furtherance of the goal
of the Project.

8.1.b

incorporate an analysis of alternatives supported by technical transportation planning and
conceptual engineering; incorporate a high-level analysis and consideration of environmental
factors associated with the alternatives; include input provided through public involvement and
relevant public agencies; and identify the governance structure for the implementation and
operation of the new service. The SDP results in a corridor project inventory to identify the capital
projects necessary to achieve the proposed service.
The SDP serves as the foundation for further project development activities, including
environmental review pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), preliminary
engineering, discretionary grant applications under the Federal-State Partnership for Intercity Rail
program, and other efforts. CDOT, the Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail
Commission (predecessor to the current Front Range Passenger Rail District) applied for and
received a Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements (CRISI) grant from FRA in
2020 to develop a SDP for Front Range Passenger Rail service on existing freight lines. Further,
both the SDP and project development efforts are also eligible for FRA support under the Corridor
Identification and Development (Corridor ID) program that is part of the Federal-State Partnership
grant program in the IIJA. FRA granted an application to the FRPR District in 2023 for inclusion in
Corridor ID.
HNTB Corporation (HNTB) is currently contracted by CDOT to develop the Service Development
Plan for Front Range Passenger Rail, including operations modeling using RTC simulation for future
Front Range Passenger Rail service. Consistent with SB-184, CDOT will use this existing contract to
have HNTB conduct RTC modeling of potential joint service.
Rail operations modeling provides an ability to simulate how current and future freight and
passenger operations can share operations on existing rail lines, and how possible infrastructure
improvements can affect congestion, increase speeds and provide reliability. RTC is a software
simulation tool used in the rail industry to conduct such analyses. HNTB is working with FRA, CDOT,
FRPRD, BNSF, Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) and RTD to conduct and validate the modeling for use
in the SDP.
RTC modeling starts with building a model for how existing rail traffic operates on the current rail
network within the study limits. This includes collecting data for the model input. Data collected
includes; train operating schedules, train characteristics such as types of trains (such as coal, auto,
merchandise, intermodal and other types), length, power, and other factors for the train, along with
track configuration, signal locations, curves, grade, operating speeds, sidings and other elements
for the existing infrastructure and operations. Next, the future baseline freight and passenger traffic
is estimated and added to the simulation without the proposed passenger operations being studied
added. Current SDP modeling will look at 2035, 2045 and 2055 future year cases, requiring
assessment of future freight growth and operations, along with any known capital improvements
not provided for Front Range Passenger Rail. Finally, proposed passenger rail operations will be
added to determine the impacts on freight operations. To the extent that such passenger
operations require capital improvements, or the passenger operations negatively impact freight
5

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR

8.1.b

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR

At each step of the RTC modeling, HNTB and CDOT will work with the host railroads, FRA and
FRPRD to ensure that modeled inputs are correct and that the modeled outputs reasonably reflect
current or future conditions.
With successful modeling, the participants can have a common understanding to develop
schedules, capital improvements and other mitigations to ensure freight and passenger trains can
operate efficiently. This information can then be used to optimize the schedules, speeds, capital
costs and environmental information needed for the SDP and subsequent environmental review, as
well as financial plans, grant applications and procurements. Similarly, it supports access
negotiations with the host railroads to determine what improvements will be needed to initiate
passenger service.
The original SDP scope of work for HNTB did not explicitly include joint service, although the FRA
and other parties have been interested in understanding how RTD Northwest Rail would interact
with Front Range Passenger Rail service on the BNSF Front Range Subdivision. Modeling joint
service will be a means of addressing these questions more efficiently than assuming both RTD
Peak Service and Front Range Passenger Rail intercity service will operate with freight all at the
same time. Thus, the Parties have agreed on the following assumptions for the RTC modeling being
conducted for CDOT in addition to the original SDP scope of work:
•
•
•
•

•

One operator
One access agreement with BNSF
The route is from Denver Union Station on the RTD B-Line to Westminster then on BNSF
freight line beyond Fort Collins
Stops will include Front Range Passenger Rail primary markets and three possible stops
from the RTD Peak Service Study, including Denver Union Station, Westminster, Broomfield,
Downtown Louisville, Boulder, Longmont, Loveland, and Fort Collins.
Schedules for potential joint service are part of ultimate service from Pueblo to Fort Collins
to ensure integration of joint service into full Front Range Passenger Rail service.

Note that inclusion in modeling does not indicate that any stops are technically or financially
feasible, that any of the Parties have made any decisions regarding these stops, or that the FRA has
made any decisions regarding whether this system will perform as intercity rail. However, the
modeling will help support decision making on these issues by the Parties, FRA, BNSF and others.
The operations analyses conducted by HNTB will include schedules, performance and capital
improvements for 3 RT/day and 5 RT/day scenarios, consistent with SB-184.
HNTB will model both joint service and stand-alone Front Range Passenger Rail intercity service,
including service with and without the B Line. During the evaluation of B Line use, the analysis will
need to consider the interface of joint service with the existing RTD Commuter Rail operations
6

Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

operations, improvements such as added sidings, mainline track, crossovers, etc., will be added to
the model to determine how performance goals can be met.

8.1.b

performed by RTD’s Concessionaire Denver Transit Partners (DTP) and their O&M operator, Denver
Transit Operators (DTO), collectively DTP/O. In 2010, RTD entered into a Concession and Lease
Agreement (CA) through a Public-Private-Partnership (P3) with DTP for 28 years with the concession
period ending at the end of 2044. Through this agreement, RTD leases its property and assets to
DTP/O for them to perform their operations, maintenance and dispatching of the DTO controlled
territory which includes the B Line out to Westminster Station and G Line out to Wheat Ridge Ward
Road Station.
The CA does contemplate new third-party railroads proposing and requesting access on DTO
controlled territory that is leased to DTP. The Parties will have to evaluate fully what agreements will
need to be in place for intercity rail to run on DTO controlled territory and utilize DUS platforms, as
well as potential costs.

B. Other Studies
1. State Rail Plan
CDOT develops and maintains the State Rail Plan (link) pursuant to FRA requirements to provide a
comprehensive plan to address freight and passenger rail transportation needs across Colorado.
The Plan summarizes the current state of rail in Colorado and also provides vision for future
projects. CDOT updated the State Rail Plan in 2024, and it includes Front Range Passenger Rail as a
priority for development.
2. Front Range Passenger Rail Alternatives Analysis
In 2020, CDOT and the Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail Commission completed an
Alternatives Analysis that evaluated corridors for passenger rail service to the major population
centers, considered governance options, and conducted stakeholder outreach. The Alternatives
Analysis showed that Front Range Passenger Rail service is technically feasible and can be
implemented using existing transportation corridors (link).
The Alternatives Analysis recommended a system whereby passenger trains operate on shared
track with freight operations, which would decrease the initial investment capital needed to
implement future Front Range Passenger Rail service. In conjunction with this effort, CDOT and
metropolitan planning organizations along the Front Range incorporated Front Range Passenger
Rail into their planning documents. The Alternatives Analysis also led CDOT and the Southwest
Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail Commission to seek and receive the grant from the Federal
Railroad Administration (FRA) to develop an ongoing SDP.
3. FasTracks Unfinished Corridors Report (2019)
The FasTracks Unfinished Corridors Report was developed to address the agency’s continuing
commitment to complete the FasTracks program and included draft ideas, opportunities, and
approaches for completion of the North Metro Line, the Southwest Extension, the Central Corridor
Extension, and the Northwest Rail. In the report was a summary of information discovered through
the 2010 Northwest Rail Corridor Environmental Evaluation (NRCEE) and the 2014 Northwest Area
7

Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR

8.1.b

Mobility Study (NAMS) pertaining to the Northwest Rail and an outline of proposed steps to move
forward on the Northwest Rail. The report included the concept of the Peak Period Plan and
provided conceptual operating parameters, stations, projected ridership numbers, and order-ofmagnitude capital cost estimates and operating and maintenance cost estimates.
4. Northwest Rail Corridor Environmental Evaluation (2010)
RTD initiated the NRCEE to identify and evaluate environmental impacts of implementing a fixed
guideway, commuter rail transit service between Denver and Longmont as part of the 2004
FasTracks program. The project was envisioned to be completed in two phases; the first phase
would be from Denver Union Station to Westminster/71st Avenue Station using Electric Multiple
Units (EMU). Phase 2 would use Diesel Multiple Unit (DMU) technology from DUS to Longmont. The
first phase, known as the B-Line, was completed in 2016 as part of the RTD Eagle P3 project.
5.

Northwest Area Mobility (2014)

The Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) was undertaken as a 13-month effort to develop a
prioritized list of mobility improvements for the Northwest area of the RTD service area. Utilizing a
collaborative decision-making process RTD, CDOT and the Northwest Area stakeholders agreed
upon study goals, objectives and performance measures to evaluate phased construction of the
Northwest Rail, feasibility of extending North Metro Rail Line to Longmont, US 36 Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT) commitments, and feasibility of new arterial BRT lines.

II.

Creation of a Cooperative Unit for Joint Service
As set forth above, SB-184 identifies three broad options for governing joint exercise of power by
the Parties. The legislation encourages the Parties to use their joint authorities and funding streams
to deliver the first phase of Front Range Passenger Rail service. Since the Legislature created the
FRPRD in 2021, the Parties have met and consulted together. In early 2024, they collaborated to
produce a White Paper detailing some of the many ways in which they might combine efforts and
accelerate action in order to take advantage of the availability of federal funding (link). The adoption
of SB-184 reinforced the idea of working together to access federal funding but also to accelerate
and enhance the delivery of rail service jointly. In early August, the Parties retained the services of a
Special Advisor (Advisor) who has experience with various governance protocols for joint project
delivery. On the 19th of August, the Advisor led a successful charrette for all principals and staff of
the Parties. During that collaborative 3-hour planning session, the Parties discussed common goals
and how to achieve them. As a result, the Parties established three working committees:
Governance, Operations and Funding/Finance. Members of each of the committees comprise
principals and staff of each of the Parties. The Governance Committee is leading the evaluation and
decision-making with respect to the ultimate governance of the group of the Parties in the long
term.

8

Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR

8.1.b

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR

A. Creation of a Standalone Colorado Rail Authority
The Parties briefly considered the option of creating a statewide rail authority but have concluded
that evaluating such an initiative would need to be much more broad-based than the Parties could
provide with existing resources and under the schedule for SB 24-184 The Legislature did not grant
to the Parties the kind of resources nor timeline needed to undertake such an effort. Therefore, this
concept may have merit and could be studied further but such study is beyond the abilities of the
Parties at this time.

B. Creation of a standalone legal entity such as a Colorado nonprofit corporation
under Title 7 Colorado Revised Statutes
The Parties were aware that several successful cooperative governance structures of a corporate
nature have been used for projects in Colorado recently. Steps they have taken to look at this option
include:
•

•

•
•

The Governance Committee (described above) has held meetings to discuss aspects of
governance that will be important as they work toward delivery of joint rail service to the
northwest corridor
Members of the Governance Committee have been given and many have reviewed,
examples of working documents from successfully-governed corporate collaborations such
as the Framework Agreement of the National Western Center Authority and the Principles of
Governance of the Denver Union Station Project Authority
Members of the Governance Committee have sought and held lessons-learned discussions
with staff and principals of such corporate entities
The Governance Committee has examined carefully the questions: “What does a new entity
bring to the consortium that no one Party has on its own?” and “What would a new entity do
in the long term?”

These evaluation efforts led to a final consideration of the option of creating a new stand-alone
entity at a meeting of the Governance Committee on the 18th of September, with 10 members
attending. It was agreed by the attending members that consensus had been reached by the
Parties to move on from the new entity option and begin the process of focusing on an
intergovernmental Agreement (the “IGA”) that will establish oversight and guidance for the group of
agencies to jointly develop and provide rail service. In accordance with SB-184, the Governance
Committee will establish a goal to adopt and fully execute the IGA by or before 31 December 2024.
In order to structure an IGA that will cover financial commitments toward a joint rail service,
detailed project costs, service plans and committed funding sources will need to be established. At
this time, those items are not yet determined.
9

Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

With the help of the Advisor, the Parties recently have completed the evaluation portion of this
legislative mandate by evaluating all available options for governance, especially those suggested
in SB-184. Progress from start to finish with that evaluation process was as follows:

8.1.b

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR

Negotiating and executing an IGA is within the powers of each of the Parties and the Parties,
pursuant to Sections 29-1-203 and 203.5, CRS, are authorized to negotiate and contract between
and among themselves. It is not uncommon for governmental agencies to combine their powers
and their money to achieve a mutual goal; at this time, an IGA appears to be the best way for the
Parties to work together to deliver joint rail service.
The Parties are discussing their own powers and authorities to determine if there is anything the
group needs to be able to do that no one of them can do. They also are discussing their own
willingness to share roles and responsibilities among themselves and asking questions about trust
and mutual respect within an IGA context.
Each of the Parties is locating examples of existing IGAs that have worked well for them in the past.
The Governance Committee will be reviewing those IGAs for relevance in the joint service delivery
context. In this way the Parties may be able to create a useful template for going forward. The
Attorney General’s office has provided a team of attorneys to guide and assist in this work.

D. The Parties’ Decision Process for Governance and Implementation
The Parties understood that a consensus regarding governance had to be reached quickly. The
business of evaluation of the various governance options was quickly and efficiently dispatched,
and work will begin on structuring the IGA in October of 2024.

III.

Finance and Funding
FRPRD performed a financial analysis of the Front Range Passenger Rail corridor to inform its
decision-making on a potential filing of a November 2024 ballot measure asking District voters to
approve a sales tax increase for new intercity rail service between Fort Collins and Pueblo. The
scope of the financial analysis was to assess the feasibility of supporting capital construction and
long-term operating costs for six daily roundtrips throughout the corridor, with sensitivities
performed on key analysis variables and inputs.
The analysis also tested different contingency assumptions to account for the level of design
completed to date and the early stage of discussions with the freight railroads who own the FRPR
corridor right-of-way, resulting in a range of outputs to better understand the degree of financial
support needed from a future sales tax ballot measure. The resulting analysis was presented to the
FRPRD Board for further consideration.

A. Financial Analysis
The Parties have initiated a financial study to assess the feasibility of delivering intercity passenger
rail starter service with three to five daily roundtrips from Denver Union Station to Fort Collins. The
analysis will use data generated by RTD’s NRPS Study to estimate the capital costs and shall use
cost benchmarks from passenger service provided along similar intercity rail corridors to forecast
10

Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

C. Creation of a Binding and Perpetual Agreement among the Parties

8.1.b

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR

In addition, the Parties are initiating an analysis of the funding available for this project from the
following sources: (1) FasTracks sales tax revenue, (2) FasTracks savings accounts, (3) SB-184 and
other eligible enterprise funding, and (4) any potential new sources such as contributions from
local governments and other regional transit authorities. This financial analysis will use the
resulting revenue and cost forecasts under various scenarios to illustrate how starter service on the
northern segment of the Front Range Passenger Rail corridor might be funded and financed.
As discussed earlier in this Report, the Parties will be using RTC modeling of three to five daily
roundtrips from Denver Union Station to Fort Collins as set forth in SB184. It is anticipated that the
NRPS Study also will provide some data to better estimate the cost of capital improvements along
the northern segment. The NRPS Study cost estimates are specific to DUS to Longmont section and
a continued assessment for the corridor conditions and BNSF requirements north of Longmont is
needed to refine cost estimates for the entire Project.
The analysis will focus on the most affordable delivery options given SB 184’s objective of
identifying starter service that can be delivered as soon as possible.

B. Funding Sources
The financial study will include an analysis of funding and financing sources available for joint rail
service and the limitations that may exist on uses of those funds (e.g., the restriction on RTD
spending outside its service area and the legal fee nexus for SB-184, 230 and 260.) This portion of
the study will, at a minimum, include an analysis of revenue available to this project from the
following sources:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

FasTracks sales tax and savings account
SB-194
SB-184
SB-230
SB-260
Federal grant opportunities
Farebox collection scenarios
Federal loan/financing opportunities

The Parties intend to explore similar projects like RTD’s southeast rail project where the local
government contributed with RTD to finish the project. Some information about situations like this
may be readily available but some may require data-sharing agreements. The Parties intend to
create a template agreement to facilitate the sharing of information.

11

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

operations and maintenance costs. This analysis will rely upon these benchmarks to the extent
project-specific data is not available.

8.1.b

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR

Exploration of Potential Operators of Front Range Passenger Rail
The Parties agreed that having one operator on the BNSF Front Range Subdivision would be
beneficial. The Parties have not yet discussed how an operator would be chosen for joint service,
but this will be addressed in forthcoming reports.
However, following up on Sections 32-22-103(5)(a)(III), CRS, Amtrak and other entities are viable
potential operators for joint service, evolving into full Front Range Passenger Rail corridor options.
Based on current FRA guidance, an operator path for Front Range Passenger Rail (either Amtrak
under federal law or a competitive procurement) would need to be accomplished before moving
from the SDP stage of the Corridor ID program to the third phase of environmental review and grant
seeking. This means that an initial path is likely to be needed in 2025.
Amtrak has expressed interest and capability in operating Front Range Passenger Rail service,
including joint service. Amtrak is the national passenger railroad, created by Congress in the Rail
Passenger Service Act of 1970 to provide intercity passenger rail service in the United States, which
was struggling at the time. Amtrak provides both long-distance services (such as the California
Zephyr and the Southwest Chief that serve Colorado and “State-Supported Services” of less 750
miles, of which there are currently 30 outside of Colorado. State and local entities are responsible
for most of the rail infrastructure and operations and maintenance costs of these routes. Amtrak
has identified Front Range Passenger Rail service in its long-term expansion plan “Amtrak Connects
US” in May 2021. Amtrak also is represented on the FRPRD with a non-voting Director seat. Amtrak
also briefed the Front Range Passenger Rail on Amtrak capacity and interest in June 2024.
Amtrak has special status under Federal law for providing intercity service. It has a statutory right to
operate on freight rail tracks, so long as it provides infrastructure needed to preserve the quality of
freight transportation on the line. Amtrak also generally has preference for intercity trains over
freight trains, unless otherwise provided by the Surface Transportation Board. Under the Passenger
Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 (PRIIA), Amtrak’s costs charged to public sponsors
are set by formula rather than being set by procurement for each individual service. Amtrak also
has a large fleet and workforce, with additional fleet procurement in process with funds from the
IIJA, that provide it capacity to provide new service with enough lead time. Similarly, Amtrak has
existing insurance that allows sponsors to secure liability insurance up to the federal statutory
liability cap of $323 million without the sponsor and/or operator securing such insurance from the
market.
Aside from Amtrak, other operators exist that can provide intercity passenger rail service if the host
railroads (in the case of FRPR, BNSF and UPRR) provide access to their lines by agreement. Unlike
Amtrak, third-party operators do not have a Federal statutory right to access to freight tracks, which
makes agreement essential. Third-party (non-Amtrak) operations are more frequent for commuter
service on freight lines across the country than intercity service, but third-party operators exist (e.g.,
Brightline in Florida).
These operators are able to work with public sponsors to meet insurance, access, rolling stock and
other requirements for providing rail passenger service. A trade group representing many of these
12

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

IV.

8.1.b

entities presented at an FRPRD Board workshop in August 2024. The group indicated third-party
interest and capacity to provide Front Range Passenger Rail service. While the group acknowledged
that third-party operators do not have some of the statutory advantages of Amtrak, it claimed that
such operators can provide better service at a lower cost.
While both Amtrak and non-Amtrak operators may be viable for joint service and expanded Front
Range Passenger Rail service, additional assessment and process will be needed to determine
whether to choose the Amtrak model or a competitive procurement (which could include Amtrak as
a possible bidder). As noted, this will need to be addressed in the near future to enable FRA
environmental review, Corridor ID funding for preliminary engineering and seeking certain grants.

V.

Stakeholder Outreach
In August the Parties retained the services of a facilitator (Facilitator) to structure and manage
stakeholder outreach. The Facilitator has developed a slide deck for use with meetings with a
variety of stakeholders and stakeholder groups. The following is a list of stakeholders engaged early
in our outreach (link). The Facilitator is continuing to schedule additional meetings and will revise
the slide deck as needed as the Parties reach consensus and make progress going forward.
Key Partners
•

Boards of RTD, FRPRD, CTIO, CDOT/CDOT Rail

Associations & Organizations
•

Leadership of Metro Caucus of Mayors, DRCOG, Commuting Solutions

Affected Community Leaders
•

Leaders including Colorado’s Congressional Delegation in both CO-02 and CO-07, State
Representatives & Senators representing North Corridor communities, Chamber Directors,
Mayors, City Councilors & County Commissioners in Adams, Boulder, Broomfield & Larimer
Counties.

Based on our initial set of meetings, we have been asked to attend and are coordinating future
meetings with the full membership or committees from Metro Caucus of Mayors, DRCOG and
multiple Chambers of Commerce. We are exploring additional opportunities to meet with EDCs,
additional chambers, CML, CCI, CCAT and others.

13

Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR

8.1.b

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR

VI.

Looking Forward
•
•
•
•
•
•

Creating a new committee, the Messaging Committee (committee of the whole; committed
to clarifying and making consistent the single voice of the Parties)
Continuing the meetings of the initial three committees on a regular basis
Preparing for, outlining and drafting Implementation plan for starter rail service delivered by
2029, for report due on March 1, 2025
Investigating and ultimately selecting the one operator for Front Range Passenger Rail
service
Continuing to work with outside stakeholders
Structuring the IGA, including:
o Creating an executive oversight committee for the Parties
o Contracting and other procurement issues
o Access to, managing and understanding funding mechanisms
o Navigating political (and Political) complexities
o Creating efficiencies and streamlining processes through joint service
o Defining the group relationship and individual roles and responsibilities

14

Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

Future efforts under current work plan include:

8.1.b

NORTHWEST FIXED GUIDEWAY CORRIDOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR

BRT

Bus Rapid Transit

BNSF

BNSF Railway

CA

Concession and Lease Agreement

CCAT

Counties and Commissioners Acting Together

CCI

Colorado Counties Inc.

CDOT

Colorado Department of Transportation

CML

Colorado Municipal League

CO

Colorado

Corridor ID

Corridor Identification and Development Program

CRISI

Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements

CTIO

Colorado Transportation Investment Office

DMU

Diesel Multiple Unit

DRCOG

Denver Regional Council of Governments

DTO

Denver Transportation Operators

DTP

Denver Transit Partners

DUS

Denver Union Station

EDC

Economic Development Corporation

EMU

Electric Multiple Unit

FRA

Federal Railroad Administration

FRPR

Front Range Passenger Rail

FRPRD

Front Range Passenger Rail District

HNTB

HNTB Corporation

IGA

Intergovernmental Agreement

IIJA

Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act

NAMS

Northwest Area Mobility Study

NEPA

National Environmental Policy Act

RTC

Rail Traffic Controller

RTD

Regional Transportation District (Denver)

SB

Senate Bill

SDP

Service Development Plan

UPRR

Union Pacific Railroad

Attachment: RTD Jan25 BOD PACKET DOC (5052 : External Entities Report on Joint Rail Planning Efforts)

Glossary

15

Packet Pg. 56

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

13.A

Board of Directors
Chair – Julien Bouquet, District G
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe, District H
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore, District K
Secretary – Chris Nicholson, District A
Treasurer – Karen Benker, District I
Vince Buzek, District J
Peggy Catlin, District N
Kathleen Chandler, District F
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Chris Gutschenritter, District D

Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L
Matt Larsen, District E
Brett Paglieri, District M
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

MINUTES
SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
IN-PERSON/ REMOTE
January 7, 2025
5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
First Vice Chair Catlin called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Installation/Swearing-in of New Board Members
The Honorable Judge Martinez administered the Oath of Office to the following Directors:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

III.

Karen Benker
Kathleen Chandler
Chris Gutschenritter
Matt Larsen
Chris Nicholson
Patrick O’Keefe
Brett Paglieri

Roll Call
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Karen Benker

Director, District I

Present

5:30 PM

Julien Bouquet

Director, District G

Present

5:30 PM

Vince Buzek

Director, District J

Present

5:30 PM

Peggy Catlin

Director, District N

Present

5:30 PM

Kathleen Chandler

Director, District F

Present

5:30 PM

Lynn Guissinger

Director, District O

Present

5:30 PM

Chris Gutschenritter

Director, District D

Present

5:30 PM

Page 1 of 5
Packet Pg. 57

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 7, 2025 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

Regional Transportation District

Michael Guzman

Director, District C

Present

5:30 PM

Ian Harwick

Director, District L

Present

5:30 PM

Matt Larsen

Director, District E

Present

5:30 PM

Chris Nicholson

Director, District A

Present

5:30 PM

Patrick O'Keefe

Director, District H

Present

5:30 PM

Brett Paglieri

Director, District M

Present

5:30 PM

JoyAnn Ruscha

Director, District B

Remote

5:30 PM

Troy Whitmore

Director, District K

Present

5:30 PM

Along with Directors and senior staff there were 23 public participants in attendance.

IV.

Public Comment
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

V.

Lance Longenbohn
James Flattum
Bobby Lawrence
Keith Brooks
Frankale Christian
Renee Mapes
Ben Garfield (email)
Josh Spinner (email)
Joe Grobarcik (email)

Election of 2025 Board Officers
2025 Board Officers
Chair – Julien Bouquet
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore
Treasurer – Karen Benker
Secretary – Chris Nicholson

VI.

Proclamations
A.

2025 Outgoing Director Proclamations

For the Board of Directors to approve proclamations for outgoing Directors Bob Broom,
Erik Davidson, Bobby Dishell, Jaime Lewis, Paul Rosenthal, Marjorie Sloan, and Doug
Tisdale.
Chair Bouquet declared the proclamations approved unanimously by acclamation.

Page 2 of 5
Packet Pg. 58

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 7, 2025 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

13.A

VII.

Recommended Action
A.

2025 RTD Board of Directors Meeting Posting Location

For the Board of Directors to designate the Board Meeting Portal on the RTD public
website (https://rtd.iqm2.com) as its official location for posting of notices of all public
meetings in 2025 as required by sections 24-6-402(2)(c)(I) and (III), C.R.S.
Motion:

Director Buzek made the motion to approve the
2025 Official Meeting Notice Posting Location.
Director Nicholson seconded the motion.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Vince Buzek, Director, District J
Chris Nicholson, Director, District A
Benker, Bouquet, Buzek, Catlin, Chandler, Guissinger, Gutschenritter,
Guzman, Harwick, Larsen, Nicholson, O'Keefe, Paglieri, Ruscha, Whitmore

Chair Bouquet declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

VIII.

Approval of Minutes
Motion:

Director Guissinger made the motion to approve
the December 3, 2024, Special Board Meeting,
and Board Meeting Minutes, the December
10,2024, Special Board Meeting and the
Performance Committee Minutes.

Director Nicholson seconded the motion.

Page 3 of 5
Packet Pg. 59

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 7, 2025 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

13.A

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:

PASSED [14 TO 0]
Lynn Guissinger, Director, District O
Chris Nicholson, Director, District A
Benker, Bouquet, Buzek, Catlin, Guissinger, Gutschenritter, Guzman,
Harwick, Larsen, Nicholson, O'Keefe, Paglieri, Ruscha, Whitmore
Kathleen Chandler

Chair Bouquet declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

Other Matters
Director Ruscha spoke.

X.

Executive Session
Executive Session pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(f)(I), C.R.S., for consideration of personnel
matters regarding the General Manager and CEO’s 2025 performance goals and input from
the Board of Directors on the same.
Motion:

Director Guzman made the motion to adjourn
into Executive Session.
Director Guissinger seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The
motion
acclamation.

PASSED

unanimously

by

The Executive Session was called to order at 7:30 p.m.
The Executive Session was adjourned at 8:34 p.m.

XI.

Adjourn
Chair Bouquet adjourned the main meeting into Executive Session at 7:18 p.m.

Page 4 of 5
Packet Pg. 60

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 7, 2025 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

13.A

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Page 5 of 5
Packet Pg. 61

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 7, 2025 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

13.A

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

13.B

Board of Directors
Chair – Julien Bouquet, District G
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe, District H
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore, District K
Secretary – Chris Nicholson, District A
Treasurer – Karen Benker, District I
Vince Buzek, District J
Peggy Catlin, District N
Kathleen Chandler, District F
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Chris Gutschenritter, District D

Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L
Matt Larsen, District E
Brett Paglieri, District M
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

MINUTES
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
IN-PERSON/REMOTE
January 8, 2025
3:00 PM
Executive Committee
Chaired by Julien Bouquet
I.

Call to Order

Chair Bouquet called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title

Status

Arrived

Julien Bouquet

Chair

Present

3:00 PM

Patrick O'Keefe

First Vice Chair

Present

3:00 PM

Troy Whitmore

Second Vice Chair

Present

3:00 PM

Chris Nicholson

Secretary

Present

3:00 PM

Karen Benker

Treasurer

Present

3:05 PM

Also in attendance were Directors Chandler, Gutschenritter, Guzman, Larsen, and Paglieri.
Along with Directors and senior staff there were no public participants in attendance.
II.

Public Comment
None.

III.

Other Matters
None.

Page 1 of 2
Packet Pg. 62

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 8, 2025 3:00 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

Regional Transportation District

13.B

Executive Session
Executive Session pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(b), C.R.S., for newly-elected director
orientation with General Counsel to receive legal advice regarding Board legal
authority and director compliance with various applicable laws.
Motion:

Director Nicolson made the motion to move into
Executive Session.
Director Whitmore seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed unanimously by acclamation.
The Executive Session was called to order at 3:12 p.m.
The Executive Session was adjourned at 5:10 p.m.
V.

Adjourn
Chair Bouquet adjourned the main meeting into Executive Session at 3:06 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Page 2 of 2
Packet Pg. 63

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 8, 2025 3:00 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

IV.

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

13.C

Board of Directors
Chair – Julien Bouquet, District G
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe, District H
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore, District K
Secretary – Chris Nicholson, District A
Treasurer – Karen Benker, District I
Vince Buzek, District J
Peggy Catlin, District N
Kathleen Chandler, District F
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Chris Gutschenritter, District D

Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L
Matt Larsen, District E
Brett Paglieri, District M
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

MINUTES
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
REMOTE MEETING
January 9, 2025
12:00 PM

Executive Committee
Chaired by Julien Bouquet
I.

Call to Order

Chair Bouquet called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title

Status

Arrived

Julien Bouquet

Chair

Remote

12:00 PM

Patrick O'Keefe

First Vice Chair

Remote

12:00 PM

Troy Whitmore

Second Vice Chair

Remote

12:00 PM

Chris Nicholson

Secretary

Remote

12:00 PM

Karen Benker

Treasurer

Remote

12:00 PM

Also in attendance were Directors Chandler, Gutschenritter, Guzman, Larsen, Paglieri, and
Ruscha.
Along with Directors and senior staff there were 2 public participants in attendance.
III. Recommended Action
A. 2025 Committee Appointments
For the Board of Directors to ratify the 2025 Standing Committee appointments.

Page 1 of 2
Packet Pg. 64

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2025 12:00 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

Regional Transportation District

13.C

Director Whitmore made the motion to move the
2025 Committee Appointments to the January
28, Board Meeting.
Director O’Keeffe seconded the motion.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Troy Whitmore, Second Vice Chair
Patrick O'Keefe, First Vice Chair
Bouquet, O'Keefe, Whitmore, Nicholson, Benker

Chair Bouquet declared the motion PASSED unanimously
IV. Discussion Items
None.
V. Other Matters
Chair Bouquet and Director Guzman spoke.
VI. Adjourn
Chair Bouquet adjourned the meeting at 12:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Page 2 of 2
Packet Pg. 65

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2025 12:00 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

Motion:

Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

13.D

Vince Buzek, District J
Peggy Catlin, District N
Kathleen Chandler, District F
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Chris Gutschenritter, District D

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 13, 2025 8:30 AM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

Board of Directors
Chair – Julien Bouquet, District G
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe, District H
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore, District K
Secretary – Chris Nicholson, District A
Treasurer – Karen Benker, District I
Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L
Matt Larsen, District E
Brett Paglieri, District M
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

MINUTES
Performance Committee
Monday, January 13, 2025
REMOTE MEETING
8:30 AM

Performance Committee
Chaired by Peggy Catlin

A. Call to Order
Director Catlin called the meeting to order at 8:29 a.m.
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Vince Buzek

Director, District J

Absent

8:30 AM

Peggy Catlin

Director, District N

Remote

8:30 AM

Lynn Guissinger

Director, District O

Remote

8:30 AM

Chris Gutschenritter

Director, District D

Remote

8:30 AM

Michael Guzman

Director, District C

Remote

8:30 AM

Matt Larsen

Director, District E

Remote

8:30 AM

Chris Nicholson

Director, District A

Remote

8:31 AM

Also in attendance were Directors Benker, Bouquet, and Chandler.
Along with Directors and senior staff there were 2 public participants in attendance.

B. Selection of Chair and Vice Chair
2025 Selection of Chair and Vice Chair
Chair – Michael Guzman
Vice Chair – Chris Gutschenritter
Page 1 of 2
Packet Pg. 66

13.D

C. Public Comment
None.

D. Other Matters

E. Executive Session
Executive Session pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(f)(I), C.R.S., for consideration of
personnel matters regarding the General Manager and CEO’s 2025 performance
goals and input from the Board of Directors on the same.
Motion:

Director Buzek made the motion to move into
Executive Session.
Director Nicholson seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion PASSED unanimously by acclamation.
The Executive Session was called to order at 8:55 a.m.
The Executive Session was adjourned at 10:07 a.m.

F. Next Meeting Date: Tuesday, January 21, 2025
G. Adjourn
Chair Guzman adjourned the meeting into executive session at 8:55 a.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Page 2 of 2
Packet Pg. 67

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 13, 2025 8:30 AM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

Jack Kroll, Executive Manager, Board Office spoke.

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

13.E

Vince Buzek, District J
Peggy Catlin, District N
Kathleen Chandler, District F
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Chris Gutschenritter, District D

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 14, 2025 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

Board of Directors
Chair – Julien Bouquet, District G
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe, District H
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore, District K
Secretary – Chris Nicholson, District A
Treasurer – Karen Benker, District I
Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L
Matt Larsen, District E
Brett Paglieri, District M
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

MINUTES
Finance and Planning Committee
Tuesday, January 14, 2025
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM

Finance and Planning Committee
Chaired by Julien Bouquet

A. Call to Order
Chair Bouquet called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title

Status

Arrived

Karen Benker

Director, District I

Remote

5:31 PM

Peggy Catlin

Director, District N

Remote

5:31 PM

Lynn Guissinger

Director, District O

Remote

5:31 PM

Chris Gutschenritter

Director, District D

Remote

5:31 PM

Michael Guzman

Director, District C

Remote

5:31 PM

Matt Larsen

Director, District E

Remote

5:31 PM

Patrick O'Keefe

Director, District H

Remote

5:31 PM

Also in attendance were Directors Paglieri, Ruscha, and Whitmore.
Along with Directors and senior staff there were 4 public participants in attendance.

B. Selection of Chair and Vice Chair
2025 Committee Chair and Vice Chair
Chair – Michael Guzman
Vice Chair – Karen Benker

Page 1 of 2
Packet Pg. 68

13.E

C. Public Comment
None.

• 2025 Finance and Planning Committee Work Plan
Presented by Jack Kroll, Executive Manager, Board Office and Doug
MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer.

E. Other Matters
Committee Chair Guzman spoke.

F. Next Meeting Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Guzman adjourned the meeting at 6:16 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Page 2 of 2
Packet Pg. 69

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 14, 2025 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

D. Discussion Items

Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

13.F

Vince Buzek, District J
Peggy Catlin, District N
Kathleen Chandler, District F
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Chris Gutschenritter, District D

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 15, 2025 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

Board of Directors
Chair – Julien Bouquet, District G
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe, District H
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore, District K
Secretary – Chris Nicholson, District A
Treasurer – Karen Benker, District I
Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L
Matt Larsen, District E
Brett Paglieri, District M
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

MINUTES
Operations, Safety, and Security Committee
Wednesday, January 15, 2025
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM

Operations, Safety, and Security Committee
Chaired by Julien Bouquet

A. Call to Order
Chair Bouquet called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title

Status

Arrived

Vince Buzek

Director, District J

Remote

5:33 PM

Kathleen Chandler

Director, District F

Remote

5:33 PM

Ian Harwick

Director, District L

Remote

5:33 PM

Chris Nicholson

Director, District A

Remote

5:33 PM

Brett Paglieri

Director, District M

Remote

5:33 PM

JoyAnn Ruscha

Director, District B

Remote

5:33 PM

Troy Whitmore

Director, District K

Remote

5:33 PM

Also in attendance were Directors Benker, Catlin, and Guzman.
Along with Directors and senior staff there were 6 public participants in attendance.

B. Selection of Chair and Vice Chair
2025 Chair and Vice Chair
Chair – JoyAnn Ruscha
Vice Chair – Ian Harwick

Page 1 of 2
Packet Pg. 70

13.F

C. Public Comment
•

Brenda Mosby (email)

• 2025 Operations, Safety, and Security Committee Work Plan
Presented by Jack Kroll, Executive Manager, Board Office, and Fred
Worthen, Assistant General Manager, Bus Operations.

E. Other Matters
None.

F. Next Meeting Date: Wednesday, February 12, 2025
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Ruscha adjourned the meeting at 7:10 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Page 2 of 2
Packet Pg. 71

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 15, 2025 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

D. Discussion Items

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

13.G

Vince Buzek, District J
Peggy Catlin, District N
Kathleen Chandler, District F
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Chris Gutschenritter, District D

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 21, 2025 8:30 AM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

Board of Directors
Chair – Julien Bouquet, District G
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe, District H
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore, District K
Secretary – Chris Nicholson, District A
Treasurer – Karen Benker, District I
Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L
Matt Larsen, District E
Brett Paglieri, District M
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

MINUTES
Performance Committee
Tuesday, January 21, 2025
REMOTE MEETING
8:30 AM

Performance Committee
Chaired by Michael Guzman

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Guzman called the meeting to order at 8:31 a.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Michael Guzman

Director, District C

Remote

8:31 AM

Chris Gutschenritter

Director, District D

Remote

8:31 AM

Vince Buzek

Director, District J

Remote

8:31 AM

Peggy Catlin

Director, District N

Remote

8:31 AM

Lynn Guissinger

Director, District O

Remote

8:31 AM

Matt Larsen

Director, District E

Remote

8:31 AM

Chris Nicholson

Director, District A

Remote

8:31 AM

Also in attendance were Directors Benker, Bouquet, Chandler, Paglieri and Ruscha.
Along with Directors and senior staff there were 12 public participants in attendance.

B. Public Comment
•
•
•
•
•

Bradley Miller
Ryan Keeney
Michael Farrington
Joe Meyer
Keith Brooks
Page 1 of 3
Packet Pg. 72

•
•
•
•

Cody Bryan
Alexander Hoerter
Richard Bamber
Matt Merineck

•
•

Evan Odelberg (email)
Edwin Clark-Silva (email)
Joe Meyer (email)
Alex Landry (email)
Allen Cowgill (email)
Ryan Carter (email)
Greater Denver Transit (email)

•
•
•
•
•

C. Recommended Action

•

2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals
For the Board of Directors to approve, pursuant to the GM/CEO’s
performance framework adopted in January 2024 in alignment with the
Board’s employment agreement with the GM/CEO, the proposed short-term
SMART goals for the performance period commencing January 28, 2025,
and continuing through October 15, 2025.
Motion:

Director Buzek made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the January 28, 2025,
Board Meeting.
Director Gutschenritter seconded the motion.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [6 TO 0]
MOVER:
Vince Buzek, Director, District J
SECONDER: Chris Gutschenritter, Director, District D
AYES:
Guzman, Gutschenritter, Buzek, Guissinger, Larsen, Nicholson
AWAY:
Peggy Catlin
Committee Chair Guzman declared the motion PASSED.

D. Discussion Items

• 2025 Performance Committee Work Plan
Presented by Jack Kroll, Executive Manager, Board Office.

E. Other Matters
Director Ruscha spoke.

Page 2 of 3
Packet Pg. 73

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 21, 2025 8:30 AM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

13.G

13.G

F. Next Meeting Date: February 3, 2025
G. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Page 3 of 3
Packet Pg. 74

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 21, 2025 8:30 AM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Guzman adjourned the meeting at 10:03 a.m.

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

13.H

Board of Directors
Chair – Julien Bouquet, District G
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe, District H
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore, District K
Secretary – Chris Nicholson, District A
Treasurer – Karen Benker, District I
Vince Buzek, District J
Peggy Catlin, District N
Kathleen Chandler, District F
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Chris Gutschenritter, District D

Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L
Matt Larsen, District E
Brett Paglieri, District M
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

MINUTES
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
REMOTE MEETING
January 23, 2025
11:15 AM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Julien Bouquet
I.
Call to Order
Chair Bouquet called the meeting to order at 11:17 a.m.
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Julien Bouquet

Chair

Remote

11:17 AM

Patrick O'Keefe

First Vice Chair

Remote

11:17 AM

Troy Whitmore

Second Vice Chair

Remote

11:17 AM

Chris Nicholson

Secretary

Remote

11:17 AM

Karen Benker

Treasurer

Remote

11:17 AM

Also in attendance were Directors Catlin, Paglieri, Larsen, Ruscha, and Guzman.
Along with Directors and senior staff there were 5 public participants in attendance.
II.

Public Comment
None.

III.

January Board Meeting Agenda Review
Motion:

Director Whitmore made the motion to move the
agenda for the January 28, 2025, Board
Meeting to the Full board.
Page 1 of 3
Packet Pg. 75

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2025 11:15 AM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

Regional Transportation District

13.H

Chair Bouquet noted a few changes to the
agenda which are as follows.
First was a correction to the 2025 Committee
Appointments Board Report. First Vice Chair
O’Keefe was listed as an appointed member of
the Performance Committee, when Secretary
Nicholson should have been listed instead. The
Board Office will make the correction.
Second, at the request of Performance
Committee Chair Guzman, the Board Office will
add any proposed amendments that were
submitted by 5:00 p.m. on January 22, 2025,
for the GM/CEO Short-term Goals. Any proposed
amendments to the performance assessment
framework must still be brought to the floor at
the January 28, 2025, Board meeting by way of
a properly recognized motion and a second.
Lastly, Chair Bouquet asked if there was any
objection to proactively moving the 2025
GM/CEO Short-term Goals from Unanimous
Consent to Recommended Action, in anticipation
of discussion and potential amendments at the
Board Meeting.
Due to technical difficulties, the committee took a recess from 11:55 a.m. to 12:10
p.m.
Chair Bouquet declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
IV.

Discussion Items
•

Monthly Government Relations Report – January 2025
Presented by Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer.

•

2025 Executive Committee Work Plan
Presented by Jack Kroll, Executive Manager, Board Office.

Page 2 of 3
Packet Pg. 76

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2025 11:15 AM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

Director O’Keefe seconded the motion.

13.H

V.

Other Matters

VI.

Adjourn
Chair Bouquet adjourned the meeting at 1:02 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Page 3 of 3
Packet Pg. 77

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2025 11:15 AM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports)

Directors Ruscha, Benker, Nicholson, Chair Bouquet, and Jack Kroll, Executive
Manager spoke.

16.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
2025 Committee Appointments

January 9, 2025
Board Meeting Date:
January 28, 2025

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to ratify the 2025 Standing Committee appointments.
REPRESENTATIVE
Chair Bouquet
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
Article VI of the Board Bylaws governs the Committees of the Board and Section 1 outlines the selection
of members of the Board’s standing committees. Section 1 states:
Each year the newly elected Executive Committee will appoint between five and seven Directors
to the other standing committees based upon Directors’ stated interest in serving on standing
committees, and the Board will ratify the selections.
The amended Bylaws also provide that the chairs and vice chairs of the other standing committees will
be selected by the members of the committee. The elections for chair and vice chair of each standing
committee are scheduled to occur at the respective committee’s first meeting in 2025.
DISCUSSION
In late December 2024, the Board Office solicited feedback from returning and incoming Directors on
which standing committees each Director has interest in serving in 2025. The Board Office compiled
responses from the individual Directors for the Executive Committee to review during the January 9,
2025, Executive Committee Meeting.
After review and discussion, the Executive Committee made the following standing committee
appointments:
Finance and Planning Committee
Karen Benker
Peggy Catlin
Lynn Guissinger
Chris Gutschenritter
Michael Guzman

Packet Pg. 78

16.A

Matt Larsen
Patrick O’Keefe
Operations, Safety, and Security Committee
Vince Buzek
Kathleen Chandler
Ian Harwick
Chris Nicholson
Brett Paglieri
JoyAnn Ruscha
Troy Whitmore
Performance Committee
Vince Buzek
Peggy Catlin
Lynn Guissinger
Chris Gutschenritter
Michael Guzman
Matt Larsen
Chris Nicholson
In adopting this recommended action, the Board seeks to meet the Strategic Plan priorities of Customer
Excellence, Community Value, Employee Ownership, and Financial Success by ensuring each of its
standing committees are set up for successful collaboration as well as effective governance and
policymaking.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with this recommended action.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

2025 Committee Preferences

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jack Kroll, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 79

16.A.a

Brett Paglieri
Chris Gutschenritter
Chris Nicholson
Ian Harwick
JoyAnn Ruscha
Karen Benker
Kathleen Chandler
Lynn Guissinger
Matthew Larsen
Michael Guzman
Patrick O'Keefe
Peggy Catlin
Troy Whitmore
Vince Buzek

Finance and
Planning
2nd
2nd
3rd
2nd
3rd
1st
3rd
1st
2nd
1st
1st
1st
2nd
3rd

Operations,
Safety, and
Security
1st
3rd
2nd
1st
1st
2nd
1st
3rd
3rd
3rd
2nd
3rd
1st
2nd

Performance
3rd
1st
1st
3rd
2nd
3rd
2nd
2nd
1st
2nd
3rd
2nd
3rd
1st

Attachment: 2025 Committee Preferences (5044 : 2025 Committee Appointments)

Name

Packet Pg. 80

17.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals

January 21, 2025
Board Meeting Date:
January 28, 2025

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to approve, pursuant to the GM/CEO’s performance framework adopted in
January 2024 in alignment with the Board’s employment agreement with the GM/CEO, the proposed
short-term SMART goals for the performance period commencing January 28, 2025, and continuing
through October 15, 2025.
BOARD REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Guzman, Chair, Performance Committee
Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO)
PRESENTATION LENGTH
20 minutes
BACKGROUND
Pursuant to the performance assessment framework adopted by the Board during the monthly Board
meeting held on January 30, 2024, the Board is responsible for motivating, assessing, and rewarding
the agency’s GM/CEO in relation to short-term (annual) and long-term performance.
The attainment of short-term goals directly tied to agency Strategic Initiatives is a critical element of the
GM/CEO’s annual performance, as is performance related to core job duties and values.
On December 4, 2023, the Board adopted a fifth amendment to the contract to adjust the Board’s
annual deadline to adopt the goals and metrics upon which the GM/CEO will be evaluated in the coming
year from December 31 to January 31. Following an election year, this timing also allows newly elected
Board members an opportunity to participate in the goals and metrics development discussion.
On December 10, 2024, the Board adopted an eighth amendment to the contract, which included the
following terms, among other provisions:
•

•

For the annual performance periods beginning January 1, 2025, and through the Term Extension,
GM/CEO Johnson is eligible for an increase to the Adjusted Base Salary between 1 and 7% as set
by the Board
By January 31 each year, after consultation with GM/CEO Johnson, the Board must adopt the
Agency Values, Short-term Goals, and performance assessment outcome ratings with
corresponding point distribution for Core/Base Job performance, demonstration of Agency Values,

Packet Pg. 81

17.B

•
•

and Attainment of Short-term Goals and associated Adjusted Base Salary percentage increase for
which GM/CEO Johnson is eligible for that year’s performance period
Beginning January 1, 2025, the Board must meet with GM/CEO Johnson each quarter to discuss
her performance, including her progress toward the Short-term Goals
For the annual performance periods beginning January 1, 2025, and through the Term Extension,
GM/CEO Johnson is not eligible for a Cost-of-Living Adjustment; however the Board will endeavor
to continue to be guided by the total compensation principles in the Compensation Philosophy

DISCUSSION
In alignment with the Strategic Priorities of Community Value, Customer Excellence, Employee
Ownership, and Financial Success, the purpose of this Recommended Action is to align the committee
around the proposed short-term SMART goals and associated weighting for the performance period
commencing January 28, 2025, and continuing through October 15, 2025 (2025 performance period).
The proposed goals for the 2025 performance period, which are tied to the Strategic Initiatives of
Customer and Community Connections, People Power, and Welcoming Transit Environment, are as
follows:
Strategic Initiative: Customer and Community Connections – RTD is committed to fostering community
building and enriching the customer experience.
Short-term Goal 1: No later than September 30, 2025, to increase light rail service availability
to 96% (50% of goal) and to increase annualized on-time performance by 1.5% for both
fixed-route bus and rail service (50% of goal).

Background: This goal aligns with agency efforts to improve performance metrics related to
overall customer satisfaction and perception of on-time performance.
Historically, RTD’s bus and commuter rail service availability metrics have remained above 99%,
meaning that, for every 100 trips scheduled, more than 99 trips are operated. Light rail service
availability has been impacted in recent years due to several factors, including but not limited to
operator availability and state of good repair and preventative maintenance activities. Overall light
rail service availability for 2024 was 94.34%, meaning that, of the 223,205 trips scheduled,
208,412 were actually operated.
On-time performance is influenced by numerous factors, including elements both within RTD’s
control (e.g., operator availability, scheduling, and maintenance) and outside of it (e.g., regional
traffic patterns and road congestion, service impacts resulting from construction and street
detours, weather, and supply chain issues). Increasing on-time performance by even small
increments requires budgetary support as well as a considerable, concerted effort of Bus and Rail
Operations teams as well as Service Planning, Human Resources, Capital Programs personnel
among others.

Packet Pg. 82

17.B

For the first 11 months of 2024, average on-time performance for fixed-route service by mode is
as follows:
•
•
•

Bus: 80.4%
Light Rail: 77.0%
Commuter Rail: 95.2%

Short-term Goal 2: To increase year-over-year fixed-route vehicle boardings by 3% from the
period commencing October 1, 2024, and ending September 30, 2025, while optimizing the
increase in RTD’s 2025 annualized revenue service hours to 3,191,109*.

Background: This goal aligns with agency efforts to improve performance metrics tied to
community perceptions of the value RTD provides to the Denver metro region and of RTD’s
provision of service to major activity centers, as well as the State’s visionary ridership increase
goal of 6%.
RTD continues to optimize service levels and is incrementally approaching the level of service
delivery contemplated in the System Optimization Plan (SOP) adopted by the Board in July 2022.
Funding in calendar year 2025 for the increase in revenue service hours of approximately
102,000 was included in the 2025 Budget, approved by the Board on Tuesday, December 3,
2024.
Annual boardings for the period commencing October 1, 2023, through September 30, 2024,
totaled 65,767,000. A 3% year-over-year increase as contemplated in this goal would equate to
nearly 2,000,000 additional boardings, the equivalent of 5,400 additional boardings daily.
*RTD’s estimated 2024 revenue hours totaled 3,089,109. Note that this estimate does not
include demand-response revenue hours.
Strategic Initiative: Welcoming Transit Environment – RTD seeks to reduce the impacts of criminal
behaviors and Code of Conduct violations on agency’s services and workplaces and, in doing so, to
improve community and employee perception of personal and public security on RTD property and
vehicles.
Short-term Goal 3: To increase customer survey responses by 4% from CY2024 to CY2025 in
relation to questions pertaining to customers’ perception of a) feeling safe and secure while
waiting at stops or stations and b) feeling safe and secure aboard vehicles.

Background: This goal aligns with agency efforts to improve performance metrics related to
customers’ perceptions of personal safety and security.

Packet Pg. 83

17.B

Customer Excellence surveys conducted in 2024 indicate that 55% of bus and rail customers felt
personally safe and secure while waiting for fixed-route transit vehicles, and 62% of bus and rail
customers felt personally safe and secure while aboard vehicles. While these responses are
significantly higher than national averages for transit agencies, staff anticipates that an increase
in customer perceptions of safety and security will yield corresponding increases in boardings as
well as customer satisfaction with RTD services.
A draft of these goals is attached for the committee’s consideration during the Performance Committee
meeting scheduled for Tuesday, January 21, 2025. Should the Board not adopt short-term goals for the
GM/CEO by the January 31 deadline specified in the contract, the goals automatically revert to those
adopted for the prior performance period.
For the 2025 performance period, the weighting of the elements of the GM/CEO’s performance
assessment and the salary adjustments that correspond to her attainment of specified performance
levels are as follows:

Assessment Element
Alignment with Agency Values
Core/Base Job Performance
Short-term Goals

Weighting
10 pts
60 pts
30 pts

Rating
Does Not Meet Expectations
Meets Expectations
Exceeds Expectations

Range (points)
0 to 54 pts
55 to 80 pts
81 to 100 pts

Adjusted Base Salary
1.00 to 2.99%
3.00 to 5.99%
6.00 to 7.00%

FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with this Recommended Action.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL

•

Attachment A - Proposed Amenmdent_Nicholson_2025 GM-CEO Goals (PDF)

•

Attachment B - Proposed Amenmdent_Paglieri_2025 GM-CEO Goals

•

Attachment C - Proposed Amenmdent_Larsen 1 of 2_2025 GM-CEO Goals

(PDF)

•

Attachment D - Proposed Amenmdent_Larsen 2 of 2_2025 GM-CEO Goals

(PDF)

•

Attachment E - Proposed Amenmdent_Harwick & Ruscha_2025 GM-CEO Goals

(PDF)

•

Attachment F - Proposed Amenmdent_Ruscha_2025 GM-CEO Goals

(PPTX)
(PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
John McKay, Executive Business Partner
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 84

17.B

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 85

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

January 17, 2025

We Make Lives Better
Through Connections.

GM/CEO Performance
Assessment Framework
Michael Guzman
Chair, Performance Committee

Debra A. Johnson
General Manager and CEO

Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Overview
§ GM/CEO Performance Assessment Framework
§ Annual Performance Assessment – Components
• Core/Base Job Performance
• Short-term Goals

§ Proposed 2025 Goals

January 17, 2025

2

Packet Pg. 87

GM/CEO Performance
Assessment Framework
Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Agency Values

Core/Base Job

“how the GM/CEO
shows up”

“strategy, execution, and
leadership (24/7/365)”

GM/CEO
Accountability

Short-term Goals
“what will be done”

BoD
Accountability

GM/CEO Performance Assessment Framework

Agency Performance Metrics (Long-term Goals)
“in support of transit service delivery”

Packet Pg. 89

Annual Performance
Assessment – Components
Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Packet Pg. 90

Annual Performance Assessment – Components

Agency Values
“how the GM/CEO shows
up”

Core/Base Job
“strategy, execution, and
leadership (24/7/365)”

Short-term Goals
“what will be done”

January 17, 2025

Each accounts for X%
of annual performance

Accounts for
X% of annual
performance

6

Packet Pg. 91

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

2024 Assessment Scale
§ Exceeds Expectations: 80 to 100 Points
§ Surpassed expected or established milestones/targets
• Meets Expectations: 50 to 79 Points
•Meets expected or established milestones/targets
• Does Not Meet Expectations: <50 Points
•Minimal progress toward established milestones/targets

• 2025 Assessment Scale and Point Allocation TBD
• Contract salary adjustment range: 1-7%

January 17, 2025

7

Packet Pg. 92

Core/Base Job Performance

Packet Pg. 93

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Core/Base Job Performance
§ Derived from 2020 “Chief Executive
Officer/General Manager Position
Description”

§ Quarterly feedback and dialogue
during performance period

§ Evaluative criteria assessed by Board
Q4 each year

January 17, 2025

9

Packet Pg. 94

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Agency Values

§ Passion
§ Respect
§ Diversity
§ Trustworthiness
§ Collaboration
§ Ownership

January 17, 2025

Packet Pg. 95

Short-Term Goals
Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Packet Pg. 96

What we aspire to achieve

What we do

What we stand for

What we will concentrate
on for the life of the Plan

What we need to do

MISSION

We make lives better
through connections

VALUES

Passion, Respect, Diversity
Trustworthiness, Collaboration,
Ownership

STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
w/SUCCESS OUTCOMES METRICS

What we will concentrate on
in the short to medium-term
to achieve long-term goals

How we will get there

VISION

To be the trusted leader in
mobility, delivering excellence
and value to our customers
and community.

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES

Jupiter

TACTICS
W/LEADING INDICATORS

INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS

Cust. Excellence, Comm. Value,
Emp. Ownership, Fin. Success
Back to Basics,
People Power, Welcoming Transit
Environment, Customer and
Community Connections
Asset Management, Internal Comm.
Emp. Recruitment, Emp. Retention,
Emp. Security, Public Security

Tied to Performance

Packet Pg. 97

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Short-term Goals

§ Developed to align with, and address

opportunities identified via, 2024-25 Strategic
Initiatives

• Goals 1 and 2: Customer and Community
Connections

• Goal 3: Welcoming Transit Environment

January 17, 2025

13

Packet Pg. 98

Short-term Goals – Customer and Community
Connections
Goal 1: No later than September 30, 2025, to increase light rail
service availability to 96% (50% of goal) and to increase annualized
on-time performance by 1.5% for both fixed-route bus and rail service
(50% of goal).

January 17, 2025

14

Packet Pg. 99

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Short-term Goals – Customer and Community
Connections
Short-term Goal 2: To increase year-over-year fixed-route
vehicle boardings by 3% from the period commencing October 1,
2024, and ending September 30, 2025, while optimizing the
increase in RTD’s 2025 annualized revenue service hours to
3,191,109*.

January 17, 2025

15

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Packet Pg. 100

Short-term Goals – Welcoming Transit Environment

Goal 3: To increase customer survey responses by 4% from CY2024 to
CY2025 in relation to questions pertaining to customers’ perception of a)
feeling safe and secure while waiting at stops or stations and b) feeling
safe and secure aboard vehicles.

January 17, 2025

16

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Packet Pg. 101

Proposed 2025 Goals
Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Packet Pg. 102

2025 Performance Framework – retain 2024 structure
Components

Salary Adjustment Alignment

§ Note: Contractually, 2024 framework applies if no changes made/adopted by the Board by January 31, 2025
January 17, 2025

18

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Packet Pg. 103

Annual Performance Assessment – Components

Accounts for
10% of annual
performance

Agency Values
“how the GM/CEO shows
up”

Core/Base Job
“strategy, execution, and
leadership (24/7/365)”

Short-term Goals
“what will be done”

January 17, 2025

Accounts for
60% of annual
performance
Accounts for
30% of annual
performance

19

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Packet Pg. 104

GM/CEO Contract Salary Adjustment Alignment
Rating Category

Range (points)

Adjusted Base Salary
(ABS)

Does Not Meet Expectations 0 – 54 pts*

1.00 – 2.99%

Meets Expectations

55 – 80 pts*

3.00 – 5.99%

Exceeds Expectations

81 – 100 pts*

6.00 – 7.00%

*2025 Ranges

January 17, 2025

*2025 Distribution

20

Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Packet Pg. 105

Thank you.

rtd-denver.com
Attachment: GM-CEO Short-Term Goals - 1-17-2025 - FINAL (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.a

Packet Pg. 106

17.B.b
We make lives better
through connections.

Date/time received by Board Office: Wednesday, January 22, 2025 at 2:29 p.m.
Purpose: Modify Short-term Goal #1
Motion/amendment: Move to amend Short-term Goal #1 of the 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals to read as
follows:
No later than September 30, 2025, to increase light rail service availability to 96% (50% of goal) and
to increase annualized on-time performance for fixed-route bus to 83% (20% of goal), for light rail
to 83% (20% of goal), and for commuter rail to 96% (10% of goal).
Current goal language to be replaced if motion to amend is adopted:
No later than September 30, 2025, to increase light rail service availability to 96% (50% of goal) and
to increase annualized on-time performance by 1.5% for both fixed-route bus and rail service (50% of
goal).
Supporting information:
The On-Time Performance Amendment modifies short-term goal #1 to achieve:





96% light rail service availability.
83% annualized on-time performance for fixed-route bus service.
83% annualized on-time performance for light rail service.
96% annualized on-time performance for commuter rail service.

Key Performance Metrics from Selected Agencies:
1. Dallas - DART (November 2024)



Light Rail: 93.3% on-time performance, meeting their official target of 93%.
Buses: On-time performance at 73.5%, falling below their official target of 83%.

2. Seattle - King County Metro (2024)


Buses: Year-to-date on-time performance trends indicate variability, with a high of 79.3% in February
and a low of 75.4% in September.

3. Portland - TriMet (FY2024)




Buses: Annualized average on-time performance around 86%, exceeding their 2023 target of 85%.
Light Rail (MAX): Annualized average on-time performance at 80.3%, below their target of 88%.
Commuter Rail (WES): Performance consistently exceeds the target of 95%, ranging from 97% to
100%.

Attachment: Attachment A - Proposed Amenmdent_Nicholson_2025 GM-CEO Goals (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

Amendment submitted by: Secretary Nicholson

4. Phoenix - Valley Metro (FY2023)
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 107

17.B.b

Subject: Proposed Amendment to 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals (Nicholson)
Page 2
Buses: FY23 on-time performance of 84.9%.
Light Rail: FY23 on-time performance of 73.4%.

5. Atlanta – MARTA


Bus Performance (September 2024): On Time Performance was 77%, falling short of their official
target of 78.5%.

6. Denver International Airport (December 2024)


On-time performance at Denver International Airport (DEN) was 82.7%.

Arguments for Targets in the Amendment:





Achievability: Systems like TriMet’s WES commuter rail and DART’s light rail demonstrate that achieving
or exceeding the 96% on-time performance target for commuter and light rail services is feasible with
proper maintenance and operational strategies.
Benchmarking: Many systems, such as Phoenix’s Valley Metro light rail, consistently approach or exceed
the proposed 83% and 96% targets, providing a practical benchmark for other transit agencies.
Incentives for Improvement: Cities like Seattle and San Diego, where on-time performance currently falls
below targets, highlight the need for focused improvements. Setting ambitious yet realistic goals ensures
these agencies prioritize investments and operational enhancements.
Public Confidence: Meeting or exceeding these targets is critical for maintaining public trust and increasing
ridership, as seen in San Diego’s significant ridership growth despite challenges in meeting OTP targets.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: Attachment A - Proposed Amenmdent_Nicholson_2025 GM-CEO Goals (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)




rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 108

17.B.c
We make lives better
through connections.

Date/time received by Board Office: Wednesday, January 22, 2025 at 3:08 p.m.
Purpose: Replace Short-term Goal #2
Motion/amendment: Move amend the 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals to strike Short-term Goal #2 and replace
with the following:
To achieve total vehicle boardings of 69,562,000 during the period from October 1, 2024 and ending
September 30th, 2025, where the percentage goal achievement is calculated from a baseline of
66,307,000 boardings.
Current goal language to be replaced if motion to amend is adopted:
To increase year-over-year fixed-route vehicle boardings by 3% from the period commencing
October 1, 2024, and ending September 30, 2025, while optimizing the increase in RTD’s 2025
annualized revenue service hours to 3,191,109*.
Supporting information:
Combined boardings on RTD’s system in May, April, and October of 2024 were 17,349,000 boardings1. These were
the most recent three months with available data that did not include a major maintenance project suppressing
boardings. A baseline calculated from recent performance is the best approach for purposes of evaluating
performance improvement, as it reflects growth that was achieved during 2024, and which therefore should be
expected to be repeated in the subsequent performance period. Annualized, and adjusting for 2019 seasonal trends2,
maintaining ridership at the level achieved during those three months would result in 66,307,000 boardings3.
The achievement target is based on growing boardings above this annualized number by 5%. Five percent (5%) is
an achievable target, based on the expectation that the agency should be able to drive increased boardings from 1)
restoration of service frequency on many routes 2) additional service offered on some new routes and 3) it would
represent a post-COVID recovery to 65.8% of pre-COVID (2019) ridership, still below the recovery achieved by the
majority of 11 peer systems as of 2023, which are listed in the table below in order of the percentage of ridership
recovery obtain, moving from most to least.
Peer Agency Comparison:
Metro Area Served

Peer Agencies

2023 Post-COVID
Ridership Recovery

San Diego

San Diego Area Transit Combined

79%

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: Attachment B - Proposed Amenmdent_Paglieri_2025 GM-CEO Goals (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

Amendment submitted by: Director Paglieri

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 109

17.B.c

Salt Lake City

Utah Transit Authority (UTA)

79%

Austin

Capital Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(CapMetro)

78%

Houston

Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris
County (Houston Metro)

76%

Sacramento

Sacramento Regional Transit District (SacRT)

75%

Dallas/Fort Worth

DFW Transit Combined

72%

Seattle

Seattle Metro Area Transit Combined

66%

Portland

Tri-County Metropolitan Transportation
District of Oregon (TriMet)

60%

Minneapolis/St. Paul

Metro Transit (Minneapolis)

58%

Phoenix

Valley Metro Regional Public Transportation
Authority (Valley Metro)

54%

St. Louis

Bi-State Development Agency / Metro Transit
(St. Louis)

42%

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: Attachment B - Proposed Amenmdent_Paglieri_2025 GM-CEO Goals (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

Subject: Proposed Amendment to 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals (Paglieri)
Page 2

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 110

17.B.c

Subject: Proposed Amendment to 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals (Paglieri)
Page 3

1

Reported total RTD system boardings:
April 2024: 5,732,000
May 2024: 5,830,000
October 2024 5,877,000
Total April, May, October: 17,439,000.
Total days in April, May, and October: 92
Average daily boardings in April, May, and October: 189,554

2

Seasonal adjustment based on 2019:
A. 2019 total boardings: 105,823,000
B. 2019 boardings in April, May, & October: 27,856
C. 2019 total days in year: 365
D. 2019 days in April, May, & October: 92
E. 2019 April, May, October boardings as % of total annual boardings: 26.3%
F. 2019 April, May, October days as % of total days in the year: 25.2%

3

Adjustment to 2024 daily ridership based on seasonal increases in daily boardings:
H: Adjusted average daily April, May, and October boardings to reflect seasonality (G x F): 181,506
I: Baseline target for 2024 boardings based on annualized performance in last three months of 2024 not
affected by coping panels project (H x 365): 66,249,546.
J: Baseline x 105%: 69,562,023

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: Attachment B - Proposed Amenmdent_Paglieri_2025 GM-CEO Goals (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

Explanation of calculations:

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 111

17.B.d

Amendment submitted by: Director Larsen (1 of 2)
Date/time received by Board Office: Wednesday, January 22, 2025 at 4:58 p.m.
Purpose: Adjust the relative weighting of the Assessment Elements to the overall performance assessment score.
Motion/amendment: Move to amend the 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals such that Short-term Goals accounts
for 50% of the annual performance assessment, Agency Values accounts for 10% of the annual performance
assessment, and Core/Base Job accounts for 40% of the annual performance assessment.
Assessment Element
Alignment with Agency Values
Core/Base Job Performance
Short-term Goals

Proposed
Weighting
10 pts
40 pts
50 pts

Current
Weighting
10 pts
60 pts
30 pts

Supporting information:
While it is a common practice in organizations to base employee performance assessments on a combination of
objective and subjective measures of performance, for CEOs, basing emphasizing objective performance goals is the
best approach.
Intuitively, the reason for this is simple - few top executives are selected for CEO roles without having shown
experience and leadership characteristics that demonstrate their ability to perform the basic responsibilities required
of the job. Despite this, not every CEO is able to achieve the quantitative goals that are set by stakeholders and
which are necessary for the organization to be sustainable over time. For RTD, the proposed 2025 goals are all
quantitatively measured, and are among the most important measurements for determining whether the organization
is effectively serving the public that pays, largely indirectly, for its existence.
Academic research into the subject shows that the best performing CEOs are those who have their incentive
compensation based entirely on quantitative criteria. In their study “Firm Performance Implications of Using
Qualitative Criteria in CEO Bonus Contracts” (Advances in Management Accounting, Vol 31, pp. 55-89, 2019,
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3077142), Nancy Chun Feng and Ahmet C. Kurt report that
their analysis of data for S&P 500 companies reveals that employee productivity, asset productivity, capital
expenditures, and future stock returns are lower when the CEO’s bonus payment depends in part on qualitative
criteria. Other research demonstrates that in the case of CFOs, they report lower satisfaction with compensation
when
incentive
compensation
is
awarded
subjectively
(https://www.journalofaccountancy.com/issues/2013/sep/20138319.html). In line with this observation, other
academics have long argued that qualitative assessments in decision-making were irrelevant when one could make
a reasonable judgment based on quantitative criteria. His thesis has been proven to work in different settings, such
as graduate school admissions and financial analysis.
Recent past performance frameworks for the current GM/CEO have specified that Objective Goals be 50% of the
basis for her performance assessment. Since all of the Short-term Goals that have been proposed for this period
focus on important issues that have a basis for quantitative measurement of performance, returning to the 50%
weighting for Short-term goals would put RTD’s GM/CEO performance assessment better in line with best practices.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: Attachment C - Proposed Amenmdent_Larsen 1 of 2_2025 GM-CEO Goals (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

We make lives better
through connections.

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 112

17.B.e

Amendment submitted by: Director Larsen (2 of 2)
Date/time received by Board Office: Wednesday, January 22, 2025 at 4:58 p.m.
Purpose: Add a new short-term goal
Motion/amendment: Move to amend the 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals to add the following goal:
Without increasing per-rider fares over current levels, and excluding fares derived from para-transit services,
increase fare collections from October 1, 2024 to September 30th, 2025 by $5 million over total fares collected
in calendar year 2024 by reducing fare evasion.
Supporting information:
Widespread fare evasion is a clear problem on RTD’s assets. The goal of increased fare collections without fare level
increases can and should be accomplished by increased efforts to address fare evasion. Reasons to reduce fare
evasion include:






Lax enforcement of laws like the requirement for most riders to pay a fare to use RTD suggests to customers
that RTD does not care about rider conduct. Enforcement of the basic responsibility for riders to pay fares is
an important demonstration that following the rules on RTD assets is expected and breaking these rules will
have consequences.
The future ability of RTD to better serve its community may depend on its securing additional funding from
taxation, or from state or local entities funded by taxation. Making the case to elected officials and the tax
paying public - many of whom do not use RTD or who largely do not represent those who do - is made more
difficult when RTD does not take care to collect the fares it is owed from the riders who are obligated to pay
for their rides.
Every rider’s fare may not be able to be checked on every ride, but by creating the expectation that it often
will be, many riders will simply pay their fare as a matter of course. Over time, fares from reducing fare
evasion should far exceed the 2025 goal, and can generate enough money to allow RTD to meaningfully
increase its services to the public.

Increasing collected fares by reducing fare evasion by $5 million would mean collecting fares on approximately 1.8
million trips over 12 months where they are not currently collected at the cheapest standard fare, or roughly 2.5%
of expected 2025 boardings. It equates to collecting fares on some 5,000 more of the roughly 180,000 boardings
each day. Personnel used to collect these fares will have the side benefit of increasing the visible presence of RTD
authorities on assets, improving perceptions of rider safety and security.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: Attachment D - Proposed Amenmdent_Larsen 2 of 2_2025 GM-CEO Goals (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

We make lives better
through connections.

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 113

17.B.f

Amendment submitted by: Director Harwick and Director Ruscha
Date/time received by Board Office: Wednesday, January 22, 2025 at 6:06 p.m.
Purpose: Add a new short-term goal
Motion/amendment: Move to amend the 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals to add the following goal with the
corresponding intra-goal weighting:
No later than October 31, 2025 , present a comprehensive Vision Zero Action Item to the RTD Board of Directors
and the public, commenced in accordance with Resolution No. 015 Series 2024. (50% of goal)
Identify at least two comprehensive Vision Zero strategic initiatives that are new or innovative to RTD, to be
implemented or launched no later than Q2 of 2026.
 At least one strategic initiative will aim to increase ridership through encouraging modal shift by reducing
barriers to access (25% of goal)
 At least one strategic initiative will aim to eliminate traffic fatalities or serious injuries within RTD's
operations and infrastructure. (25% of goal)
Supporting information:
Please see the Board’s Resolution in Support of RTD Vision Zero Initiatives Number, Series of 2024, which was
approved unanimously on October 22, 2024 and is included below.
Supporting materials for the Vision Zero resolution can be found on pages 774 – 802 of the Board’s October 22,
2024 meeting packet, the url for which is:
https://rtd.iqm2.com/Citizens/FileOpen.aspx?Type=1&ID=4372&Inline=True.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: Attachment E - Proposed Amenmdent_Harwick & Ruscha_2025 GM-CEO Goals (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

We make lives better
through connections.

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 114

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. 015 , SERIES OF 2024
A RESOLUTION SUPPORTING VISION ZERO
TO ELIMINATE TRAFFIC FATALITIES AND SEVERE INJURIES
WHEREAS, the life and well-being of all persons residing and traveling within the Regional
Transportation District are of the utmost importance; and
WHEREAS, children, older adults, people of color, people with disabilities, people who are unhoused,
and people with low income face a significantly disproportionate risk of traffic injuries and fatalities;
and
WHEREAS, Vision Zero is a systematic data-driven approach to traffic safety that prioritizes human
life and seeks to eliminate fatalities and serious injuries within transportation systems while
increasing safe, healthy, equitable mobility for all; and
WHEREAS, Vision Zero is an expression of the ethical imperative that it is never ethically acceptable
that people are killed or seriously injured when moving within the transportation environment, which
includes public transit modes such as bus and rail; and
WHEREAS, Vision Zero incorporates the Safe Systems Approach that is also endorsed by the US
Department of Transportation, which affirms that the transportation system and related policies
should be designed to ensure that inevitable human mistakes do not result in severe injuries or
fatalities; and
WHEREAS, transportation planners, engineers, and policymakers are ethically compelled to improve
the transportation environment, policies, and other related systems to lessen the severity of crashes;
and
WHEREAS, the American Public Transportation Association found increasing transit ridership is one
of the best ways to reduce traffic related deaths and injuries, and RTD is committed to providing
safe, reliable, and sustainable public transit options; and
WHEREAS, Directors JoyAnn Ruscha, Ian Harwick, and Michael Guzman convened a grassroots
group of transit customers, subject matter experts, and transit advocacy organizations, including
representatives from the Denver Streets Partnership, Greater Denver Transit, Pedestrian Dignity, the
Amalgamated Local Transit Union Local 1001, the Denver Bicycle Lobby, and the Colorado Cross

Attachment: Attachment E - Proposed Amenmdent_Harwick & Ruscha_2025 GM-CEO Goals (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

17.B.f

Packet Pg. 115

17.B.f

WHEREAS, the Denver Regional Council of Governments, Boulder County, the City and County of
Denver, and the cities of Boulder, Longmont, Thornton, and Westminster have each adopted Vision
Zero policies with the aim of improving transportation safety in the region; and
WHEREAS, adopting an actionable Vision Zero Plan and incorporating a cross-departmental Safe
Systems Approach at the Regional Transportation District aligns with the agency’s mission to make
lives better through connections.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation
District:
1. Public Commitment to Vision Zero: The Board supports an RTD-specific Vision Zero
initiative and commits to taking actionable steps towards the elimination of traffic fatalities and
serious injuries within the agency’s transit operations and infrastructure.
2. Vision Zero Action Plan: No later than the end of the second quarter of 2025, the General
Manager and CEO will present a Vision Zero Action Plan (Plan) draft to the Board for
discussion and feedback.
a. The Plan will be written in accordance with the guidance provided by the Vision Zero
Network, clearly outlining the agency’s strategy for tackling and reporting transit
injuries and fatalities by way of multidisciplinary leadership, cooperation, and
collaboration with relevant government agencies and community stakeholders, a
comprehensive systems-based approach, community engagement, and continuous
process improvement.
b. RTD is committed to adopt policies that maximize ridership and encourage modal shift,
with a particular focus on strategies that will reduce barriers to transit access. Strategic
initiatives that are in alignment with the goal of encouraging modal shift will be included
in the agency’s Plan.
3. Infrastructure Review and Investments: RTD will leverage partnerships to review its
transit network, including its fixed-route bus routes as well as light rail and commuter rail
infrastructure to identify high risk areas for accidents and injuries, and leverage that
information when evaluating ongoing infrastructure investments, to improve customer,
pedestrian, and vehicular safety.
4. Community Engagement: As an element of Vision Zero planning, RTD will engage the
communities the agency serves in a robust dialogue around safety on and around the transit
system and will incorporate system safety feedback sessions into its on-going outreach
endeavors. Groups to engage should include disability rights organizations, transit advocates,

Attachment: Attachment E - Proposed Amenmdent_Harwick & Ruscha_2025 GM-CEO Goals (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

Disability Coalition, to review and make Vision Zero policy recommendations to RTD; and

Packet Pg. 116

17.B.f

5. Staffing Resources. No later than the end of the second quarter of 2025, the General
Manager and CEO will assess the viability of dedicating staff resources to lead the agency’s
efforts to implement a comprehensive Vision Zero plan to further collaborate with
stakeholders, conduct data analysis, enhance the promotion of safety culture, and advocate
for necessary resources.

Dated this 22nd day of October 2024

Erik Davidson, Chair

Attest

Michael Guzman, Secretary

Attachment: Attachment E - Proposed Amenmdent_Harwick & Ruscha_2025 GM-CEO Goals (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

the agency’s advisory committees, community members throughout the whole RTD service
area, and individuals from disadvantaged communities.

Packet Pg. 117

17.B.g
We make lives better
through connections.

Date/time received by Board Office: Thursday, January 23, 2025 at 1:11 p.m.
Purpose: Modify Short-term Goal #1
Motion/amendment: Move to amend the 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals such that Short-term Goal #1 now
reads:
No later than September 30th, 2025, to increase light rail service availability to 96% (50% of goal) and
to increase annualized on-time performance by 2% for fixed-route bus service, rail service and for
Access-a-Ride paratransit service (50% of goal).
Current goal language to be replaced if motion to amend is adopted:
No later than September 30, 2025, to increase light rail service availability to 96% (50% of goal) and
to increase annualized on-time performance by 1.5% for both fixed-route bus and rail service (50% of
goal).
Supporting information:






Access-a-Ride is the federally mandated paratransit service we provide under the Americans with Disabilities
Act (for those who qualify)
The Goal (and the mandate) does not include Access-on-Demand, which is a premium paratransit service
Guidelines for Access-a-Ride metrics are also established by the FTA; RTD risks liability if those KPIs dip too
low
This enhancement aligns with our Board-approved Strategic Plan Priorities of Community Value, Customer
Excellence, Employee Ownership, and Financial Success
Returning directors know that former Director Lewis and I personally pressed to include Access-a-Ride metrics
in our KPIs. I have also asked for AaR metrics to be included in any GM/CEO performance goals that include
service performance KPIs for FY25. As such, this should be no surprise - and I do sincerely hope the BoD can
reach broad consensus on this important matter.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

Attachment: Attachment F - Proposed Amenmdent_Ruscha_2025 GM-CEO Goals (5051 : 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals)

Amendment submitted by: Director Ruscha

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 118

