2025-01-28
Board Meeting
BRETT PAGLIERI: Would it be possible to test the audio before we begin to see if it's still staticky?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri, this is Chair Bouquet. How do I sound?
BRETT PAGLIERI: That sounds great. Thank you very much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect.

Ladies and gentlemen, we'll be starting in two minutes. Two minutes. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen,
we'll be starting in one minute. One minute. Thank you. Good afternoon.
All right, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to get started.
All right, folks, if you could please take your seat. We are going to get started. Directors, please take a
seat. Members of the public, please take a seat.
All right. I'm going to just call this to order. Officers Benker, Officers Nicholson, please come join us to the
round.
SPEAKER 1: Faith Winter is coming first.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Sounds good.
SPEAKER 1: She's going to be on via Zoom, so we normally let them go first, OK?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sounds good. I'll acknowledge her first.
SPEAKER 1: And she's on via Zoom, so the policy is that you let her go first. So we'll go Zoom and then
back in person.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, they're recording. I will now call the Tuesday, January 28, RTD Board meeting
to order. We are convened as of 5:41 PM.
[BANGS GAVEL]
I'd respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you all for
joining us for this evening. As the Board has moved to in-person meetings for our monthly gatherings,
please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will still be held remotely via
Zoom, and will be audio and video recorded.

The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meeting postings, will be posted as soon
as practicable. On the Board's website, visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also
available via RTD's YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we're also providing Communication Access Real-Time translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
to access-- who would like access to the live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. I will have Director
O'Keefe-- would you please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance?
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it
stands. One nation under god, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. All right. I will take over for the-- I'll take over-- oh, do we have someone for
the land acknowledgment? Director for that? Perfect. All right. I will take over for the land
acknowledgment then.
The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which buses and trains operate is the
traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal nations that are
historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who have traveled, inhabited, and
stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations.
May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of
inequity of the Native and all historically oppressed people, and recognize their current and future
contributions in the district as we move forward. Perfect. I'll now call the roll. Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter?
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Second Vice Chair Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. I see all 15 Directors are present and zero are absent. We do have a
quorum. I will now read the Statement of Employee Appreciation. The Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors recognizes that the RTD's dedicated workforce is the lifeblood of the agency.
Every day, RTD employees do extraordinary things to make lives better through connections. We honor
their work of delivering transit excellence, service, and value to the community, especially demonstrated
during difficult and stressful moments. May the actions taken by the Board of Directors demonstrate our
profound gratitude, commitment, and support toward all RTD employees. Thank you.
One of the many rewarding duties of serving on this Board is the recognition of RTD retirees, and the time
has come for us to recognize these employees who've moved on to enjoy their retirement. At this time, I
would like to read the names of employees who have retired since December.
Scott Hiddle, bus operator, 40 years. Anthony Hopkins, bus operator, 33 years. Susan Johnson,
Manager, civil engineering, 24 years. Shaun Montoya, bus operator, 31 years. Unfortunately, our retirees
are unable to attend tonight's meeting, but I would like to thank them again for their hard work,
commitment, and dedication to RTD. I would actually like to give a round of applause.

[APPLAUSE]

Excellent. Your service is duly noted, as 3/4 of the years of service are longer than I've been on this
planet, so I greatly appreciate it.
[LAUGHTER]
Next is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the Board. As
we have both in person and remote attendees in person, comments will go first, followed by those who
are participating remotely. For those attending in person, please come up to the podium when your name
is called.
If you have not already signed up to speak and would like to do, please approach the podium when I call
for any additional speakers. For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done
so, please raise your virtual hand or press Star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn
to speak. If you're dialed in, press Star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted via writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and will have up to three minutes to provide
their comments. I do see that we are joined by Senator Faith Winter via Zoom, and I recognize her as our
first speaker. Senator Winter?
FAITH WINTER: Hi, everyone. It is so fantastic to see all of you. And I really appreciate the work that you
are doing, and thanks for having participation tonight. I just want to take a moment. One, I've been
working with a lot of you on an upcoming bill, and I look forward to having those meetings and those
comments.
But tonight, I'm here about the goals that you've outlaid for your CEO and how very appreciative I am that
they are including things like ridership and increasing customer service, increasing safety. I do want to
point out that I think there's a lot of ways we can increase safety, from signage to driver safety to training,
and the legislature is here to work with you on that.
Some of the things that I thought were missing from some of the goals was it doesn't talk about climate
goals at all, and we really rely on RTD to help us meet our climate goals. And as an RTD user and as
someone that's also a bike user, I really think embracing Vision Zero is incredibly important, because it's
increasing ridership by reducing barriers to access and eliminates traffic fatalities.
So just be inclusive in your goals. I look forward to working with the goals with you all. I look forward to
working with RTD in partnership. And thank you for having me tonight.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much for your comments, Senator Winter. We'll now turn for our
public participation to those who are in person. Our first speaker is Lawrence Gonzalez. If you would
please come up to the podium, state your name, and then you may proceed. Lawrence?
LAWRENCE GONZALEZ: Hello. I'm a lifetime resident of Denver, Colorado. My name is Lawrence
Gonzalez, born and raised here. Watched this service go downhill since the age of 12. It was $0.10 to
ride the bus.
Now, I live up in North unincorporated Adams County. We have the bus runs up and down 72nd Avenue
called the 72, the 80 bus. They don't run on Sundays. To get to Brighton, I have to go clear out the east
end of Commerce City. Go north. Used to be able to get off 128th. Don't go there no more.
When you get to Brighton, you get dropped off at Platte County Hospital-- Platte Valley Hospital. If you've
got to get to the courthouse, you've got to walk from there to there. As a handicapped individual with half
a labrum on my right hip removed, that's a burden for me to get that far.
Last Friday, my son caught the bus down on-- 15 bus at Quebec Street. The bus driver let him off down
here at the Civic Center. He left his glasses on the bus. He tried to get back in to get his glasses. The bus
driver just drove off with them. Now my son's on Medicaid. They don't pay for glasses after you hit 21
years of age.
Today, I had to take a bus ride to get from 50th and Federal to 80th and Sheridan. Took me four hours.
That's ridiculous. You've got a 31 bus that goes to Westminster Station three times and one that goes to
Front Range Station once. Why?
You have no 72 bus service on Sundays. You have no 80 bus service on Sundays. A lot of people out
here don't have cars. We need to have-- rely on that.
Your system is totally off of whack. I'd like to know who makes your planning, who does your routes
because they don't know what the hell they're doing. We go catch a bus, we get five minutes behind,
we're sitting out there in the cold, freezing our ass off for at least 20 minutes or more.
In 2015, I caught a bus, the 8 bus to 106th Melody Station to go home on 112th and Washington. Had to
transfer to the 12 bus at the time. I asked when the bus was going to be there so I can go get something
to eat at the Taco Bell. They said it'd be coming around the corner. He'd be there in three minutes.
I went to Taco Bell. Got my food. The bus didn't come around. They had an emergency on the bus. They
stopped. Somebody had a seizure. By the time I got home-- my Taco Bell was red hot-- it was frozen.
RTD doesn't stand for Regional Transportation. It just stands for a Reason To Drive. Your system sucks.
Your drivers are rude. I've been knocked to the floor five times getting on the bus. When I go to get my
seat, they take off and knock me down. They skip us at the stops. They don't care.
[INAUDIBLE] They don't know how to drive. They've never seen snow in their life. Why don't you put a
stud of snow in the back drive tire and a stud of snow on the front steering tire so they don't get stuck in
the snow and ice?
You people don't know what you're doing. You're running out-- you have executive meetings. What's that
all about? No transparency for us to know what's going on? Sounds to me like you guys are up to high

jinks to make everything wrong for us. You need to serve us, the people. You work for us, and you're not
doing the job. Work on it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Lawrence Gonzalez. Keith Brooks, you're recognized as the next
speaker.
KEITH BROOKS: Hello. Keith Brooks. I came to talk about the upcoming vote later tonight on the
GM/CEO performance goals. I think it's a bit of an open secret in this room that the process itself has not
been the most effective. And I know a lot of members, especially those of the Executive Committee, are
working hard to change that for next year.
But given the time that was available to put these together this year, they're not bad. But before the Board
tonight are several amendments to make them actually pretty sharp.
I'd like to call out in particular one of Director Larsen's amendments to increase short-term performance
goals to 50% of the allotted points. I feel this is important because no matter what happens over the next
year, good or bad, praise or criticism, the things this Board and the public will be praising or complaining
about will be ridership and service delivery. So I feel that the goals should reflect what's actually going to
be yapped about for many a year.
As someone who hasn't always had a great boss, there's nothing worse than being repeatedly told to do x
and then being chewed out for not doing y. So I think as we all know what we will be asking the GM/CEO
CEO about over the next year, we should make the goals line up with that. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Keith Brooks. Emma Griffin, you are recognized.
EMMA GRIFFIN: Hi, thanks for allowing me to speak tonight. My name is Emma Griffin. I am speaking on
behalf of Greater Denver Transit. I wanted to start off by saying thank you to Senator Winter for
supporting transit through legislation, as well as your comments supporting the GM and CEO goal
amendments being presented in this meeting.
Tonight, the Board Directors will have important GM and CEO performance call amendments to consider.
Principally, it is my and Greater Denver Transit's strong recommendation that the submitted waiting
amendment by Director Larsen, Goal 2 amendment by Director Paglieri, additional goal amendments
submitted by Director Larsen as well as Directors Ruscha and Harwick, be supported tonight. Additionally,
it is Greater Denver transit's position that the Goal 1 amendments submitted by Directors Nicholson and
Ruscha be merged such that the Access-a-Ride provisions of Director Ruscha's amendment be added to
Director Nicholson's amendment.
Finally, it is Greater Denver Transit's position that Goal 3 does not sufficiently address the needs of riders
in a meaningful way, and urges the Directors to strike this goal outright. The permanent ridership
destruction we've seen in the light rail, particularly the E and H Lines, is an issue we cannot stand by and
allow. Objective, measurable goals are necessary to ensure riders' needs are being met before those
riders permanently abandon transit that isn't serving them. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Next up is Orion Mantione-Holmes.
ORION MANTIONE-HOLMES: Hi. Thanks. I'm Ryan Mantione-Holmes. I just wanted to voice my support
for public transit and the-- and say that the service on the E Line is so unacceptable, it is-- I had to move.

It's a disaster. Something must be done. It can't-- we just can't. Like, people can't live on the transitoriented housing along E Line because the service is so bad. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Next up, recognizes Paolo Solorzano.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Hi. Paolo Solorzano, RTD Rider's Alliance. I'd like to speak on Civil Rights, given
that RTD will be offering free fare in honor of Rosa Parks. In Denver, there were 16,000 people that were
evicted from their homes in 2024. 24% increase.
Our region has an ongoing epidemic where households are struggling to pay rent, health care, and put
food on their table. Public transit is crucial to escaping poverty, but only when it is reliable and accessible.
Regarding RTD's performance, it seems that RTD agency must be reminded that the United States
guarantees that all persons various-- are guaranteed various civil rights, including the access to
opportunities that promote our individual welfare and enable our pursuit of happiness. Access to
transportation is recognized as a social detriment of health by the US Department of Health and Human
Services.
Despite considerable investment, RTD is not providing equal transportation access for those
disadvantaged by physical, economic, education, and/or health care hardships. Rosa Parks worked to
ensure that elected officials and institutions heard and respected the people who need public transit the
most.
Yet, we find ourselves at a place where RTD as an agency is on the verge of irrevocably tarnishing a
sacred civil rights movement. RTD leadership worked from home through COVID until the summer of
2023 instead of showing up to the office in solidarity with transit-dependent essential workers, its
operators, the police force during an international emergency.
There were 16,000 reports of drug use of fentanyl, meth between January 2022 and April of 2023. The W
Line has been called the Wild Wild West by your own police force. It's almost lawless at times. And now,
a police scandal threatens to further tarnish RTD's reputation.
Right now, as we speak, the A Line has been completely untrackable on the Next Ride since January 8
during below freezing weather. Bus shuttles were completely mismanaged, and people were being
dumped out in freezing weather. I personally spoke to over 50 people during the freezing degree weather.
Many missed flights. A homeless man was worried about staying warm.
All have suffered, but those suffering tragically, RTD employees, the homeless and the working class.
There have been well-documented, massive systemic failures real time, Next Ride systems and service
alerts since COVID, and there has been a need for personnel to be out there like the Impact Team.
I find it sad that the Impact Team are volunteers instead of being paid. The Impact Team has to be out
there during mismanagement mishaps. RCO has been awarded-- while RCO has been awarded a higher
and higher salary.
Rosa Park-- I'll end it soon. Rosa Parks and MLK had a deep understanding of the injustices faced not
only by Black Americans, but by all marginalized communities across the nation. To quote MLK, "Public
transportation, buses, subways, trains, and more are a genuine civil rights issue."

Let us never forget that this region's own famous civil disobedience, the Denver bus protests of 1978 for
disability rights, the Gang of 19, RTD yielded to their cause. Let us honor these civil rights movements not
by social media posts, but by fixing RTD at what can be fixed easily. Just fix it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. I will now turn to Board Office Executive Manager Kroll. Has anyone
raised their virtual hand? If so, please assist me in calling their name and those to follow.
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Bouquet. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. First up,
we have online Honor Morgan.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Connor, you're recognized.
HONOR MORGAN: Hi, everyone. Just a quick correction. My name is Honor, H-O-N-O-R, like the word.
First of all, thank you guys for all being here. I currently live in Denver, and I have been a lifelong
supporter of public transportation, but I have been disappointed by RTD's recent performance.
Today, you'll be reviewing and voting on the RTD General Manager Performance Assessment
Framework. I want to briefly touch on short-term goal number 1, to increase on-time performance of both
light rail and bus systems.
Almost every day last week, I was sitting at Union Station in the freezing cold, waiting for an E Line train
that was scheduled to come, but never did. I was told over and over by your customer care line that all
online rail schedules, the trip planner, Next Ride, real time, all of that provides inaccurate information, and
that there is no way to find out when a train will be arriving.
I find it baffling that for a large metro transit system, there was no accurate way to tell me when I would be
out of the cold and on a train. Therefore, there was no accurate way to tell my employer that I would be
arriving at work on time.
This is clearly a failure of short-term goal number 1. RTD's values, among others, include respect,
trustworthiness, and ownership. RTD does not respect its customers' time, which is displayed when its
customers have to wait for unknown amounts of time in the cold for a train to even show up.
RTD does not have any trustworthiness, as we have no trust in its systems to let us know when a train will
arrive, much less when we'll be delivered to our destinations. RTD has failed to take ownership or
accountability for these issues, and instead has continued to operate an unreliable rail schedule for
months.
Moving from a small town, I was so excited to experience real public transportation that reliably served its
people. With these new Board members, I really hope that you guys can restore RTD to be a functional
staple of the Front Range once more.
I'm a little off script now. The customer care line that I called last week, I was utterly disappointed in the
customer service I was provided. The specific person I spoke to told me I just needed to keep waiting in
the cold, and said there was no other options.
I just don't think that's acceptable when our CEO is making $400k-plus that we can't get low and middle
class workers who don't have cars, or don't want to use cars, to work on time. I read an article in
Westword about a woman who has to wake up at 4:00 AM to try and make it on time to her 7 o'clock job.
And she says even then, it's not guaranteed that she'd make

It. I know a lot of this isn't anyone-- one specific choice, but I really, really hope that all of these public
comments and experiences are taken into account, especially when you vote on a new salary increase
for the General Manager who does not like Denver. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Honor. Mr. Kroll, next in the queue.
JACK KROLL: Yes, next we have Ian Frasch.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ian, you are recognized.
IAN FRASCH: Hello, I'm Ian Frasch. First off, just want to give a warm welcome to the new Board
members. And I want to talk about an issue that I've brought up over the past few months regarding
pedestrian access to I-25 and Broadway Station in relation to the ongoing construction project that is
underway there.
So for those who are not familiar with this issue, there's a plan to be an RTD parking lot under I-25 that
would provide a nice shortcut for pedestrians that are trying to get to the Station from Ohio Ave. And Ohio
Ave is the closest street to the station. They could shortcut through this parking lot, which would avoid
crossing the new highway ramp and provide the most direct, fastest route to the station.
And there was originally a pedestrian path proposed here by DOTI, but it was vetoed by RTD in this
project, because it's RTD property. So DOTI needed permission, and that was not given.
And I'm continuing to ask RTD to fix this and please reinstate this pathway through the parking lot to the
station in their plans. I think it's just simply, we need to add a pathway to the plan for the parking lot with
some, curb cuts and ramps into that parking lot design rather than just have it be a standard parking lot.
And I did hear that General Manager Johnson was going to be attending a meeting on February 19 with
the local Lincoln Broadway Registered Neighborhood Organization. I'm looking forward to that, and
looking forward to chatting about that. And I hope we can get something worked out here so that we can
prioritize convenient pedestrian access to the station and get that original plan of pathway back to the
design. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ian. Mr. Kroll, next hand raised online.
JACK KROLL: Chair Bouquet, at this time, I see no further hands raised.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Were any email-- were any emailed comments received for today's
meeting?
JACK KROLL: Yes, there were many. I will go through them at this time and give a brief overview of the
topic. As mentioned at the Executive Committee meeting last week, you all received a email from Brenda
Mosby regarding paratransit program modifications. Additional public comment includes comments from
Dustin Berger regarding GM/CEO on time performance goal.
Greater Denver Transit submitted a regular monthly comment regarding Northwest Rail Joint Service and
GM/CEO goals. Someone identified as Lily S. made some general comments regarding the GM/CEO
performance. State Senator Dafna Jenet Michaelson submitted a public comment encouraging you all to
support ATU. And then there were additional emails regarding light rail slow zones and agency

performance from the following. Julian Laatsch, Dan Fobes, Darrin Sersland, Sam Spare, and Josiah
Shafroth.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr-- thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. With no other
participants in the queue, we will close public participation period at this time. Oh-- oh. Excellent. Plea-Oh, yes. Please approach the podium. My apologies. Please state your name when you speak.
LIAM SHEA: Hi. I'm Liam Shea, and I live in the Union Station area, and I'd like to comment on the E
Line. So my work is right off by Sky Ridge, and I take the E Line four days a week. And after instituting
15-minute headways, it's taken about two hours to go southbound every morning, which is absolutely
ridiculous for an 18-mile trip.
I mean, it's averaging less than 10 miles an hour, and I know there's two slow zones. But before all this
congestion with more trains, it took about an hour 10. So to nearly double the time, it's, I think,
unacceptable.
And then all the maintenance on the tracks is now in the middle of the week from Tuesday to Thursday.
And it was also Tuesday to Thursday when there was OCS replacement. Every other transit authority
does shutdowns on the weekends because people don't ride as much then. And yet, now it's in the
middle of the week? I think that's fully unacceptable.
And then the bus bridges are never synced up with the trains. You have waiting times for the bus waiting
for the next train. It's-- I don't know. I think the E Line just needs to be fixed, finally. So that's it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments. Are there any speakers in public I might have
missed? Please approach the podium. OK, excellent. Seeing no other participants in the queue, I will
close public participation at this time. All right, excellent.
So this month, moving on to our External Entities Report. This month, we have one External Entity Report
regarding joint rail planning efforts. Before I ask Mr. Berrick Abramson, President, and Diane Barrett,
Special Advisor to the Governor joint rail service efforts, also present but not presenting I see Chair Chris
Nevitt as well. I would like to offer now the floor to GM/CEO Johnson for some opening remarks. Ms.
Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Good evening to all that are assembled. I'm
Debra Johnson. I serve as the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer.
Point of clarification of Chris Nevitt serves as the Chair of the Front Range Passenger Rail Board. This
evening, we do have Diane Barrett and Berrick Abramson representing a collaborative effort as it relates
to leveraging Joint Service planning efforts as it relates to Northwest Rail Corridor relative to the Regional
Transportation District, as well as undertakings for Intercity Passenger Rail Line respective of the Front
Range Passenger Rail.
By way of background, this has been a collaborative and cooperative effort amongst a myriad of different
entities. Of course, RTD as well as the state of Colorado, specifically Colorado Department of
Transportation, the Clean Transit Enterprise, as well as Colorado Transportation Investment Office and
Front Range Passenger Rail.
Some members of this Board may recall that in September of 2024, there was an update provided to this
body relative to the work that had been done on agreeing to a common set of facts relative to the

noncompletion of a FasTracks corridor, specifically the Northwest Rail Corridor, which does have some
service operating as the B Line.
Recognizing the synergies as well as the inability of RTD standing alone as an entity to be able to fund
any future endeavors, working together with the betterment of the Front Range top of mind, there has
been collaboration, quite naturally, as it relates to capitalizing on synergies relative to introducing mobility
options from a planning vantage point. Also during the course of that evening, we did have Diane Barrett
and Berrick Abramson bring forward information relative to how Northwest Rail, the work that RTD has
done, can serve as a foundational piece going forward to capitalize on efficiencies.
So at this juncture, I want to yield the floor to my colleagues to provide context of what has happened
since September and how these independent entities have come together to capitalize on
interdependencies for the betterment of transportation options, specifically along the corridor in which I
specified, Northwest Rail. So with that, I will yield the floor.
DIANE BARRETT: Thank you, General Manager. First, we want to thank you for allowing us to come
tonight, inviting us. And we love to talk about what we're trying to do here, and you're a great part of it.
Your organization has been amazingly cooperative and collaborative with us on this project.
And I do also want to thank the new Board members. Each of you took the time to visit with us, and we
appreciate that so much. And so hopefully, what you-JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Kroll.
DIANE BARRETT: Oh. I usually don't need that. [LAUGHS] I'm sorry. In any event, the new Board
members met with us. And so what you're hearing tonight is probably not going to be anything that's
brand new to you. And hopefully, we will answer any questions that you might have. Berrick is the
presenter amongst us, and he will get going. And he and I will share when it's appropriate.
BERRICK ABRAMSON: We'll definitely be tagging her in when you have the tough questions. I do want
to set the stage for what we intend to cover today.
And I want to be very clear up front. This has been a group that has engaged in a study of what is
possible. There have not been definitive decisions made, nor are we here today asking for definitive
decisions to be made at this point. What we do want to do is provide a high-level overview of the work
that has been going on, the different committees and working groups between Front Range Passenger
Rail District, RTD, CDOT, and CTIO that have been working together to determine what is possible.
I want to start by talking about-- and this may be a stretch to call it assumptions we know today. It may be
more the assumptions we are working from today. And that's this, that we have an opportunity among
FRPRD, RTD, and CDOT to deliver a truly transformational transit project for the people of Colorado. The
assumptions we'll walk through lay out the framework in which we've been studying and operating to
discuss what is possible.
Again, as I said at the top, this work really is a study into the feasibility of what is possible. And should
FRPRD and RTD continue and decide to complete each entity's independent projects with FRPR and the
Peak Rail and separately, the cost of multiple access agreements and multiple operators would balloon
the cost of this project. And that is the fundamental reason we have brought these agencies together.

It's important to note again that at this juncture, no decisions have been made regarding the Joint Service.
Instead, three working groups that I'll ask Diane to cover briefly have been established to continue the
work between the three entities. We have a Governance and Operations and a Finance Committee who
are working to find that common ground to identify how these working groups will make decisions, that
pending approval from each of the Boards, such as yourselves, what financing might look like.
And supported by the RTC and financing model, how to maximize that operational efficiency among the
entities. Diane, do you want to touch briefly on where those three working groups are?
DIANE BARRETT: Well, the governance group is working with lawyers, of course. We had a choice in the
statute. I'm sorry. I'm feeling like I'm getting ahead of myself. Our statute is Senate Bill 24-184.
And in that piece of legislation, the legislature gave us a choice. How do we want to bring these groups
together? Do we want to create a statewide rail authority? Do we want to create a corporate entity that's
separate from the agencies? Or do we want to work under intergovernmental agreements?
And early on, the group came together and determined that they would work together better with
intergovernmental agreements than going to another completely separate corporation. The idea of a state
rail authority is probably a really good one, but they gave us neither money nor time to do such a massive
effort.
So as we began, we decided we would work with the intergovernmental agreement. So the governance
group is deciding how in that intergovernmental agreement, there will be an Executive Oversight
Committee who will serve on it, and then how the groups will vote and make decisions. Again, no
decisions are made, but we're working on temporary determinations about how best to get to a decision
making process.
The Operations Committee is working primarily with modeling in order to determine how we can actually
run the trains that we're proposing. And then the financing group is working again on modeling to look at
revenue sources, where they come from, how they can be used, and how they can work together.
BERRICK ABRAMSON: So let me pull this back up and start with the question, because I know for some,
we're diving right into the weeds. Let's talk a little bit about, how did we get here in the first place? And as
you all know, we're here to cover what's been six months of intensive work between RTD, FRPRD, and
the state. That follows three to five years of real work by all of those entities and 20 years of groundwork
and vision being laid.
But the work that we're sitting in front of you today to talk about, the FRPRD was formed by Senate Bill
21-238 in 2021, which then mandated that the first phase of Front Range Passenger rail would be the
northern segment. And I know there's been some questions about that. That's what was laid out in that
bill.
Since then, there's been a real concerted effort by the state, by FRPRD, and by RTD to move the ball
forward on a variety of transit projects. Within the last three years, those efforts have certainly increased
and accelerated with the Peak study, with the publish of the white paper, and a number of legislative
efforts.
The state, as I mentioned, did form a new district to plan, to design, to finance, construct, operate, and
maintain new passenger rail system along the Front Range while RTD was simultaneously examining
what it would take to deliver Northwest Rail through their Peak Rail service study.

I think it's important now to note, as I will throughout this presentation, that the studies we are talking
about were under different administrations, under both different state leadership and different federal
leadership. And there are certainly some unknowns at this point.
In the recent history here in Colorado, though, most notably the state has moved the direction of
transformational transit in the legislature in the last couple of sessions with investments that will total over
$200 million annually via two bills, Senate Bill 24-184 and 24-230. And frankly, these are both pieces that
RTD will be a major benefactor of as these pieces move forward.
And when we talk about Joint Service, we want to make sure that we're all understanding and talking
about the same thing and are aligned there. Quite simply, Joint Service is the method of delivering
projects among multiple agencies, leveraging each of their expertise, their strengths, and their differing
revenue streams.
When we look across the country, California's Capitol Corridor is an example of public agencies and the
private sector coming together using a Joint Service model. The Capital Corridor Joint Powers Authority,
or the CCJPA, oversees the service there, with Amtrak running the day-to-day operations, which operate
on tracks owned by Union Pacific Railroad.
A joint project here among two districts and the department, by all conversations we've had, is the best
way to maximize that efficiency. RTD and FRPRD both simultaneously seeking access [INAUDIBLE]
BNSF would balloon those costs and make it less likely that it can be delivered, and would make it more
expensive for each segment of it.
When we look at all of this, and what does each agency bring to this effort, as I said, this is all about a
strengths-based approach and understanding, what are the unique obligations, resources, and expertise
of each of the partners? Both FRPRD and RTD are studying independent projects with Front Range
Passenger Rail and Peak Service, so there is natural overlap as we illustrate here between the two to
drive towards collaboration.
And at the state, CDOT can leverage the Colorado Transportation Investment Office, or CTIO, for
different creative financing structures. Enterprises within CDOT can also be leveraged for Joint Service
effort. And we have the SB 184 and SB 230 funds. When we look at your role and the opportunity for
RTD, it's the ability to leverage FasTracks' dedicated sales tax funding, the use of the B Line, Denver
Union Station access points, which are all critical junctures where collaboration is needed from RTD as
part of this joint authority.
How are the entities working together? Diane touched a little bit about this. As she mentioned initially, one
of the first tasks assigned to this group by the legislators was to determine what the structure would be
going forward, whether it would be an IGA, whether it would be an altogether new entity.
Everyone very quickly came together and was rowing in that same direction that an IGA, or possibly a
series of IGAs, was the most logical path forward. Each entity staff has come to every meeting, prepared,
and contributed thoughtfully to the advancement of the study and to every aspect of this work.
At no point has this been one entity having to be pulled along, but RTD, FRPRD, and CDOT have worked
collaboratively on each step and each committee that Diane discussed. There is representation from each
of these bodies that would also need to report back to their Board on key decision points.

However, at this point, we're in the study phase. So we're not making key decisions, and we continue to
respect the rights of each Board and the authorities you all have.
Where are we then in this effort? And where are we on the milestones? Senate Bill 184 laid out very clear
guideposts to deliver regular updates to the legislature regarding the study of a hybrid passenger rail
service from Denver up to Fort Collins, starting with a September 30 report summarizing all prior and
ongoing studies related to Northwest Rail and Front Range Passenger Rail.
I hope you all have seen the report submitted September 30. If anyone has not, we're happy to make sure
that's provided. But that is another great example where that report would not have come together if not
for the collaborative approach taken by each entity.
DIANE BARRETT: [INAUDIBLE]
BERRICK ABRAMSON: [INAUDIBLE] In the next month, [INAUDIBLE] the ridership modeling data
[INAUDIBLE] next steps regarding the Hybrid Passenger Rail Service study we'll continue to share more
information about here. Once that report is submitted to the legislature and the Governor's Office, each
Board can review the corresponding implementation plan and have deliberations and make decisions on
next steps regarding that Joint Service.
What are some of the basic assumptions that we're using as we're looking at these? Joint Service seeks
to only have one operator, one access agreement, and to utilize existing tracks and routes that have been
established. One of the most [INAUDIBLE] measures that we've taken to reduce the overall cost of
[INAUDIBLE] option is to have one access agreement to BNSF's Front Range [INAUDIBLE] were to
pursue their own independent negotiations.
[AUDIO OUT] It's simply a reality that there are incredible economies of scale to be found by having a
single operator. And additionally, this project seems to use the existing rail infrastructure and federally
[INAUDIBLE] rail service, which gives RTD [INAUDIBLE]. RTD and CDOT. Joint Service then is
streamlining efficiencies and fosters collaboration
[AUDIO OUT]

For the second project, Northwest Rail, that has 10 stops. [INAUDIBLE] FRPR and Northwest Rail by
extending service from Longmont to include Loveland and Fort Collins. There is a financial incentive to
have this line served as an intercity passenger rail service. Up until now, we know we've been able to
draw on more federal funds that are available to intercity rail versus commuter rail.
As I said in one of the earlier slides, this was based on a previous administration, and we recognize that
there are some different conditions right now. Joint Service has been studying eight station sites that
overlay with the FRPR and Northwest Rail. Finally, Joint Service would neither deliver the envisioned
Northwest Rail or the Peak Rail service that was recently studied by RTD, but would instead be informed
by the studies and the available resources to deliver a hybrid model. Pardon me.
So what are the financial scenarios that are being considered? Front and center for a lot of people right
now. First and foremost, both of these slides are hypothetical scenarios. We will be receiving more
financial and ridership data that will inform the direction of this effort within the next month.

Under scenario 1, RTD may make a one-time capital injection and then corresponding ongoing
contributions to a Joint Service effort. Investment levels and decisions will be made by you, the RTD
Board.
At the enterprise level, CTE and CTIO would also supplement with fee revenue. Investment levels and
decisions there would be made by each of their Boards. It's important, again, that no decisions have been
made, nor are we even close to knowing the investment levels today at this juncture.
On the next slide, scenario 2. Under this hypothetical scenario, RTD and the state contribute to a Joint
Service effort, but there is still a gap to initiating that starter service. As of today, we do not know whether
or not there will be that gap. Should a gap emerge in funding needs, there are pathways forward. If that
gap exists, solutions can emerge. But frankly, right now we can't even begin to speculate, as there needs
to be more buy-in from stakeholders and continued discussions among all of the parties.
Where does that leave us now? Collaboration is without question the pathway forward among RTD,
FRPRD, and the state to deliver what would be transformational transportation solution for the state of
Colorado.
Joint Service that we're here to update you on is a mere study of what it would be like to present a
Passenger Rail hybrid model of service to the Denver Metro area. No decisions have been made by any
of the bodies or any Boards.
Joint Service would be that hybrid I mentioned that merges the ideas from Northwest Rail and Front
Range Passenger Rail. It does not take off the table FRPRD going to the ballot for the full buildout of their
envisioned service.
Continued dialogue between the entire project team, which, as Diane has mentioned, and I'm going to
ask her to talk a bit more about, has been robust. There's been members of leadership, there's been
members of technical staff, of the finance offices and of legal, from all of the bodies involved to make this
truly a collaborative process to determine what the structure would be, what the options are going
forward.
I want to acknowledge and Thank Chris Nevitt, Chair of FRPRD, who has been one of those critical
partners. With that, I'll ask Diane to give us one more update on where we are now and what's next, and
then we would welcome any clarifying questions from you and the Board.
DIANE BARRETT: Well, the last time I was here, we were talking about the 30 of September report that
was due and got timely submitted. And now we're talking about the March 1 report, which is due. We
have a month and a couple of days, and we are working toward a plan that has not completely come
together, but we believe that we're on the right track to get to an opening of a starter service, January 1,
2029, which is what the legislature has asked us about.
They've asked us to tell them if that is possible. And if it isn't, what do we need to make it happen? So we
have many paths to go and much to learn in our month and a little bit right now.
But we have, as Berrick says, had wonderful work being done by all of the staff members that are working
together to bring all these pieces of information together. Pieces of information, as the September 30
report points out, have been collected over the years, and new ideas and new modeling programs and
results that are happening now.

So we feel like we have been successful to date. And the folks that are working with us from RTD and
from FRPRD and from the state agencies are all really excited about this. It's a chance to really come into
the 21st century and really do a great deal of good for the state. I think that's about it. And we can answer
questions. We will try to answer questions and-JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Well, we greatly enjoyed your presentation, and thank you for being here
tonight. So I will call on Directors. I might need some help with my Vice Chairs. Just raise your hands.
And first to be acknowledged is Director Ruscha.
JOY RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you for visiting us today. Give me one moment while I flip
screens, because I did type my question out. So I just want to get some clarification if you're able to
answer.
So if RTD were to enter into a JPA with FRPR-- any other entity, obligating us in both Operations and
Finance, and to some extent, removing those aspects from our constituents who are privileged with direct
democracy, I want to check for understanding that under state law, there is no undo button if we move
forward with such initiative. Is that something that you can speak to? Is that your understanding as well?
Essentially, if such an agreement were to be signed, the future Board and staff of RTD would have their
hands tied under state law.
BERRICK ABRAMSON: I don't think that's appropriate for us to answer. I would look to your own
leadership and counsel on that.
JOY RUSCHA: I will certainly follow up with our General Counsel. Thank you. I thought it might-JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms.-- Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Director Ruscha. Just for point of
clarification, the current lead entities aren't looking at a joint powers authority. We're looking at
intergovernmental agreements. But I just wanted to clarify that, because at this juncture, that would be
better for General Counsel to opine on relative to the hands being tied.
But I just wanted to ensure that everybody understood, while Mr. Abramson made reference to Capitol
Corridor in the Bay Area going into Northern California-- i.e. Sacramento to be exact-- that we basically
leveraged that as a point of reference. But there's a myriad of different options available as we look at
doing joint service. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOY RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam-- General Manager and CEO. And I do recognize that that's not the
discussion that we're necessarily having right now. But just-- it has been said out loud over the last year
or two. And I just-- I guess I wanted that clarification, but I will follow up with counsel.
And then I also just wanted to, again, thank you for coming and being readily available, you know, when
we have questions. You spoke of FRPR's Operations Committee, and we also have an Operations
Committee. And I recognize that we have staff liaisons, and I respect their work and appreciate that.
But I think it would be prudent, actually, if at this juncture, at this point, if FRPR came and visited our
Operations Committee. And I know you're kind of the messenger tonight, Mr. Abramson, but please

consider that an open invitation from myself and the Co-Chair of said committee, which is Director
Harwick to my left. Again, thank you for coming to us tonight.
BERRICK ABRAMSON: We appreciate it. And just for clarification, we were referring to the Operations
Committee of the Joint Authority study group, not of the district. But when they're appropriately routed to
us, I think Ms. Johnson knows we are happy to talk to anybody who will hear from us.
JOY RUSCHA: Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And Ms. Johnson, any comments?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, just for further clarification. So to Mr. Abramson's point, these are working
groups. And when we talk about operations specifically, we have individuals that are representing our
agency that work with the Northwest Rail feasibility study. We also have individuals that are working with
our current concessionaire agreement, recognizing that if we did embark upon an effort such as this,
there could be the potential of us not having direct responsibility with operating.
So we're trying to leverage learned experiences as we go forward. And the other committees that Ms.
Barrett referenced are the same situation relative to governance and finance. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Thank you, Director Ruscha, for the questions. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: With enthusiasm. Thank you for coming tonight and speaking about this. I know it's
something that is really important. I have to watch myself, because Director Benker will hit me if I ask the
wrong question about-[LAUGHTER]
--Northwest Passenger Rail. Like, seriously. So I appreciate all the work that's going into the legal
agreement. Before we get married, I want to make sure that we decide whether or not we're going to have
a shared checking account. And I think there are a couple of financial issues that are concerning for me,
just because I don't know.
The first-- actually, three. The first-- which, one I won't even opine on. But the federal funding, let's just
say, is different, you noted. I don't think we should overreact, but I also don't think we should ignore early
signals on the stability of that. And so there's not a-- I don't believe there is a massive bailout coming from
the federal government for this project. I'd love to be proved wrong. Maybe I will be, but I wouldn't-- I don't
think we should bet on that.
The second thing is the negotiation with the railroads. Yes, negotiating, one, looks cheaper at the
beginning. But having negotiated contracts with BNSF and a short line railroad for two miles of nonmainline track, I can tell you that we wish we would have upped our estimate a little bit.
And so what I don't want us to do is take their first ante as the number. I don't think anyone's naive
enough to do that in this room. But I also think that as we budget this out, we owe it to the people that are
going to pay for it, our taxpayers and riders through tickets, that we have appropriately built that cost in,
because that could be a project killing outcome down the road, or a value engineering outcome, which
would be horrible.

The third piece, which is a little bit less specific, is maintenance. I read the report. There's a lot of talk
about capital costs, shared capital costs. There's a lot of talk about operations. You might have picked up
that we've got a little bit of a maintenance challenge in front of us on rail, and that needs to be budgeted
out, and it needs to be agreed upon who will pay for it.
And I want to just predict something. It's not going to be BNSF. It's going to be us, the users, on their
tracks that were given to them centuries ago.
And so really, as we build this pro forma up, we're asking for agreement with our respective Boards and
our stakeholders. I really ask that those financial concerns are not underweighted and that you really,
really look at the estimating that's going into it and risk weight the contingency for it. That's my request.
No question.
DIANE BARRETT: We understand, Director. OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, First Vice Chair O'Keefe. Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. I want to start out by saying that I'm a big fan of this
project. When I first moved to Colorado, I lived at 29 North, which is across the street from Boulder
junction. And it would have been an amazing thing to be able to get to Denver that way. Now I'm a 10minute walk from Union Station. But I want to make sure-- it is critically important to me that we are good
stewards of taxpayer money and that this thing comes together in a way where we don't look back 10
years later and say, why did we get ourselves into this mess?
So speaking as a Board member, my biggest question is, what are-- and I saw some of this in the
presentation. What are the decision points when things are going to come to us? Both, is that voting on
the IGA? Is that voting on the decision to go forward? How many points are there going to be before 2029
when we have to make a decision on something? And hopefully, you can lay that out for me.
Second question that addresses that, will we be able to pull out if there is a meaningful gap in funding, or
will we have to commit before we know if there's going to be a funding gap? It's a very different decision
from my perspective. If the money's all there, then if, oh, we're $1 billion short and we find that out six
months after we've decided to sign on the dotted line.
And then the last one would be, what additional funding sources have you identified as most likely to fill a
gap if it's not the federal government, for example? And how likely do you think it'll be that there is a gap?
Thanks.
BERRICK ABRAMSON: So I'm going to ask Diane to go over, what are the decision points that we know
lay ahead of us? I'm not crazy enough to try to tell you what all of the decision points will be between now
and 2029, because there are a number of unknowns.
So Diane, if you want to talk a little bit about where we are with the IGA, what some of the decisions
remain to be, I think we end up deferring back to you on your authorities and which ones you specifically
as a Board have the authority and the right to make those decisions on. But Diane can talk through where
we are in the process that will lead to decisions.
DIANE BARRETT: Well, I can try. [LAUGHS] That is a-- that's a really obviously good question. But we
are in a study phase. I know Berrick keeps saying that, but we are. And we're learning every day more

things we don't know. This is a very complicated situation, and we are doing our best to straighten it out
and be able to look at it from start to finish. And it's very difficult to do.
I can tell you that we will not bring something to you that's half-baked. We will have worked hard to find
the right answers before we say, this is ready to be voted on and ready to be taken on by these important
agencies. And that's about all I can tell you at this.
And you as a member of this Board will be held responsible for making sure that we've done our jobs. So
we're all working together on this. And you will know everything that we know as we go forward with the
process. There's not going to be anybody that knows more than anybody else, and there's not going to be
any hiding of any information. And I don't think I can be any clearer than that at this point.
BERRICK ABRAMSON: I think many of you know Brandon, who is here with us. Brandon has helped us
make sure and hold up our commitment to overcommunicate. That is our goal and our commitment to all
of you, to all of the stakeholders and the people of Colorado, is that there is that transparency of where
things are and what the unknowns continue to be.
DIANE BARRETT: And I think that Mr. Nevitt would probably agree and say the same thing for FRPR.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So yeah, just very quickly. Maybe I can address part of that question to GM/CEO
Johnson, because obviously, you're the one who's going to be bringing those decision points to us. Which
ones do you know about right now based on your conversations around the IGA, around-- I mean, there
was something mentioned in there about Q2, Q3. We'd have to vote on something. So I guess I'm just
trying to get a calendar in my head of when I'm going to have to make decisions and what those decisions
are, as much as we know at the moment.
And I'll just add one other thing. My mom is listening from home. And-- no, no, there's a point to this.
Some of you she can't hear very well because you're not speaking closely into the microphone. So for the
sake of everyone watching at home, please speak directly into the microphone.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Secretary Nicholson, for the
question. When you're talking about which ones, I believe you're talking about dates. Am I correct in my
assumption? I can't answer that at this juncture because we have yet to have a subsequent principal
meeting, so I'd be placing myself in a precarious position to speculate. There's still work to be done.
But rest assured that I don't have the authority to make any decision relative to how we would be going
forward, leveraging any type of agreements or things of the like, due to the fact that you all possess the
delegation of authority. Hence, I have to come back to this body.
So I provide that statement to assure you that there will not be any type of activity of which this Board is
not well versed in prior to anything going forward or any submittal happening to the state of Colorado
without you being apprised. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Johnson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you very much.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: I had two questions, and you just answered one of them. Thank you. Berrick, this one's
for you real quick. I think you said that there's going to be $200 million coming in from SB 230 and SB
184. Is that-- did I hear you correctly?
BERRICK ABRAMSON: That is the approximate annual funds. I don't want to sit in front of you and tell
you that $200 million goes strictly to this. Those bills made funds available for transportation and transit.
IAN HARWICK: But $200 million is the expected amount that will be coming? Not-DIANE BARRETT: Projected.
BERRICK ABRAMSON: Projected. [LAUGHS]
IAN HARWICK: I just-- I mean-DIANE BARRETT: And they don't exist yet.
IAN HARWICK: No, I-- I know. I just am, like-- I want to just use that as my metric as I'm thinking about all
the projects that are being discussed statewide in this. Blah, blah, blah. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Thank you very much. And to Chris's mom, just to let you know that Director Nicholson
is doing an excellent job-[LAUGHTER]
--and we're glad that you're tuning in. Just a couple of things. I just wanted to thank you for coming. I
mean, this is a wonderful opportunity. FasTracks passed 20 years ago, and we're almost finished building
it out. We're close.
And this is an opportunity that is just coming to our RTD Board with a partnership that we can set up with
CDOT and Front Range Passenger Rail and the state legislature. Because I have been watching those
fiscal notes that have been coming out of the state legislature for the two bills. And yes, $200 million is
quite a chunk of change, especially if you're going to bond it. You could bond well over $2 billion with
those monies coming in.
I'd also like to at least put on the table something for the RTD Board to think about. There are some other
unfinished rail projects out there, primarily the station up north. And I know down in Highlands Ranch.
[LAUGHS] And I also-- I took a wonderful tour with Director Paglieri this past week, and I saw some other
improvements that could be made in the West Corridor, which is my second favorite corridor.
So I think this is just something that we're anxious to work with you. We're hoping that all the numbers
work out. We will do our best. And I don't want to see this opportunity pass us by.
In terms of the timeline, it sounds like you're going to be getting some numbers coming in next month, in
February. I assume they're going to be tentative because CDOT is the one who's supposed to be doing
the service delivery plan.

DIANE BARRETT: Yes.
KAREN BENKER: Correct? OK. And then my one question would be, I know from the two bills that were
passed, there are requirements for information. So Diane, you've talked about the study or the report
that's due March 1, but there's also another study due July 1 from RTD. Could you talk about that, or GM
Johnson?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. I appreciate the question, Treasurer Benker. And it would
be appropriate for RTD to speak to that, recognizing the legislation. So pursuant to statute, RTD is
required to submit to the state legislature a plan basically talking about completion relative to the
FasTracks buildout.
What I intend to do with the support of staff is bring forward to this body and apprise you of the progress
on said report. I believe we have that encapsulated into one of the work plans as it relates to Finance and
Planning. We endeavor to bring that forward to you all. I'm talking off the top of my head, so please give
me some grace.
I believe it could be the March/April time frame. Give you all an opportunity to provide input. I want to
have that complete in the May time frame to give us enough time to shore up whatever comments that we
do receive from this body, so then the submittal to the state legislature would be representative of RTD
and what lies ahead for us. So that's where we are at this juncture.
But we would be having a discussion item come before the Finance and Planning Committee, because
the operative word there is planning. And this would be a document talking about what would need to be
planned and funded relative to a buildout going forward. Thank you.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Are there any Directors-- any further comments or questions? All right.
Seeing none, I just wanted to thank both of you. Thank you very much for taking the time and coming to
present.
DIANE BARRETT: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent information. Thank you. All right. Moving on, we are going to be moving to
the Audit Committee report. Director Catlin, do you have anything you would like to report at this time?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. We have not met since-- as an Audit Committee since the
December 2 Board meeting where we provided a report. But upcoming is an Audit Committee meeting
next Thursday, February 13. And on the agenda for that meeting will be the election of the Audit
Committee Chair. There will be an external entity report, the external auditor required communications.
So that'll be conducted by CFO MacLeod and Pam Hill from Plante and Moran.
Then the recommended action will be an external auditor scope of work and contracting authority for Mr.
MacLeod, and then a discussion about the internal audit and risk assessment update with our internal
auditors. So if you have any questions or would like to see anything else on that agenda, please let me
know. Thank you.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. Finance and Planning Committee report.
Committee Chair Guzman, do you have anything you would like to report?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: We met on January 14, 2025. Elected myself as Chair and Vice Chair Karen
Benker. We will be continuing to work on our Work Plan Committees, and we are waiting anxiously for
information that was sent in by Directors for that Work Plan Committee.
But we do have a robust year ahead of us with a lot of work to do. And the other Chair knows that I will
be-- the other Committee Chair knows that I will be running a solid race with my Vice Chairs to complete
the work in a timely manner and get everything done on time. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Committee Chair. Operations, Safety, and Security
Committee report. Committee Chair Ruscha, do you have anything you would like to share with us?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I will yield to my Co-Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Co-Chair Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Making me do it.
[LAUGHTER]
We met on January 15, and we will be meeting again on January-- or on February 12. We held elections.
I was elected as Vice Chair. Director Ruscha was elected as Chair. And anything else to report?
JOYANN RUSCHA: We're working hard on our work plans.
IAN HARWICK: We're working hard on our work plans as well.
JOYANN RUSCHA: We see you, Director Guzman.
IAN HARWICK: We got you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Thank you, OSS Performance Committee Report. Committee Chair
Guzman, back to you, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: [LAUGHS] Thank you, Chair. We met on the 13th to do the elections. I was elected
Chair. Vice Chair Gutschenritter has also stepped up to serve in capacity on Performance Committee.
We did hold our first public meeting regarding the General Manager CEO goals and performance plan for
2025. We were able to get through that meeting and bring that forward to the body for further discussion.
And there is a strong commitment and desire to continue working on and attending to this process so that
we have something solid for 2026. And we have work to continue.
That work plan, by the way, for Performance Committee will be settled a little bit later than the other two
standing committees, in agreement with the Chair, to provide us opportunity at the retreat to work on
Finance and Planning and Operations and Safety as a primary matter and necessary function of our
work. That does not mean it's any less important. It just means that we need to take a separate track of
time to deal with Performance Committee in due order. So thank you.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. Moving on, the approval
of Board meeting minutes and committee reports. The Board and committee minutes were included in the
Board packet. Are there any corrections from Directors for the minutes to be approved this evening?
Unless there is objection to considering the minutes of all-- all at the same time, may I please have a
motion-- and let me read them off-- may I please have a motion to approve the minutes for the following
meetings? January 7, Special Board meeting. January 8, Executive Committee. January 9, Executive
Committee. January 13, Performance Committee. January 14, Finance and Planning Committee. January
15, Operation, Safety, and Security Committee. January 21, Performance Committee. January 23,
Executive Committee. These all happened in the year of 2025, for the record. Do I have a motion?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have Nicholson as the mover. Second?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Guzman, excellent. I heard Nicholson as the movant and Director Guzman as the
second. Is there any discussion on the motion? We love to see it, folks. I'll now call for the vote. Are there
any no votes on this action? Seeing none, with 15 aye votes, zero no votes, and no abstentions, this will
pass. Excellent.
So moving on, we are going to be doing the Chair's report. And this is my first Chair report, so bear with
me if there's any faux pas, but this is what I have for all of you.
So I wanted to start off my report by saying a big thank you to my fellow Directors for trusting me in this
position as your Chair. I also wanted to thank all of the Directors who stepped up for leadership positions,
either on the Executive Committee and/or on any standing committees as Chairs or Vice Chairs.
So I do want to say a congratulations to First Vice Chair O'Keefe, Second Vice Chair Whitmore, Treasurer
Benker, Secretary Nicholson. Thank you guys for joining me on this Executive Committee. I could not be
doing the work without the four of you.
I do want to say a congratulations to Directors Guzman, Gutschenritter, Benker, Ruscha, and Harwick for
being elected Chairs and Vice Chairs for your standing committees. I greatly look forward to the work that
your standing committees will do. And again, a big thank you for those who stepped up to run for these
positions as well. It's not easy taking on a leadership position such as this.
So we're early on in our work as a Board, but I do want to say what items we have already accomplished
and what we are looking forward to for 2025. Tonight, we're going to be voting on our GM's short-term
goals. This process has taken a great deal of work, and that is OK. That's the point of public policy.
We've collectively heard three main themes from our community. A want for increased ridership, a desire
for improved on time performance, and prioritizing a welcoming transit environment. I do truly believe the
three main goals we have set for Ms. Johnson are reflective of what we've heard from a wide range of
stakeholders.
And I do want to thank Ms. Johnson for her patience in this process. The goal setting process, as is, is
not the most efficient, but that will change this year. I'm making that commitment. I've assigned Directors

O'Keefe and Director Larsen to work with the Board office and staff to establish a more efficient process
to goal setting. I thank both of you for agreeing to lead this charge.
Directors, a few administrative changes have already happened, and I believe this is going to empower
us as individual policymakers and create a more efficient system for this Board collectively. I want to
thank the Board office staff for all their help with creating our new Policy [? Directive ?] form.
For those who are new to the Board or for those who are not aware, this is a new form that we're trying
out. The whole idea of this form is going to be centralized locations for Directors to submit policy
objectives throughout the year.
The hope is that more Director-initiated items can successfully be enacted during this year and years
ahead. This document has already been used to add items to our standing committee work plans, which
we'll discuss during our February retreat this Saturday.
We will continue using this document for working groups, study sessions, and action items, and I highly
encourage you all to please use the document. Please use the form as a centralized location. That's my
inner teacher coming out.
This coming Saturday, we as a Board of Directors will be meeting for our first retreat for 2025. There will
be three main goals that we'll explore as a Board of Directors. The following goals will be presented
Saturday, but I do want to make them public now.
Goal 1, establish a more efficient process for the Board of Directors to create short-term goals for the GM
and CEO-- GM/CEO prior to the finalization of the annual budget for the next year. Goal 2, all RTD
Directors will expand engagement with public stakeholders to grow the number of communication
channels between multiple communities throughout this agency.
And finally, Goal 3, ensure a structural system is in place for Directors to create an active policy agenda
that encourages more Director-initiated items throughout the year. These goals are specifically for us as a
Board of Directors, and not necessarily for the agency.
And for all of you who are present, notice that these three common goals had something in common. It's
an empowerment of this Board and a better connection with our communities. I look forward to this year. I
look forward to working with GM/CEO Johnson, her team, and the rest of you, and of course, the
members of the public as we go forward.
Everyone who is present, either in this room or virtually, have one thing in common, and that is to
continue to improve the public transit system that we know and love. I look forward to the journey with all
of you. Thank you. I'll now hand this over to General Manager Johnson's report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you for your comments. I'd like to
express that I look forward to the collaboration and working hand in hand with you and members of the
Board.
With that, good evening once again. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. This evening, I will
share some highlights, just a few, and some activities and strategic endeavors since the most recent
regularly scheduled Board meeting that took place on Tuesday, December 3 of 2024.

As it relates to the strategic priority of community value, on Thursday, December 5, I participated in a
meeting of the Denver Regional Councils of Government Advanced Mobility Partnership Executive
Committee, of which I serve as a member, and most recently as Chair. The AMP, as it's better known,
began in 2019 as a collective effort from the Denver Regional Council of Governments, RTD, as well as
CDOT and the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce to implement the region's mobility choice blueprint
and enhance regional transportation activities.
There is a litany of different elements that have taken place across the broader Denver Metro region with
an emphasis on mobility that includes shared technology from information, transportation systems, on
roadways to advanced mobility with bike share, micro mobilities, and things of the like.
On Thursday, December 12, I participated in a virtual meeting of the American Public Transportation
Association's Bus Manufacturing Task Force, to which I have been appointed. APTA created this task
force in October of 2023 with support from the Biden-Harris Administration and the Federal Transit
Administration, to develop recommendations for immediate actions that can support a more competitive
and stable bus manufacturing capacity in the US. Currently, there are only two bus manufacturers in the
United States that are approved by the Federal Transit Administration as transit vehicle manufacturers.
On Thursday, December 19, I participated in virtual meetings of APTA's Transit CEO Coordinating
Council, of which I serve as Vice Chair, as well as APTA's Board of Directors, of which I serve as a
member of the Association's Executive Committee, to meet and discuss relevant matters facing the state
of public transportation. Recognizing APTA does represent North America, there is a myriad of things that
are happening, as we know, at the federal level. And APTA serves as a great advocacy association as it
relates to having our voices heard on the Hill.
On Tuesday, January 7, Commuting Solutions held its 16th annual breakfast at the Colorado Boulder
University Memorial Center. This annual event brings together business leaders, state legislators, and
experts from both public, private, and nonprofit sectors to discuss the relationship between transportation,
climate, innovation, and transit-oriented communities, transit and rail development statewide, and matters
related to safety.
I was joined by Directors Guissinger, Benker, Guzman, Chandler, and Harwick, and Government
Relations Officer Michael Davies, as well as planning staff representing RTD. I was invited to speak to
share information on RTD's priorities for this year.
Other speakers included honorable Governor Jared Polis, CDOT Executive Director Shoshana Lew,
Southwest Energy Efficiency Project Executive Director Elise Jones, House Transportation, Housing, and
Local Government Chair Meg Froelich, Boulder County Commissioner Claire Levy, and CU Boulder
Chancellor Dr. Justin Schwartz, and Community Solutions Board Chair Kirsten Schuchman.
On Tuesday, January 21, I, along with Director Guzman, as well as Assistant General Manager Bus
Operations Fred Worthen and Government Relations Officer Michael Davies attended Denver City
Council Land Use and Transportation Infrastructure Committee, or commonly referred to as LUTI. I
shared updates on the agency's 2024-2025 strategic initiatives, ongoing state of good repair efforts,
future service planning, and alignment with the forthcoming comprehensive operational analysis. And
Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations, shared an update on RTD's paratransit program as well as we
collectively fielded questions from committee members.

From Tuesday, January 21 through Friday, January 24, I participated in a series of scheduled interviews
with local news outlets to share information about RTD, its services, and strategies for the year. I
engaged with representatives from Westward, KOA radio, Colorado Community Media, CBS News,
Denver7, 9NEWS, Telemundo, KDVR, as well as Colorado Public Radio News and Denverite.
On Thursday, January 23, I, along with two staff members from the Civil Rights Division, met with
representatives from the Colorado chapter of the National Federation of the Blind. This is a recurring
meeting I have established to enhance communications and collaboration with the organization. This
particular meeting was convened to discuss resolutions passed during the NFB's 2024 Colorado
Convention and to address concerns cited therein, as well as collaborating on paratransit program
modifications.
One element I'd like to share this evening is that the agency continues to accept applications from
organizations and governmental entities that serve clients with immediate transit needs for our Transit
Assistance Grant in 2025. The program opened for applications on Friday, January 3, and eligible
organizations may submit applications through Friday, which is the 31 of January.
The program assists qualified organizations that serve clients with immediate needs by providing grants
in the form of RTD fares. The agency allocated $1 million within its budget for the TAG program to offer
RTD fares at no cost to grant recipients who must distribute fare payment media to their clients or
constituents for free.
The TAG program was continued following the success of its inaugural launch last year, in which 181
area organizations were awarded with no-cost fares for distributions to their clients or constituents. As the
Board may recall, the agency initiated the grant program following the conclusion of the Systemwide Fare
Study and Equity Analysis.
The Transit Access Grant program is meant to fill a temporary grant-- sorry, a temporary gap for
customers who have urgent transportation-related needs and to provide organizations that serve these
customers with time to educate and enroll clients in the LiVE program, RTD's income-based fare discount
offerings for eligible customers.
For consideration for TAG funding, an agency or an organization must be a nonprofit, designated as
exempt from federal income tax under the Internal Revenue Service Section 501(c)(3) and/or be a
governmental community social service agency and provide assistance to clients with immediate
transportation needs. Eligibility criteria can be found on RTD's dedicated Transit Access Grant program
page on RTD's website.
I'll shift quickly to items related to customer excellence under strategic priorities. Relative to real-time
tracking for the A, B, and G Lines, which are operated by our concessionaire, Denver Transit Operator,
staff is working on a project to develop a new system for tracking light rail vehicles and displaying
schedule information in real time. This serves as a follow-up to the communiqu that I did send the body
yesterday.
So while I recognize A, B, and G Lines are commuter rail lines, I did want to qualify that in tracking, we're
talking about light rail. We heard public comment this evening in reference to dissatisfaction relative to
displaying scheduled information, because that is what we do provide is scheduled information, not real
time.

So once this project is completed and implemented, which most likely will occur in the second quarter of
this year, 2025, this system will improve RTD's light rail vehicle fee to display accurate vehicle location
information in real-time schedules on digital signage at stations. This project aligns with RTD's 2024-2025
strategic initiative of customer and community connections, as survey data garnered in 2024 indicated the
need to improve customers' experience in the area of light rail trip on-time data.
And related to employee ownership, last week we had 15 members of the Regional Transportation
District's Police Department who joined nearly 150 transit police colleagues from across the nation to
venture to Washington, DC, to provide customer safety and security on the metro system during the 60th
presidential inauguration. I applaud these officers for their dedication to public service and give special
thanks to Co-Police Chief Martingano for his efforts in coordinating with my former agency, the
Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority's Police Department.
And lastly, but certainly not least, RTD will offer Zero Fare for Transit Equity Day on February 4. It's a day
that observes civil rights leader Rosa Parks. In reference to kicking off this observance, a media event will
be held next Tuesday to highlight all RTD services that will be available at no cost to our riding public.
The event will take place at the I Have a Dream of Director Martin Luther King Jr. statue in Denver City
Park, which features a statue of Rosa Parks. RTD will also have a specially wrapped bus commemorating
the 60th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which we just recognized on July 2 of last year. This
one-of-a-kind wrapped bus was designed by a winner of RTD's bus design contest. And with that, Mr.
Chair, that completes my report, and I will yield the floor. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Ms. Johnson, for your report. At this time, I'll take any
questions from Directors for Ms. Johnson. Excellent. Seeing none, we're going to move forward.
Just as a quick housekeeping note to make sure that we're keeping up with our CART services, we will
need to take a break after our unanimous consent item. So just as a heads up.
And speak of the devil, there is one item on the unanimous consent agenda listed under-- sorry, that is
Section 17 Action A. That item is for the 2025 committee appointments. If anyone has a change
discussion on or questions about this item, please feel free to advise the Chair at this time.
And I will, of course, be happy to pull it from unanimous consent agenda for consideration under
recommended action. Any motion to move? Oh. Any motion to move this item out of unanimous consent?
Excellent. Seeing none, may I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?
TROY L. WHITMORE: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Whitmore as the mover and Catlin as the second. Perfect. Well, that was pretty easy,
so I'm propos-- oh. Oh, my apologies. I-- I'm running this as a dictatorship and not even getting people to
vote.
Are there any no votes? [LAUGHS] Seeing none-- all right. The item will pass. At this time, I will say we'll
take a 10-minute break. Let's be-- let's shoot back actually 7:25. So 11 minutes. Thank you.
This is your-- please join us for the meeting. We will be holding for roughly a second.

[LAUGHS]

JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. We are convened again as of 7:27. I would like to please get us back in
order. If Directors could please take their seats, that would be excellent.
So moving on to our agenda, we have one recommended action on the agenda item tonight. That action
is for the 2025 GM/CEO short-term goals.
For the Board of Directors to approve, pursuant to the GM/CEO's Performance Framework adopted in
January 2024 in alignment with the Board's employment agreement with the GM/CEO, the proposed
short-term SMART goals for the performance period commencing January 28, 2025, and continuing
through October 15, 2025. Do we have a-- do we have a motion to approve this action?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Buzek is the mover. Do we have a second?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second, Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Guzman is the second. Thank you very much. In advance of this meeting, several
Directors presented potential amendments to the 2025 GM/CEO short-term goals that were included in
the Board packet. Before we get to those amendments, I would like to give the floor over to GM/CEO
Johnson to present the goals as they stand. GM/CEO Johnson, the floor is yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. If I could have a Board office staff pull up the
presentation. Thank you very kindly. So with this, can we advance to the next slide? Oh, I have it. My
bad. I'm sorry. Still have a head cold, y'all. [LAUGHS]

So thank you very much. What I intend to do real briefly and succinctly is provide an overview for
everyone's edification relative to the Performance Framework, the components of the performance
assessment that basically encompasses core/base job duties and short-term goals. The core/base job
duties basically translate into the performance of the position that I currently hold, and then the proposed
2025 short-term goals. So we'll proceed with the framework.
So on this slide before you, what we are discussing tonight-- and this was previously adopted by the
Board of Directors in January of 2024. It outlines the assessment framework for the General Manager and
CEO position. Looking at the slide before you, the two top boxes in dark blue, one incorporates the
agency values.
Those are the six values that were adopted in part with the strategic plan in August of 2021 that goes
through 2026, which more or less are the ideals and beliefs that we collectively as an agency hold to be
true. And it translates into, how does the General Manager and CEO show up to perform the critical job
duties?
To the right of the box are the core job duties. And basically, that is the strategy, execution, and
leadership required of somebody holding a position such as this, 365 days a year, 24 hours a day, seven

days a week. And then the elements of the short-term goals, what will be done in this performance period.
To the left is the GM/CEO accountability and then the Board of Directors' accountability. In the gray box
it's shaded because we are not dealing with long-term agency performance goals relative to this
discussion.
So as it relates to the components, I already outlined the two top boxes. But with those together, that
accounts for a certain percentage of annual performance. And then when we look at the short-term goals,
that in turn accounts for a percentage of the annual performance as well.
This is just for reference, 2024 assessment scale. There were three categories relative to performance.
Primarily, as CPO Polege could attest, we all expect people to be meeting expectations in the jobs in
which they possess. So for all intents and purposes, that's the baseline here relative to performance, is
meeting expectations. And that was allocated 50 to 79 points.
Exceeding expectations, meaning surpassing the expected or established milestones with the certain
goals that were collectively agreed upon and/or core job duties. Exceeds expectations would be 80 to
100. And anything less than 50 points would not be meeting expectations, and I would advise you all to
put on your work plan to seek a new General Manager and CEO.
And so when we talk about moving forward, we will have discussions. And you guys will more or less
consider what that point allocation should be.
So relative to the core/base job performance, just for point of reference here, the job performance that we
are utilizing is the one that was developed by Krauthamer and Associates. They were the executive
search firm that this agency retained when they were seeking a new General Manager and CEO in 2020.
This is the job description upon which I have been utilizing in my capacity as the General Manager and
CEO since I was brought on in November of 2020.
Also, as it relates to some elements of core job performance, recognizing there's accountability on both
sides of the fence, that there will be quarterly feedback and dialogue sessions with members of the Board
at a minimum once per quarter, and then evaluative criteria assessed by the Board the fourth quarter of
each year.
So as it relates to agency values, just as a gentle reminder, what those are to the left-- I won't read those
to you. Or perhaps I should, because I know there's other people that are tuning in. Passion, respect,
diversity, trustworthiness, collaboration, ownership. There are qualifiers that we use to explain what those
are, which are contained in our strategic plan and can be found on our website.
Moving forward, specifically to the short-term goals, I want to qualify the pyramid diagram that is before
you. When you look at this, quite naturally, all of this goes hand in hand with our strategic priorities,
recognizing that everyone within this agency is a valuable contributor. And so at the base of the pyramid,
you can see individual performance.
And I'm actually going to flip to the side because that box is basically obstructing my view. So just give me
a minute, please, so I can turn to the right page in my packet.
So at the base of that pyramid, we have individual employee contributions. And so basically, what that
entails is what we need to do collectively in our own individual jobs. And as we move forward, going up in
a ascending fashion, we're talking about tactics.

How will we get there? And this is where we have leading indicators. There's a difference between
lagging and leading. Lagging generally is something that occurs after the fact of which we know the
outcome, but it's too late to change course in reference to modifying what the outcome could be.
And so basically, as we talk about the various tactics as it relates to this overall strategic initiative effort
that we have with this current year, as we have a laser-like focus on our customer excellence and
community values and employee ownership and financial success, those are the priorities. But basically,
as we look at the strategic initiatives, we're talking about back to basics. We're talking about people
power, welcoming transit environment, and customer and community connections. Those are the
elements that we collectively as an organization are striving for in 2025.
And then we talk about values, what we stand for. That feeds into the mission of what we actually do here
at this organization. While our functional mission is delivering mass transit services to a 2,345 square
service area, ultimately as we look at what we're doing, we embark upon making lives better through
connections.
And then there's the vision. What are we striving to achieve? And that is to be the trusted leader in
mobility, delivering excellence and value to our customers and community.
And so the reason I took the time to explain that, because recognizing while I may be in the position of
General Manager and CEO, I cannot do this alone. And there is a myriad of different people here that
make up the agency as we're moving people that all contribute to bringing this full circle.
So once again, the short-term goals are tied to our strategic plan that basically was developed in
alignment with opportunities identified through our strategic initiatives. We garnered feedback through
different outlets, i.e. a customer value survey as well as a-- I meant to say customer satisfaction survey,
community value survey, and then our employee satisfaction survey. And the strategic initiatives upon
which I'm going to talk about relative to the short-term goals that you all have seen basically center upon
Goals 1 and 2, aligned with customer and community connections, and Goal 3, welcoming transit
environment.
So to delve a little more deeply into the goal here that's before you on the slide that states, "No later than
September 30 of 2025 to increase light rail service availability to 96%," which would constitute 50% of the
goal, "and to increase annualized on-time performance by 1.5% for both fixed route bus and rail service,"
which is "50% of goal."
And as I stated, from a background perspective, this goal aligns with the agency's efforts to improve
performance metrics related to overall customer satisfaction and the perception of on-time performance.
The reason why the word perception is there, because in the transit industry, as we provide data to the
National Transit Database as required under the Federal Transit Administration, RTD, like other transit
agencies, constitute on-time performance as minus one plus five, meaning we could arrive at a time-- a
time point a minute early or five minutes late for it to be considered on time.
But as we heard from public commenters, that does not bode well when you get to a stop after that time
period, and there's the perception that we weren't on time and are not adhering to the schedule of which
we have published or put forward.
And so historically, just by way of background, RTD's bus and commuter rail service availability metrics
have remained above 99%, meaning that for every 100 trips scheduled, more than 99 trips have been

operated. Light rail service availability has been impacted in recent years due to several factors, of which
I know this body and members of the public are familiar with.
But it has to do with operator availability in some instances, state of good repair and preventative
maintenance activities. Overall, light rail service availability for 2024 was 94.34%, meaning that of the
223,205 trips scheduled, 208,412 were actually operated.
And on-time performance, as well as influenced by numerous factors, including elements within RTD's
control and outside. Within the control, e.g.-- example given-- being operator availability, schedule, and
maintenance. And outside of RTD's control, regional traffic patterns, road congestion service impacts
resulting from construction, street detours, weather, things of the like.
So increasing on-time performance by even small increments requires budgetary support as well as a
concerted effort. As I noted before, it's all hands on deck. But recognizing Bus and Rail Operations teams
as well as service planning, human resources, as we talk about, people power, capital programs, as we
talk about, our infrastructure being a state of good repair. So for the first 11 months of 2024, the average
on-time performance for fixed route service by mode was bus at 80.4%, light rail at 77%, and commuter
rail at 95.2%.
Moving on to the second goal. Goal 2 reads "To increase year-over-year fixed route vehicle boardings by
3% from the period commencing October 1, 2024, and ending September 30, 2025, while optimizing the
increase in RTD's 2025 annualized revenue service hours to 3,191,109." So this goal aligns with the
agency's efforts to improve performance metrics tied to community perceptions of the value RTD provides
to the Denver Metro region and of RTD's provision of service to major activity centers, as well as the
state's visionary ridership increased goal of 6%.
This segues into what we heard from Senator Winter when we talked about climate. This is basically with
that being top of mind with the state's visionary ridership goal, recognizing that we don't have any
foundational data upon which this was derived. However, that does not negate our willingness to lean in,
to do what we can do to try and increase actual transit utilization.
So as an agency, we continue to optimize service levels and are incrementally approaching the level of
service contemplated in our System Optimization Plan, which serves as our comprehensive operational
analysis as adopted by the Board in July of 2022.
Funding in calendar year 2025 for the increase in revenue service hours of approximately 102,000 was
included in the 2025 budget, approved by the Board on Tuesday, December 3, 2025. And just as a gentle
reminder, just on January 19, we added an additional 200 revenue service hours to the schedule as we're
moving forward, which netted enhanced services on 15 bus routes.
Included additional service on the AB2 route from Boulder to Denver International Airport, as well as 15minute frequencies on the E and H light rail lines as well. So annual boardings for the period commencing
October 1, 2023, through September 30, 2024, totaled 65,767,000, A 3% year-over-year increase is
contemplated, and this goal will equate to nearly $2 million additional boardings, which is the equivalent
of 5,400 additional boardings daily.
Moving forward to short-term Goal 3, which is to increase customer survey responses by 4% from
calendar year 2024 to calendar year 2025 in relation to questions pertaining to customers' perceptions of,
A, feeling safe and secure while waiting at stops or stations, and B, feeling safe and secure aboard

vehicles. Now, this goal aligns with agency's efforts to improve performance metrics related to customers'
perceptions, attitudes, and opinions of personal safety and security.
Customer excellence surveys were conducted in 2024 and indicated that 55% of bus and rail customers
felt personally safe and secure while waiting for fixed route transit vehicles, and 62% of bus and rail
customers felt personally safe and secure while aboard vehicles. While these responses are significantly
higher than national averages for transit agencies, staff anticipates that an increase in customer
perceptions of safety and security will yield corresponding increases in transit utilizations-- i.e., boardings- as customer status as well as customer satisfaction with RTD services.
So as I progress quickly, I'll go through these proposed goals. The Performance Framework, as identified
on this slide, pertains to conversations that ensued at Performance Committee relative to retaining the
structure for 2024, whereby the agency values and the core/base job account for 64% of annual
performance and short-term goals account for 36% of annual performance.
To the right, you have the salary adjustment alignment. I know this is in your packets, but it's difficult to
see on the screen, so I'll just take a moment to read these. The expectation category does not meet the
point range of 0 to 49 points. Adjusted base salary goes from 1% to 3.24%. Meets 50 to 79 points
equates to adjusted base 2.35% to 5.99%. And exceeds, 80 to 100 points, from 6% to 7%.
Going forward, this slide just depicts the agency values. How the GM/CEO shows up accounts for 10%,
plus the core/base job-- i.e. that equates to 60% in sum, and then the short-term goals being 30%.
And here once again are the numbers I read on the previous slide that you can see a lot more clearly. I
won't spend time reading that, as I believe I've already read that into the record. And that concludes my
presentation. I will yield the floor to you, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, GM/CEO Johnson. Before I take questions on the main
motion itself, I just want to say full heartedly, owning up to this process itself, I just really greatly
appreciate your patience in this. It is a learning process. I believe we're going to be on the right track
when it comes down to it of flipping our timeline of instead of having budget approved, having it-- having
budget approved, then moving forward with the short-term goals.
Rather, the Directors have a say in the short-term goals, and then the budget is ultimately passed
forward. I believe that's going to be the best practice going forward.
So again, I believe that this is a learning exercise. We're always trying to be better with the process. And I
just wanted to greatly appreciate your insight and your listening.
You heard from Director Elects at the time, and now standing Directors for the Director Elects at the time.
And now Directors, I heard you as well. I listened to you as well. And I heard from the public. I also just
got reelected and got back onto this Board. And I truly believe these three goals truly capture what we are
hearing from the public and what I was hearing from you all as campaigners and now Directors. So with
that being said, do we have any questions for Ms. Johnson on the main motion? Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Just a point of clarification question. So in the presentation in the
packet where we have the chart that correlates the potential bands at which your salary could increase, I
just want to confirm that that correlates directly on an x-y axis relative to the points distribution. I think I did
the math in my head correctly, but I wanted to get that on the record.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Director Ruscha. Yes, you're correct in your assumption.
Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Thank you for your motion, Director Ruscha. Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: I just have a question about the reliability goals where it sets up achieving a certain
percentage by September 30. What is the time period that that percentage is supposed to be based on,
and also the annualized percentage? I mean, it can't just be, well, by September 29, you have a day with,
you know, whatever percentage. I'm sure that's not how it's intended to be calculated. I'm just wondering
what-JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Larsen, for the
question. The reason being it's September 30, as we basically collect data as it relates to our third-party
contractors and how we basically mine that data and bring that forward, that would be the point in time in
which we had it relative to the current performance assessment period. And so we would look at it year
over year. Am I-MATT LARSEN: If the performance is-- I can't remember the exact number-- 96%-- 96% for the last year,
for the last 12 months, or for the last month? Or what is that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So basically-- and perhaps you didn't hear this, I know I can talk fast-- it would be a
year's period of time in which we're evaluating going back. So taking it back to September 2023 for an
entire year, for 12 months, in which we would assess up until September 30 of-- I'm sorry, I meant to say
September 30 of 2024, taking it forward for the entire year through September 30 of 2025.
MATT LARSEN: OK. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your answer, and thank you for your question. Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. GM/CEO Johnson, just a clarification for your first short-term goal. It
says to increase annualized on-time performance by 1.5% for both fixed route bus and rail service. Does
that include only service operated directly by RTD or also service operated by our contractors, namely
DTO and Transdev?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So it includes our contracted service as well. That's what I was referencing in my last
response to Director Larsen, recognizing that we get our data-- it's basically provided to us. It's inclusive
of contracted services as well.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Great. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your question, Secretary. Are there any further questions in regards to
the original goals? OK. All right. Seeing none-- so now we will move on to the amendments.
So for public transparency, we'll go through the submitted amendments in the following order. I believe
this order is going to be the most efficient. Director Paglieri's replacement of goal number 2, Director
Larsen's adjustment of the assessment elements, Director Larsen's additional goal for fare collection,
Director Harwick and Director Ruscha's goal for Vision Zero, Director Nicholson's amendment for goal
number 1, Director Ruscha's amendment for goal number 1.
So there will be six total amendments that we'll be discussing. Because Director Nicholson's and Director
Ruscha's proposed amendments do conflict, this is why I have moved them to the end.
After we work through each of the submitted amendments, I'll ask if there's any additional amendments.
Because all these amendments were circulated in advance and Directors have had several days to
consider them, I am going to limit debate to 10 minutes each, no more than 10 minutes for each
amendment.
Mr. Kroll will share his screen and display a document that will track our progress with respect to the
framework as it stands currently and any amendments that are made. The document will show us in real
time where things stand when we return to the main motion for a vote on the 2025 GM/CEO short-term
goals.
As a reminder, while the item is titled 2025 GM/CEO short-term goals, this is, in fact, GM/CEO's
Performance Assessment Framework for 2025. And if we do fail to approve this item, we will default to
last year's goals, OK?
So we're moving on. The first proposed amendment, Attachment B of the packet, Director Paglieri has
moved that the language of Goal number 2 is replaced with the following language. "To achieve total
vehicle boardings of 69,562,000 during the period of October 1, 2024, and ending September 30, 2025,
where the percentage goal achievement is calculated from a baseline of 66,307,000 boardings." Director
Paglieri, can you confirm this motion?
BRETT PAGLIERI: This is Director Paglieri. Thank you, Chair. Yes, I confirm.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Is there a-- is there a second?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Second, Ruscha.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I heard Benker first. And Ruscha third. Before we move on to discussion, I am
actually going to give it to Director Paglieri first. Could you give us a quick 30-second, 1-minute synopsis
of the amendment itself.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes, I will keep it as quick as I can. Thank you, Chair. Basically, the goal is to set a
little bit more ambitious ridership than proposed in the original goal of increasing fixed route vehicle
boardings by 3%. This is just roughly about 5% increase calculated over a different-- slightly different
baseline.
We basically came to this with looking at how we were doing last year and then how our other agencies
are doing, our peer agencies, and wanted to put something slightly more ambitious so we could get back
to what-- the similar post-COVID-- excuse me. Specifically talking about ambition towards post-COVID

recovery to pre-COVID boarding numbers. And that's kind of where we established on this one. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Paglieri. I'll take my Chair's privilege and ask my question
actually first for you. In regards to the term peer agencies, we at RTD, or at least we as the Board itself,
haven't necessarily recognized these agencies that you listed as peer agencies. I'm just kind of coming to
the conclusion of why we chose these agencies as our baseline or potentially as areas where we want to
look at and look at as a model. Do you have any answer to that?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair. Yes. Great question. So peer agencies is kind of an objective term,
and I understand that. Specifically, I think included in the agenda packet was an explanation of some
agencies considered peer agencies, including San Diego, Salt Lake City, Austin, Houston, Sacramento,
Dallas, Seattle, Minneapolis, Phoenix, and St. Lewis.
And there's a few reasons that I've included these, mostly for similarities to service provided. For
example, light rail services combined with bus services, or perhaps commuter rail services in similar sized
metro populations. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I just have a point of clarification I'd like to ask of Director Paglieri, recognizing it
says peer agencies. But then listed you have San Diego Area Transit combined. Which specific transit
entities are you referencing? Because there are several within San Diego.
BRETT PAGLIERI: I don't have that in front of me right now. I'll have to get back on a specific answer with
that one. I believe-- I'm sorry. Yeah, I don't have the answer to that, but I think it was all three of them.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Which three? And the reason I'm asking the question, just-- I'm not trying to trip
anybody up. But I need to understand from various vantage points, because there is San Diego MTS,
Metropolitan Transit Service. We also have North County Transit District. There's Metrolink that provides
commuter rail service. And I do see people moving their heads.
The reason I'm asking the question is when we talk about peer agencies, we're talking about San Diego
that has the opportunity to operate various modes of greater San Diego County. That is, in an operating
environment that's not adversely impacted by four seasons. That's critically important as we look at
adverse weather. San Diego does not have to run sweeper trains to keep the overhead contact system
warm and prevent freezing and things of the like. That's why I'm asking the question. It's not to be
obstinate.
But I want to understand, because in certain instances we say peer agencies, but there is a cohort of
agencies. And I just want to understand as we talk about deeming what is peer. To the point that you're
raised, there's peer agencies used for a myriad of different factors, whereas RTD is the only intermodal
transit agency in the area. And so I just thought that for discussion purposes, I just wanted to understand.
Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Ms. Johnson. And thank you, Director Paglieri. Yes. The
questions that will be proposed potentially with each of these amendments is really just a better
understanding for our CEO and GM of, again, where did we come with some of these numbers? So thank
you for your answer, and thank you for your questions. I saw Director Buzek's hand up first.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Paglieri, for this amendment. Two
questions. How did you land on 5% as opposed to any other percentage?
And secondly, when you calculated this baseline, you went out of your way to not include major
maintenance projects suppressing boardings. However, a number of those projects are still ongoing. And
there may in fact be residual boarding effects even after those projects have been completed based on
the perception of riders that those things are not completed and they're just off that system. So how do
you address those things?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yeah, I don't want to say arbitrary, because it's not. The baseline was calculated from
three months last-- last year, and then extrapolating that out and then expecting 5% growth on top of that.
And I'm sorry. I-- [LAUGHS] I lost you on the second part of your question. Could you remind me what
you were asking?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, the first question was, why did you land on 5%? Where did that come from? How
did you calculate that?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Let's see. So that's a great question. It was kind of landed because it was a-- it was
kind of a middle point between some other Directors that I had individually talked to and heard and got
kind of consensus from of where they wanted the ridership-- excuse me, the boarding numbers to be. And
it was basically a compromise.
That wasn't too ambitious, but we felt that-- I felt that could be achieved, especially looking at the
objective peer agencies. And I tried to-- yeah, I just tried to make a list of peer agencies that showed
similar services specifically so we could kind get a sense of how they were able to recover and how we
might be able to recover as well.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. I'll just say thanks for that. I appreciate that. I can't support this for a number of
reasons. First of all, peer agencies, as a very wise person once said, when you've seen one transit
agency, you've seen one transit agency.
Secondly, I can't support something where a number's pulled out of thin air, and that's what we're going to
shoot for. And I guess finally, it doesn't seem very well thought out. You really struggled to answer the
questions on an amendment that you should really be completely informed about. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. Moving on, I see Director Larsen's hand.
MATT LARSEN: Thank you. I can-- I worked with Director Paglieri on that amendment somewhat, and I
can-- I'll try to help answer some of those questions. First of all, the San Diego agencies were the San
Diego Metropolitan Transit System and the North County Transit District. So those were the two agencies
there.
And just in response to the fact-- the weather in San Diego, it's true that they don't really get snow like we
do here. But they also have their own issues like heat and rail buckling, and things like that that we may
not have as much of. Every transit agency is indeed different, but they all have challenges.

Back to the calculation of those numbers, it's true. We picked the-- we picked the last three months of
data that we had where-- the Coping Panels Project. And also, we knew the Downtown Rail Project
weren't happening. Simply because we thought that-- we knew the Coping Panels Project would not be
returning again this year. And even though-- and we also knew that even though there would be some
maintenance projects that would potentially suppress ridership, we also were expanding in some areas,
and that would balance it out.
But really, I mean, the bottom line is we've discussed this process. This is not-- you know, to some extent,
if we wanted to have a more ambitious goal, we just had to set a more ambitious goal than what was in
there. And we wanted to try to get to a more ambitious goal.
You know, it's really unfortunate, I think, that this process ended up like it did where I personally don't
have an understanding of why 3% is necessarily any better of a number than 5%, or any other number,
really. We had already set the budget before we set the performance goals.
And what we wanted to do here was try to push things a little bit harder and basically take the risk that we
could be erring on the side of being too ambitious in favor of-- you know, be in favor of doing that versus
taking the risk, frankly, of not being ambitious enough. I think a lot of us here want things to be better than
they are, and we want to create more emphasis on increasing ridership.
And ultimately, in the time allowed, we did have to pick a number. This was a number lower than what
some people wanted. And certainly within-- you know, not that far away from 3%, which was proposed.
And finally, we wanted a number where if it was hit, that would count for all the points for that element of
the goal, and that would be exceeding expectations. I mean, if 5% over that baseline is hit, that would
mean expectations were exceeded there. If only 3% can be hit, that's still going to be within the realm of
meeting expectations.
And I think that's the way the goals should work. They should be stretch goals, not goals we know for
sure we can hit. And we don't-- I don't think any of us know for sure what we can hit. But 5% is more than
3%
And even doing all that-- I mean, I respect that no transit agency is the same, but I do think we have to
look at our peers. And we have not recovered as well from COVID as our peers, and I think we have to
take that into consideration. And even hitting 5% growth, we still wouldn't get up to the-- beyond the
median of what these peer agencies have done.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Rusch-- Director Larsen. Director Ruscha will be recognized.
And we are at our 10-minute mark. So Director Ruscha and Director Benker and Director Guissinger-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Point of information?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Didn't I have my hand up a while ago?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm not sure. So we're going to try to make the-- try to make it as quick as possible.
So I do encourage Directors, try to limit your comments to about two minutes. Director Ruscha?

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to note that-- and in fact, actually, I would ask.
Perhaps our General Manager and CEO can explain to us how she came to her metrics for the original
goal. I have it in front of me, but I don't want to speak for her, and that might help clarify where we are on
baseline.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. As I was indicating in my previous statements
relative to what we had budgeted, as we know, we are a labor-intensive organization. It's all based upon
people power. We're not merely just talking about operators. We're talking about different elements.
When one delivers service, first you start with the schedule. The schedule helps inform how many
vehicles you need. When we talk about vehicles, we're talking about individuals that can maintain those
vehicles, individuals that can dispatch vehicles, individuals that can operate vehicles.
From the vehicle calculation, you then determine how many people that you need, and you go forward
with that. So relative to where we are, that's how we came up. And there is a stretch relative to what it is
associated with what we have-- what I have presented with the support of staff going forward, because
there's a myriad of different factors that come into play.
As you are aware, we do anticipate doing Phase 2, 3, and 4 of the Downtown Rail Replacement Project.
That's a critical factor. Don't know at this juncture, recognizing that we do have an active solicitation on
the street for a progressive design build contract. That will come into play as we have to make
adjustments. More or less, that probably will take place, I would say, in the summer months into the fall.
So those are the different ancillary impacts as we move forward. But this is all geared toward revenue
service hours and the cost per revenue hour and what has been derived relative to the percentage that
was put forward.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Director Ruscha, one more.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I just wanted to offer just a piece of information. I pulled it. So annual boardings from
October 1, 2023, through September 30, 2024, totaled 67,767,000.
And I would also just add that when we talk about performance metrics, we challenge ourselves. We want
to measure against ourselves. And while Director Paglieri did talk about other peer agencies, the motion
itself is our own performance. And so I just wanted to remind folks that we're talking about our own
performance, and the difference between the baseline is negligible. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Thank you very much. I am voting in support of this amendment, and here's why. First
of all, if you go to the Budget Book, which I always like to read, on page 65 it shows that we've got 10%
that's already been put into this year's budget to increase service.
But here are the reasons why I actually think 5% is a low number. I was one of the folks there saying, let's
go higher. Let's make it a goal. Let's go for 10%. But there was a lot of discussion with folks here, and 5%
seemed to be a number that a lot of people felt comfortable with.

But consider this, OK? You've got the mall shuttle that's going to be coming back into service sometime
later this year. You've got three run Boards that have already been scheduled. The first one actually took
place Sunday, if I recall. So you've got more service that's being planned for this coming year.
The rail slowdown, it's got to end, OK? We cannot keep doing 10 miles an hour. We need to speed up
that project and get that finished and get that back operating the way it should.
And then the last thing that happened this past week was the President of the United States is now
requiring all federal workers to come back and work five days a week at the office. No more working at
home. So that's going to affect how many riders we're going to be having that are going to be requiring
RTD service.
I look at this as this is not just a performance measure for our General Manager. This is a performance
measure for us, for the Board, for senior managers of RTD and for all of the RTD employees that are out
there.
There are 3,600 employees. I believe we should be pulling together as a team. We've all joined RTD
because we believe in transit. We've been watched closely by the governor, state legislature, the press.
They're all watching us tonight to see whether or not we're going to set a little bit higher goal for
ourselves.
I feel that if we could all come together and see this as our goal, and not just something that, you know,
we're going to put on the Chair here of our General Manager, I think we need to come together. And there
are so many things that we can do this year. I mean, we've broached the idea of bringing back Broncos
Ride. Think of what that can do for ridership.
There are so many possibilities that we have this year to increase ridership, and I think we should go for
it. And so I would urge a yes vote on this. I still feel 5% is a modest increase. I would like to go for 10%,
but 5%, I think, is a really good start. So thank you for your-JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Benker. So we're going to take Director Nicholson and Director
Guissinger, and we're going to put this amendment to a vote.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Great. I just have a very quick point to make. So I pulled up the 2025 budget that
this Board last year approved. And in that budget, we had $1,233,611,000 in operating expenses for
2025. For 2024, we had $1,040,849,000 in operating expenses.
Now, I'm not great at math, so I had to use a calculator. But that represents an 18.5% increase in
operating expenses year over year. We're asking for a-- or rather, I'm saying Director Paglieri is asking for
a 5% increase in ridership based on that 18% increase in operating expenses. I am a strong supporter
because that seems quite reasonable to me.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Secretary. And finally, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I don't find 5% to be too high. I think it's not unreasonable.
But I have some other problems with this, and I hear what others are saying. I think, you know, setting
some high goals is something we need to be doing.
But you know, the boardings are a lagging indicator. And the goal that our CEO handed us, gave us,
suggested to us looks at the leading indicator, which is returning revenue service hours.

I haven't looked at it real recently, but I looked at it before. And I think the number she came up with is the
number that was based on what we budgeted in terms of revenue service hours, and we have started
returning those in January. So I think that's an important piece to keep.
And I also agree with the point that Director Buzek made, which is if we pull out all the dates that don't
have maintenance in them, it's not exactly-- we're going to continue to have maintenance issues. As
Debra said, we have more of the downtown loop maintenance to do. We're still working on the
slowdowns.
I don't disagree with what everybody's saying, but I guess I find some problems with what's been given to
us. And I recognize, you know, we changed it last year, so we weren't coming up with goals at the end of
the year, because it was rushing too much. Getting seven new Board members really brought it back to
rushing again. I'm looking forward to the retreat and really some of the ideas that people have brought in
about setting the goals when we budget. But I do have some concerns with the way this has been
brought. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Guissinger. All right. We are now going to take the vote. Again,
I'll read the language for Director Paglieri's amendment. "To achieve total vehicle boardings of 69,562,000
during the period from October 1, 2024, and ending September 30, 2025, where the percentage goal
achievement is calculated from a baseline of 66,307,000 boardings." I will do a roll call vote. Director
Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter?
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick?

IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. And I am a no. But I do see we have eight votes, so this will pass. OK, moving
on. I'm going to try to make this more efficient for us and actually remind everyone the 10 minutes.
So Attachment C of the packet. Director Larsen has moved to adjust the relative weighting of the
assessment elements to the overall performance assessment score. Short-term goals account for 50% of
the annual performance assessment. Agency values, accounts for 10% of the annual performance
assessment, and core/base job accounts for 40% of the annual performance assessment. Director
Larsen, can you confirm the motion?
MATT LARSEN: I confirm.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. And is there a second?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'll second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Nicholson is the second. 30 seconds to a minute, Director Larsen, on anything
you would like to mention?
MATT LARSEN: Yes. I'll just say that with this, I'm trying to move the performance framework more over
to the quantitative, objective measurements. I think we can be confident that increased ridership and
increased reliability and most of these-- the goals, whether all the amendments are approved or not, most
of them are quantitatively based. And I think that seeing that's what we know will benefit the district, the
people who ride, and the taxpayers who pay for this.

The subjective portion, that is based on basically the opinion of the 15 of us here. Some of us, I think,
who've done this before, or last year have, I guess, an idea of what exactly those questions or elements
that will sum up to those measurements will be. I haven't seen exactly what they'll be this year.
So really, it's hard for me to know at this point whether-- or to what degree they will address what I think
are most relevant for the CEO/GM's job performance. So I'm just trying to shift back to the 50% for the
objective measurements that had been in contracts not so long ago, and try to put more emphasis on the
quantitative measurements.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Larsen. So I am going to try to limit, again, to our 10 minutes. I
see Director O'Keefe and then Director Catlin.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm going to speak just on all the amendments-- but I'm going
to try to do it quickly-- on this one. This is the one amendment I'm going to support. I want to explain why.
I don't think we should underestimate how upset our ridership base is, our taxpayers, and our other
stakeholders with how we're performing. RTD wasn't like this before. In FasTracks, there was enthusiasm
around the buildout. And I'm not saying that the pandemic caused it all, but that excuse is in the past.
We need to start shooting for excellence in all of our activities. This is, I believe, a microcosm of a broken
assessment system and a planning system, and we're going to fix that this year. So this is the last year.
And in fact, we're going to fix it at the beginning of the year. So we're talking about new goals in a few
months, not next year.
So I would rather have the debates over the performance of the CEO be in that context. I am not ignoring
the fact that we have some other tools this year while we're working through this process.
As a member of the Finance and Planning Committee, I will be bringing amendments to reset spending to
achieve objectives. I think that is a clear path in my mind. I understand what everyone else is arguing for.
And frankly, on their own, I can't argue against any of them.
But I'm going to take a step back in the process. And we are going to push harder as a group. I think
Karen-- Director Benker-- don't kick me-- had it right. These are our goals, not the CEO's goals. And all of
our employees have to see their participation and their goals against her goals. That's how you get
enterprise change.
And I think this is a important discussion, but it's one that is about a past process. And I hope we can
move forward quickly on the yes vote on this, because I think arguing over waiting right now is an
appropriate thing. Arguing over the fundamental baseline goals, I just don't agree with at this point. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director O'Keefe. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Well said, Director O'Keefe. I wanted to say that most of us were not really happy with
this waiting process last year, and I know that there was some concern that alignment with agency values
wasn't weighted quite high enough. And I would still suggest that it is not.
But I would say that the proposal that Director Larsen articulated-- and by the way, your research was
very, very thorough, and I was very impressed with your arguments in favor of this. So I'm supporting this

amendment just because I think we needed to change the process, and this is a good start. So thank you,
Director Larsen.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Buzek. Let's have you as the-VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I'm just confused because my understanding is the recommended action is to
approve the three SMART term goals. And this is a motion to change the weighting and measurement-achievement of those goals. Is that still-- is that part of the overall general motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you for the question. So I did send out an email to the full Board with all
of the things that need to be adopted. But yes, the short-term goals need to be adopted. The Board needs
to adopt the weighting. The Board needs to adopt the ratings, the point distribution, and the percentage
distribution across the 1% to 7% potential eligible increase.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thank you. That's all I have.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Any further discussion? Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I was wondering if our-- so first, I am inclined to support this
amendment. I wish we could have done it at the end so we could see the whole package. But I think
Director Larsen has made some good points. But I would like to hear from our General Manager and
CEO how she feels about this potential change.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Director Ruscha, for the question.
I'm fine if this is the direction in which-- like I said, we're working collectively and cooperatively and we're
in it together, so I'm not adverse to this. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I would like to remind everybody that in the Board packet, there is an interesting
instruction about what the Board is supposed to do. We are responsible for-- motivating is the first word.
Then assessing and rewarding the agency's General Manager CEO in relation to short-term, annual, and
long-term performance goals.
I cannot support this. The research is there. It's a complete departure from what we have done in the
past. This says points. We're not talking about points. We're talking about weighting, which is a
percentage. It's poorly put together, although I understand that that might just be a technical error. We
need to be careful with how we present things to each other and ensure that we do that right work.
The Board is going to vote how the Board is going to vote. I do believe the emphasis that we put on the
work of the General Manager CEO should align with what the General Manager CEO is here to do, which
is a core-based job function, and to represent this agency through our values.
Short-term goals are not where the emphasis should be put, and I don't believe that that's a fair split
between those two things. Because if we are not getting the work done on the job description for which
we hired, then short goals-- short-term goals do not make a difference.

So weighting those in a manner that put them at equal level with the core job functions that we ask of any
General Manager CEO seems ridiculous to me. I know in private enterprise, capital business, this may be
the way that things are done. We are not that. This is a government agency and an enterprise of the state
of Colorado for which we are overseeing the public transportation network.
And yes, I do not take lightly where voters are at. I'm one of them. I don't take lightly where taxpayers are
at. I am one of them. And I stepped up from my community, as all of you have, to serve.
But if we're not creating a set of goals that is motivating, we're creating a set of goals that is potentially
creating a toxic environment for any employee to want to work here. And I would urge you not to move
this forward.
We can have the discussion later in the year, and we can certainly seek change in this process. But at
this juncture, I don't think that would be wise.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Guzman. All right. I'm going to call for the vote on this
amendment. Just as a reminder, short-term goals account for 50% of the Annual Performance
Assessment, agency values for 10% of the Annual Performance Assessment, and core-based job
accounts for 40% of the Annual Performance Assessment. All right. We are taking the vote on Director
Larsen's first amendment. Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter?
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: No.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Absolutely yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Vice Chair Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And I am a yes. This will pass with 11 votes, and no-- and four no votes and zero
abstentions. OK, moving on. We now move to-- Director Larsen has another short-term goal.
It reads, "Without increasing per rider fares over current levels and excluding fares derived from
paratransit services, increased fare collection from October 1, 2024, to September 30, 2025, by $5 million
over total fares collected in the calendar year 2024 by reducing fare evasion." Director Larsen, can you
confirm this motion?
MATT LARSEN: No, I would like to amend it and remove the last four words, "by reducing fare evasion,"
and strike those out.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. So the last four words will be removed. Can I get a second?
KAREN BENKER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Director-- or Treasurer Benker. Discussion on this item? Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So one, I appreciate striking the last few words of this amendment,
because one, we wouldn't have a way to measure specifically how we were increasing farebox recovery.
And I was a little bit worried that we would be putting pressure on staff in measures that we know in terms
of fare evasion are incredibly expensive and don't add to the bottom line.
But I'm just going to ask the same question I did before, is to our General Manager and CEO, because
this is substantially different. I kind of-- actually, I'm going to stop because I thought we were replacing
Goal number 3 But I'm looking at the screen, and it says add. I guess I need a point of clarification. Are
we replacing Goal number 3 or adding a short-term goal?

MATT LARSEN: I did not include replacing Goal number 3 as part of this amendment.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So this-JULIEN BOUQUET: So this would be a fourth goal.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Fourth goal.
MATT LARSEN: Unless somebody wants to propose striking Goal number 3.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I think the easiest method would be suggesting this be added as a fourth goal. OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I didn't set my motion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, I'm just answering in general because you're the last speaker. Did you have any
further comments?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No, I would just like to hear from our General Manager. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. Sorry, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So yes, Director Ruscha asked to hear from me. So as we look at the amendment as
written, we're talking about increasing fare collection by $5 million. Trying to ensure that I have an
understanding of what we're trying to solve for, recognizing public transportation is heavily subsidized.
And I get that we're stewards of taxpayer dollars, but it's not lost on me as well that most interactions that
occur with our front line operators are caused by a fare dispute.
So I'm just trying to understand as we move forward, because we don't have a closed system, the
expectations that are associated with this as we move forward. Because I unilaterally can't do this quite
naturally as I'm taking this in, trying to garner a better understanding of the expectations relative to what
this is.
I do see supporting information that's outlined, talking about funding and things of the like. But as we
know, our revenue sources, 70% come from sales and use taxes, 20% roughly by federal dollars, federal
formulaic dollars and some grants, and then roughly 5% is farebox recovery.
So I provide that just to garner a better understanding of what we're trying to achieve going forward. And I
don't discount the importance of being a good fiduciary. I want to state that. But I'm trying to understand,
what's the intent with the goal?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Thank you. Yeah, I would like to try to answer some of those questions. I didn't propose
this goal because I wanted to try to increase fares or do away with any of the discounted or free fare
programs that we have. It specifically precludes that. Nor am I sort of imagining that $5 million would
significantly change our revenue picture.

Rather, I think of this goal truly as a-- you know, a security measure. I recognize there's already a
security-related goal proposed. But to me, that goal-- that survey has a lot of questions, and I was hoping
to try to have a more ambitious approach to addressing security.
I mean, basically, my view is that RTD has a major fare evasion problem. Fares just really are not
enforced hardly ever in my experience. I don't see it happen almost ever. And I believe that that's
consistent with a lot of other people's experience.
And that sends the message as soon as somebody gets on the bus or train that the rules don't matter.
That yeah, you're supposed to pay your fare. But wink wink, nudge nudge, you don't actually have to most
of the time. We just don't think it's important enough to enforce enough.
So I want us to try to make a small move in the direction of reducing our tolerance of fare evasion and a
move to try to make this a higher priority and to try to reverse this trend. And part of that-- I mean, I think
there's different ways this goal could be achieved. Certainly increasing ridership ought to increase fare
revenues. And a lot of it could be achieved simply by achieving all or some of the ridership growth goals
that we have.
And you know, some may say, well, this will cost more than it's worth to put-- you know, do more fare
collection. I think it builds on itself. As more people become aware that fares are collected, they will just
pay the fare as a matter of course, just to avoid the hassle.
And you know, also to me, if someday we do want to go to the public and ask public for more tax dollars
to hopefully enhance service, create a better service, I think we ought to be prepared to answer the
question, why aren't we doing more to collect the money that our riders owe us before we go back and
ask for more money?
And you know, I have a bunch of math behind why really even $5 million, if there's any significant
ridership increase, that will cover a lot of that on its own. And it really only amounts to collecting fares
from 1% to 2% more of our boardings each day, and that's why I proposed it.
Yeah, it might be hard to achieve. I don't know if all the resources have been planned at this point. But
once again, I think it is worth shooting-- aiming higher and erring on the side of higher expectations. And I
think at the end of the day, even this is a small risk to take to try to start the process of making it clear to
our riders that you're obligated to follow the rules on RTD.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Larsen. So I have Director Benker, Nicholson, Guissinger, and
Chandler. We have to limit it to a minute. I've got to keep you guys moving. I'm sorry. Director Benker.
KAREN BENKER: I urge a yes vote to this. Right now, our farebox recovery, per the budget, again, on
page 50, shows that farebox recovery is scheduled to be 4%. If you-- and right now, they're assuming
we're going to be collecting $57 million in fares. If you add $5 million to that, we're only going then from
technically 4.2% to 4.6% farebox recovery.
And then just a reminder. You know, back in the olden days, the farebox recovery was required by the
state legislature to be 20% So I think this small amount is a step in the right direction.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Treasurer Benker. Director Buzek.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. I had some questions, but I'll just make some comments. Once again, Director
Larsen, thank you for your comments. It just drives home, even though you withdrew those last four
words, this is all about fare evasion. And it doesn't provide any guidance as to how you make people pay
the fare.
Do you want a bus driver to confront a nonpaying person? Do you want our operators to be assaulted?
That's what happens when they do this. Or do you want to hire hundreds of new people to try to increase
our fare collection by $5 million? Which, again, seems to be a number pulled out of thin air.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Director Buzek. Dire-- or Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. Very quickly, to respond to Director Buzek, it is not, as I understand it, our
job to figure out how to do Director-- or sorry, GM/CEO Johnson's job. It is our job to set metrics and then
say, please find ways to reduce fare evasion. Please find ways to increase, you know, farebox recovery. I
don't want to be doing that job, and I don't think we should.
The second thing I'll point out very quickly is in GM/CEO Johnson's original proposed goals-- I'm looking
at them here-- she suggests nearly two million additional boardings as her original goal for what was
originally for the board-- for the increased boardings goal. I'm doing the math off the top of my head.
That's $5.5 million, assuming every single person of those two million pays their fair.
To Director Larsen's point, assuming everyone in the new goal that we set pays their fare, it's well above
the number that we're targeting here. I think if we can't hit $5 million, considering that the CFO Doug
MacLeod said on the record at the SMART hearings that we'd hit 68 million riders in 2025, that gets us
very, very close. And that was his public projection to the state legislature. I don't think this is an
unreasonable goal. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary Nicholson. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. You know, more than any of these others, I think this one's really ripe
with the possibility of unintended consequences. As Director Benker said, the legislature removed the
farebox recovery requirement, and that was at the recommendation of the Accountability Committee that
had been appointed by the governor and the legislature and met for over a year and came up with a set
of recommendations. One of them was to get rid of the farebox recovery requirement.
We're making good progress on hiring. We've got a great team that Ms. Polege is leading. And you know,
to me, are we going to hire people to provide more service to do the other jobs that Ms. Johnson was
talking about? Are we going to hire people to go on and check for fares?
$5 million. And I know you kind of said this too, Director Larsen, but $5 million is to me-- you know, if
we've got over $1 billion budget, this really isn't worth the focus of our CEO. And you know, fine. Let's
spend some time and talk about it. But there are just too many potential unintended consequences.
One more thing. When Director Lubow was on the Board, she talked about her friend's son, who said that
a lot of the young tech guys made a game out of when we were checking for fares, they'd get on the light
rail. And if they saw someone coming through to check for fares, they'd buy a ticket on the mobile app
real quick. So there's just a lot of pieces to this that I would urge a no vote, and let's look at this later.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Chandler?

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes, I'll be in favor of this. I would like to say if something is free, it's of no
value. And that's what's happening right now. People are not valuing the system. I get a ton of complaints
about the security on RTD. And this is for me, as a security hawk, a first step.
And also, I agree with Director Nicholson. When the McDonald's CEO had the worst outbreak of E. coli
based on onions that was beyond his control, right? He's the CEO of McDonald's. He has no control over
the onion situation. Within a month, he was able to correct that problem. And I bet today, you probably
would go to McDonald's.
We have a problem. We need a CEO who can fix that problem. It is not up to us. It's up to us to set the
direction and the goals. And I believe this is at least a first step. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Chandler. All right. Prior to taking the vote, I just have to
reiterate, we have to be cautious of this idea of unintended consequences, especially when these
amendments could-- just be cautious. That's me as an individual Director with this. Ambitious on the
surface, but ultimately-- ultimately, it's up to us as the Directors to vote.
So let's put the vote to it. All right. So again, the language is without increasing per rider fares over current
levels and excluding fares derived from paratransit services, increased fare collections from October 1,
2024, to September 30, 2025, by $5 million over total fares collected in the calendar year. Treasurer
Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter?
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick?

IAN HARWICK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nichols-- or Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Second Vice Chair. I didn't get-JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, sorry. Second Vice Chair Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: The evening's young. Yeah. I'm a no vote.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm also a no vote. So I am seeing six to nine. This amendment will fail. OK. OK. All
right. Moving on, next amendment attached E-- attachment E of the packet.
Directors Harwick Seconded by Director Ruscha has moved to add the following short-term goal with the
corresponding intro goal weighing. No later than October 31, 2025, present a comprehensive Vision Zero
action item to the RTD Board of Directors and the public commenced in accordance with Resolution
Number 015 Series 2024, 50% of the goal.
Identify at least two comprehensive Vision Zero strategic initiatives that are new or innovative to RTD to
be implemented or launched no later than Quarter 2 of 2026. At least one strategic initiative will aim to
increase ridership through encouraging modal shift-- or model shift by reducing barriers to access 25% of
goal-- to access 25% of goal. Apologies. I've been teaching students since 7:00 AM.
At least one strategic initiative will aim to eliminate traffic fatalities or serious injuries within RTD's
operations and infrastructure, 25% of goal. Besides the part of me rudely interrupting and saying I've
been teaching students since 7:00 AM, as noted, we have Directors Harwick and Ruscha. Can the two of
you confirm the motion and second?
IAN HARWICK: We're going to amend.

JULIEN BOUQUET: You will amend. OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, sorry.
IAN HARWICK: Yeah. What? Am I good?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No, I think it's not amending it because it hasn't been offered, but-- sorry. Go ahead.
IAN HARWICK: OK. I'm going to strike the first paragraph, paragraph 1, which required a Vision Zero
action item, a.k.a. a full plan by October 31 of this year, which is the end of the GM/CEO's performance
period, and substitute with increasing the number of strategic initiatives from two to four, recognizing that
we have other planning initiatives going on right now.
We felt it more prudent to ensure that our final comprehensive Vision Zero action plan be done right
instead of fast. But as evidenced by 18 months of stakeholdering and previous Board discussions on
topic, there's a myriad of options to choose from to advance this goal, of which we have full faith and
confidence in our GM and CEO. And her team will implement Board policy, and we will all collectively find
success at the end of this performance period. Thank you so much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, Director Ruscha, I need some help.
IAN HARWICK: I misspoke.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No, [LAUGHS] it's fine. So the-- actually, I also sent Mr. Kroll the language. But
essentially, what we're doing is striking the first paragraph because we want-- we don't want the agency
to have-- we already have a lot of strategic planning going on, and potentially through legislation, more
coming come April.
So we did not want to rush the final plan, but just recognizing that this was a three-part goal. Then all
we're doing is saying instead of at least two strategic initiatives, we're saying four. So there'd be two
strategic initiatives to increase ridership through encouraging modal shift, by reducing barriers to transit,
and then at least two strategic initiatives that will aim to eliminate traffic fatalities or serious injuries within
RTD's operations infrastructure. And that would now be a 50/50 split on this goal.
I also just wanted to add that we did dialogue with our General Manager before we made some
adjustments to this amendment. And I do not want to speak for her, but we do feel this is appropriate and
fair. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Is there any discussion on this? Yeah. Yeah, GM/CEO Johnson. It would
be an added goal. It'd be an added fourth goal.
JACK KROLL: So is-- let me just ask. Is this how I have it displayed what you are intending on proposing?
So can you confirm that?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: OK. And then I think at this point, it would be appropriate to get a motion and a second,
and then take Director-- or excuse me, GM/CEO Johnson's comments.

JULIEN BOUQUET: So I'll read it out loud and then get a motion second. Identify at least four
comprehensive Vision Zero strategic initiatives that are new or innovative to RTD, be implemented or
launched no later than Q2 of 2026.
At least two strategic initiatives will aim to increase ridership through encouraging a shift by reducing
barriers to access, 50% of goal. At least two strategic initiatives will aim to eliminate traffic fatalities or
serious injuries within RTD's operations and infrastructure, which would be 50% of the goal. Motion and
second, Harwick and Ruscha?
JACK KROLL: And one more point of clarification. This you are proposing to add as an additional goal.
IAN HARWICK: Correct.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. Right there in the objective.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. So this would be a fourth goal. And I'm going to go over to CEO/GM
Johnson.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry, point of order. Did you-JULIEN BOUQUET: This is the fourth goal. The fifth one that was proposed-- or the fourth one did not
pass.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Correct.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So this is the fourth goal that is-JOYANN RUSCHA: I think we're trying to motion-- we're trying to motion and second sir, over here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Well-JACK KROLL: We've got the motion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: --we have the motion and second. Yeah. You have the motion and second.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So I've-- yeah, so the motion and second has been recognized. Now I'll recognize
CEO/GM Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. A point of clarification, because as we talk about the
performance framework and the timeline, it says Quarter 2 of 2026. So we're talking about no later than
June 30 of 2026.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes. So the rationale behind that language was because we
might have a strategic initiative that can't be implemented, but the-- everything else is in place, right? So
for example, when we pass new fares, that was like three or four months before the fares went into effect.
And that was simply to give you and your team, especially if there was a budgetary consideration, some
flexibility on an implementation date to be fair. Thank you.

JULIEN BOUQUET: CEO/GM Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you for the clarification. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you for the
clarification. But I would suggest if we're talking about a SMART goal, it'd be difficult to assess whether or
not [INAUDIBLE] achieved it. So it needs to be a twofer relative to identifying a date certain when I would
identify, at least for comprehensive Vision Zero strategic initiatives.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, I've got Director Buzek-- oh, sorry.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, no, I'm just saying.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Buzek and then Chandler.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I think that makes sense. And I think the way you do that is you keep the first
section no later than October 31, 2025, identify at least two comprehensive Vision Zero goals, yada,
yada, and go on from there, so that it actually is a 2025 goal, not a 2026 goal.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, I would say October 15, recognizing our performance schedule. Because if I
did the 31st, I wouldn't be able to do a self-assessment and we wouldn't be able to complete it prior to the
end of 2025.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Actually, that was my point, is that this particular discussion point is outside the
scope of the performance time frame, so it's unachievable in the metrics that we are asking her to get up.
So I cannot support it with that particular time frame. It needs to be within the scope of what we're trying
to determine within the time frame. Because if it's a percentage of the goal, that doesn't jive with what we
just did.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent.
IAN HARWICK: I think we need to amend the amendment.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So you'd have to amend-JOYANN RUSCHA: [LAUGHS]
JULIEN BOUQUET: --your amendment. Well, you probably-- you would pull your amendment in theory.
Now, you can imagine-JACK KROLL: You could make a motion to amend to add the language-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Right. Just as Director Buzek had identified in his comments.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Director Ruscha.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry. Director Harwick is the one who made the motion. And Director Harwick,
under Robert's Rules, can actually just amend his language without us going through the process of
amending an amendment and voting. That's why I was yielding the floor to my colleague.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick, I'm assuming.
IAN HARWICK: Yes, I will-- I amend this to identify at least four comprehensive Vision Zero strategies
that are new or innovative to RTD to be implemented or launched no later than October 15, 2025. That
wasn't-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may-IAN HARWICK: Identified by-DEBRA JOHNSON: --I would suggest identify at least four comprehensive Vision Zero strategic initiatives
no later than October 15, 2025.
IAN HARWICK: To be identified by no later than October 15.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And then implemented in 2026.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I don't know.
IAN HARWICK: [LAUGHS]
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. All right. Director Harwick, does this-- does this match what we're looking
for, Director Harwick?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think we're potato, "po-tah-to" here.
IAN HARWICK: Got a subcommittee going after. This is probably what we need anyway.
JULIEN BOUQUET: As the discussion goes forward, I do want to remind all of our Directors that GM/CEO
Johnson has already been asked to implement a Vision Zero initiative, and I believe that is already in the
works as is. So I would also be cautious with this goal as well.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm-- point-JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent.
JOYANN RUSCHA: --of order.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha? Yeah?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Did you have-- sorry. Did you have a question before your comment? I'm not sure if
there's a hanging question for the mover or seconder.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No. No, no questions.

JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. So we're good.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. Are there any questions or comments on this one, Director-- Secretary
Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yep. [SIGH] So I'm from Northern California, as all of you know. And in Northern
California, the biggest, most active public transit system is Caltrain. And I'm just going to read something
from a blog about something that happened when I was just out of high school.
One of the mothers in my congregation at the time, Beth Am in Palo Alto where I also went, witnessed
one of the suicides from her car at the Caltrain Station in Palo Alto. She told her rabbi, Rabbi Janet
Marder, who in turn told her congregation.
A teenage girl was crawling on all fours toward the train track pit, then back away from the tracks. Then
back toward the tracks, then away from the tracks. Then back again, back and forth, back and forth. By
the time the woman realized what was happening and started to respond, the girl was gone, and the
massive double decker, fast-moving train had screeched into the station.
Nearly a dozen Palo Alto teens died that way. Finally, the city of Palo Alto put a security guard there. The
guard succeeded in wrestling some 18 more teens off the tracks. Then finally, technology offered a
solution, insurmountably high set fences and surveillance cameras.
This happened only a couple of years after I graduated from high school. I had friends who lost friends
from that. This is a hard problem to solve, but there are things that we can actually do to address it. And
we owe it to the people who have died and the people who will die if we don't do more to deal with it.
Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Any other comments or questions on this amendment, or any further discussion?
Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I would just like to say that I respect CEO Johnson to come up with solutions. I
don't think that that's something that we should prescribe her in doing. And I think this is just so rushed
and over-worded. I will be a no just because of that. I believe she has enough experience and directive.
I think what you're saying is a tragedy, but I also think that there are solutions other than us prescribing
something. And as Director Bouquet, Chairman Bouquet said, these are already things that she must do.
So I'm going to be a no vote, because I do think that the unintended consequences are something that we
don't need to discuss any further.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. If there's no further discussion, then I'm going to call the vote again to identify-well, it's on the screen. I'll save us some time. This is the motion itself-- or excuse me, the amendment
itself. Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin?

PEGGY CATLIN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Or-- yes. OK. Director Gutschenritter?
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Direct-- or Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Vice Chair Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.

JULIEN BOUQUET: And I am a yes. It will pass with 11 aye votes, and four no votes. All right, folks,
we've got two more. So one each from Directors Nicholson and Ruscha. They do conflict. Given the time
we've all had to consider the proposals advanced at today's meeting, I'm hopeful that the Directors might
have potentially found some common ground. We will begin with Director Nicholson's.
And Director Nicholson's reads, "No later than September 30, 2025, to increase light rail service
availability to 96%, 50% of goal. And to increase annualized on-time performance for fixed route bus to
83%, which would be 20% of the goal. For light rail to be 83% and 20% of the goal, and for commuter rail
to be 96%, 10% of the goal." Director Nicholson, can you confirm this motion?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: There's an updated version on the screen in front of you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. We love to see it. So no later than September 30, 2025, to increase light
rail services. Thank you. To increase light rail-- excuse me. I'll read it one more time.
"No later than September 30, 2025, to increase light rail service availability to 96%, 50% of goal. And to
increase annualized on-time performance for fixed route bus to 83%, 15% of goal. For light rail to 83%,
15% of goal. For Access-a-Ride paratransit service by 2%, 15% of goal. And for commuter rail to 96%,
5% of goal." So yes, it looks like the difference is Access-a-Ride has been added. Director Nicholson, can
you confirm now?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I can confirm.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Do we have a second?
KAREN BENKER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And I got Director Benker as the second. Is there any discussion on the
amendment?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'd like to say some things.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Secretary Nicholson, you're recognized.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So this amendment establishes clear goals for on-time performance for
bus, light rail, commuter rail, and paratransit. First, the amendment reflects a minimal increase of 0.08%
for commuter rail, which is running extremely well with current on-time performance, north of 95%. This
goal is 0.7% less than the goal proposed in the original main motion, which was a 1.5% increase in
aggregate.
The amendment sets a benchmark of 83% for buses and light rail. This target is both ambitious and
realistic, aligning with industry standards from agencies like MTA and WMATA in Washington, which set
on-time targets at 80% to 85% range.
For bus, it is in line with our own past bus on-time performance over the past five years. Jack, that's your
cue to pull up the web page we talked about. Waiting for our Executive Manager. I will let him work on it
and keep reading.

Yes, 83% for bus and-- ch, ch, ch, ch. Yeah. Our own past on-time performance, which has hovered
around 83% over the past five years for bus. It is 1.1% higher than the goal offered in the main motion.
Thank you very much.
As you guys can see, we have had fairly reliably 82%, 81%. And then going back even just to 2022, 84%,
83%. So this is not out of the realm of possibility for RTD, even in the very recent past.
The light rail target is both ambitious and significantly short of where we have been in the past.
Traditionally, per our dashboards-- please scroll down to the light rail-- our light rail on-time performance
has been well above 90% consistently and fell dramatically-- it's a little farther down-- fell dramatically
over the past year.
83% is 6% above our annual OTP performance of 77% from last year. And more notably, it is 23% higher
than the 59.85% on-time performance for light rail that we had in November of 2024. And I will say, when
we craft the assessment tool for this goal, we should factor those data into account in how we think about
the baseline. This goal is 4.5% higher than the one in the main motion, which is at 78.5%.
We face significant challenges on our system right now, and we're doing critical work to make up for
years of deferred maintenance. I am excited we will be completing major segments of that light rail
maintenance in the next month, but we also must face the pain that our riders are feeling. We received
multiple emails as public comment tonight, pleading with us to take reliability more seriously. People are
hurt when we are unreliable.
In addition, late buses and trains disproportionately affect low-income riders, shift workers, and transitdependent communities, people who have the fewest alternative and the highest stakes when it comes to
delays. By addressing these disruptions, we're making transit more equitable and accessible for
everyone.
It is essential that we accomplish this goal while also showing respect for our transit workers. I trust
GM/CEO Johnson to accomplish this by ensuring the schedule matches our ability to run service, not by
forcing our transit workers to do the impossible.
This amendment also incorporates Director Ruscha's amendment on paratransit as an equally critical part
of our transit network. Paratransit is RTD for thousands of our riders, and they deserve an equally reliable
transit service.
Riders are desperately frustrated by the failure of buses and trains to come on time. We must act
decisively to respond. I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary Nicholson. Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I'm in support of this. I am very excited that the Access-a-Ride has been added.
I do think that the most vulnerable people are the ones that we should serve the best, and that is those
that are dependent on the mobility that RTD brings them. So I am excited to see that as an increase-- as
a breakout point in this amendment. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Chandler. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. I just, again, struggle with the numbers coming out of thin air. But also, the
Access-a-Ride thing, my understanding is that of all of these different services, that is one through which

we do some scheduling that uses a third-party vendor. We don't have total control over how that
operates. And if we have issues with the third-party vendor that affect the metric, how do we rate her on
that? CEO/GM Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. [CLEARS THROAT] Excuse me. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Thank
you, Director Buzek, for the question. Yeah, I was going to seek some clarification relative to availability,
recognizing that paratransit does not work like fixed route service, recognizing the parameters as
prescribed for complimentary paratransit service and compliance with the ADA of 1990.
Basically, it states relative to on-time performance. But when we talk about availability, we are reliant
upon individuals to deploy vehicles, some of which are done by a contractor, could be done by a thirdparty cab company, and things of the. So can you enlighten me as to what you actually mean by
availability?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Sure. I am actually going to punt this question to Director Ruscha, because I added
that language as an adaptation from the language in the amendment that she had proposed. So I assume
she knows dramatically more than I do about why.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Well, I did play powderpuff football, but I did not know that Director Nicholson was
going to change his proposed language. [LAUGHS] The two amendments were going to be run
separately. [LAUGHS] So I'm processing because I didn't know this language was going to be up here.
I guess-- I don't know if I'm answering the question that you posed, but what I can say is that most transit
agencies, this is standard measure OTP for Access-a-Ride by a pickup time. The other metric, which is
equally important, is drop-off time. And so with this language, we're talking about the pickup time. And we
actually do have really good metrics with our Access-a-Ride pickup time.
We don't have a-- I was not going to run my final amendment after conversation with our General
Manager, just because of some of the things that Director Buzek had raised. So I apologize if I'm talking
in circles. I didn't know the football was getting punted to me.
I would be OK personally if we removed the Access-a-Ride portion of this goal, because I know that our
General Manager and CEO and our team are working on improving metrics and oversight. So I don't
know if that means anything, but I caught the football. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I would like to substitute constitute the original amendment text, which you read
when you first proposed the goal, to be the new-- yes. I would like to substitute the original amendment
text to be the motion. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: That's getting updated.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I can tell you what it is if that's helpful. Just cut out the-- for Access-a-Ride
paratransit by 2% and 15% of goal, and then change the percentages to-- gosh, let me see how I did that.
It was 20%, 20%, and 10%.

JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I'm OK with that because I understand the nuances, but I do think that we really
need to obviously take into account what is happening with Access-a-Ride. That is one of the biggest
complaints that I receive. And it's not only Access-a-Ride, but it's all of the mobility for those that are in
need of those services. So I'm OK with it, but I would ask that we would address this continuation in other
committees and in other ways so that that doesn't get left behind.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. And we have the OSS Chair for it. So excellent. Any further discussion on
this item? OK. Seeing none, I will call the vote for the amendment that is on the screen.
"No later than September 30, 2025, to increase light rail service availability to 96%, 50% of goal, and to
increase annualized on-time performance for fixed route bus to 83%, 20% of goal. For light rail to 83%,
20% of goal. And for commuter rail to 96%, 10% of goal." OK, I will do the roll call. Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Nope.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I heard no. Director Gutschenritter?
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?

MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Direct-- or Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Vice Chair Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm also a no, but the amendment will pass nine to six. All right. So Director Ruscha,
we have your amendment as next. You will not be running it, from my understanding.
JOYANN RUSCHA: That is correct, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. All right. Well, we'll keep moving on then. So that was all the amendments
that were proposed. First off, I just want to say thank you all. Thank you for those who are sticking
around. This is the process. And if anyone is curious how policy is made, this is the demonstration right
here. The sausage making in full display.
OK. So we're going to move forward. So if I recall-- and feel free, Directors, to step in-- we did have it
where of the five amendments that were proposed, we did have four of the five pass. I do want to
reiterate what those ones were. Sorry about that. Let me get my-Larsen 1, yes. Larsen 2, no.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Just clarifying. Sorry. So I had Director Paglieri's replacement of Goal number 2. I
had Director Larsen's adjustment pass, Director Larsen's adjustment of the assessment elements pass.
Director Larsen's additional goal for fare collection did not pass. Director Harwick and Ruscha's goal for
Vision Zero did pass. And then Director's amendment for Goal number 1 did pass with the final-- Director
Ruscha's amendment being pulled.
All right. So I think we're going to move forward. Mr. Kroll, remind me. Procedurally, do I need to read off
the exact language of where the goals are at?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, if you give me one more minute here, I should be able to have everything as it was
discussed. But I want to make sure that we're all on the same page here. And we'll remember. I'm just--

JULIEN BOUQUET: No, you're good. Buzek is-- Buzek and Guzman.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah, so it's a main motion as amended by the approval-JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
MATT LARSEN: [INAUDIBLE] and Guzman.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Can I speak on the main-- sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure, Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Just very briefly, I want to recognize Director Guzman for the Herculean amount of
work that he put in on this process. It has not been easy. And the needs of some of the new Directors has
made it that much harder.
And I really appreciate both him and GM/CEO Johnson and General Counsel Snyder for putting up with
us through this process and being willing to listen to all of the feedback as we figured out for the first time
how we fit into this process. So thank you to all three of you. Obviously, let's never do it this way again,
but I appreciate you, you know, being a part of it the way that you were and getting us to this point.
Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you for the comments, Secretary Nicholson. Director Kroll, just let me
know. Or Mr. Kroll Sorry.
JACK KROLL: OK. Let's double check this so that we're all on the same page. We've got short-term Goal
number 1 as amended by Director Nicholson. Is that correct, Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JACK KROLL: Then we have short-term Goal number 2 as amended by Director Paglieri? Is that correct,
Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: It is correct.
JACK KROLL: Then we have short-term Goal number 3, which was not amended, and carries over from
what was proposed by GM and CEO Johnson. I believe that matches what is in the packet, and I'm fairly
confident in that. If not, the intent is to have it match what's in the packet so everyone is on the same
page. Then we have a short-term Goal number 4, which was added by Directors Ruscha and Harwick.
Does that match what your intention is?
IAN HARWICK: Yeah.
JACK KROLL: And then we have the assessment elements, the weighting of which is adjusted. And you
can see in red on the far right there what was proposed by Director Larsen. Does that match?
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JACK KROLL: And then in addition, you have two other elements that are in your Board packet, which I
have not ported over, which are the points range distribution for the does not meets, meets, and exceeds

expectations ratings, as well as the corresponding merit increases. As General Counsel Snyder
expressed earlier, those are items that are also being approved as part of this action. There were no
proposed changes to those, so I have not included them here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Yes, Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'm going to do something that I-- just because it got brought up, and I want to
make sure since nobody talked about the benefits of Goal 3, and there was some question back and
forth, I'm just going to make a motion to strike Goal 3 because there's been some questions about
whether or not it's a good security goal.
I don't know if I-- I personally don't think it's a very good security goal. We've got a couple extra goals
now. I figure it was worth having a conversation about whether or not it's worth having in there. And I just
figured I'd open it up to other people and, you know-VINCE BUZEK: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. I'm going to take the roll call then to strike Goal number 3. Oh, sorry.
JACK KROLL: Maybe just ensure there's some discussion first.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, yes. Yes, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I would just like to hear from our General Manager her opinion, please. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure. CEO/GM Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Mr. Chair. For those that may not be aware, I added that
goal in because of conversations that ensued, so I'm amenable to whatever this body likes to do.
Because as I said early on, it's not going to stop me from ensuring that we're working collaboratively to
create a welcoming transit environment, especially for those that are on the front lines, because there are
other activities associated with that. And we'll still see the survey data, and we'll still work towards it. So I'll
yield the floor to you, Mr. Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. I'm actually going to take my Chair privilege. This is personal security.
This is what we heard, and addressing it. And this has already been planned for. These are the
conversations that I heard from the Director Elects at the time. These are the conversations I've had
heard from constituency.
Goal number 3 is acknowledging that we care about personal security, and that it is put in our CEO/GM's
short-term goals moving forward. We worked hard for it when it comes down to adding it. I would be very
disappointed, especially as someone who is hearing from a lot of constituents in regards to personal
security.
I feel striking this out will honestly not be acknowledging the need and want that we want-- that even if it's
symbolic to our community, hearing that we are trying to make it more safe and more secure at our stops
and stations. I am strongly against striking this out. Vice Chair Whitmore.

TROY L. WHITMORE: So not more than about 10 days ago, we had a presentation at the SMART Act
hearings with the Joint Transportation Committees at the state legislature. We had two topics that our
staff did a wonderful job covering, beyond answering some pertinent questions.
One was our general financial health. And CFO MacLeod did a wonderful job on that. The other thing that
was on the agenda, and another wonderful presentation, was our customer survey programs and what
we've done to improve them and make them more thorough and more usable. And a great presentation
for Mr. McKay, who's sitting still in the back of the room.
And I just think it would be unwise to cut this now after we have really kind of ramped the program up, in
my opinion, in a usable manner, and will continue to strive to do so. That being said, I'm sure CEO
Johnson and Mr. McKay will continue one way or the other, but let's leave it alone tonight.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Any other further discussion? OK. So call the question in regards to this.
SPEAKER 2: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
JACK KROLL: That would require a 2/3 vote by the Board [INAUDIBLE].
SPEAKER 3: Call the vote.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We're calling the question on the original motion.
SPEAKER 4: Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
JACK KROLL: No, you're calling the question on the motion to amend at this point.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Point of order. Can I just withdraw my motion?
SPEAKER 5: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK, I withdraw.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Motion has been withdrawn. OK, excellent. I appreciate the conversation, though.
OK. So we have had a call to question with Buzek as the movement, Director Guzman as the second,
and it is the motion amended.
JACK KROLL: So if I may-JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. Yeah.
JACK KROLL: So at this point, the call to question, I believe, was made on a motion that has since been
withdrawn. So now you're back to a vote on the main motion as amended. And unless there's any further
discussion, you can proceed to a vote.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. As said, are we good? Are there any no-- are there any no-- any other
comments? Yes, Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Directors, you have done a fine job getting this to this point. I'm going to remind you,
you now have a responsibility to follow through the rest of the year and get the rest of this work done
through the Performance Committee. This was not fun, and we should never repeat this process again.
But now you do need to take in thorough consideration good notes, track work, and pay attention,
because come October, we're not doing this again. You need to be ready to give me your results as
Performance Chair, and I'm going to be out to make sure that you are on track with this every time.
There's my warning. That's how this is going to be done, because you multiplied the work, so you're going
to be held accountable for it too. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. So again, are there any no votes?
VINCE BUZEK: No vote here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. I will do a roll call vote then. Again, we're doing the roll call vote for-- I want to
clarify-- on the original motion amended, originally moved by Director Buzek and Director Guzman. All
right, so I'll do a roll call vote. Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter?
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Director Bouquet-- that is me-- I will be a yes. So it passes 14 to one. So I-again, as Director Guzman pointed out, I want to ensure this-- and as also Director O'Keefe pointed out-I'll make this quick-- we're going to do everything possible, because these are our goals, and we're going
to make sure that we're supporting our CEO and GM.
This has been an active discussion. It's been a difficult discussion. It's been a long discussion. Now folks
are aware of how policy is made. So this is the learning lesson to us all. Report of Director activities?
Seeing none. Other matters? Seeing none, motion to adjourn.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So moved!
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha, have a great night.

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Jaime Lewis
Jack Kroll
Fwd: Thoughts about RTD and On Demand
Monday, January 13, 2025 10:38:42 AM

WARNING: This email originated from outside of the RTD organization. The sender could not be validated and may
not match the person in the "From" field. Use caution with any information or links contained in this email.

Brenda would like her email read into the record for the Operations Meeting scheduled for
January 14th.
Jaime
---------- Forwarded message --------From: Brenda Mosby <blm@mosbyservices.com>
Date: Fri, Jan 10, 2025 at 11:52 AM
Subject: Thoughts about RTD and On Demand
To: Hillary Jorgensen <hjorgensen@ccdconline.org>, Jaime Lewis <jlewis@ccdconline.org>

Hello,
I was pretty disappointed with the meeting on Thursday with RTD. I have some thoughts,
just do not know how to get them to RTD or better yet to the news.
RTD is basing their decision ( final or not) on the numbers and cost. So lets talk numbers and
cost.

I want to request from RTD the figures on the following:
We know it is costing 1. 2 millions for 60 rides so what is the cost on?
45 rides per month
40 rides per month
30 rides per month

How much will they be receiving adding the 4.50 per ride?

It was stated at the meeting if individuals could get even 40 rides they could still retain their
employment. Which means keeping the difference of 10 rides per month can keep a person
with a disability working.

I want in writing why and how they came up with a $30 voucher increasing from $25.
It was said in the meeting the average rides are under $20. Why would they increase this
figure if they are trying to save money?

It was also mentioned they will be restricting the rides to only where buses run.
First, why and how did they come up with this decision and how does it save them money?
Also, how can they enforce this, put trackers on Lift, Uber and Metro Cabs?

Another issue I feel is RTD is cutting off their nose to spite their face. I say this because of
two things:
They want to implement the $4.50 per ride. Taking away employment because of the
reductions in rides to 30 will mean some people will not be able to afford the rides. Notably,
no one from the community thought the $4.50 was unfair and are willing to pay it.

Also, RTD does not seem to understand when they ask for funding from the state they are
asking for money from taxes. When we work we pay taxes like everyone else which means we
contribute to their ability to keep operating.

I am also writing this because the issues the community was sharing with
them such as independence, able to work, reducing isolation seemed to fall on
deaf ears. Of course, to be fair they were probably not the decision makers.
RTD has heard these reasons since this issue has started. Which is why
focusing on the numbers might have a bigger and better impact on the final
decission to be made.
If these figures are somewhere I would like to know and review them.
I went online to RTD and the community link. I did not see anything
regarding this issue.
I would love to have a response from both of you. Maybe there is something
happening I do not know about.
Sincerely, with gratitude,
Brenda Mosby

Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor, MA& Certified Heal Your Life Coach
Mosbyservices.com
303.319.6955

The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity to which it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or
privileged material. Any review, re-transmission, dissemination or other use of, or taking of any action in reliance upon, this information by
persons or entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you received this in error, please contact the sender and delete the
material from any computer.

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Dafna Michaelson Jenet
RTD Board Office
Support for ATU in Negotiations
Friday, January 24, 2025 1:36:21 PM

Hello RTD Board,
I am writing to show support for the ATU in their negotiations and hope that a liveable wage
will be agreed to in your negotiations soon.
With much appreciation,
Dafna
Senator Dafna Michaelson Jenet

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Dan Fobes
RTD Board Office
27 year resident thinks travel by RTD in Denver & Colorado is pathetic and abusive!
Friday, January 24, 2025 8:24:18 AM

What the hell is wrong with you out of touch directors executives and board members?
You all should be fired immediately!
Absolute unacceptable performance over the last 13 months much less the entire time RTD has existed.
2.5 hours early for an oncology appointment and still almost arrived late going from Lincoln & I25 to Colfax and
ultimately UCHealth June 2024.
Unacceptable waste of funds on a track that is unsafe and therefore mandating what should normally be
unacceptable slow downs.
Ticketing stations that do not work with 3 different debit cards for payment on a below freezing day at
88th/Thornton on 1-23-2025.
Rude and utterly mean alleged customer service phone support (Kay) that offers zero resolutions and just nasty
attitudes due to poor training and the lack of conflict resolution training nor any actual remedies on 1-23-2025.
Simply told to download an app to allegedly cure RTD's problem as I already missed one train due to YOUR system
not working and now I have to fix YOUR problems by agreeing to you stupid app terms and wasting my time and
resources on your problem-absolutely NOT! Got to ride for free because even your ticket inspectors are just as lazy
as your executives go figure.
RTD has the worst signage ever to where I have personally witnessed every time I use the system where people like
myself become so lost due to this absolute horrible lack of signage and communication around the pick up and drop
off areas. This is particularly true with Union Station in Downtown Denver where some stations are a half mile
away and some posts have big round letters on them while other posts for the train lines have no letters.
Even the three DPD cops sitting in the Tahoe on the sidewalk behind Union Station that do not have any manners or
polite bones in there body and refuse to help with directions, hold a door, and are simply pathetic ambassadors to
RTD Denver and Colorado as a whole. As depicted by 1 person stabbing and slashing people on a 2 day spree last
week while they did nothing. I felt zero safety or protection with those 3 all sitting in their car the entire time I
waited at Union Station to find my connection and then wait on it.
You all at RTD are simply not the ambassadors that Denver or Colorado needs either. Put up fencing or paint over
the graffiti especially coming from the airport. How lazy and pathetic to let people see the underbelly within a few
short minutes after flying in from all over the world only to be greeted by these poor images along with the Denver
prison. Simply do better.
On time is as inconsistent as Southwest Airlines and perhaps the same antiquated computer system is shared.
I watched the sign today say train arriving at 1:39 then change to 1:40 which my phone confirmed it was but then
the sign just said 6 min out within a few short seconds after that. Make up your mind, pick one and simply be
accurate as people are literally freezing while waiting. With cancer it is extra painful as with many other disabilities
and ailments numerous people have that rely on this broken system.
No weather barriers at any of the stops other than union station where a select few might be able to watch from
inside.
Financial debacle and a perpetual waste of money time and resources on outside alleged and failed experts and
executives that all need to go! Try starting with fresh new hires or those from within that have a much clearer

picture of the actual problems and experiences people are living through with the entire RTD system ever day that
none of you currently are focused on solving. I doubt 1-19-2025 with fix any problems including being on time
unless you just start running once an hour and that wont help the people much but hell yall dont care about them.
Executive staff and board members should be mandated to ride the RTD rail lines and buses (not including the free
mall ride) once a week for a minimum of 3 hours total to and from multiple destinations while also documenting the
positive and negatives that they each experienced. Maybe then the current team could stay in place however
anything less than that should be grounds for immediate and/or future termination if not adhered to on a weekly
basis. Like anything 3 strikes and you're out.
I will say for your new security team it is really a hit or miss but at least the last two trips through the airport I didnt
see the militia guard that was hiding his face and name tag while lingering around before getting on the train and
then immediately checking tickets.
Even with the cold on 1-22 & 1-23-2025 I could see each security persons face and most were kind and friendly.
One specific security/ticket person showed her connection to other riders and their life events and that is just a
special kind of extra that you cannot teach and yet she just has that way about her. This is one of the security team
members from the Thornton area and I now feel bad for not getting her name however the conversation did lead to
her having a sister in Houston TX. This conversation had intermittent breaks as this woman also walked up and
down the rail as well as in and out of the conductors space to obtain a bag and chat with him too. This is the kind of
person all of the security team should be more like. This woman was effective as a symbol of security and yet still
human and kind. I would even go as far to say if I saw someone give her a hard time I would personally assist if she
needed it where as many other security members especially mr. militia hiding behind his mask and constantly
turning over his ID badge so no one could read it as a reason why I would not give one ounce of crap if some
verbally or physically harassed him as his demeanor almost invited it and is the total opposite from what I
experienced on 1-23-2025.
Even after living in Colorado since 1995 I even get lost on the darn light rail repeatedly even knowing the map and
which stops I need due to the poor signage at the stops. Aside from the free shuttle I do not use the buses as the
route lines and times never have been in an accord with my schedule or needs. Even though the light rail services a
need I have from time to time it is never reliable not enjoyable and I abhor the RTD management for their role in the
abuse of its privileges funding and publics trust.
Again you all can do better but choose not to.

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Jaime Lewis
Jack Kroll
Fwd: Thoughts about RTD and On Demand
Monday, January 13, 2025 10:38:42 AM

WARNING: This email originated from outside of the RTD organization. The sender could not be validated and may
not match the person in the "From" field. Use caution with any information or links contained in this email.

Brenda would like her email read into the record for the Operations Meeting scheduled for
January 14th.
Jaime
---------- Forwarded message --------From: Brenda Mosby <blm@mosbyservices.com>
Date: Fri, Jan 10, 2025 at 11:52 AM
Subject: Thoughts about RTD and On Demand
To: Hillary Jorgensen <hjorgensen@ccdconline.org>, Jaime Lewis <jlewis@ccdconline.org>

Hello,
I was pretty disappointed with the meeting on Thursday with RTD. I have some thoughts,
just do not know how to get them to RTD or better yet to the news.
RTD is basing their decision ( final or not) on the numbers and cost. So lets talk numbers and
cost.

I want to request from RTD the figures on the following:
We know it is costing 1. 2 millions for 60 rides so what is the cost on?
45 rides per month
40 rides per month
30 rides per month

How much will they be receiving adding the 4.50 per ride?

It was stated at the meeting if individuals could get even 40 rides they could still retain their
employment. Which means keeping the difference of 10 rides per month can keep a person
with a disability working.

I want in writing why and how they came up with a $30 voucher increasing from $25.
It was said in the meeting the average rides are under $20. Why would they increase this
figure if they are trying to save money?

It was also mentioned they will be restricting the rides to only where buses run.
First, why and how did they come up with this decision and how does it save them money?
Also, how can they enforce this, put trackers on Lift, Uber and Metro Cabs?

Another issue I feel is RTD is cutting off their nose to spite their face. I say this because of
two things:
They want to implement the $4.50 per ride. Taking away employment because of the
reductions in rides to 30 will mean some people will not be able to afford the rides. Notably,
no one from the community thought the $4.50 was unfair and are willing to pay it.

Also, RTD does not seem to understand when they ask for funding from the state they are
asking for money from taxes. When we work we pay taxes like everyone else which means we
contribute to their ability to keep operating.

I am also writing this because the issues the community was sharing with
them such as independence, able to work, reducing isolation seemed to fall on
deaf ears. Of course, to be fair they were probably not the decision makers.
RTD has heard these reasons since this issue has started. Which is why
focusing on the numbers might have a bigger and better impact on the final
decission to be made.
If these figures are somewhere I would like to know and review them.
I went online to RTD and the community link. I did not see anything
regarding this issue.
I would love to have a response from both of you. Maybe there is something
happening I do not know about.
Sincerely, with gratitude,
Brenda Mosby

Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor, MA& Certified Heal Your Life Coach
Mosbyservices.com
303.319.6955

The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity to which it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or
privileged material. Any review, re-transmission, dissemination or other use of, or taking of any action in reliance upon, this information by
persons or entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you received this in error, please contact the sender and delete the
material from any computer.

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Dustin D. Berger
RTD Board Office
Public comments
Tuesday, January 28, 2025 12:02:53 PM

Hello,
I read CPR news' article this morning explaining the performance goal-setting process
for RTD's CEO and wanted to reach out. I used to be a daily transit rider before the
pandemic, but it seems the RTD system has imploded since then with service
reliability being well below any acceptable threshold. Like so many others, I feel
forced to drive to work because RTD's speed and reliability have been so consistently
poor.
So, when I read that the goal setting for the CEO included only a "1.5 percent
increase in on-time performance for bus and rail," I was shocked. The system needs
a much more significant increase in on-time performance to really be a workable
transit service (as opposed to what I believe it largely is now: a last-resort alternative
for those without other options). Although I realize that dramatic change overnight
isn't a practical expectation, I believe the RTD board needs to set higher expectations
from the CEO. I was, honestly, angry that the previous board renewed her contact
after her shocking public indifference to RTD's poor service quality in the last year or
two, but at least this goal-setting opportunity allows the Board to more strongly
communicate to the CEO the large gap between the status quo and acceptable
performance.
I hope the members of the board will align around higher expectations!
Very best regards,
Dustin
-Dustin D. Berger, J.D., LL.M., M.B.A.
tel: 720.261.0142
e-mail: dustin.d.berger@gmail.com
--

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the RTD Board Meeting, January 28th, 2025
January 28th, 2025
Julian Bouquet, RTD Board Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Chair Bouquet,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) would like to respectfully submit public comment on the following topics:
Northwest Rail Joint Service Overview
GDT has reviewed with interest the presentation relating to joint service on the Northwest Rail corridor. We are
generally supportive of many of the key ideas in the presentation such as (a) having one operator, (b) one track
access agreement with BNSF and (c) using the existing RTD commuter rail infrastructure between Denver
Union Station and Westminster.
That said, we passionately support a vision for the corridor that includes BOTH the intercity style express
service patterns that will serve fewer stations than those originally contemplated in RTDs Northwest Rail
Extension, but also view local rail service patterns as vital to be provided to fulfill promises to voters. Thus,
we have concerns about the implied removal of two stations on the route in Westminster and Broomfield. The
10 originally identified stations in the Northwest Peak Service study all represent excellent opportunities to
provide ridership, serve communities and encourage sustainable transit-oriented development. It would
therefore be a big loss for the corridor to lose two of these sites because of a misapprehension that every train
needs to be a fast service between Fort Collins and Denver.
It is possible to schedule local and express serviceson the corridor with not every trip needing to goall the
way to Fort Collins and not every station needing to be called at by every train. Such a mixed service is
currently operated by Caltrain where there are limited stop express services that provide an attractive
end-to-end journey time between San Francisco and San Jose and also local trains, operated with the same
equipment, which call at every station allowing the majority of communities along the route to receive service
and therefore contribute to ridership.
Therefore GDT would like to respectfully remind Directors to question any proposal that claims we can only
have a one size fits all passenger service on the Northwest Rail corridor.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

GM & CEO Performance Goal Amendments
Weighting Amendment - Submitted by Director Larsen
GDT is in support of this amendment, which increases the weighting of the short term goals to 50 points. While
all sections of the GM & CEO performance assessment are important, the vast majority of praise and criticism
the agency will receive from the Board and the public will be about ridership and service delivery. Therefore the
weighting of goals should reflect the priority and urgency that is placed in these metrics. Because of this, GDT
urges all Directors to vote yes on it.
Goal 1 Amendment - Submitted by Director Nicholson
GDT is in support of this amendment which provides hard number percentage figures for commuter rail, light
rail and bus reliability and on-time performance. GDT believes the proposed percentage figures are both
reasonable and achievable and urges all Directors to vote yes on it.
Goal 1 Amendment - Submitted by Director Ruscha
GDT agrees with the aims of this amendment, however we believe the commuter rail, light rail and bus on-time
performance targets would be better served by the amendment proposed by Director Nicholson immediately
above which contains hard number percentage figures. That said, we also support setting a goal for
Access-a-Ride on-time performance and urge the Chair to apply Roberts Rules of Order so that the best
features of both amendments are ultimately adopted.
Goal 2 Amendment - Submitted by Director Paglieri
GDT is in support of this amendment which provides a hard number target of 69,562,000 for annual ridership
of the entire RTD system. GDT concurs with the detailed rationale provided in support of the amendment and
urges all Directors to vote yes on it.
Additional Goal Amendment - Submitted by Director Larsen
GDT is in support of this amendment which creates a target for increasing fare collection through additional
and better-directed fare checks. GDT members frequently observe situations on the system where fare checks
are done in a less-than-thorough manner that allows continued widespread opportunities to evade paying fares
and notes the continuing failure to equip conductors and security staff with mobile fare media issuing devices
which would allow honest mistake violations to be cured on the spot. GDT therefore urges Directors to vote
yes on it.
Additional Goal Amendment - Submitted by Directors Ruscha and Harwick
GDT is in support of this amendment which requires a robust Vision Zero plan to be produced. GDT has been
a staunch supporter of implementing Vision Zero principles at RTD and urges all Directors to vote yes on it.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page2

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Goal 3 - Customer Survey Responses
GDT sees little value in this goal and is doubtful that it will spur decisive action to improve safety and security
for riders as it sets a loose and easy to manipulate target of collecting customer feedback to assess if RTD
provides a welcoming transit environment. Therefore GDT urges the Directors to make a motion to strike this
goal from the performance assessment process entirely.
Thanks for all you do,

James Flattum

Richard Bamber

June Churchill

Emma Griffin

Joe Meyer

Keith Brooks

CC:

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page3

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Joel Cox
RTD Board Office
Re: Questions Regarding Upcoming Meetings
Thursday, January 23, 2025 10:20:38 AM

Following up here. I would like to attend the Executive Committee Board Meeting at noon
today. I asked for a link three days ago but have still not received one. Please provide ASAP.
Thanks,
Joel
On Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 10:14 AM Joel Cox <joelrobertcox@gmail.com> wrote:
Greetings,
I hope this finds you well. My name is Joel Cox and I have a few inquiries regarding
upcoming meetings I'd like to attend.
Is the January 23rd meeting at noon or at 11:15am? I'm seeing it advertised differently
in two spots on your site (here and here)
Is the meeting strictly virtual? If so, can you please provide details on how I can join
virtually?
Can you also provide meeting links for the 1/21 Performance Committee Meeting, as
well as the 1/28 Special Board Meeting?
Will I have an opportunity to ask questions or engage with the board in any way?
Lastly, are you aware of any Directors who have office hours or other opportunities to
connect directly?
Thanks in advance for your consideration.
Best,
Joel
-Joel Robert Cox
901.652.3399
www.linkedin.com/in/joelrobertcox/

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Josiah Shafroth
RTD Board Office
Why do we vote to fund you?
Wednesday, January 22, 2025 8:09:00 AM

I think this is an innocent question. After all, I am writing this during my commute to work on
a light rail that should take 20 minutes but now has been delayed over an hour. I'm not sure
how you expect us to pay exorbitant fares for transportation that is less convenient and less
regular than intestinal disease. We all pay for and rely on this service, but I get the impression
that this matters very little to you. How many of you actually use public transportation in
Denver? Delays happen in any city, but without any explanations, without any mobilization to
offer alternative service, I feel we would likely be better served by organizations actively
trying to make public transit worse. I have the upmost respect for all drivers, operators, and
maintenance staff at rtd, but whatever is happening at the top needs to change.

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Attachments:

Laatsch, Julian D
RTD Board Office
Re: [EXTERNAL] RE: September Performance Committee Board Meeting
Friday, January 24, 2025 10:16:43 AM
image003.png

Hello,
After another four months of speed restrictions since my last email, I wanted to provide a view into
what its like spending a few weeks as a passenger on RTD.
Just to recap, I have been a regular RTD rider since 2017 with the exception of lapses when the
coping projects rendered the E line virtually unusable. I now live close to the 9th and Bannock bus
stop and attempt to take the 52 to the Alameda Station before getting on the E line southbound to
Arapahoe at Village Center. I return via the same route, sometimes getting off at I-25 and Broadway
to catch the 0 northbound to 9th and Lincoln.
The following is a summary of my experience over the past several weeks  note that dates without
entries are due to me driving to work, not due to everything working as expected on the busses and
trains.
1/8
I sat on E line for 50 minutes at Arapahoe at Village Center Station only to be told that the
operator had been exposed to narcotics and that we all needed to get off.
1/9
Next Ride for the 52 bus to Alameda Station is wildly off. Initial arrival estimate was 13 minutes
before the bus actually came, which is when it was scheduled to arrive.
1/15
52 bus twelve minutes late to 9th and Bannock (8:07 rather than scheduled 7:55). This results in
me missing the 8:09 southbound E line from Alameda Station and having to wait in the cold
another thirty minutes for the next train.
1/17
Exact same issue as 1/15. 6 minutes late to 9th and Bannock, missed the 8:09 E line at
Alameda Station.
1/22
52 bus eight minutes late to 9th and Bannock (7:56 rather than scheduled 7:48).
The southbound E line then says its arriving at the alameda station at 8:09 via next ride, but the D
line actually shows up? Then the next E line says 9 minutes? Then, the D line comes AGAIN
before the E line shows up.
Two car train shows up as the E line with everyone standing, which I assume was supposed to be
a D line train.

1/23
No eastbound 52 bus on next ride. Clicking the full route revealed one east bound bus, but it was
all the way out in Arvada (this was right before the 8:19 scheduled arrival at 9th and Bannock). I
went back upstairs, got in my car, pulled out of the garage to see the 52 right in front of me,
arriving at the stop ten minutes late and without displaying in next ride at all.
1/24
The E line was stopped on the bridge between Broadway station and Louisiana Pearl station for
~10 minutes. The train then sat at every other station for several minutes before departing.
We were then kicked off at the Southmoor station and told the conductor was off in five minutes
so the train was no longer in service. We waited there from 9:12 to 9:21 until another train came
(note that the 9:21 train did not show up on the app, so we thought we were going to have to wait
24 minutes).
Train was scheduled to arrive at Arapahoe at Village Center Station at 8:34, I got there at 9:30.
Several train riders remarked that they were going to be late for meetings at work, one mentioned
that hed started his commute with RTD from Boulder before 7 a.m. this morning.
Every day
Fares checked zero times on light rail. Since COVID, I could count on one hand the number of
times Ive had my fare checked on the E line. Before COVID, it was rare to ride one leg without
having my fare checked.
Nearly 8 months
Speed restrictions severely delay trains
Im fortunate enough to have a backup option in my personal vehicle; it is truly amazing that anyone
is able to hold down a job while relying on this system. I look forward to hearing about the extent to
which you all are aware of these issues and what you plan on doing to address them. I would be
happy to attend a forthcoming meeting to discuss these issues in further detail if that would be
helpful.
Thank you,
Julian Laatsch

From: RTD Board Office <RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com>
Date: Friday, September 20, 2024 at 1:46 PM
To: "Laatsch, Julian D" <julian.laatsch@charter.com>
Subject: RE: [EXTERNAL] RE: September Performance Committee Board Meeting
CAUTION: The e-mail below is from an external source. Please exercise caution before
opening attachments, clicking links, or following guidance.
Hi Julian!

Unfortunately, at this time, there isnt an estimated completion date available.
The resumption of normal train speeds is dependent on how quickly repairs are made to the isolated
sections of track. However, the length of the slower zones is continually shortened as preventative
maintenance repairs are completed.
There is another webpage, Light Rail Maintenance and Repairs, that provides regular
updates/information on stations, track maintenance status, and if speed restrictions have been
lifted.
If you havent done so already, I would recommend signing up for service alerts that provide realtime information on delays, detours, disruptions, cancellations, and also, the resumption of service:
https://www.rtd-denver.com/service-alerts.
Thank you,
Tai-Shrae
Tai-Shrae Parish
Board Operations Manager
Board Office
she | her | hers
o. 303.299.2303
f. 303.299.2312

tai-shrae.parish@rtd-denver.com
rtd-denver.com

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, BLK-36
Denver, CO 80202

We make lives better through connections.

From: Laatsch, Julian D <julian.laatsch@charter.com>
Sent: Monday, September 16, 2024 9:34 AM
To: RTD Board Office <RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com>
Subject: Re: [EXTERNAL] RE: September Performance Committee Board Meeting
Tai-Shrae,
Thanks so much for the information and invite!
The meeting was informative even though the speed restriction topic wasnt explicitly covered. I also
heard the recommendation at the beginning of the call for who to reach out to via email with my
question  I think it was this DL?
The page you linked and the associated timeline page have a lot of useful information and graphics

on them, but a key missing component is an actual estimated timeline. I believe the table used to
have dates in it, but now theyve been removed and only statuses are reflected.
Im wondering when we can expect all speed restrictions along the E line route to be removed. For
context, Ive been riding the train from 10th and Osage down to my office at the Arapahoe station
since 2016. Im also in a hiring position and the light rail used to be a helpful recruiting tactic for
candidates who lived downtown, but I havent been able to reliably highlight it during the interview
process for years now (given discontinuation of the F line, a couple years of coping projects, reduced
frequencies, speed restrictions, etc.).
Any estimated completion timelines would be greatly appreciated.
Thanks again!
Julian

From: RTD Board Office <RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com>
Date: Friday, September 13, 2024 at 6:05 PM
To: "Laatsch, Julian D" <julian.laatsch@charter.com>
Subject: [EXTERNAL] RE: September Performance Committee Board Meeting
CAUTION: The e-mail below is from an external source. Please exercise caution before
opening attachments, clicking links, or following guidance.
Hi Julian,
For Mondays Performance Committee, the items on the agenda are:
2024-25 Strategic Initiatives
Financial Success Performance Metrics
Feedback on 360 Assessment tool
The agenda/packet link is below, and from there, you can register to attend the meeting.
September 16, 2024  Performance Committee
I would note, however, that our Performance Committee is responsible for performance
management of the General Manager and CEO and the GM/CEOs contract and annual
comprehensive performance evaluation, as well as monitoring metrics as to the agencys
performance related to the Strategic Plan success outcomes.
Our website does have a dedicated page to update our customers on the status of the speed
restrictions, and was just updated today. https://www.rtd-denver.com/light-rail-speed-restrictions

I hope the information above is helpful. If you need anything else, please let me know.
Thank you,
Tai-Shrae
Tai-Shrae Parish
Board Operations Manager
Board Office
she | her | hers
o. 303.299.2303
f. 303.299.2312

tai-shrae.parish@rtd-denver.com
rtd-denver.com

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, BLK-36
Denver, CO 80202

We make lives better through connections.

From: Laatsch, Julian D <julian.laatsch@charter.com>
Sent: Friday, September 13, 2024 10:26 AM
To: RTD Board Office <RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com>
Subject: September Performance Committee Board Meeting
Hey there,
Would it be possible for me to get a link to the meeting on Monday? Im curious to hear more about
the current state of speed restrictions and when we can expect them to be lifted.
Thanks,

Julian Laatsch | Director, Data Insights | 619-791-8461
6399 S Fiddlers Green Circle, 415 | Greenwood Village, CO 80111

The contents of this e-mail message and any attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged information. If you are not
the intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to you in error,
please immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and any
attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.

The contents of this e-mail message and any attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged information. If you are not
the intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to you in error,
please immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and any
attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
The contents of this e-mail message and any attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged information. If you are not
the intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to you in error,
please immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and any
attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.

From:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Date:

Lil S
RTD Board Office
RTD General Manager
Re: Ongoing RTD collapse and failures
Monday, January 27, 2025 9:38:01 AM

LOL
More word salad on the morning news from the CEO.
On Sat, Jan 25, 2025 at 2:43 PM Lil S <ninaviewgal@gmail.com> wrote:
RTD Board,
After watching Debra Johnson on TV last night there is no question in my mind that she is
absolutely the reason RTD is in its current crisis mode.
Debra's deer in the headlights look and all too familiar word salad answers shows that she
has no clue about her duties or responsibilities as the managing director of RTD.
Her resume shows a work history in government and nothing in the private sector - that's the
problem.
This position demands the experience of a C Level executive to be successful. Life-long
government employees know nothing about managing budgets, risks or personnel. Debra
comes from a background where there is no accountability for any actions or incompetence just an ongoing demand for more taxpayer money. There are experienced CEOs running
profitable RTD size companies that make less than $420K / yr. - I know because I've
worked for several.
Every week I drive by RTD park and ride lots that 5 years ago were completely full - now
they are completely empty.
Over the last 4 years we've seen the results of a DEI hire in the executive branch and we all
saw how that train wreck ended. There's still time for a course correction but it's going to
take some balls to make the right decision - terminate Debra Johnson immediately before
RTD sinks further into oblivion.
I'm an old lady but I can still spot horseshit when I see it.
Lilly

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Sam Spare
RTD Board Office
An anecdote on decreased ridership
Wednesday, January 22, 2025 11:39:00 PM

Hello,
I see headlines about the challenges of increasing ridership to pre-pandemic levels and
thought I'd share my own personal experience.
I was a regular RTD user for about a decade. While at University of Denver, I'd take the train
downtown for events. I commuted on the H line to my first job out of college. I bought a
house near the Louisiana/Pearl station, in part, so that I could take the E line to my current job
near Union Station.
I stopped commuting on the E line in summer 2022 because I got tired of starting and ending
my day smelling burning fentanyl or worrying about the person pacing around with an xacto
knife. Then came the only one or two train per hour schedules, which were inconvenient
enough for my schedule that I stuck to car commuting.
Hearing that the E line was returning to a 15 minute schedule this week, I decided to give it
another go. While open drug use and general sketchiness seem to have decreased, I have yet to
encounter a single on schedule train and I've had trains cancelled on two occasions.
Consistently wondering when or if a train is going to show is a poor experience and I will be
returning to my car for the foreseeable future.
I appreciate your efforts and hope that I'll find myself being a regular user again in the near
future.
Best,
Sam

