1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, March 4, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Gary Lasater

A. Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:32 P.M. Committee Chair Lasater arrived at
5:33 P.M.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
5:21 PM
Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:27 PM

Bruce Daly

Director, District N

Present

5:32 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present

5:22 PM
4:41 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair
Director, District A
Committee Vice-Chair

Absent
Present
Present

5:24 PM
5:33 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:30 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Director, District C

Absent
Absent

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:25 PM
5:29 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Absent
Present

5:18 PM

Directors Hoy, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede and Tobiassen were absent. Director Solano left
early.
Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, John Elias, John Ewy, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Cory Granrud, Terry Howerter, Kate Iverson,
Austin Jenkins, Jim Kelley, Erin Klaas, Mitch Kuharski, Patrick
McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Vivian Morales, Paula
Perdue, Lindsay Smith, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Kirk Strand,
Henry Stopplecamp, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn,
Libby Winter

Others Present:

Zane Detter, Jane Donovan, Bert Melcher, Joe Triplett, Gary Van
Dorn, Hugh Wilson

B. CAC Update
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning at RTD noted that no
Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) representative was present. This was due to
the change in scheduling as the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting was
originally scheduled for later in the evening. The CAC update was done during the
Planning & Development Committee meeting.

C. Recommended Actions

• Budget Transfer for West Rail Line Track Paving
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to transfer
$650,000 of the remaining funds from the Wadsworth parking structure
project to install track paving at three RTD West Line Light Rail Stations.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 25, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Committee Chair Lasater welcomed Henry Stopplecamp,
Engineering Sr. Manager at RTD, to the Committee Meeting.
He introduced Mitch Kuharski, Construction Project Manager
and John Ewy, Engineer for Drainage & General Civil Projects
to the Directors. Mr. Kuharski presented the pictures included
in the agenda packet and noted that people were crossing
through the tracks instead of using the pedestrian crossings.
The budget transfer, which requires Board approval, would

provide a more suitable and safer surface for people to cross.
The approval of work falls under the General Manager’s
authority. He showed pictures of the Broadway station as an
example of the final product.
Director Daly noted this project was a great idea, especially at
the West Auraria station since it is a transfer point with high
student traffic.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Walker
ABSENT:
Larry Hoy, Natalie Menten, Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Tom
Tobiassen
Committee Chair Lasater declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Property Acquisition for the North Metro Rail Line Phase 2
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying
properties as necessary for construction of the North Metro Rail Line Phase
2 from 72nd Avenue to 124th Avenue, Adams County, Colorado and
authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state
eminent domain law and to provide the General Manager or designee with
authority to enter into all contracts necessary to execute real property
transactions.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 25, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Stopplecamp welcomed Susan Altes, Real Property
Manager, to the meeting. She reminded the Directors of their
approval for Phase 1, from Denver Union Station (DUS) to 72nd
Avenue, on September, 2011 and May, 2013. She
recommended proceeding with the acquisition of all property
from 72nd to 124th, which is the end of the line under the
negotiated contract.
Director Daly noted Ms. Altes presence at the Board and
Committee meetings means the project is moving forward.

Committee Chair Lasater asked Ms. Altes for the number of
properties to be acquired. Ms. Altes answered 15 private
properties and a few others that would involve an
intergovernmental agreement with the City of Thornton.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Paul Solano, Director, District K
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Walker
ABSENT:
Larry Hoy, Natalie Menten, Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Tom
Tobiassen
Committee Chair Lasater declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

D. Updates

• North Metro Update
Mr. Van Meter welcomed Ashland Vaughn, Engineering Project Manager for
RTD, to the meeting. Mr. Vaughn presented the North Metro Rail Line
Update included in the March 4, 2014 FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Agenda Packet.
Director Daly mentioned that it would make sense for Denver Transit
Partners (DTP) to operate the line and asked if the project would have to go
to bid. Mr. Vaughn answered that they are still looking into sole source
justification and he would have an answer in a several weeks.
Director Bagley asked if there were any circumstances in the North Metro
corridor project that have not been experienced previously. Mr. Vaughn
answered that there were no new circumstances expected and how the
Eagle P3 project paved the way.
Director Sisk asked about the status of negotiations with one freight user
that had freight rights on the North Metro line. Mr. Vaughn answered that
rail spur was included as part of the right of way that was approved and
that the goal is to remove freight service from the corridor.
Director Folska asked about the total budget and contingency. Mr. Terry
Howerter answered from the audience that the budget was $650 million.
Mr. Vaughn said the contingency was 10%.
Committee Chair Lasater indicated that keeping freight traffic on the North
Metro rail would result in additional costs factors, including bridging and

wear and tear. He would prefer if the process would come to an amicable
requisition.

E. Other Matters
No other matters were presented.

F. Next Meeting Date - April 1, 2014
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lasater adjourned the meeting at 5:57 P.M. to the Planning &
Development Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

