2024-08-08
Performance Committee Meeting
PEGGY CATLIN: The Thursday, August 8 Performance Committee will now come to order. We are
convened as of 2:00 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this
meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this afternoon.
Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom, and
will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the board's website.
During today's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. And the link will be provided. A live stream of this meeting is also
available via RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Director of
music.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Davidson
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Rosenthal is excused as is Director Tisdale. And I am Chair Peggy Catlin. And
I am here. So, for the record, I see that we have five directors present and two excused. I would like to
open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the
published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on
your phone. During this time, committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you
would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the board office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Executive Board Manager Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised for
public comment?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Catlin, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this
time, there is no one present who has raised their hand indicating a desire to provide public comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: Did we receive any email correspondence regarding this meeting?

JACK KROLL: Director Catlin, no, you did not receive any email correspondence in relation to this
meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Therefore, with no other participants in the queue, we will close the public
comment period at this time. I see that we are joined by Director Marjorie Sloan as well as staff and-GM/CEO Johnson, we went ahead and started with the routine board business prior to you logging on. I
apologize. But I think you've heard that spiel so many times before. I didn't think you would be concerned
if we went ahead and proceeded.
There are two discussion items this afternoon. The first item is for the General Manager and CEO Total
Compensation Analysis 362 and Final Performance Assessment. Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the
Board Office, and Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer, would you like to briefly introduce this item to
the committee before I hand the floor over to representatives from RKL?
JACK KROLL: Hi, Committee Chair Catlin. Jack Kroll again. I will just quickly say Charlene and I have
done a little bit of work since the last time you met to clarify with RKL some elements of the scope. And
they will present, during their presentation, an updated timeline, which I will jump in and expound upon
more at that point. But all the credit to CPO Polege for flagging this in the scope.
And we've since spoken with RKL and they've agreed to help us with a couple additional elements, which
are to assist the board in developing a final assessment tool that you all would complete once you all had
received the results of the 360 and GM and CEO's self-assessment. And then they'll also help facilitate
the compilation of that information and presentation to the board for that.
So, with that, there's nothing more else I want to add other than to say that today's conversation is going
to be an update on the total compensation study, where things are with that, as well as an update on the
development of the 360 tool.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr Kroll. And I would like to thank all of the directors who have taken the
time to interview with RKL. Folks, I think most of you have completed those interviews. So thank you for
taking the time to do so. Lauren or Adley, who would like to kick this off?
LAUREN STRICKER: I would love to. Thank you, Director Catlin. All right, I'm actually going to share my
screen. Bear with me here. Can everyone see the presentation?
JACK KROLL: Yes.
LAUREN STRICKER: Great. Thank you, Jack. OK, all right, so as Jack so well put, we will be providing
an update on the GM/CEO Total Compensation Study and 360 Assessment.
Just as a quick summary from last time, my name is Lauren Stricker. I am a senior analyst with RKL
Virtual Management Solutions. And I'm joined here today by my colleague Adley Satteson. He is an
analyst with the workforce strategies team at RKL Virtual Management Solutions. And we are the main
point of contact for RTD through this project as well as Stephanie smith, who could not be here today.
During today's presentation, we will give a progress update on the total compensation study. We will also
give a progress update on the performance assessment tool and reset expectations as far as the addition
to the project plan and change in timeline. We'll start with the total compensation review. This slide itself
should look very familiar to the last meeting. It is a recap of the scope of work for the total compensation
review. And that has not changed since our last conversation.

So just to reiterate, the scope of work here is to conduct an external market competitiveness assessment.
And we'll do this through a custom survey that we have distributed. And I will be providing you an update
on that. And it covers both base compensation as well as other aspects to include a total compensation
package for the GM and other GM or chief executive officers of comparators that we have identified
during our last conversation.
In addition, we'll also be conducting an internal equity assessment, and providing completing this analysis
and report by August 31, and presenting the report to this group on September 9. As before, we have
provided a detailed project plan and timeline that has been enclosed in the committee packet for your
review and reference.
Now on to some progress report and any updates from last time. There was some changes to the
comparator list from our last discussion. First, we did add four additional private comparators, which I've
listed below there in the bright orange box. These were recommendations from GM Johnson, which we
vetted. Unfortunately, we weren't able to look at the same metrics that we did for the comparators as
that's not available to us or accessible to us.
However, we did look at the types of transportation services offered and the diversity of those services as
well as the revenue and felt that they were fair competitors to add to the list. In addition, we removed two
public comparators-- Smart and Hart Those were removed, again, by recommendation of GM Johnson
due to the smaller fleet size, bus fleet size, as well as the lack of diversity of transit mode services offered
by those two organizations. Any questions there?
Now, I do want to point out that these metrics have been updated as of 1:00 PM today, your time, which
is why they look a bit different. What was provided to you was as of Tuesday morning. So we have
received some changes or responses since then, which is very exciting. And we'll give you the most
updated metrics right now.
So, as you see there, the total compensation or total reward survey was distributed to comparators early
the week of the 29th, so the 29th and the 30th. They were distributed via email and phone, depending on
if we had appropriate email address to access or a phone number that we could try and get a contact
through.
From there, we receive several responses in the first week and early on this week as well. One of the
responses did request or require that we complete a public record request in order to get the information,
which we did. And they have provided us with that information that we have requested. Additionally, we
received six other confirmations from the six comparators with the intention of completing the survey.
However, we have not received their survey responses yet.
We intend to reach out to them Monday to follow up with their intentions and assure that they can get that
completed before the 16th. We do have six completed survey responses so far. That does include the
organization that provided us information in response to the public record request. Any questions there?
OK, as we wait for the responses to come in, we'll move forward with the internal equity assessment.
There are pieces of the total compensation survey that we're hoping to also inform, from a benchmarking
standpoint, the internal equity assessment. But that's what we can work on in the meantime, while we're
waiting on responses. After the responses have been submitted to the 16th, we'll close the survey, start
analyzing the data, and compare that to GM Johnson's current package and offerings. That would be
what will be included in the report that will be presenting to you September 9th.

If there's no further questions on the total compensation survey, I'll move on to the 360. All right, this slide
should look somewhat familiar from the last conversation that we had, with some slight changes to it.
I will start this conversation by saying I think that the conversation that we had last time was very helpful
to us to understand the expectations of the performance committee, the questions that you had, the
concerns that you had. And I appreciate you sharing those during the last conversation as well as your
continuing to share those during the one-on-one interviews that we had the fortune to hold with each of
you.
I think to best summarize the discussion, if I could, from the last time, I think there was some confusion or,
maybe better stated, discrepancies and expectations around this assessment, including coming from our
team as well. And as Jack had summarized, Jack and Charlene brought to our attention some language
in the contract to help clarify the scope. And, as such, we have adjusted the project plan to propose to
you today as well as the timeline.
Just as before, we're still on track to create a custom 360 assessment, distribute that to raters, and collect
data, collect their feedback, and provide that report summarizing their feedback to GM Johnson and this
Performance Committee as well as the board. That has not changed. What has changed is the inclusion
of a performance assessment tool that would be utilized by the board.
The concept of this tool would be to evaluate the same components that's evaluated in the 360. However,
the board themselves would be completing this tool or this evaluation form to assess those components.
The relationship between the 360 and the performance assessment tool in our recommendation would be
an informational relationship. What I mean by this is that the Performance Committee would receive the
results of the 360 prior to completing the board evaluation or the performance assessment tool.
PEGGY CATLIN: I might stop here. Are there any directors that would like to comment on this? Lauren, I
think you captured it pretty well that there was some confusion as to whether the tool would be used as a
prescriptive tool. And I believe we have concluded that it will really just serve to inform. Is that correct? I
see a nod.
LAUREN STRICKER: I think that was my understanding. I mean, I know that was my understanding. I
would very much be open to any other feedback from other directors if they have the difference of
opinion.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any other directors who have thoughts about this before we move on?
Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I think that's a good use of this tool. I know that, in our previous meeting,
Lauren, I think you advised us that this is typically not a good performance tool. It's a good developmental
tool and that, if people are treating it as a performance tool, they tend to rank people higher. So I think
given that information and just making it an informative piece is really good.
You said that the performance assessment tool for the board would have the same questions as the 360.
Will we, as a committee, have an opportunity to comment on those questions?
LAUREN STRICKER: Just to clarify, the board assessment tool would not have the-- it would not be the
same exact assessment as the 360. For example, I think internal relationships is a good example here
where, in the 360, we can really dive into that probably at a greater detail because we're getting feedback

from those who are likely best to be able to inform the direct reports. So questions related to internal
relationships on the board assessment tool would probably be higher level.
And likely, that's where the 360 feedback would be most helpful to the board in those areas where you
don't have the direct observational ability as those closest and work closest with GM on a regular basis.
Does that make sense?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I guess. Same question, though. Will we get a draft performance assessment
tool that people can comment on? Or what's the plan there?
LAUREN STRICKER: Oh, yes. I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you for repeating your question. Yes, so we
would propose a list of questions to the Performance Committee to comment on.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
LAUREN STRICKER: Yeah
PEGGY CATLIN: Any other questions or comments from committee members? Are there any from
noncommittee members? OK go ahead, Lauren.
LAUREN STRICKER: OK. Thank you, Director Caitlin. In this development or this addition-- or
clarification, I should say-- of our project, we did note that the timeline or recommended the timeline be
adjusted to allow us to really complete the performance assessment tool and not necessarily complete it,
but distribute it, collect the board's responses, and turn around a report in a reasonable time after you
have received the 360 because the intention is that the board would be able to use the 360 to inform their
valuations, especially in areas where they don't have that much oversight in. Or insight in, I should say.
So we'll be discussing the timeline in the later slide. And Jack will jump in on that. The timeline related to
the 360, however, that we discussed during our previous conversation has not changed. So the dates of
the deliverables, so the report due to the Performance Committee has not changed. It's just an expansion
at the end to accommodate the performance assessment. As before, we have provided a detailed project
plan and timeline that has been enclosed in the committee packet for you to take a look at.
I think that it seems like we're all on the same page. But, just to reiterate, the concept here is that the
board would receive the 360 assessment tool as well as GM Johnson's self evaluation. And they would
complete their own evaluation. Those items would feed into-- or inform, I should say-- the board's
evaluation.
The process or approach that we had discussed during our last conversation remains largely unchanged
in relation to creating the 360. We have had excellent interviews with the Performance Committee
members, all Performance Committee members. We actually just had our last one today. So I feel like
we've gotten some really great information.
However, we do intend to send out a survey to the broader board to collect similar information at a less
detailed level, basically to understand what they are hoping to be evaluated as part of the 360 and for
them to identify some of the major concepts that we heard through the interviews as what they would see
as most important versus less important.
As I've mentioned before, while we want the 363 to be as comprehensive as possible, GM Johnson has a
lot of duties on her plate, as I'm sure she's aware and as you're aware. And so it's important that we

evaluate the very critical aspects of the job responsibilities, as well as her goals and the values of the
organization, and that we do this in a way that is respectful of all raters' time.
So that does mean that we can't create an extremely long survey. So we have to be very smart about
what we are evaluating. And that's the purpose of the interviews as well as the survey that we'll be
sending out to the board to really identify what is the most important things. Is any questions in that part?
OK, we have reviewed the GM's job description, reviewed the organizational values. And I do have a set
up, an interview with you, GM Johnson, to discuss your goals and expectations as well. I look forward to
that conversation. I think it's the week of the 20th. We'll use this information to develop questions based
on the components that have been-- the most important components that have been identified through
the interviews, through the board survey, in conversation with Charlene as well as GM Johnson.
Those questions would be submitted to the Performance Committee for comment prior to distribution to
raters. Onto the conversation of raters, we are recommending the following guidelines be followed in the
selection of the raters. We're hoping to include about five direct reports. And, just to back up, raters, in
this case, would mean those who are invited to participate and provide feedback through the 360
assessment.
And typically, raters of a 360 are direct reports, supervisors, peers. Because of who we're evaluating with
GM, peers, in this case, are likely more going to be external stakeholders. So we're recommending that
we solicit feedback from five direct reports, three board of directors, and four peers and, like I said, in this
case, external stakeholders.
PEGGY CATLIN: Do any directors have thoughts on that number of 12? More or less?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm sorry. I'm on my phone. But I'm raising my hand.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I do apologize. I think that, overall, identifying these raters would be fine. I would like
to find out, when it comes to the four peers, stakeholders, what that looks like. Are we inviting
recommendations from General Manager/CEO Johnson and then having the opportunity to look at that
and see if we're missing any particular feedback that we'd like to receive from persons throughout the
district before we decide on them?
Or are we making that decision? How is that going to work?
LAUREN STRICKER: Director Guzman, I think that's a really astute question. Thank you for asking it. We
recommend that GM Johnson provide us with an initial list of who she would recommend, that we solicit
feedback in these separate buckets, so direct report, board of directors, peers, and stakeholders. This
then would be submitted to the Performance Committee for comment. We recommend this because GM
Johnson knows best who she interacts with on a daily basis and who could provide the best feedback
related to how she's performing in her job responsibilities, her goals, and values of the organization.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Dr. Guzman? I think we may have some more
discussion about this as we move forward. And I do see that GM/CEO Johnson's hand is raised. Go
ahead.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. My question is for Ms. Stricker I'm seeking clarification. At
the last meeting in which you presented whereby you were offering up comments about best practices
relative to how many raters, it was stated that, typically, it should be 8 to 10. And now I see 12. I'm just
trying to understand the genesis of that. Thank you very kindly.
LAUREN STRICKER: Great question. Thank you for asking, GM Johnson. The recommendations that I
have here are based on. Some qualitative feedback that we received through interviews as far as who,
from a stakeholder standpoint, should be included or the quantity of options that are available to us.
And I would say that's also the same thought process used to inform the direct reports as well of just,
from a quantitative standpoint, what percentage from the direct report could we receive feedback from
that could represent your direct report pool. From a board of director's standpoint, I think it's important that
we hear feedback from them.
However, I don't feel it is as important to receive a vast majority of feedback from the board of directors as
the board of directors is completing their own final assessment and separate assessment in this process.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, GM/CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, somewhat. But I can reserve my questions for my interview. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there other comments? Director Guissinger, please. You're on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair Caitlin. We had talked about a different approach where GM/CEO
Johnson was appointing some. And we were doing some together and some of that. Where are we on
that?
LAUREN STRICKER: I think-- oh, sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: You are-- what I heard you say-- and we can certainly discuss this further. But I heard
you say that, initially, GM/CEO Johnson would propose these raters and that the committee then would
have an opportunity to review and provide comment and perhaps other suggestions.
And I know that, among the directors that I talked to, that there would be more of a self-selection process
of which directors would-- based on input from Ms Johnson, but which directors would be considered
raters. And then, I know at some point we had talked about GM/CEO Johnson proposing some external
stakeholders and the board providing suggestions for external stakeholders.
And I think what's being proposed right now is slightly different in that GM/CEO Johnson would first
propose some. And then we would have an opportunity as directors to take a look at that and agree to or
propose alternatives. Did I capture that all right, Lauren?
LAUREN STRICKER: Yes, I agree with your summary, Director Caitlin. I'm hopeful that we would arrive
at a similar result in the end.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger, does that answer your question? Or would you like to dialogue
about that some more?
LYNN GUISSINGER: What do you mean self select of the board? You mean the board would pick? Or
we would wait for people to say I want to do it? Or what does that mean?

PEGGY CATLIN: What I meant by that-- and I see that GM/CEO Johnson has her hand raised. What I
meant by that was that GM/CEO Johnson would recommend those directors she would like to have
review it. But then we would dialogue amongst directors to either agree or provide alternatives to that
recommendation. GM/CEO Johnson? OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you for the opportunity. I just wanted to put out here for everybody's
consideration, for all intents and purposes, I'm confident in my ability to lead the organization. I don't need
to self select. You guys can choose randomly. As it relates to direct reports, I engage with a myriad of
different people that report directly to me. I'm thinking we could draw straws. So as it relates to who's
doing what, I think we're trying to get a sense of my interactions, and how I'm showing up relative to the
values or the ideals and beliefs that I hold to be true, and how am I going about doing that.
I do have a question relative to the parent stakeholders as it relates to the board, totally amenable to the
board opining. But really, I believe it's incumbent upon me to provide some kind of understanding
because, how many of you know who I deal with on a day-to-day basis? And the realm of my
participation, not just in coordinating with those that may be within the City and County of Denver or the
greater Metropolitan area, but my work as relates to transportation as a whole.
So I believe those need to be considered as well as we talk about what might be optimal. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense. Is the goals people that are dealing with the
GM/CEO on a day-to-day basis? We got a lot of opinions out there in the peer-stakeholder world. And I
have some-- I'm trying to figure out, with the 360, are we just judging the CEO? Or are we also looking at
the agency? Which, to me, they're so intertwined.
So I think that I like the idea. I'm fine with our CEO suggesting peer stakeholders. I guess I was
concerned with the statement that we would comment. It seems to me like it ought to be more that we
could add. And maybe it's getting bigger, or that we both come up with lists or something like that, and
work it out together.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. GM/CEO Johnson, would you like to respond before I call on Director
Guzman?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, just a point of clarity in reference to words matter. This is a 360 review. And I
don't know how many board members have been the subject of 360 review. But I wouldn't say it's to
judge me. It's to assess my abilities and how I show up. It's not about judging. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So thank you. That answers my question, fully, that I asked earlier. And I quite
agree with the general manager. This is an assessment, not a judging. However, my question about the
peers and stakeholders was really to figure out if we're getting a good realm of understanding because
this is going to inform, potentially, the conversations we have going forward.
And so to the general manager's point, I'm not trying to block you out of this at all. I'm actually trying to
invite you into it but just understanding how this process is going to work. So thank you. I appreciate that
conversation. And I think that we are in the right spot. We can probably continue with the presentation if
it's possible.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guzman. To summarize, before we move on, GM/CEO Johnson
will identify her-- like she says, it would be like drawing straws. And she would pick her five direct reports.
The board of directors will similarly select three directors who would-- this is an effort that we all take
seriously. And so we want to make sure that those directors are fully engaged in this exercise.
So we will decide on the directors that will participate with the input from GM/CEO Johnson. And then,
from the peers' and stakeholders' perspective, it seems like that we will get an initial proposal from
GM/CEO Johnson. After looking at that, if we decide that that looks good, we can move on.
Otherwise, if we wanted to suggest some alternatives or some changes or some expansion, we would
have an opportunity to do that. Am I capturing that all right, Lauren?
LAUREN STRICKER: That seems like a fair summary, if that is acceptable to the Performance
Committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: What I would like to see, especially with the external stakeholders, when Ms. Johnson
provides us with her suggested raters is that she maybe take a moment to provide the rationale for
selecting that person or for suggesting that person. And that might move the process along a little faster
because, as she said, she knows who she deals with on a daily basis.
And maybe we, as directors, weren't aware of that ongoing dialogue or ongoing engagement. And so to
provide that explanation might be helpful. Is that something you could do, Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, most definitely. That was my intent. So you guys could garner a better
understanding of the relationship and the coordination. So thank you for stating that.
PEGGY CATLIN: That would be great. Any other directors? Are we OK with that approach? I don't see
any other hands raised. So we can move on. Thank you.
LAUREN STRICKER: Thank you, Director Catlin. Next here, we're going to discuss the change to the
timeline. I'm actually going to invite Jack to summarize or expand here on the timeline adjustments from
his perspective. Jack, it looks like you're on mute.
JACK KROLL: Sorry, everybody. Thank you, Lauren. And again, Jack Kroll, executive manager of the
Board Office. I just want to draw everyone's attention. We have several TBDs towards the bottom of this
list. That's pretty standard. The work plan that you all have seen for the Performance Committee
indicates, and even the schedule that we went over last time you all met indicated we still had some
TBDs.
As we get to this time of year, we often encounter holiday travel and other items that we have to account
for. And so the Board Office will be in close coordination with GM and CEO Johnson to get her
availability. And then based off of that, we can begin to pin down some dates towards the end of the
assessment cycle. As a reminder, you all are obligated to complete and approve a final assessment score
no later than December 31 every year under the employment agreement.

And so you'll see dates here listed as TBD in the middle to back half of November. And so we would most
likely wrap things up with the performance committee's work towards the end of November. And then
what we have done the last previous two years is there has been a special board meeting called in the
early part of December to issue a final assessment score and make that a publicly available item.
One thing that did change from your timeline that I pointed out last time you all met that should make
managing the end-of-the-year process easier this go around is that you all have kicked out-- not kicked
out as in removed, but you've just simply extended your runway to the beginning of January to finalize the
GM and CEO's goals and performance assessment framework for the subsequent year.
In previous evaluation cycles, you were confronted with the task of completing the assessment for the
current year and establishing the goals for the subsequent year at the same time, which made things very
challenging and untenable, and often muddied some of the conversations. And so we think, by separating
these two and giving you all a little bit more time to get through all of that, you will end up with better
results, as such. So that's all I wanted to add on the timeline here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And I'd like to point out that the more detailed timeline is presented on
packet page 7.
LAUREN STRICKER: Dr. Catlin, if I could just add a few more items here on the timeline.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
LAUREN STRICKER: Just to note that the November 11, this is when the Performance Committee, I
believe, scheduled for that day is when we would present the 360 assessment results. And following that,
we would distribute the board assessment. And that's how the two would overlap in that way.
PEGGY CATLIN: GM/CEO Johnson, I see your hand raised.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. Perhaps I missed this. But when there was an orientation to this
table that's listed before us on this slide, I didn't hear any reference. What does the NS mean? I see
dates. But then I see RKL, which is, of course, the consultant. But what does NS represent?
LAUREN STRICKER: Director Catlin, if I could respond to that question? Thank you, GM Johnson. I
apologize. I should've put a key on this slide. It is a snippet of the detailed project plan that we submitted
as part of the packet. NS is defined in the key in the packet but is not on this slide. And it just means not
started. The key has not started, in progress, or completed.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there any other questions? OK, Lauren, please proceed.
LAUREN STRICKER: We actually have reached the end of our presentation today on the progress of the
total compensation survey and the 360 assessment and total performance assessment. Any additional
questions at this time?
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any directors who have questions? Thank you very much, Ms. Stricker, for
your presentation. I think you got all the input that you needed from us.

Moving on, our second item is for the agency key performance indicators. And for this item, I think
Committee Vice Chair Guissinger, I would like to lead this presentation and discussion. But is there
anything-- I would actually like to start out by saying we have talked about this starting early on in the
year.
And there was an understanding, at least from committee members, directors, and board members, that
we would have what we were referring to as "key performance indicators" identified by the September
timeframe. And so this initial discussion item and board report was really intended to get that ball rolling
and get that started so that we could have a good dialogue and complete our work for September so that
we could move forward.
And, Director Guissinger, feel free to jump in, or even Board Executive Manager. Kroll. What we really
want is a starting point. And what I see and what others see to be a multistep process, we need to get
started on identifying some of the performance indicators. And we have committed for quite some time
now to provide a clear, forward-facing dashboard.
And I'm reminded, and rightly so, that we have a lot of these data in various forms, whether it be in a
board report, whether it be on the dashboard. There are a number of areas where the staff is collecting
these data. But what I personally would like to see is a single repository for all of these data and these
performance indicators so that, to the public and to our other stakeholders, they see how we're doing as
an agency, what trends there are, and how we're moving forward.
And, just as we move forward, I don't know if, Lynn, you have anything to add to that. I was a little bit
convoluted. But I know that Chair Davidson has also given this some thought. So, both of you, I would
encourage your feedback and input at this time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a couple things. I think you summarized it well. Our focus right now is working
with the committee and the board and Ms. Johnson to identify the data that we want. And some of what
we put in here is to pull it out by mode and to give some context. What was this like a year ago? Or
compared to our budget or those sorts of things so people can understand it. I think that it's a next step.
Not all of these will have targets or KPIs. And we'll be looking to staff to set those on some of them.
Hopefully, this does not had too much work, because I think some of it is, as you said, Peggy, in the
board briefing documents or other places. And I do think that bringing it to the board perhaps in the
monthly packet and putting it on the dashboard or just sending the board to the dashboard if it's updated
will make a big difference.
It's something a lot people have been looking for for a while. So I agree with all you said. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Vice Chair Guissinger Chair Davidson, comments?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. I agree with the characterization. And what I would
say is I think we started a conversation once we adopted a new performance evaluation framework. And
that framework included to objective measures. And this was when we were looking at the general
manager and CEO performance framework but also the agency performance framework. There was the
red box, which were annual goals. And then there was the yellow box, which was the agency metrics.
And I think what we're trying to accomplish here is, kind of breaking this down into first things first, we got
here by addressing the fact that we believed that the net promoter score-driven success outcomes in our
strategic plan were lagging indicators and that the lag or the tail on that was especially long.

And therefore, we wanted to identify metrics that we can track and perhaps then set goals around at the
agency level that lead and might indicate to us what would move our success outcomes from an earlier
vantage point. So I think there are future things we might do, like set goals, future things we might do, like
establish frameworks for agency evaluation based on those metrics.
But I think the first-things-first mentality is, right now, the board and this committee just needs to identify
what are the metrics that we want to be more regularly looking at as a Performance Committee that give
us month-over-month or year-over-year, depending on the metric, visibility to things that we hypothesize
might indicate movements on our success outcomes a little bit earlier.
So I think we can keep this pretty simple and determine what are the data that we simply want to put on
the board, the scores that we want to be tracking. And then, once we've identified that in collaboration
with staff, we can then be identifying where are there opportunities to set goals in the future. But I think,
right now, we're just starting from identifying those metrics. So thank you. That's the perspective that I
have to share.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Davidson. I would like to add that the agenda item that accompanied
this packet was just a first step. And it's draft with capital letters, as far as I'm concerned. And I was
remiss in my communication with the GM/CEO and that she had very little time to respond with her
comments about that.
She took the time and very thoughtfully did reply with some good comments, which I appreciate. I think,
moving forward, I commit to having a more ongoing dialogue about this. But we just wanted to get
something started. And so, please, I encourage directors to take a look at this and see what you might
like to see added, what does not make sense to see moving forward along the lines of the strategy that
Chair Davidson outlined, what you might like to see.
And, please, as we move forward, we have a little over a month to, I wouldn't say finalize, but to get this in
order to present to the board for our September goal of getting some KPIs identified and getting a
forward-facing dashboard that is useful for the board, for staff, and for our stakeholders in the public to
see.
So I would encourage, not necessarily at this meeting, but moving forward, any comments, additions,
suggested subtractions that you might have regarding this rough draft. Thank you. Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. Thank you very kindly. So while we indicate this is draft, I would be remiss if I
didn't state that there are some presumptuous statements that are included in this document that I don't
support. But more specifically, I think we have to be intentional as we talk about key performance
indicators. That term is used very broadly. And I don't know how many individuals on this call actually
understand the notion behind a quantitative indicator relative to ensuring that there is progress toward an
outcome that can be assessed.
And so, if anything, more specifically, as I look through the document as we talk about metrics, for
instance, there are certain elements that are outlined that aren't necessarily tracking something.
And so as we go forward, it would be of great interest to me and members of my team as we've spend
five hours just earlier today really honing in on the difference between a leading and lagging indicator,
and discerning what key drivers have come from various inputs that we've received relative to employee

satisfaction surveys in addition to community value and customer excellence surveys in which we have
made great strides but, as we go down this road, recognizing that we do have a myriad of different data.
And we are amenable to showcasing that. But really, I need to garner a better understanding relative to
where we are, and would appreciate engaging on that front sooner rather than later, so we can manage
the expectations if the intent is merely to showcase to the vast populace that we are doing various things
for the sake of doing things. I'd like to be more intentional and purposeful. So once again, I would
appreciate the opportunity to engage early and actually hone in on what we're trying to solve for. Thank
you for your consideration.
PEGGY CATLIN: And thank you also for your earlier input. And there are some items in this draft. For
example, we've asked for a report. That's a report, not necessarily a KPI. But one of the things that we're
really, really desiring, I think, are these data to really inform some of our decisions going forward.
Anything else, Director Guissinger? I mean, it's really-LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I guess it would help if there's certain of these-- I wasn't exactly sure. Debra,
are there specific ones of these that you're concerned about In terms of the data we're asking? Great. I'd
say let's meet again and make sure this works for you and the staff. I'm just trying to understand where
we are.
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson? And then I saw Director Davidson's hand go up.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, there were certain elements. I didn't understand what you guys were driving at.
There's some kind of terminology that's used. And it's my understanding that some of this information
could've been captured looking at different agencies. And so I don't understand what we mean by excess
wait time, because that's not something we generally utilize. Are we talking about schedule adherence?
So I'm just saying that as I read it. And those are the questions I presented.
And so I do believe, Director Guissinger, you do have my track changes that weren't incorporated in that
explains the vantage point from which I was coming. I just need clarity as it relates to some of the
terminology. Retention versus attrition, that's really what we're trying to look at. And then when we talk
about key positions, every position that we have at the agency is critically important as we deliver service.
And there were just some that were qualified.
And as we look at where we are, we have interdependencies. And I often share with the team that we're
very analogous to a jigsaw puzzle, no matter the shape or size. If there's one piece of the puzzle that's
missing, that box top cover won't be realized. So I'm not one to want to pick and choose what positions.
But we need to qualify it in such a way because, while you have MLW and Rail. There are still light rail.
There's still commuter rails.
But then again, you have individuals that are maintainers on the rubber tire side, which is critically
important because that facet of our organization are the ones that are really more flexible and agile in
providing connectivity when there is a disruption in service. So I just didn't understand some of the
terminology and the genesis for it. So I am totally amenable to the data, want everybody to be clear about
that because we have a myriad of it in support of it.

But I think we need to have alignment in what we're trying to showcase and what the purpose is, and to
educate and inform those that aren't familiar with what it is because, what does it drive towards? And so
as we talk about OTP, I'm certain that several of you may not know the differences as it relates to on-time
performance [INAUDIBLE] mode. And we don't have fixed guideways. So when we look at data that we
may be extrapolating from [INAUDIBLE] that is in a subterranean aerial configuration, we actually have
street-running light rail [INAUDIBLE] that stop at traffic signals.
So that's what I was trying to understand. So thank you very much for allowing me to expound.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I'm going to reply. And then-LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: And then I believe Director Guissinger has a follow up to that. And then I'll call on
Director Davidson. But I think what we're really aiming toward is capturing data and having it so that we
can answer questions when they are posed. But also, I think that we have found ourselves responding to
data that others are filling in for us that may or may not be correct.
And we want to make sure that we are driving the narrative from an agency perspective rather than
having others try and fill in perceived blanks. And I don't think we have those blanks. But I think we just
would like to have those data. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, just to say thanks, that I think that explanation that you gave, Ms. Johnson, is
helpful. Excess wait times, I see why that's probably not a measurable thing, for instance. And I think
we're totally open to hearing how we do that differently. And sitting down and talking it through makes a
lot of difference. Just one other thought that it occurred to me after we put some ideas together here, too,
is the dashboard is also, as a public-facing document, it's a good opportunity, for instance in the
environmental sustainability to-- and this may be APTA data or something. I'm kind of making this up.
But to be able to say, if we move 65 million people a year or wherever we are at, I think that's not too far
off, what does that mean in terms of cars off the road or some VMT? I don't know what we can show like
that. But to show how important our transit services are, I think, is another way to look at this. But, yeah,
let's continue the conversation. I think it's exciting to get some of this out to us and to the public.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Chair Davidson, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you very much. I thought I would just jump into and highlight a few areas
that I had jotted down as being helpful. And again, from my vantage point, this is all about saying, to me,
the success outcomes, as we defined in our strategic plan, are very long lagging. And so what are the
things that I believe could help get some earlier insight?
And so I'll state some things just for feedback from the Board report and certainly would be curious to
hear feedback from you, Madam Chair, or committee members as well as General Manager and CEO
Johnson on all of what I have to share.
So on the strategic priority of financial success that we take seriously, the management of our resources,
in terms of getting a sense of where we are going and whether there will be perception of that and
whether there will be spending less than we take in, the two that I had written down that are on this list
are budget variability, watching that over time, again, not setting a goal at this stage, but just putting the

things on the board that would be helpful to look at the year-over-year analysis and trend, which is looking
at that variability.
I always find that very helpful in the Board report because it gives some idea of where we're going. And
we're making a lot of changes in that area. Likewise, the cost-per-revenue hour and understanding where
that is, I would be very cautious in putting goals on something like that right now because I think that
there are plenty of ways we could decide to move one particular number like that that we may not want to
do. But looking at those costs for revenue hours by mode and understanding the overall trends, I think,
are helpful from a long-term vantage point.
In terms of the community value, which has a lot to do with providing value to customers and, I think,
leans heavily into our vision of becoming a trusted leader in mobility, I think the one thing that's written
here is the percentage of our progress towards the comprehensive operational analysis, I think, is helpful,
given that that's our plan of record. I think I've long had this question of, what's the best way to do that?
And I would look to our General Manager and CEO for recommendations as to whether that's total
revenue hours that we're delivering versus what's in plan. I don't know what the numerator or
denominator would be. But percentage towards the board-approved operational plan would be helpful.
Partnership Program is something that I saw on here. But one of the things I'm interested in, given the
relatively limited resources of the agency in terms of having state funding or city and municipal funding, is
that the amount of dollars that we unlock, in other words, how far we're stretching our dollars through
matching programs and the Partnership Program. So I noted that there's something in there about the
dollars we put forward.
But I think I'm more interested in the data of what have we unlocked by putting our dollars forward from a
partnership vantage point, which I think demonstrates the community's trust to some extent. From a
customer-excellence vantage point, I have a hard time pointing to anything but on-time performance, just
given, perhaps, my own experiences and what we all hear folks talk about at the bus stop. And I just
would be interested to watch that over time.
Again, hesitant to establish goals until really understanding what those data look like. And then, I think,
the employee ownership, there's a lot of interesting things we've started to get a better view of under
Chief People Officer Polege's leadership with some of our more recent surveys. And there's probably
some things we could look to for inspiration. I don't have specific notes at this time.
So, in summary, budget variability, cost-per-revenue hour, some way of measuring our percentage versus
our comprehensive operational plan, and Partnership Dollars unlocked and our on-time performance are
things that I would certainly benefit from more frequently looking at in a very focused way on a month
over month or year over year as the case may be. So I thought I'd offer that as feedback to the Board
report. Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you very much. I appreciate that. And I'm assuming you have it documented and
can forward those points to us. And we will make some adjustments for a second bite at this apple. As a
time check, it's 3:01. And Director Guzman told me that he needed to leave as he was called in to work
early. Is there anything you would like to say before I call onto Director Sloan?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I thank you for the opportunity. And I do apologize to everybody. But work is work.
So I would like to just say, with these KPIs, there are certain categories that we do need to look at. A lot

of this information we know is publicly available. But I do think we need to be careful about how we
categorize it-- I apologize for the background noise because I am at work-- and how it's being used. But I
do agree with what Chair Davidson said in terms of basic things.
Look at it from the street, right? Any person standing at a bus stop or a train station is going to want to
know a couple of things. Anybody that's asked to invest in the public transportation system through their
sales and use-tax collected, they're going to want to know that we're taking care of things. Are we
delivering service? Are we doing it as appropriate as possible, on time, and reliably? And the difference
between safety and security, as a word in my head, I'm still struggling with. But we know our system is
safe.
And we know that we are working to secure individuals. But that is a deeper question. And so how we
relate some of those ideas as a category down into measurable, distinct pieces is truly important. So to
the General Manager's previous comment, we need to be very careful about the language that we used
and the intention behind whatever we use for KPIs, which, Key Performance Indicators and how we're
assessing that because some of the things that we might look at will be well outside of our control.
If an individual steps off a bus, they're no longer on our RTD property, necessarily, right? And so what
does that mean when it comes down to safety or security? Well, was the bus ride safe because the
mechanics did their job, and the operator performed well? Yes, they were safe. But they get onto a public
sidewalk or a public right of way. That's not our purview. It extends beyond our area of responsibility. And
although we don't not care about what's happening, where do we end and other things begin? And how
can we fairly assess that?
So I do want to also be careful with one other thing before I leave the call, which is I would like to know,
personally, what the economic impact RTD is bringing to the entire region. And that can be assessed at a
bunch of different ways. But I also want to be very careful about some of the, quote unquote, "return on
investment" stuff because I think that just gets us into trouble in some ways because we all pay sales and
use tax into a system for the whole, not into a system for locality.
And we are not a local transportation agency. The name of the agency in the constitution of our state is
the Regional Transportation District. And although we represent smaller sub districts within the entire
region, it is truly unbelievable anybody would have an expectation that we would be able to enumerate,
calculate, or otherwise identify how much of my money that I've given in sales and use tax am I getting
back as an individual.
Whether I choose to utilize the system or not, I am in part subsidizing through my tax payment to the
district, service for everybody, whether they need a wheelchair-accessible vehicle, or they need a lift to
get to work through one of the life programs that we offer, whether it's somebody who is an elderly person
who needs more specialized attention and care, or if it's just a regular 18-year-old who I voted for to ride
free on this system, continuing forward.
And so I think that there are a bunch of ways to look at these things. But we as a board of directors have
an onus and responsibility to be very precise and very careful with the language that we use, so it is
clearly understood what we are looking at and why. And maybe we need to start with taking a step back
from our balcony and go down to the dance floor and figure out what people on the ground are looking at,
which we all know, and then come back up and say, OK. From this balcony view, we're looking at these
things for these reasons.

I hope that makes sense. And it's noisy. So I'm going to cut out.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And I'll get back to your comment about return on investment in a minute.
But I'd first like to call on Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Chair Catlin. First, as a general matter, I would like to say the formatting
of the KPIs in terms of the strategic priorities is brilliant and the way to go. I think it shows consistency on
RTD's part and reasonable expectations of employees, the board, and the public in general. So I really
like that division of the KPIs.
As far as the proposed KPIs go, I think they're definitely in the right direction. I appreciate CEO Johnson's
comments because, obviously, she is in the best position to word these correctly. And that will be
valuable.
It needs to be soon because this committee has deadlines that come up. And it needs to be done. So I
really appreciate the committee's digging in and getting these done. And of course, the CEO has the best
way to look at these.
I would also caution that they're probably the right number of KPIs given. There are so many things that
can be measured that some folks in the public would be interested in. But it has to be brief enough so that
it's digestible by anybody who looks at it, whether it's the board or the public.
And finally, I know this is not the time to get into particulars, but I would just like to point out one thing in
the customer excellence KPIs. And surely, there's a better way to express that. But I think for customers,
dropped runs are critical. And I know that is not calculated into on-time performance metric. I think that
would be a good addition.
Finally, security-related incidents. Again, there's got to be a better way to narrow that down to see what it
is we do want to measure in terms of security on our buses and light rails for our passengers and
particularly for our operators. So that's all. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Sloan. I really appreciate that. And I would encourage other
directors to provide input into the draft KPIs. And we'll have another go at this in short order. So I
appreciate all your input.
Director Guzman did talk about something that I wanted to bring up. And Director Tisdale is not here. But
he had brought it up as well. And that is the fact that his committee that he chairs, the Finance and
Planning committee, had on their work plan a discussion of this, quote, "return on investment."
And in speaking with. Mr. Kroll-- and he's done some work-- APTA has started looking at, rather than a
return on investment-- what am I getting for the dollars I'm putting in-- rather a more comprehensive look
at what the transit does for the economic health of the region and what's the economic impact of transit
overall in the district.
And so if this committee were to amend its work plan, I would suggest, and certainly open for discussion,
that we include a economic impact evaluation as opposed to a return on investment evaluation. I see
GM/CEO Johnson has her hand raised. Are there any other directors that have thoughts about that? Ms.
Johnson?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. This just amplifies the importance of us getting
together because my team and I have already explored this and have meetings relative to engaging on
developing an economic impact statement that is a benefit for us relative to a local, state, and federal
impact. And so there's been several discussions. And we're moving that ball forward, recognizing that we
need to provide a whole view as opposed to something segmented.
And so happy to engage with you all once again so we can be aligned. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Perfect. And thank you for that. And I am aware that some of your staff are working on
that. But just in terms of the work of this committee, Director Tisdale was highlighting or pointing out the
fact that we had not yet amended this committee's work plan to reflect such an exercise.
So with input from you and your team, Ms. Johnson, we will slot that in for a report at some point just on
what you're doing and how you're approaching it as we move forward with our work plan, not to suggest
that we would be fronting that effort, but that we have it on our schedule for discussion at some point.
Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And in keeping with previous comments and the comments just
made by Ms. Johnson, yeah, it's really, really important that we work with Ms. Johnson to determine the
appropriate things that we're measuring in these KPIs and that the language is very accurate when it talks
about what it is we're measuring. It's easy to say Ms. Johnson is GM/CEO. She's responsible for
everything. Well, no, come on. Let's be realistic. Let's make it a realistic measure of the things that she
can and should be responsible for.
And working with her in that regard, I think, is critically important. So thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Mr. Kroll, do you have anything to add to this discussion before we move on
to other matters?
JACK KROLL: Nope.
PEGGY CATLIN: I thank you all. I think this was a good discussion. And again, it's a start. It's a first step.
It's something in a longer-term strategy. But we just wanted to keep the ball moving forward and to mix
metaphors.
But, anyway, are there any other matters from this committee to discuss or other board members? Seeing
none, the next Performance Committee meeting will meet on Monday, September 9 at 8:30 AM. And our
work plan is busy for September. So we very well may need to hold a second Performance Committee to
make sure we get through all the items on our plate.
In the meantime, I really would like to see the additional input on some of these KPIs and how we can
better craft a document to reflect all of the input that we received today. As I just stated, the Performance
Committee meeting next month is pretty busy. Items include reviewing the final results of the total
compensation study that RKL mentioned and that they are conducting, making additional progress on the
360 tool, and then discussing the agency annual scorecard and having an update on the GM/CEO annual
goals.
We just have a lot to discuss. So we may ask the Board Office to pull for additional meeting times, not
only directors, but GM/CEO Johnson and Ms. Polege as well. Are there any other items to bring before

this committee? Seeing none, we will adjourn this meeting at 3:15 PM Mountain Daylight Time. Thank
you all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.

