2020-03-24
RTD Special Board Meeting
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I would like to now call the Tuesday, March 24 RTD special
Board meeting to order. We are convened as of 7:37 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would like to
respectfully ask everyone connected to this call to mute your phones and to set your ringers to
silence. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board
of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare.
During this time, the meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with
the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
Visit rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors
page. Ms. McManus, will you again please call the roll call?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA L. FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.

JUDY LUBOW: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, I'm here too.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And there's Director Williams.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh, I'm sorry. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm not here. It's OK.
[CHUCKLING]
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present, zero absent. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Ms. McManus. There was only one recommended
action on our special Board meeting this evening. For this action, during both the discussion and
the voting phases, I will call on each director in turn in alphabetical order, and your time to speak
will come, so please hold your comments until that time.
But at this point, what I'd like to do is introduce Mr. Ballard to take this forward. And before he
speaks, let me just read the recommended action. It is recommended that the Board of Directors
approve adjustments to RTD services in order to respond to dramatically decreased ridership as a

result of the coronavirus, COVID-19. The COVID-19 service change package is summarized in
Attachment A. And further, to authorized the General Manager or his designee to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service have been impacted by these
changes. So Mr. Ballard, I'm going to give it to you. Thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Paul Ballard, interim CEO and General
Manager of the Regional Transportation District. We are proposing to the Board to approve a
COVID-19 service plan which includes Saturday and regional bus service as our base bus service,
and Sunday rail service levels as our base rail service.
The Saturday, Sunday service levels are those included in the May service change, not the current
Saturday, Sunday service levels. If the Board approves both plans, we would run Saturday, Sunday
service every day as in the May service plan starting April 19, and potentially going until the
September service change.
When ridership returns and demand develops, we would gradually restore service to the May
service player. This type of a change, a 40% decrease in service from current service levels, is a
major undertaking and doesn't happen quickly. We're proposing to implement the service
reductions starting April 19 to give us time to work through the many processes with the union
and integrate this change into our information system.
This includes expediting the following processes. We would have to conduct the run board, which
includes sending the plan to our bus contractors by the end of this week. They have one week to
then turnaround their run cut process. As a reminder, 45% of our bus service is provided by
contractors.
The operators would hold a vote on the service that they prefer to operate. This typically takes 13
days. We're cutting that down to five days. We would have to integrate into our operating system,
which is how we pay operators based on the shift they're assigned. We would have to enter the
new service plan into our system so that digital signs at our stations show accurate scheduled
arrival time.
We would have to update the info on our buses so we can charge customers accurate fares. We
would need to roll out customer information. Informing the public would occur largely through
digital means, as many of our vendors, including the printers, have temporarily ceased operations.
We need to prepare our workforce. This would allow us to guide our workforce through these
drastic changes methodologically and strategically.
This approach allows us to move to a reduced service level thoughtfully without being too
reactionary. This allows us to be calm and professional, and do the necessary preparation to uphold
confidence in the agency's ability to provide reliable service. This allows us to evaluate our
operations as we move forward and make adjustments as necessary.
Our intent is to retain our workforce during this reduced service plan. Operators who aren't
assigned to a specific route or line will work on the extra board and cover shifts as necessary.
Others will go through training refresher classes.

We have been working very hard to build up our operations and workforce, and don't want to lose
ground on the progress we've made. This allows us to remain flexible if we start to see a large callout of operators due to COVID-19, and ultimately have the operators we need when we reinstate
service through the May service plan. This will allow us to move up to the May service levels
gradually as ridership returns.
It's our intent and desire to run the COVID-19 service plan only as long as necessary and eventually
build service back to the May service plan as our passengers return. Madam Chair, that's my
introduction. With the action item, we've also included a detailed listing of the services that would
be provided under this plan. We've also provided a very informative chart called the Daily
Boardings by Route Type, February 1 to March 21, demonstrates dramatically the ridership falloff that we've experienced in the last 12 days. So the staff and I are prepared to answer any
questions, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, Director Tisdale moves the adoption of the recommended
action?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Tisdale, if I could call for the question first. I've got you down
as the movement. Do I hear a second?
BOB BROOM: I'll second, Bob Broom.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. I've heard movement from Director Tisdale and a
second from Director Broom. I will now call on Directors in alphabetical order to ask whether
there is any discussion on the motion. Please have all of your questions and comments ready when
I call on you. As I will cycle through the Directors only once, please be as brief and as possible in
your remarks.
Following discussion, I'm going to call the roll call for the vote, and we'll again call on each
Director alphabetically, so you'll have two chances here, OK? So I'm going to start with Director
Broom.
BOB BROOM: No questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any comments?
BOB BROOM: I will be supporting it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair, and I'll be brief. And I appreciate staff's work on this.
This is a terrible situation for anybody to be in, and I'm going to be supporting this COVID plan,
and hopefully we can come out of it sooner than we hope.

But I hope that staff has listened to some of the public comments, and I'm sure they have, in terms
of getting PPE for our operators, and ensuring their safety, and considering any of the other matters
that were discussed in the public comment section. I'm sure staff is looking at that, and has received
guidance from CDPAG and any other agency with regard to this.
I find it interesting that some people-- one of the commenters tonight, and also an email that I had
earlier, in effect really want more service and not less so that people can social distance on buses
and trains. So we should have a bus follow another bus so that if it gets too crowded, you can call
up the other bus. I would love to do that, but I think everyone understands the impossibility of
something like that. But in any event, I'll be supporting this, and that's all my comments. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I am going to support this reluctantly because there are many
of us in areas that have no weekend service right now. But desperate times call for desperate
measures, and I think the staff have done a really good job on this. I will appreciate some support
from our Communications Department on how to communicate with those of my riders who are
left behind, but I think for now, given the fact that most people are no longer commuting to the
central business district of Denver that it's probably, as a temporary solution, it's going to be
accepted. So thanks for staff for working so hard, and I know this has been tough on everybody,
but I will be supporting it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, First Vice Chair. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I do. I have a question or two, if I may, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: So I did want to ask staff about whether they will have the ability to monitor
loads and make adjustments as needed. I had two thoughts about that. One, you already know, I
rode the zero last weekend on a Saturday, this past weekend. And it was before the stay-in-shelter
place-- or the shelter-in-place order in Denver.
But even so, leaving out of Union Station late in the afternoon, we were well beyond social
distances-- socially distancing seated 6 feet, 6 feet, by the time we got to Cleveland Place. So to
the extent that we're going to have curtailed our personnel complement because of a 40%
reduction, I wondered if there is-- will we be monitoring that? Will we take into account where we
see, for example, on the 0 or the 15, where our loads are beyond what we would consider safe
given guidelines from the state and national authorities? Will we have the ability to respond?
And I wanted to offer also Mr. Longenbohn, Longenbohn?, the union representative's ideas as well
for consideration. Can we work with the union in terms of how we take advantage of what might
be a surplus in the number of people we have who are not driving, and use them collaboratively
with the union to find ways to make things more safe for our riders and our operators?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard?

PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. Paul Ballard speaking. I'll answer the second part first. Michael
Ford, our Chief Operating Officer, has been working very closely with the union, and they have
been cooperating with him, and we will certainly explore the suggestions made by the Director.
The first part of her question regarding the passenger loads on the buses, our street supervisors
will be monitoring that and will be advising us of any issues that might come up in that area.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. Yes. Director Cook, go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: Along those same lines, are you able to-- I believe it was the woman who
called in about the shopper special for the seniors. Do we have the flexibility? Can you on your
own have the flexibility to respond to those kinds of requests that we may need to as an agency?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am, we believe we do. This is Paul Ballard.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, then, thank you. All right, I will support the motion, and I appreciate you
putting it forward. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Cook. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA L. FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. I do have a question. Do you
anticipate, Mr. Ballard, a loss of any union jobs in the reduction of service? Are people going to
be laid off?
PAUL BALLARD: This is Paul Ballard speaking. We obviously will have a lesser need for
operators. Our plan is to maintain our operations force in the immediate future. We want to do
training. We've had some customer service training that we've been unable to get to. We will have
them do that.
We'll also be retaining the workforce in case the call-offs due to the coronavirus become much
greater than they are now. So we're going to monitor this, and our immediate intention is to keep
everyone assigned either on the extra board, or in service training. And our hope is that we'll get
back to normal quick enough so that that will take care of our workforce.
We appreciate the fact that our workforce has been working with us for several years shorthanded,
and we respect that, and we appreciate that. And we want to continue to work with our employees
as long as we possibly can.
CLAUDIA L. FOLSKA: Well, so I want to just say, if I may. One of my concerns is that we have
a handful-- or more than a handful, but we have a number of employees who have been mandated
for the last 4, 5, 6 years, what have you. I would be very upset to learn that after we mandated
them, that then we let them go.

PAUL BALLARD: Yes. This is Paul Ballard again. This management team is absolutely solidly
with you on that. And it's our intent to continue to work with them.
CLAUDIA L. FOLSKA: OK. So then, am I also understanding that we will no longer have to
mandate anybody?
PAUL BALLARD: As of April 19, that is a correct assessment. Unless there are seriously radical
deteriorations in the present emergency that we're in.
CLAUDIA L. FOLSKA: Well, that sounds pretty darn good, that that virus solved that problem
real fast. OK, well, I'm in support of that. Thank you very much, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska. Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And thanks for all your work on this. I do support it. I
appreciate Mr. Ballard answering all my questions in the last few days. I have expressed concern
about-- that it takes till April 19. While we're mandating people, I would prefer to end the
mandating sooner and move on, but I guess either way, I'll be supporting it. I appreciate the fact
that our intent is to try to retain our workforce.
I'd like to know the actual recommended action doesn't give a lot of flexibility. It sort of adopts
the proposal as it is. And I have some specific concerns from my district. One of them is that the
FF5 is completely-- it doesn't run on Saturday, so it's not intended to run any day. That takes people
from Boulder to Anschutz Medical Campus, which is a number of hospitals. I don't know if there's
people still riding it or what that is, but that concerns me.
Same with the town of Lyons. It will be cut off. It doesn't have a grocery, or a pharmacy, or a
doctor. I'd like to see something added in there. Is there enough flexibility that we can discuss
some of those items, and do we need to change the language to give you that flexibility, Mr.
Ballard?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. If I may, I'll ask Jesse to address those issues.
JESSIE CARTER: So this is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service, Planning, and Scheduling. Thank
you, Director Guissinger, in pointing out those shortfalls in the current plan. However, in looking
at the Route Y, I have to say the ridership is extremely low. We will continue to monitor it,
however, before we go into the change.
And also, on the FF5, we looked at some other alternatives with combinations of connecting to
other services, and we felt that that was adequate. But we're more than willing to go back and take
a look at and reassess the FF5's present plan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So you got the flexibility to make those changes if we need to, and
we can discuss. Is that-- you're comfortable with that?

JESSIE CARTER: I am comfortable with that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. And this is Paul Ballard again, and it would be our intent to bring back
services as the ridership improves, and as we have employees to handle and operate the buses and
the trains. So that will be a very proactive process that we'll be engaged in every single day from
now on.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mm-hmm. Madame-KATE WILLIAMS: Madame Chair, this is Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like Director Guissinger to know that the immobility, who is supported in
some ways by RTD, is running service for medical trips from Boulder to Anschutz.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that right? Huh. I just talked to them-KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am. OK. Well, I'll see what they're offering now, see how it works.
Let's see. No, I think that-- I guess I would encourage-- if we can get this moving sooner, I would
love to see that happen, but I will support it. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Treasurer Guissinger. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Actually, I have a couple of questions. To
Director Folska's point, I'm curious as to-- about the fixed route private contractors. How are they
cared for in this way?
MICHAEL FORD: It's Michael Ford, COO. We're working through the issues right now that this
process will impact. So we will have to have some discussions about the level of service and how
we will handle that, and what provisions in the contract that need to be addressed. And so we're in
conversations right now, and we'll be pursuing that, and following up on how we make that work.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Michael. It seems to me that that would be included in this
plan. I know I've asked for the pandemic plan a few times, and I think it would be helpful if myself
and maybe the rest of the Board of Directors, if they're interested, had access to that pandemic
plan. Not the bullet points, but the specifics. That can maybe help us understand what this tiered
approach might be.
And the reason I bring that up-- a few. One, because I've asked for it a number of times. But also,
I think about us going to Saturday, Sunday service, and I'm not necessarily opposed to it, but I
would imagine, to Director Cook's point, that there are routes that are more productive than some,

and routes that are not as productive. And taking this cookie-cutter approach, I wonder if we may
look at our service reduction differently to include who the essential personnel are, and if we're
inadvertently harming them because we're just instantly going to a Saturday, Sunday reduction,
and that may not work for the folks who are still riding.
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce Abel, if I might.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, Mr. Abel.
BRUCE ABEL: I think Director Lewis raises a very good point. And I'd like to point out that while
the basis of the weekday schedule is the normal Saturday schedule, we have, Jessie and his team,
gone through and analyzed other routes. And so the basic Saturday, Sunday plan is supplemented
by additional services that would not normally operate on Saturdays or Sunday. And they are all
laid out in the Ford packet that was sent out yesterday. So you will see that there are additional
services above and beyond the Saturday service levels that have been included in the COVID-19
plan based on such considerations as ridership, essential services, et cetera.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, does that answer your question?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yes, it does. That's helpful. But I've also received calls from constituents
from-- they actually had to-- sooner than I did. And I had calls from constituents, on Sunday,
impacted only one, who had concerns that their routes, who were essential personnel, were actually
being impacted and causing them to not be able to access their employment because they're not
considered in this.
And that could be around ridership, but I think it's a fair question to ask, and a valid point to ask.
If we have essential personnel, how are we centering those folks who have to go to work and
cannot work from home in any proposal that we would put forward?
BRUCE ABEL: I think if there are any specific steps you would be able to forward to us, we'd be
glad to do that. For example, I would offer to the Board that the AA will have one more trip than
is outlined on this sheet in response to the fact that a specific on the AA providing access for
essential services, we needed to add one more trip than was outlined on this particular Board paper.
So we're more than willing to look at things on a specific basis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you, Mr. Abel.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. Thank you so much. I do appreciate this. So to Director-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right-SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm not finished. To Director-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK.

SHONTEL M. LEWIS: To Director Cook's point about the monitoring of our loads, I know I've
sent in numerous staff members, but I thought we could do a number of things in terms of limiting
the exposure of our operators to the virus, including suspending fares, having backdoor boardings,
but also readjusting our load standards and making the public aware to that, so that we were
actually operationalizing social distancing. So could you talk about how you all are not just
monitoring loads, but actually implementing social distancing into this plan, into our pandemic
plan, because I haven't seen that.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, at this point in time-- this is Paul Ballard speaking-- we don't have a
process as to who we would deny access to public transit services. We will monitor it, and if we
need to make adjustments, we can. But we don't really have the ability for our operators to deny
people access to the service. We would encourage any suggestions, but Michael Ford may have
some additional input.
MICHAEL FORD: And just as a point, I would be concerned about disenfranchising folks with
disabilities and others that need the lifts or ability to get on through the front door. I think those
are questions have come up. Our other issues, the fare and being able to address that issue. I noted
from some discussion with the ATU that those are issues that we are aware of and we'll have some
discussion. But we don't have a formulated plan at this point. I think it makes the service a little
bit more tenuous and difficult, so we're going to have to talk about that and see what's operational
in that, because that could also impact our service reliability, and our on-time boarding, and other
things that take place as a result of that.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah. I appreciate that. I think there are examples of other agencies
suspending fares and making exceptions to backdoor boardings for people with disabilities. It's not
perfect, but it's something that limits exposures to our riders and our operators.
And what I would suggest in terms of monitoring-- so monitoring is one thing, but I think being
proactive and saying, this is the number of people that a specific bus is going to carry to limit
exposure and to honor the 6 feet of social distancing makes sense. So some folks have talked about
sending out two buses that are following one another. But I think we can get creative in it, but if
we're not going to shut down our services, if we're going to stick with the Saturday, Sunday, I think
we're going to have to go through some extra measures to be able to protect our workforce and to
protect the riders as well from unnecessary exposure.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford again. I appreciate your comments. And we also have to grapple
with the safety of our passengers. We're finding that our passengers actually are taking it upon
themselves to socially distance themselves as a precautionary measure. So I think people are
exercising that as a general rule.
But again, back to your point about backdoor operations, and fares, and people with disabilities,
we do have to have some discussion about that. We're aware of it. We know that other transit
systems are doing that, but they have maybe different operational components that make it easier
for them. So I just would ask that we get back to you on that on how we're progressing, but we are
aware of the issue, and we'll try to see what we can do without compromising our service, our ontime performance, and other factors that we have to address.

SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I would push a bit harder than that, and I hope you take this respectfully.
I would push a bit harder on that, because I think there are some things that we could let go to
decide right now. So on-time performance is one of those in exchange for people being healthy
and not being unnecessarily exposed to a virus. And I can speak for myself as an individual that
I'd much rather my train or bus maybe not show up on time, than for me to have to deal with the
symptoms and the ills, and the cost, quite honestly, of contracting the virus. That's just me
personally.
To that end, I've had a number of conversations with operators, and I wonder if we think about a
tiered approach for taking care of our employees. I feel strongly that we should not be laying off
any of our employees, to Director Folska's point, after mandating for so many years.
But also, we have operators who I would imagine would elect to not work during this time, and
would instead take care of themselves physically. So I had an operator reach out to me today-- and
I've had a number of conversations with folks who say, I'm an older adult. I have to take care of
my mother. She has underlying conditions, and I'm concerned about exposing her to something
because I don't know if I've been exposed to it.
And so I wonder if there's room for us to just say, hey, are there operators who would prefer to
take time away and we figure out a policy that protects our operators, for them to be able to protect
themselves.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, Director Lewis, this is Paul Ballard again. You have basically gone
through every bullet point on the list that we are following, monitoring, and addressing. So thank
you for reinforcing them. I want you to know that we are looking at all of those issues and will
continue to do so.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thanks, I appreciate that. And then the last question I have for you all that
you've presented in the past is the equity analysis. And I don't think I saw this. And maybe it was
because I read it really late at night.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO. It was in the amended resolution, or the option
that you guys-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That was the May run.
MICHAEL FORD: The May run board. I'm sorry.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I thought that was for the May. I'm talking about the --in Denver.
JESSIE CARTER: Actually, I did get some information from-- I'm sorry, this is Jessie Carter,
Manager of Service, Planning, and Scheduling. We did get some information back from Bill Sirois
in our Planning Department as he had contacted the FTA to get guidance on Title VI review for a
temporary service change.

And in that information, it was stated that they had no guidance for us at this point, given that it is
a temporary change. And they were very, very open in that letter. I would like to actually send the
information to the Board of Directors as far as the statement from Bill Sirois.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK, yeah. I personally would really appreciate that. Yeah, I would just
really appreciate you sending that to us. And then the last thing that I will say is-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Lots of the question. The last thing that I will say is just my concern about
the timeline. I wanted to-- what other countries have learned is the sooner that you can constrain
mobility patterns-- I don't want to say easier it is, but the sooner that you're able to help to contain
this virus and limit the spread.
And I hope that we are remembering that, because I personally don't have to operate a bus. I am
not personally exposing myself to the virus. Well, I hope not, anyway. But I know a lot of our
operations are dependent on their income. A lot of the folks who are utilizing our services are
transit-dependent. Quite frankly, could be some of our low-income riders.
And I just hope that we are really centering those folks, and even in the language that we're using,
and not saying call-offs, but that people are out sick. That we're dealing with humans, and really
centering on humans and humanities in our decisions, and in our language, and as we're talking
about this. More now than ever, I think, that's our responsibility. That's all I have for today.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. You know, I do want to say that we
did all receive the equity analysis last Monday. And so we've all had time to take a look at it in a
deep dive. But I really appreciate all the questions that you've given us this evening. Director
Lubow, you're on.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: That's actually untrue. We received the equity analysis for the May service
changes. I was asking specifically about the equity analysis for the pandemic plan that's being
proposed.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: So there are actually two separate analysis'.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you for this chance to comment and talk to folks about this
important issue. I really support getting in place the pandemic service reductions that are necessary
to deal with this trauma that we're all experiencing.
I personally have a lot of concern about RTD's financial health. To me, we're clearly taking a big
hit having a full panoply of services going on, while at the same time our ridership has been
reduced enormously as well as our sales tax intake. And it just concerns me because I know that

we have underlying financial problems anyway, and this does not help. So I personally would urge
as much as possible that we get into this thing earlier than the 19th, if possible, for our financial
health and for the health of our operators also.
Also, I am interested in flexibility, because this thing is moving so quickly that we're being asked
really to vote on this change without the chance to make a lot of changes to it, or promote changes
to it. So I'm hoping that we will have the flexibility that when people come to us and say, this is
really not working, and it's really not fair, that we can talk about it with staff and perhaps get some
changes based on that.
The third issue that I had was I really liked a lot of the comments that folks were making, and the
public invited to be heard. They were very interesting, and I would love to hear a response, not
tonight, but perhaps in a report. People were raising the idea of, should there be hazard pay for our
employees that are forced to work? That's a concept that I hadn't had before. I imagine there are
folks that are thinking about this already, but I'd love to hear about that.
And I'd love to hear about the idea of, do we want to do the rear entry and even fare reductions the
way some other transits are doing? As well as promoting the senior specials and the shopping
specials. I think all of them deserve a hearing. Not so much a hearing, as I'd like to hear what our
staff thinks about these things. So it would be great if we could hear a report about that in your
free time, of course.
[CHUCKLES]
But anyway, so thank you so much for all the work you're doing, and I hope that you take into
consideration some of these ideas. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I'm going to look forward very much to our discussion next
week with Reimagine and where we sit financially. Now speaking to what we have before us right
now, one question I did put through email, and it may be in the works-- I know we've all been
juggling-- is to get a data set that generated this graph. And considering it is a span of February 1
through March 21, I wouldn't need even all the days, even perhaps something towards the
beginning on one day that was a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, and then one towards the
end, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday.
Having that data set of which regional routes had what ridership and so forth on the list would be
helpful. Could staff-- perhaps maybe Jessie or somebody else-- give me an idea whether I could
get those couple days, one towards the beginning of this graph, one towards the end?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop, CFO and AGM of the Finance
Administration. So I have the data set from the beginning-- I believe it was the beginning of March.
But it is by light rail, commuter rail, access-a-ride, bus. It is not broken down by routes. We are
putting that together manually on a daily basis, and that would be virtually impossible to do it by
route. But we do have the data set by mode by day. I can send you that-- the Board that.

NATALIE MENTEN: All right.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Would that work for Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, that would be a little helpful. Some of these slots on the bar graph are
a little bit hard to gauge what that means, so that would be helpful. And then I have two other
questions.
The commuter rail, it looks like we're having discussion with them. Will we potentially be having
an action item coming back to us about any service change with commuter rail?
PAUL BALLARD: This is Paul Ballard speaking. Let me answer the second part of your question.
The motion authorizes me to negotiate with our contractors and adjust the services commensurate
with what we're doing across the rest of the services. It's a much different process due to the nature
of the construction, the funding of those lines. But we are having those discussions. There have
been some specific proposals made, and we feel that we'll be moving on those rather expeditiously.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: And we'll advise the Board of what those changes are. But that's absolutely in
motion.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Good to know. And then, Chair, I do have one other question.
Comment actually.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Of course. Go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: And that is, looking at the financial picture, this didn't occur with COVID.
It didn't occur with the workforce. It's been a long-going problem. And that is the financial.
So when we speak to wanting to care for the employees and shift them potentially to other positions
on things like that, I have concern about what might be an implied promise that we can't make.
This agency as a whole, I feel we're having to look-- have a tough love discussion.
And I'm very, very hesitant to make promises. It seems to me, it's like the questions we've had
about FasTracks, and when we built the corridor, did we actually close out? Did those employees
then move on, or did they get shifted to a lateral position? And if the agency can't sustain them,
then we're going to have a problem.
So I just wanted to mention my own concerns about this. And I will just tell, out in the private
sector, if you've looked at job boards recently, and you looked and seen what's happening, the jobs
are disappearing. Honestly, if a bus driver wants to look somewhere else, they could. But it is not
pretty out there at all. And the government seems to think that they're insulated. And just, I'll leave
it at that. The jobs have-- very much big chunk of them evaporated. This is going to crush us.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director--

NATALIE MENTEN: And we can't fix this. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I completely understand. Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Not too much, just that I'm sure there'll be lots of other things that come up that
we haven't even thought of yet in the next few weeks. But I'm sure we'll all stay flexible and the
staff knows the-- or get ahead of stuff, and hopeful that as supplies become available, that those
will be distributed and try to keep everybody as safe as possible. But no, I'll be supportive of this.
Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. These are extremely trying times. I mean,
they're extraordinary times that obviously demand extraordinary measures. And what has been
proposed here tonight is a series of extraordinary measures that reflect the best judgment of our
senior leadership team, and of our extremely capable and talented interim General Manager.
So I'd like to highlight briefly just four things here. First, what the Board of Directors report on
this item expressly states, and what this record will now reflect in perpetuity, is that RTD will,
quote, "restore services as ridership returns on a case-by-case basis, hopefully sooner rather than
later. We would be excited to return the services prior to September based on ridership." End quote.
The second thing is that this bold, necessary, and justified action will also have the consequential
effect of radically reducing, if not entirely eliminating, the mandating of overtime by our operators.
This is important, and it should be noted by all who hear about these emergency measures.
Third, this plan will also honor and will take into account the further ridership losses that will be
occasioned by Mayor Hancock's stay-at-home order, which just went into effect about, what, three
and a half hours ago. While the city and county of Denver only constitutes 6% of our total district,
it is a significant portion of our ridership, and the mayor's order will obviously suppress ridership
levels even more.
Fourth and finally, I do want to express my own personal appreciation to the Amalgamated Transit
Union, Local 1001, for their unprecedented communication, collaboration, and cooperation in
helping to create an environment and a process where this plan can be implemented. As the only
teamster on the Board, I especially applaud the ATU.
And I note that the issues that were raised by President Longenbohn in his email to the Board this
afternoon, asking our staff to direct their attention to maximize the number of operators remaining
in service, and to schedule all employees' work to minimize the potential loss of these valuable
employees, well, I want to say, I join in that request, and I am confident, as our interim General
Manager has stated, that staff will responsibly address this reasonable request. So I am most
definitely in support of this emergency measure, and I encourage all of my fellow Directors to vote
yes on this recommended action. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker.

JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I'll be quick. I also want to thank staff, ATU, Board, Board support,
or Board staff, Board office staff, for all of their work in putting all of this together and getting us
to this point so that we have something to vote on. Yeah, these are definitely unprecedented times,
at least in any of our lifetimes, so I will be supporting the motion to implement the COVID-19
service changes. That's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, these unprecedented times call us
to be more flexible than we perhaps have ever been. And I am concerned about our built-in
flexibility to this plan. There are very valid concerns that have been raised by Directors Guissinger,
Lewis, and Menten, and others, about our need to be nimble during this time. And I guess I am
convinced, through the presentations, that we will be that way throughout the COVID plan at the
very minimum. And I will be very interested to watch that unfold, and watch changes being made
as quickly as possible to support our riders, and obviously to keep our operators safe.
I do appreciate Mr. Ford's hard work with ATU and the comments made to us by the ATU president
earlier today. I appreciate all that they have done in working with us. It is a team sport. With that,
I will be a supporting vote on this measure. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I thought that Director Tisdale was going to quote
from Thomas Paine, where he said "these are the times that try men's souls, but he that stands by
now deserves the thanks and love of man and woman." And that's a quote from many, many years
ago that's applicable now. I think that we are all conscious of how hard our people are working,
everybody at RTD, the danger that they are in, and we appreciate that. We appreciate our riders
and all of our staff. And I will definitely be in support of this move that we are making to adjust
to the times that we are in now. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. You know, I would just like to say
to all of you how much I really am so appreciative that we are together as a group. And I think that
there was a saying that said, you don't choose your time of life when you come together and what
issues that you have to deal with.
But this clearly is an unprecedented time. And for some reason, the universe has determined that
the 15 of us are going to help determine how we move forward proactively in the name of
community together.
I have to say to you that over the last couple of weeks, and as we've gone down this really crazy
road together, it has been damn scary. It has been unprecedented. It has been surreal. It has been
all of those words that you hope you never have to say in your lifetime. And I have really called
upon my ancestors, and I've looked at my grandbaby, and I've looked at my children. And I think
that I feel very comforted in knowing that I am surrounded by the expertise, the commitment, and
really just all of the depth of wisdom that the 15 people in this senior staff hold together. And so

with that, I'm feeling very confident that we are going to move forward, we are going to do amazing
work together, and it's going to take all of us to move this together.
So I want to thank you all for your comments. I know that this has been a really, really difficult
time. And I want to thank you for your depth, your wisdom, and your ability to be collaborative in
this method as we move forward.
So now, I would like to call for the vote on the recommended action again. And we'll proceed in
alphabetical order. So Ms. McManus, if you could help me do this. If you could start, please.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Can I ask a quick question?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: This is Director Lewis. Can I ask a quick question?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. So the question that I had was, how might some of the things
that the Directors raise be considered in terms of next steps? Because not only I'm curious about
that. I'm also curious around the flexibility of the profits, because I think that's something that's
hindering us as well, as well as a timeline that's not a month from now. So I'm just curious.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. You know what, Director Lewis, I'm going to just call for
the question, because we need to go through this process. So let me call for the question first. If
you could, Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA L. FOLSKA: Yes.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely yes. The COVID-19-- thank you-BARBARA MCMANUS: Passes initially.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you. And Director Lewis, I'd be happy to talk
with you offline on this. But what I'd like to do at this time is to ask if there are any other matters
to come before this Board.

OK. Seeing none, I will entertain a motion to adjourn from the-NATALIE MENTEN: Can I-- Director Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I just did want to say, thank you for having this audio-only versus video.
So-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh.
[CHUCKLES]
NATALIE MENTEN: I felt this is a, so much more comfortable situation when we're-[CHUCKLING]
From our homes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have to say, I agree.
NATALIE MENTEN: I am not in sweatpants, but I just wanted to share that after watching the
city council last night on video, I'm very glad we did audio. So I will leave it at that. OK, thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [CHUCKLES]
Thank you, ma'am. OK. If there's no other matters. OK. I will entertain a motion to adjourn.
KATE WILLIAMS: I move that we adjourn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Williams. Who's the second?
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Second.
CLAUDIA L. FOLSKA: Director Folska.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Folska. Thank you so very much. We adjourn. Thank you all for
participating and your flexibility. Good night.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you, good night.
DOUG TISDALE: Good night.

