Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

November 17, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
November 17, 2009 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fourteen (14) Board members were present at roll call.
call.

III.

Director Brohl arrived after the roll

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retirees for the month of November.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
Ron Dodsworth, Assistant General Manager for Operations, was recognized by the Board and
staff for over 25 years in the transit industry and for his 8 years at RTD. Chair Kemp
complemented Ron for the legacy he left in the bus operations and the depth of the bench that
worked under his leadership. He stated Ron could be happy and proud of what he
accomplished.
Director Martinez thanked Ron for being instrumental in helping new Board members and
especially him to understand operations. He appreciated the pushback from Ron as it helped
the Board to make more intelligent decisions.
Director Busck jokingly said he never liked Ron but then stated that when he came from
Thornton, he was concerned about the staff. However, they exceeded his expectations and
helped him to get information to do his job. They were always honest and upfront.
Director Daly in his humorous style said he was sad to see Ron go and asked if he had a spare
bedroom in Florida. Ron responded back in equal humor that he had a spare bedroom called
the “Denver Suite” for his friends, Sadly, Director Busck could not qualify.
Director Tayer thanked Ron and acknowledged him for letting the Board members get behind a
bus and participate in the roadeo. His legacy will live on.
Interim General Manager Phil Washington commented on behalf of the staff and thanked Ron
for his contributions and sense of humor. He described the plaque to Ron who was
participating via phone line and stated the plaque was made by the sign shop that reported to
Ron. He stated Mike Gil and company are all doing a good job in stepping in for Ron. This
attested to his leadership abilities. We are all a small family in the transit industry and we will

miss his presence at RTD.
Ron Dodsworth commented it was an honor for him to work at RTD and he did not want to
leave without saying goodbye to his friends and staff. In his 37 years doing a number of
transit projects, he feels he had the best people in Denver—the best direct reports, Mike,
Dean, Greg, Lisa, John and the best team in operations to get the job done. He will miss all of
his friends at RTD. However, one of the things he has quickly gotten into is he now hold an
elected office in Florida. He is the Vice-Chair of Cocoa Beach Wine Club, a dubious
experience. He will take from the page what Chair Kemp and the Directors have shown him.
He wishes the best to the crew, leadership and staff. Phil Washington will make a great
General Manager. Thank you and he leaves RTD with a heavy heart. He will be sweating his
way through life on the beach.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Dick Coulson, Lakewood, discussed some of his experiences with access-a-Cab and requested a
review to see what is going on.
Director Brohl asked a clarifying question about the process to call in for an access-a-Cab. She
and Bruce Abel, AGM will have a follow-up discussion.
Rick McNeal, Denver, echoed the issues presented by Mr. Coulson and offered to serve on a
committee for access-a-Cab. He also expressed some concerns over snow removal at 9 th &
Corona by Front Range and offered to serve on a committee to review the contract.
Chair Kemp spoke about a housekeeping item that requests the Board members to give staff,
constituents, presenters, etc their undivided attention and respect and to conduct themselves
appropriately. That means putting the cell phones on vibrate or if needed, take the call outside
of the Board area.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Director Chacon requested a correction to the Operations minutes, page 6.

VI.

GM TRANSITION AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Chair Busck deferred his comments to the executive session held later.

VII.

METRO MAYORS REPORT
Chair Kemp shared that next Monday, November 23, 2009 the Metro Mayors Task Force
would have their sales tax peer review. The findings will be brought back to the committee on
December 10, 2009. Mayor Ed Tauer, Aurora, had presented his bucket proposal which
promotes that if any new revenue stream comes through, the corridors that are not getting
anything will get these dollars first. They are working through how project funds will be
prioritized, allocated, etc. On December 16, 2009 the team will examine the bucket concept.
Chair Kemp shared that Julie Skeen and Bill VanMeter have presented the requested
information in an open and transparent manner and have real consensus and good interaction
with the Metro Mayors.
Director Christopher added that one of the added benefits to attending these sessions is you
can get a lot through body language, dialogue and tone of voice. This shows strengths and
areas of disagreement or contention.
Director McMullen indicated he will attend the December 16, 2009 session. This session
starts at 7:30 a.m. and will be at the Denver Chamber of Commerce.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF October 20, 2009
MOTION:

Director McMullen moved for the adoption of the October 20,
2009 regular board meeting minutes.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15 votes in favor and 0
against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 Plan for Independent Expert Review of RTD’s Annual Program
Interim General Manager, Phil Washington shared they are putting together a peer
review team for the construction/capital cost estimates for FasTracks that is scheduled
for December 1, 2009. Participants will be from various agencies including DRCOG,
CDOT, Chief Economist from the Association of Contractors, and other agencies.
 Stakeholder Involvement in Eagle P3 Proposal Evaluations
Staff is preparing letters for stakeholders to take part in the technical evaluations for
the Eagle P3 proposals. They will not be reviewing the cost estimates. Interim General
Manager Phil Washington will let the Board know who the stakeholders will be but it is
expected they will not be from an agency/company that plans to do business with RTD.
This will be an independent review.
 Record of Decision (ROD) Event
The Record of Decision event to commemorate the completion of the East Line and
Gold environmental planning processes is scheduled for Friday, November 20, 2009 at
DIA. We are expecting 50-100 people and will provide great visibility to RTD. The bus
will leave from 1600 Blake Street at 9:00 a.m.
Director Busck expressed his regrets in not being able to attend this event.
 Reminder-Study Session-State of the District
Interim General Manager Phil Washington will provide the State of the District address
in a study session on November 24, 2009. All of the departments will be represented
and he will keep his presentation to a high level focusing on the top three 2009
accomplishments, 2010 goals and challenges.


Re-starting Operation Give-a-Gift
Interim General Manager Phil Washington stated Operation Give-a-Gift had been relaunched under the auspice of the Diversity committee. They have identified four
agencies; two working with children and two working with senior citizens. These
agencies are located in Directors James, Chacon and Martinez districts and they expect
to donate around 1000 gifts.
Director Brohl asked for copies of the Operation Give-a-Gift memo indicating the type of
gifts requested, to be distributed to the Board members who may want to participate.



Breakfast with Small Businesses
Interim General Manager Phil Washington will present on FasTracks to a small group
forum on November 18, 2009.

X.



Reminder-Eagle P3 Economic Outreach Event
Interim General Manager Phil Washington indicated the Eagle P3 concessionaires will be
here on Wednesday, November 18, 2009 to review their plans and do a meet & greet
with the SBE/DBE community in the afternoon. They are expecting around 260 people.
Phil would also like the concessionaries to conduct a job fair in the near future.



Director Christopher complimented Interim General Manager Phil Washington on setting
up small group discussion employee forums throughout the district and said this kind of
personal interaction goes a long way.



Director Daly asked for a status of the dedication of Dennis Cole memorial from the
Interim General Manager. Phil Washington stated this was a great event that was well
attended by approximately 100 people. Dennis Cole’s family was present. Directors
Daly and Tayer were in attendance. Phil Washington thanked the Board for allowing
them to do this and thanked the PI team (Pauletta Tonilas and Scott Reed) for all their
work.



Director Bagley shared that he and Director James had participated in the University of
Denver Real Estate expo where approximately 800 people attended. This is one of the
largest commercial real estate events. Interim General Manager Phil Washington
presented.



Director McMullen commented on how well the park-n-rides were cleaned following the
recent snowstorm.



Director Bagley requested paper copies of the weekly General Manager’s Report.

PUBLIC HEARING FOR 2010 RECOMMENDED BUDGET
Chair Kemp read the script for the public hearing for the 2010 recommended budget, a copy of
which is contained herein with these minutes. He asked if anyone in the audience wanted to
make any public remarks. Hearing none, the public hearing was closed and the motion made
to accept the 2010 recommended budget.
A.

2010 Recommended Budget
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2009 for the adoption of the 2010
Budget, and Resolution No. ___, Series of 2009 for the 2010 Budget
Appropriation. The 2010 Appropriation includes the following amounts:
2010
BASE SYSTEM (0.6%)
Recommended
2010 Operating Expenditures
$371,862,632
2010 Interest Expenditures
26,027,488
2010 New Capital and Principal Payments
80,008,231
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
0
Transit Development Reserve
1,713,141
Base System (0.6%) 2010 Appropriation
$479,611,492
Base System (0.6%) Previously Approved Capital

FASTRACKS (0.4%)
2010 Operating Expenditures
2010 Interest Expenditures

$149,059,603
2010
Recommended
$19,919,730
47,029,536

2010 New Capital and Principal Payments
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
FasTracks (0.4%) 2010 Appropriation

408,014,839
30,000,000
$504,964,105

FasTracks (0.4%) Previously Approved Capital

$528,079,773

2010 Operating Expenditures
2010 Interest Expenditures
2010 New Capital and Principal Payments
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
District-wide 2010 Appropriation

2010
Recommended
$391,782,362
73,057,024
488,023,070
30,000,000
1,713,141
$984,575,597

District-wide Previously Approved Capital

$677,139,377

DISTRICT-WIDE

It is further recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2009 for the appropriation of Previously
Approved Capital Funds in the amount of $677,139,377.
MOTION:

Director Tayer made the motion to approve the 2010
recommended budget and the adoption of resolution
No. ___, Series of 2009 for the appropriation of
Previously Approved Capital Funds in the amount of
$677,139,377.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

XI.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to approve the unanimous
agenda items B through M, excluding item I which had
been pulled by staff. He also shared that relative to a
previous question that had been asked about item J,
Lease with Boulder County Railway Historical Society, if
there were any cost, the response is still no but RTD will
receive $5000 per year for the license to use the tracks.
MOTION:

Director Busck made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda items B through M but
excluding item I.
Director Chacon seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

B.

Approval of Sixth Year (2010) Contract Amendment to Jacobs Engineering for
FasTracks Program Support Services to Consultant (PSC)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the fifth year contract award
to Jacobs Engineering, in the amount of $19,209,117 for Program Support
Services Consulting for FasTracks for the year 2010. Funds for the award are
contained in the 2010 FasTracks budget.

C.

Approval of Sixth Year (2010) Contract Amendment to Delcan for FasTracks
Quality Management Consultant Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to approve the sixth year contract
amendment for Delcan in the amount of $600,000 for Quality Management Consulting
Services for FasTracks for the year 2010. Funds for the amendment are contained in
the 2010 RTD FasTracks Budget.

D.

Approval of Sixth Year Contract Award to Strategic Community Partners for the
FasTracks Public Information/Involvement Consultant Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the sixth-year contract award
to
Strategic
Community
Partners,
the
current
FasTracks
Pub lic
Information/Involvement Consultant, in the amount of $1,0 50,464 for Public
Information/Involvement, Communications and Public Outreach consulting work
for FasTracks for the year 2010. Funds for the award are contained in the 2010
FasTracks Budget.

E.

Approval of Contract Amendment to Front Range Systems Consultant (FRSC) for
FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the Contract Amendment to Front
Range Systems Consultant (FRSC), in the amount of $908,712 bringing the total
authorized contract value to $30,570,017. Funds for the contract are contained in the
2010 Recommended Budget for FasTracks.

F.

Authorization to the General Manager for Contract Amendment for FasTracks
Environmental Contract with Walsh Environmental Scientists and Engineers, LLC
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the Interim General Manager to amend work order contract 15-DO-037 with
Walsh Environmental Scientists and Engineers, LLC for an additional $5,000,000 to a
revised not to exceed amount of $8,000,000. It is also recommended that the Board
of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager authority to amend this contract as
necessary to address FasTracks environmental remediation/clean-up issues to avoid or
minimize project impacts and schedule delays due to environmental issues. RTD will
continue to report extensively to the board including the regular monthly reports and
periodic updates to the Board committees. Major decisions will be discussed with the
Board prior to action.

G.

Authorization to the General Manager for Contract Amendment for FasTracks
Environmental Contract with LT Environmental, Inc.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the Interim General Manager to amend work order contract 15-DO-007 with
LT Environmental, Inc. for an additional $5,000,000 to a revised not to exceed amount
of $8,000,000. It is also recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the
Interim General Manager authority to amend this contract as necessary to address
FasTracks environmental remediation/clean-up issues to avoid or minimize project
impacts and schedule delays due to environmental issues. RTD will continue to report

extensively to the board including the regular monthly reports and periodic updates to
the Board committees. Major decisions will be discussed with the Board prior to action.

XII.

H.

Budget Transfer for FasTracks Communication System Upgrades
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the transfer of up to $3.8 million from the FasTracks Light Rail Maintenance
Facility Expansion capital project to the FasTracks System Improvements capital project
to fund improvements to the existing light rail communications system to accommodate
West Corridor construction. Funding for this project is included in the 2009 Amended
Budget for the FasTracks Light Rail Maintenance Facility Expansion capital project.

J.

Lease with Boulder County Railway Historical Society
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board
authorize the Interim General Manager to enter into an agreement with the Boulder
County Railway Historical Society (BCRHS) to license all or a portion of RTD Boulder
Industrial Lead railroad right-of-way located west of I-25 and east of US 287 for a
period of ten years, with potential extensions. BCRHS will pay RTD $5000 per year for
the license to use the tracks.

K.

access-a-Cab Program Funding Increase
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to increase the purchase orders for
access-a-Cab service with Colorado Cab and Metro Taxi by $132,000 and $268,000
respectively. This will result in purchase order totals for 2009 of $432,000 for
Colorado Cab and $568,000 for Metro Taxi.

L.

Resolution No.___, Series of 2009 related to the issuance of RTD Refunding
Certificates of Participation
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number ___ (the “COP Resolution”),
authorizing the execution and delivery of a sixth amendment to a previously executed
and amended Master Lease Purchase Agreement II and matters relating thereto and
allowing for the District to issue Regional Transportation District Refunding Certificates
of Participation (the “Refunding COPs”).

M.

Resolution No.___, Series of 2009 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax
Revenue Refunding Bonds
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number___ (the “Bond Resolution”),
authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation District Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds (the “Refunding Bonds”).

RECOMMENDED ACTION
N.

Light Rail Vehicle Exterior Advertising
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Interim
General Manager or his designee be authorized to add exterior light rail vehicle
advertising to the contract with Lamar Advertising of Denver previously approved at
the October 2009 Board meeting. This addition to the contract would increase the
revenue to RTD by either: 1) a minimum guarantee of $500,000 in 2010, $1.2 million
in 2011 and $1.6 million in 2012 or 2) sixty percent of net sales, whichever is greater.

MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve Light Rail
Vehicle Exterior Advertising.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Pulliam indicated that he was not around when
the committee passed this but he cannot support this
action item. It is a desecration of the RTD image and it
makes the RTD district look bad. He also reminded the
group that when he came on board around 10 years ago,
they had the opposite issue where they voted to remove
wraps from buses.
Director O’Boyle endorsed the comments from Director
Pulliam and stated this was an insignificant amount of
money compared to our mission to operate vehicles that
are safe and clean. He is concerned that our image will
be affected for a long time. He also cannot support this
action.
Director McMullen thanked God that this Board had not
been around when Michelangelo painted the Sistine
ceiling or we would have voted that down. He feels
given the economics and financial challenges we are
facing, staff should be directed to do a full wrap to get as
much money as they can. He will vote in support of this
action.
Director Daly noted that only 60% of the vehicle fleet
would be wrapped.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Cohen,
Daly, James, Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, Tayer and
Tobiassen) and 2 against (O’Boyle and Pulliam).
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

O

Acquisition of Property at Mineral Light Rail Station; 4-Car Platform Extension
(From Executive Session)
MOTION:
Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
acquisition of property at Mineral Light Rail Station: 4 Car
Platform extension.
Director Chacon seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor and 0 against
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

XIII.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no unfinished business.

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS
There was no new business.

XV.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

Director Busck made the motion to approve an executive
session for the purpose to discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(f)
Personnel Matters.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor and 0 against.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.
Chair Kemp announced the meeting would adjourn from executive session upstairs.
XVI.

ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned to executive session upstairs at 6:45 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, November 17, 2009

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Bruce Daly, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Kent Bagley
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bill James
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen

District I
District B
District K
District N
District O
District H
District D
District C
District J
District M
District A
District E
District G
District L
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
Kevin Diviness
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Mike Gil
Ed Gonzales
Martha Hecox
Terry Howerter
Marla Lien
OTHERS PRESENT:
Chris Taylor – Spectrum A/V
Bob Wilson – GLAC
Dick Coulson
Matt Armitamp – BCRHS
Daryl Kinton
Chris Reitsma – LTK
Rick McNeal
Sharon Terranova – DRCOG
Ed Bush – CRMCA
Steve Cook
Doug Connor

Caitlin Magee
Tony McCaulay
Robert Merriman
Brian Middleton
Paula Perdue
John Perry
Scott Reed
Teresa Sedmak
Cal Shankster
Davey Shelley
John Shonsey

Bill Sirois
Julie Skeen
Stan Szabelak
John Tarbert
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington
Greg Yates

