Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services Committee held on
Tuesday, September 9, 2008
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

September 9, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services
Committee meeting held on Tuesday, September 9, 2008 at 7:13 p.m. in Rooms, R, T &
D
***

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Not Present:

Chair John Tayer, Directors Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton,
McMullen, Martinez, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, and Yamrick
Juanita Chacon

Staff Present:

Bill Holmes, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Phil Washington, Jim Sutton, Marla Lien, Cal
Marsella, Terry Howerter, Robert Merriman, Teresa Sedmak, Pat Seifert, Bruce Abel,
Dave Genova, Cal Shankster, Lisa Trujillo, and Paula Perdue.

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News), Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Rick McNeal

Call to Order:

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 7:13 p.m.

I.

Recommended Action


Reimbursement Resolution for CAD/AVL and Fareboxes
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt the Resolution No.__, Reimbursement Resolution for CAD/AVL and Bus
Fare Boxes, expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed for certain expenses
relating to the procurement of bus fare boxes, radio communications systems which
support voice and data communications featuring computer aided dispatching and
automated vehicle location (CAD/AVL) functionality and related equipment.
Phil Washington indicated that they are currently looking at RFP and will bring back to the
board in the next 30-45 days.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services Committee held on
Tuesday, September 9, 2008
Page 2 of 3

Motion:

Director Ruchman made a motion to forward this
item onto the September 16, 2008 Board Meeting
Agenda.

Second:

Director Busck seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Ruchman made a request for a correction
to the title of the resolution.

Vote on
Motion:
II.

The motion passed unanimously.

Internal Audit Report
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Public Affairs announced that Sr. Internal Auditor,
Barbara Willis is retiring and her last day is this Friday and Bill Holmes will be acting. Bill
indicated to the board that they are in the process of starting to plan for 2009 audits and that
a memo will be going out to Senior Staff shortly.
Dave Ruchman inquired about the amendments to the David Evans contract – Bill will review
the audit and get back to Dave. Dave also made inquires on the health care provisions in the
service contracts.

III.

Enterprise Resources Program (ERP) Implementation Phase Closeout Report (Washington)
Cal informed the board that all 4 phases are complete and there is a $750,000.00 surplus. Cal
is recommended that 4 key staff be kept on board for post implementation. A portion of the
$750,000.00 will be used for the support. It took a full-time staff of 8-10 people to get the
system up and running. Chair Lee Kemp expressed his appreciated to the staff for successful
implementation.
Phil Washington informed the board that starting next month they are going to start to report
commodities.

IV.

Budget Update/2009-2014 TDP
Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer indicated that in regards to the TDP Option 2 has
changed slightly – fare increase went up $500,000.00 to 11.7 million and the eco pass
restructuring is set at 3 million. The advertising on light rail trains dropped to $300,000.00.
The TDP will be discussed further on September 23, 2008.
The budget completion calendar was revised but it will not work because the date that staff
chose was October 7th which is when the APTA Annual Conference is. Phil Washington will
review the calendar.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services Committee held on
Tuesday, September 9, 2008
Page 3 of 3

A list of long-term strategies was handed out and will be discussed at the next
Financial/Administration Committee meeting as requested by John Tayer.
V.

July Financial Status Report
Robert Merriman discussed the highlights of this report. Please refer to the handout for
specifics.

VI.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

VII.

Next Meeting Date
The next Financial/Administration Committee meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, October
14th.

VIII.

Adjourn
Hearing no objection, Chair Tayer adjourned the Financial/Administration Committee meeting at
7:47 pm.

