1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee
Wednesday, October 28, 2020
REMOTE MEETING
8:00 AM
720-443-6193
Meeting ID: 389 820 203#

Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee
Chaired by Angie Rivera-Malpiede

A. Call to Order
B. Committee Charter

• Objective of Committee
• Identify Output/Outcomes
C. Current Crime/Security Statistics/Trends
D. Existing Security Model - History
E. Other Matters
F. Next Meeting Date - November 4, 2020
G. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee

Date: October 23, 2020

From:

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Board Chair & Director,
District C

GM

Date:

October 23, 2020

Board Meeting Date: October 28, 2020

Subject:

Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee Charter

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Safety and Security Ad Hoc Committee - Charter

(PDF)

Prepared by:
John McKay, Board Office Administrator
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.3.a

Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee Charter

•
•

•

•

RTD has an obligation to ensure the safety, security, and accessibility of the transit
system.
To this end, the agency employs a security model that includes RTD Transit Police
Officers, contracted security, and Secondary Employment Police Officers who are
collectively responsible for physical security across the District and who regularly
enforce compliance with the Board-approved Code of Conduct to establish, convey,
and regulate appropriate behavior on RTD vehicles, facilities, and property.
The ad hoc committee (committee) was created for the purpose of reviewing the
current RTD Security Model to ensure that the agency:
o Continues to work toward preserving the safety, security, and accessibility of
RTD’s transit system for all our patrons;
o Addresses the needs of RTD and all of its customers;
o Minimizes agency exposure/liability;
o Continues to maintain statutory and regulatory compliance and to incorporate
industry best practices with respect to its security operations.
Additionally, the committee will review the effectiveness of uniformed sworn law
enforcement versus contracted armed security, and the incorporation of mental
health services, through examination of industry best practices.

•

APTA Peer review may be utilized subsequent to committee findings to validate the
Security Model.

•

The committee will present its findings to the Board, with the anticipation that:
o Any substantive changes to the security model will be presented to the Board
no later than December 2020;
o Any changes identified will be implemented as soon as practicable in 2021.

Authorization:
•

Pursuant to the Board Bylaws,1 the Chair of the Board is authorized to establish ad
hoc committees.

1

Article VI, Section 2:
OTHER COMMITTEES. The Chair of the Board of Directors may establish and
appoint such other special or ad hoc committees as the Chair deems appropriate,
including designating the Chair of any such special or ad hoc committees. All such
special or ad hoc committees shall be evaluated annually by the new Chair of the Board
for update, change of committee members or dissolution, as appropriate.
Rev. 10/23/2020
Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: Safety and Security Ad Hoc Committee - Charter (4370 : Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee Charter)

Committee Purpose:

1.B.3.a

•

The current Chair of the Board is Angie Rivera-Malpiede. The Chair of the Board
shall serve as Committee Chair.

•

Chair Rivera-Malpiede appointed the following Directors to serve as committee
members:
o Shontel Lewis, District B
o Lynn Guissinger – District O
o Jeff Walker – District D
o Kate Williams – District A
In addition, Chair Rivera-Malpiede appointed the following staff members from RTD
to serve on the committee:
o Mike Meader, Chief Safety Officer and AGM of Safety, Security, & Asset
Management
o Marisela Sandoval, Associate General Counsel

•

o

Bob Grado, RTD Chief of Police and Emergency Management

o
o
o

Steve Martingano, Deputy Chief of Police
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office
John McKay, Board Office Administrator (appointed to provide meeting and
technical resources)

Roles and Responsibilities:
•

Chair of the Committee:
o Presides over committee meetings.
o Working closely with the Board Office and the Department of Safety, Security,
& Asset Management, establishes and confirms an agenda for each meeting.
o Reviews and approves meeting minutes.
o Schedules all committee meetings and calls for additional committee meetings, if
necessary.
o Invites additional subject matter experts as necessary.
o Ensures that discussion of agenda items is on-topic and productive.
o Working closely with Chief Safety Officer Mike Meader, serves as co-lead for the
creation of the report to the Board regarding the committee’s findings.

•

All Committee Members:
o Preparedness: Preview presentations/materials and review committee minutes
provided by staff before the meeting and come prepared to discuss or take
appropriate action on items brought before the committee.
o Participation: Participate actively as committee members’ active participation and
input is essential for the development of the final report to the Board.

Rev. 10/23/2020
Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: Safety and Security Ad Hoc Committee - Charter (4370 : Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee Charter)

Committee Composition:

1.B.3.a

•

•
•
•

As soon as practicable, the Chief Safety Officer will submit an agenda to the Board
Office staff with the appropriate reports, informational materials, or other
documentation on recommendation of the Committee Chair.
The agenda, backup materials, and minutes of each meeting will be posted on the
Board’s Meeting Portal.
The committee’s meetings are open to the full Board at all times and allow for
discussion and input from Directors who are not members of the committee.
The currently adopted Board of Directors Operating Guidelines are to be recognized
at all meetings.

Reporting Requirements:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

All committee meetings are noticed and recorded per open meetings/open records
requirements.
Meetings with three or more Directors present are considered open meetings and
must be noticed and posted at least 24 hours before the meeting.
It is anticipated that the committee meetings will be held remotely; a public dial-in
number, meeting link, or both will be published along with each meeting agenda.
All meetings must have approved agendas.
Minutes of each meeting are taken and included in the monthly Board agenda for the
formal Board meeting.
Minutes are reviewed by the Committee Chair and Executive Manager.
Minutes from the committee meetings are permanent records and retained in the
Board office via the MinuteTraq document management system or per the document
management or record storage system that is used by the agency at that time.
The minutes of each meeting, along with the meeting’s audio or video recording and
full-text transcript, are made available to the public via the Meeting Portal within a
reasonable time after the meeting.

Staffing Requirements:
•

•

•
•

•

Directors rely on external consulting sources, the Executive Manager, the Department
of Safety, Security, & Asset Management, and other agency staff for preparation of
presentations, reports, and other materials used in the committee meetings.
In addition to Directors, the committee consists of several subject matter experts
whose role is to provide critical analysis of the impact of the revisions to the agency’s
security model and to advise in the creation of the final report to the Board.
The committee may seek additional specialized expertise as needed.
The Executive Manager participates in meetings, addresses questions or concerns
raised by Directors, and submits any reports or materials specified by the Directors
appointed to the committee.
The Executive Manager and the Chief Safety Officer review the agenda with the
Rev. 10/23/2020
Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: Safety and Security Ad Hoc Committee - Charter (4370 : Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee Charter)

Operating Procedures:

1.B.3.a

Committee Chair prior to the committee meetings.

•

•

•
•

The committee is slated to meet from 8:00 to 9:30 a.m. beginning Wednesday,
October 21, 2020, and from 8:00 to 9:30 a.m. every Wednesday thereafter through
December 2, 2020.
The Committee Chair may decide to cancel or postpone a scheduled committee
meeting and may add supplementary meetings as necessary to complete the
committee’s work.
Prior to the meeting, the Committee Chair meets with the staff to discuss or review
the agenda and any items of concern.
The Committee Chair has the flexibility to change the order of the agenda when
deemed appropriate.

Reporting Process:
•
•
•

The committee is tasked with creating a formal report to the Board that incorporates
the findings of the committee members.
The Committee Chair, working closely with the Chief Safety Officer, has sole
discretion over the content and format of the committee’s final report.
The Committee Chair will present the final report to the Board no later than December
8, 2020.

Approval Process:
• Following the conclusion of the work of the ad hoc committee, staff may bring forth a
recommended action, informed by the committee’s deliberations and findings, for
consideration by the Board.
• Any such action recommended by staff is anticipated to be considered during the
Operations & Customer Service Committee meeting scheduled for December 8, 2020.

Rev. 10/23/2020
Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Safety and Security Ad Hoc Committee - Charter (4370 : Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee Charter)

Meeting Schedule and Process:

