2020-10-28 Ad Hoc Safety and Security
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is 8:02 AM, Wednesday, October 28th already. I cannot not
believe how the time is going by. I'd like to call to order the first ad hoc committee on security.
I'd like to take roll calls. So I have Director Jeff Walker.
Fred Jensen. Mike Meader, our Assistant General Manager. Director Lewis. Director Williams.
Chief Grado. Director Guissinger. Our Assistant General Counsel, Marisela. Steve, Assistant
Deputy Security Chief. Steve, Say your last name please.
STEVE MARTINGANO: It's Martingano.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Martingano. OK. Am I missing anyone?
MIKE MEADER: And Mike Meader's on. I'm not sure if you said my name or not.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I have you, Mr. Meader.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Good morning, Director Malpiede. Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Ops, on
also.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, thank you, sir.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Barbara McManus, I didn't-- Barbara McManus. I didn't hear my
name.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Thank you. And there was someone else. OK. I think we're
good to go. Well listen, I want to thank all of you for taking time out of your schedule at 8:00
AM to meet with us. We will be meeting for the next several Wednesday mornings to talk about
our whole security department at RTD.
What is happening currently, what we have in place, what the plans are, so we can brief the
Board. As you know, we had a security code of conduct ad hoc committee that was formed in
about April, if I believe correctly. And we reported to the RTD Board of Directors that we did a
thorough review of the code of conduct, changed quite a few things, and presented it to the
Board for approval, and that was approved in July.
This is the second piece of that will be completed by December to take to the Board of Directors,
to really do a deep dive into our whole department of security. What is in place, what are the
plans? How do we move forward? Is there a peer review?
Do we have mental health workers? We just want to get a really comprehensive look at all of the
components that are in this division. So with that, I'd like to turn it over to Mr Meader.

MIKE MEADER: Thank you, Madam Chair. I wanted to, obviously, spend a little bit of time
here this morning and of course, first of all, in keeping with our focus on our core value of
safety, I wanted to just a brief safety moment. And it was my oversight not making sure that was
on the agenda.
But I just wanted to remind everybody again, I know you've heard this a million times, about the
COVID 19 pandemic. Things are on the rise. In fact, what we're experiencing here in Denver is
the highest positivity test rate we've had since the pandemic was announced. We're also seeing a
very, very sharp rise in cases and hospitalizations.
And although the death rate is down, there's obviously some concern that as we get into the flu
season, the trajectory is certainly going in the wrong direction for the pandemic. So the state and
the cities and counties are cracking down, pulling restrictions, making them tighter.
They've just recently closed gymnasiums, reduced capacities at restaurants. Reduced the
gatherings and required face coverings outside and other areas where they're currently were not
enforcing or requiring those. So I just want to remind everybody again, that we are in a situation
where we're seeing that increase.
We've got the flu season and the wintertime coming where you're going to be indoors more
likely. Which is always a an opportunity to spread things. So really, just try to limit-- be inside,
be with those people you know and of what their habits have been and whatnot.
Continue to wash your hands, wear your face covering everywhere you go. To really, really be
cautious here as we're seeing this thing spike and hopefully we can slow it down and get it turned
around. So just a reminder, I know you hear that a lot.
But if we don't see things change, we're going to see more restrictions. Stay at home order is
going to be back in place. And of course, that creates anxiety for everyone. So just be safe out
there. I also wanted to-- so first thing we wanted to do, and just looking at a long range plan here.
We did want to take some time to go through the charter today and make sure we come up with
an agreed upon outcome. What is the product we want we want to produce out of the committee
to brief the Board and really make sure that we've got a solid direction moving forward as we
take a look at our security model and the way we think is best applied moving forward.
We're going to take some time today to go through just some high level statistics and what is
happening across the country and, more specifically, here on our RTD system from a crime
perspective and some of the trends we're seeing. And then take a little time to go through some
of the history of basically, RTD from a security perspective.
Where it started, how we got to where we are today, some of the requirements that the FTA or
the TSA put on us to ensure that we're compliant with the requirements. And above all else, just
keeping people safe, our employees and our customers safe and secure on our system.

And then in following meetings, we'll take a look, a little bit more specifically, at the roles of
each of the groups in our security model. Because I think there's a little bit of clarity that could
be gained and shined on why we have the model we have.
It'll also help us understand any changes that we make and the impact of those changes on the
system. And then, of course, we'll talk about some of the changes to the training that each of
those groups get. And I want to make those two very interactive.
So if there's questions along the way, please don't hesitate to ask the questions. I want to make
sure everyone's very comfortable and informed as we go through this. So that's just a little bit of
a preview of where I see the committee meetings going.
But I did want to take a few minutes just to go through the charter. Hopefully everyone's had a
chance to read the charter. And make sure everyone understands and is OK with the direction,
again, and the way it's stated in the charter. And then we'll talk a little bit about the outcome.
So the charter, obviously, it states that RTD has an obligation to make sure that the transit system
is safe, secure, and also accessible. We spent a lot of time, as the Chair said, back in April
through June, at the code of conduct ad hoc committee, really going through it to make sure that
we were number one, ensuring the safety and security of people, but also making sure that we
were applying and enforcing the code of conduct in a way that it shows an equitable application.
It still continues to ensure that accessibility to transit. I think we came out of that with a really,
really strong revised code of conduct, certainly that everyone was in agreement with. But from
the security and the safety standpoint, we currently employ a security model that includes RTD
transit police. It includes contracted security.
That's the Allied Universal Force, both armed and unarmed now, as we have the transit safety
ambassadors on the in line. We also have secondary employment police officers and they're
responsible, again, all of these people, collectively, for the physical security across the district
and for enforcement of the code of conduct at all of the facilities, all of our vehicles, any
property that our RTD owns and operates on.
We created this ad hoc committee to ensure that the work that we do here continues to work
towards preserving that safety and security. Make sure we address all the needs, again, as far as
the equitable application and the accessibility.
We also want to make sure that we're taking a look and keeping in mind that we want to make
sure the security model minimizes any exposure or liability that the agency has, obviously. And
continues to maintain any kind of statutory or regulatory compliance that is required, looking at
industry best practices with respect to the way we operate.
We're going to shine a little more light on and concentrate a little bit on the effectiveness of the
uniform sworn law enforcement versus the contract armed security, and also how we are
planning to incorporate the mental health services and some of the homeless outreach through
examination, again, of best practices of what we've learned so far.

And with some of the plans we have to apply those, as well. We did mention, after peer review,
maybe utilize subsequent to committee findings just to kind of validate things. I think it's always
a good idea anyway, to have these peer reviews after officers to third party.
These are folks that are experts across the country. They typically will send in a team of five or
six people to just really come in and look at all of our operations, all of the way we apply our
security model, and let us know where they think we could potentially be better.
What any kind of concerns that they have are and really, really help us get better. These are very
effective tools that the industry offers out there and we can decide as a committee whether or not
that's something we want to move forward with.
We typically have the TSA come in every three years, I believe, where they do kind of a base
assessment of our system. And we've been pleased to get that gold rating, which is the highest
rating that they provide, based upon the security model we have right now. We want to continue
to maintain that level.
Obviously, at the end of this, the committee will present its findings to the Board. We're
expecting, I believe, it's the 8th, December 8th is the meeting that we're targeting. So we would
have the results wrapped up and then, of course, issue those results to the Board, present those
results to the Board via some product or deliverable.
At the end of the Code of Conduct Committee, we create a white paper and presented that
information. So I'd like to stop there and just see if there's any questions anybody has, anything
that they want to make sure they get some clarity on regarding the charter.
And then of course, we can talk also about what kind of deliverable we'd like to see come out of
the committee as well. So I'll open up the floor to any comments or questions anyone has right
now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you, sir. I'll just go down the list of board members.
Director Guissinger. Director Guissinger, do you have any-LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you hear me now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I can. Go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm messing with my-- I can barely hear. I'm just switching to my phone.
Can you come back to me later, please? I'm complaining.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I certainly can. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I don't have any questions or comments at this
time, other than I'd like to see us start out with highlighting what we think is wrong. So that we
are going someplace specific. Thanks.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll actually make a few observations. The first
observation is that we will have five meetings before December 8th. And one of the things that
we heard, at least from our other Board members when this was presented back in June, was that
the timeline was really quick. And so I'd imagine that some Board members might feel as though
implementation after five meetings into January might just be a quick turnaround.
The second is the-- so we're talking about safety and security. And when we talk about
representation, while I appreciate the members of this committee, one of the things that I think is
missing from the committee purpose and the committee charter is community.
Our patrons, folks who might be disproportionately impacted by what we define as safety and
security. Secondly, I think there's an opportunity for us to define what safety and security means.
I think we have a definition at RTD and that definition may be different for our operators and our
patrons. And so I think there is an opportunity there for us.
And then finally, there was mention about equitable outcomes, equitable application of our rules
and regulations. And one of the things that we have yet to do as a Board is define what equity
means. And so I think there's also opportunity there.
And so like Director Williams, I'd really like for us to drill down on what it is that we hope to
achieve and really what it is that we're talking about specifically, because as I look up the
representation on this committee, we might not see the full picture because we don't have enough
of the right folks at the table. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. Having a little trouble this morning. I don't really have any
comments right now. I missed part of what Director Lewis was saying and I'm interested to know
what other folks we should have at the table because perhaps she can bring them in and get
feedback from some others. That's all I have right now. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Now Director Walker was in transit and asked us not
to call on him. But I'll just ask him, to see if he's there by any chance. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: I'm back. I don't have any questions or comments. I was talking things through
with my kid a while ago, so I missed a lot of that. So I'll go back and listen to the recording for
the first part.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you so much. All right, Mr. Meader.

MIKE MEADER: OK. Thank you. And thank you for the comments. We want to also, as I said,
just identify the outcome, the product, the deliverable that we're going to present. And I would
propose, similarly to the code of conduct ad hoc committee, that we create a white paper that
would include some attachments regarding what I hope coming out of this committee would look
like, as far as an organizational chart.
A map, so to speak, about what we would do in the short term and also what we would hope to
achieve in a little longer term, three to five year period, perhaps. Understanding that part of this
is, it's a very dynamic approach. As many transit agencies have taken to, here's the direction we
think we want to go, we're going to test this out and see how this works, see if it's the right
direction.
Do we want to expand on it? Do we want to change directions? But I think that we can come out
of this committee with a good idea about the direction we want to move and then present that
plan to the Board December 8th, in the form of a white paper, with some attachments regarding
the organizational structure that the committee thinks is best for the agency.
And so if there is any disagreement to that, please let me know. Otherwise, that's the plan I think
we should move forward with. So is there any other comments anyone has? I guess I would open
it back up real quick just to see if there's any concerns about taking that approach.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a question of clarity. This is Director Lewis.
MIKE MEADER: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So when you say, present a white paper, I guess I need a clearer picture of
what are some of the things that you hope to encompass in that white paper as we're presenting
that to the Board. So could that look like recommendations to the Board to adopt to move
forward, or are you thinking of just outlining some of the areas in which we believe there are
challenges and opportunities?
MIKE MEADER: You know, I think either way. I believe that the intent of the committee is to
take a look at these things. And I know it's not a real long term study, per se, we're doing over
the course of several meetings, but I think that that's what we would hope would come out of the
committee. Is here's what we looked at, here some of the recommendations that we have moving
forward and the reasons why.
So I think it should have some recommendations in that white paper for the Board to approve.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. OK. Thank you.
MIKE MEADER: Any other comments from anyone? I thought that the white paper and the
outcome from the code of conduct was very well received. And I just don't see any reason to try
to reinvent the wheel here.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I agree. Any other comments from Board members? All
right. Hearing none, Mr Meader.
MIKE MEADER: Very good. We'll move forward in that direction. And Marisela did a fantastic
job. So we'll certainly make sure we're working with Marisela to come up with the right product
that the committee can review before we present it to the Board.
OK. Thank you very much. The next step I wanted to take is to just go through just a very high
level kind of review of the current crime securities statistics. We are tracking very specific things
and there's lots of different things we track from a service call perspective.
Anything from the welfare checks, there's things we find for lost and found. There's very basic
things like that, all the way up to violent crimes, more violent types of crimes. And one of the
things that we're seeing, I say we, the country is seeing, and you can Google just about anywhere
out there on the web and see that what we're finding is that crime, violent crime, is on the uptick
across the country.
At the beginning of the pandemic the crime dipped. It dropped down. There were some cities that
were seeing 30% less violent crime. Just 30% crime, overall. And what we've seen here as the
pandemic has dragged on, is we're seeing that trend reverse itself.
And across the country, certainly in the transit world, most of the transit agencies are
experiencing similar upticks. Particularly in the violent crimes, in the assaults and the sex crimes
and the shootings and those kinds of things, weapon offenses is what we're seeing.
There's a lot of speculation as to why that happens. And again, depending on where you want to
look and who you want to read, you'll see anything from, there's less people on the streets so
there's less eyes on crime and people are taking advantage of those crimes of opportunity to
commit those things.
There are psychologists that are talking about, hey, this is natural. In a natural disaster, or you
could say, in a pandemic, where you see a dip when people are really trying to understand it.
And then as it continues to go on, or the aftermath of one of those disasters, they tend to see
crime go up.
There's again, speculation as to why people are affected. They feel desperate, there's fatigue, just
the psychological effects that happen, too. And who knows exactly what the right answer is. As I
said, there's experts that talk about these things.
But the reality is, what we're seeing here at RTD, and again, most of the transit agencies that we
interact with are saying the same thing. We took a look at the security statistics and that is the
calls for service of a time period in 2019, so basically the time period of the COVID pandemic,
2019 between February and September, compared to 2020 between that same time period,
February to September.

And although the number of calls for service are about the same, a slightly different distribution
of reasons, they are a little bit down. But the alarming statistics that we've found is that the more
violent types of crimes are up considerably. The number of assaults are up by 32%, from 2019 to
2020 in the same time period.
Harassment types of calls are up 33%. Robbery is up 45%. And the exact numbers, some of them
we don't have a lot of them, but as an example, at the same time period from a assault
perspective, there were 223 assaults. In 2020 there were 297 assaults in that same time period.
Threats to harm people are up 30% and the weapons offenses are up 27 and a half percent. We
also see a pretty good uptick in trespassing. That's people out on our right of way. Whether it's
there to try to harm themselves or trying to move between places, whatever that is, those trespass
is are up about 32 and a half percent, as well.
So this is not uncommon. New York is experiencing similar types of rises. Chicago, Los
Angeles, all of those areas and particularly the transit system, San Francisco as well. In fact, I
was just talking with a couple of small transit agencies out in California the other day and they're
seeing very similar rises in crimes where they typically really don't have any.
So not necessarily sure what the answer is, probably a combination of things. But we're certainly
seeing things trend in the direction we don't want them to trend. And we want to make sure that
we're still providing that safe, secure environment as best we can.
And of course, see if we can watch these trends to figure out if there's other things that we can do
to try to help people. Along those lines, the interaction that our mental health clinician is having
with individuals who are experiencing some sort of mental health issue is also on the rise, which
is pretty common in any kind of a pandemic or disaster that we're experiencing like this, as well.
So all of those things are trending upward. I wanted to just lay the groundwork, what we're
seeing. We intend to brief the Board on a more regular basis, now that we're getting a little bit
more accurate data anyway, about what's happening out there in our system at committee
meetings, as well, going forward.
So I don't know if there's any questions anyone has. Again, on that, we'll stop after that to see if
there's any questions or comments, feedback anybody has, any of the Board members have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Meader, if I might, I have one question. Can you talk a little
bit about suicides or accidents that are fatal with our trains and buses. Are you seeing an uptick
on that?
MIKE MEADER: Not necessarily. We are seeing more people, as I said, on the right of way. In
fact, I'll let Chief Grado and Deputy Chief Martin Garneau maybe respond a little to that. We've
had a pretty typical year, in terms of the fatalities we see on the right of ways.

Some certainly appear to be suicides. Others are people just not really paying attention, is what it
appears. Again, you never know exactly what the motive is when you see those things. But I'll let
Chief respond to that. Chief?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Chief, as you're responding to it, at least according to my
recollection, the majority of the ones that I hear about are either at Central Park or like over by
the R Line in Peoria.
BOB GRADO: I'd say, when we do have them, that's very common. Central Park. This year we
had one. And then the end of last year. But Bay Out, that crossing there, we've had a couple of
suicides there. And then one accidental incident there.
Just a sidebar, we've deployed some new technology there that we're testing that has FLIR
camera that looks at the crossing and if it see someone loitering in the crossing, it actually has a
speaker and makes an announcement. So we're trying some new things there.
But anyway, I'd say, I think you hit it. It's Central Park. There's been a couple on the R line. But I
would say overall, I haven't noticed that there's an increase. There may even be a decrease,
because we've done a lot of public awareness campaigns.
We have had an increase, I would say, this is not scientific, but it seems like we've had more
people calling in to us. They'll call on emergency phones, the E-Tels, and tell us that they're
suicidal. And then we get out there and take care of that person and get them the care they need. I
think we've seen more of that, which is a little surprising considering the service level is down
and the ridership is down.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you.
MIKE MEADER: There was one-- and this is Mike Meader. There was one other thing from an
operator assault perspective, we track those operator assaults. And it's been tracking pretty
typical, actually. Of late, it's been down a little bit, which is a positive thing, the frequency of
those.
And we track those, anything from someone being spit on, having a drink or something thrown
on them, to actually being assaulted as we do that. We don't see necessarily an increase or a
sharp increase. I think the barriers are helping. I think the awareness is helping.
I do believe that the ridership is really complying pretty well. I get out and I ride the buses every
single month. Typically, I try to get on a bus once a week and I focus on the 15, the 16, the zero
routes. And last week when I was riding on those routes, 15 to 16 and the zero, during some
pretty busy times, I would say I see about a 90% mask face covering use by our ridership.
So I'm really pleased to see that. I've continued to see that increase on those trips that I take
every week. So that's very positive. The operators are not having to engage with as many people
regarding those kinds of things. So I think that's contributing to a little bit of a kinder
environment, so to speak, as we look at those statistics as well.

DAVE JENSEN: So Mike, this is Dave Jensen. Just a couple of quick comments, and maybe we
should take some of it offline. When we're talking about statistics, I am curious about the
reporting processes. Because I can only relate it really, to what we know in rail. And I know in
rail, when we start doing a better job of documenting things, it looks like we're getting spikes in
numbers.
But the reality is, the thing that we're measuring, it might not be changing at all. It's just that
we're doing a better job of documenting. So setting those benchmarks, I think, is really
important. So I'm curious about that, when we say there's rises in this, that, and the other, how
confident are we in our data from the past? And it is that we're just doing a better job now?
Or is it we've always been doing a good job and we really do know? And then secondarily,
maybe just a comment on the suicides, which I think that's a great question. We're not
experiencing any more than we have in the past. I know from my past and other agencies here, if
we were to do a comparative analysis with other agencies, I think that number is relatively small.
My experience is that there's even more suicides in other areas. In fact, in San Diego where I
came from, we would traditionally start campaigns around this time period because the holiday
season was notorious for people jumping in front of trains. Which I don't know if that's common,
but it doesn't seem to happen here. And I'm hoping I'm not saying anything out of school.
But right now, I our numbers on suicides are really good. And I do think it's a testimony to the
work that we're doing within the community.
BOB GRADO: I can speak to that, Mike. I'll start backwards here. The suicides, I think we are
doing a better job. I know we are. Lindsey Alarcon has done a lot of work on a campaign for
suicide awareness and prevention and coordination with different partners in the region and
mental health professionals.
So she's done a great job. And I really I agree with you. To me, again, I don't have numbers in
front of me. But it really seems like we're doing much better, especially considering the
environment that we're in right now. So I would agree with you there.
As far as, yes, I think we're really good at tracking violent crime on the system. We are required,
anytime there's an incident that involves a gun, a knife, or a bomb, whether it be bomb threat or,
obviously, we don't have bombs on our system. But we have to report, we call it a TSOC report.
So we have a form that we fill out and it goes to Washington DC. And then we also talk to them
on the phone when these incidents occur. So last year we had 38 TSOC reportable events
involving firearm or knife. This year we're at 120. So we've tripled the amount of incidents that
have involved somebody threatening, whether it be a passenger or an employee or the actual
system, with guns, bombs, knives, 120 times as of today.
So it is substantial, what's happened. And like Mike said earlier, it's not just us. It's everywhere.
It's the region. It's Denver. It's all the cities. It's transit systems across America. I think it is
opportunity crime. You don't have as many eyes out there. You don't have as many witnesses.

You don't have things that are preventing that type of activity. And then generally, I think we've
all seen it, people have short fuses right now. They're just not in the mood to be nice. So it's not
just us. I guess that's my point. But, yeah. There's a lot happening out there.
MIKE MEADER: Thanks, Bob. Are there any other questions or comments?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Meader, if you could talk a little bit about the role then of
mental health providers during these kinds of incidences?
MIKE MEADER: Sure. I will turn this over to Steve Martingano. Steve works very closely with
the Mental Health Center of Denver. He kind of leads up the mental health clinician that we have
on staff right now. Recently just put out some statistics that he just shared and we'll share them
with this group, as well, on what we're seeing. But Steve, why don't you give us a little synopsis
here about the role that she's playing and that we see the mental health conditions continue to
play and the impact that it's had on our customers and our system.
STEVE MARTINGANO: OK. Yeah, will do. So let me just give a brief history on how this
started. We were getting a lot of calls from the Mental Health Center of Denver just because a lot
of their patients were having difficulties on the trains and the buses. They were being arrested or
they were being suspended from our properties because they were having mental health episodes.
And the first thing they did a few years ago was tried to arrest you way out of it. And we realized
that was not being productive, not only as an agency, but our police division. So we worked
really-- it took us about a year to develop this program. Last year we did it as a pilot program,
where we had one mental health clinician on our system.
And like Mike Meader said, we'll send you the statistics on how many contacts she makes. But
it's been really beneficial. And we saw that we could expand that and they actually came to us.
The reason being too is, a lot of our transportation, whether it be the buses or trains, transport
these individuals, not only to their appointments but just throughout the city themselves, to the
different organizations.
And the city and county of Denver has been seeing that us having these clinicians on our system
has really taken less time for them to deal with something that we're able to deal with as an
agency. So they've been really helpful and partnering great with us. And like I said, that's why
they agreed.
And we're going to have four starting in January, which is pretty outstanding. And it's not gone
unseen, as I was telling Chief this morning, and he's part of the emails. But outside agencies
from all over the country have been calling us to figure out how to get this program started on
their agencies, just because of the positive they've heard about it. I'm hoping I explained that
correctly, if that's what you were mostly asking.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Yes, Thank you.

BOB GRADO: Yeah, I was going to go through this when we do the history, but the great news
is, we've reallocated some internal funds and we're going to have, in 2021, 3 additional mental
health clinicians. It's been so successful.
Just to give us coverage throughout the week, seven days a week, is our goal. So that was a home
run for us, and it's to me, money well spent. Our officers out there appreciate it. Everybody
appreciates having that service when someone's in crisis.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Director, what you'll see when you get the stats, those will be just hard
stats in regards to contacts. Diversions, where they went to, how many were placed on mental
health holds. What's really great about those stats, and we're trying to build out into the future is,
we were able to get through HIPAA laws, the mental health clinician could get us information a
lot better.
So they gave us the top 10 mental diagnosis of what our passengers are experiencing when
they're contacted. And what's really important about that is, we're actually working with a
psychiatrist and a division to try to build some training for our employees.
And now that they're able to capture the top 10 diagnoses that our employees see, they're going
to really try to focus on training so that we could maybe get that out to all of our operators,
internal employees, customer service facilities, just to try to give them a basis on what we're
seeing out there, rather than just a blanket, people's mental health issues. Now that we're able to
narrow down, that's another benefit that's been added by this program.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Can you share with us what the top 10 issues are?
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yeah, I think Mr. Meader has all those and he's going to send it to
you. If you want me to, I could pull up the email here though, and find the actual 10 if you'd like
me to.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah, we just received those and we're just poring through them to make sure
that this is the first dashboard, so to speak, like this. I'm just poring through them and just
making sure I have a good grasp and understanding. So I can answer any questions before I send
them out to you. But I'll get those out to you here in the next day.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
BOB GRADO: So just a couple things I want to add on that. We do offer-- COVID kind of
messed it up a little bit, but we have an internal program now for mental health first aid that all
of our employees are welcome to take. And then all of our police officers, that's the one thing
that's great about having staff, law enforcement staff, is we can put them through specialized
training like this.

Whereas, a security contractor, we don't have that ability because they're providing the service.
But all of our internal police have gone through mental health first aid training. We're getting
everybody's through that the CIT training, which is a 40 hour or more intense level of training.
And then all of our officers have also been certified on M1 process.
So if we don't have a mental health clinician available, we can do a mini evaluation, if you will,
and we as police officers can sign that form and get that person to a hospital to get help. So we're
doing a lot. Steve's been spearheading all that.
Kimberly Ford, who I think we probably should bring into one of these meetings, moving
forward. Through our homeless outreach task force we've done some training and work with peer
agencies on that too. So there's a lot happening in that world.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I'm sorry, who is Kimberly Ford? What is her job?
BOB GRADO: Oh, I'm sorry. I think her title is-- she's, I think Manager. Director Lewis, you
probably know what it is. What is it?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Transit Equity Specialist.
BOB GRADO: Yes. OK. She is a wonderful person. I'll say that. She's been incredible. We went
to her, actually started out with Michael Washington, to get help with the homeless issues we're
having, and mental health issues and all that. Because like Steve was saying, arresting people
isn't working.
We're just screwing them up even further. They can't pay fines. It's a vicious cycle, if you will.
So we went to them and said, can you help? And Kimberly has jumped in with both feet and
been incredible. We're having biweekly meetings with a whole community of people here in the
Denver metro area that are helping us with these programs. So she's been fantastic.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great. Thank you. She works with what organization?
BOB GRADO: She's through Capital Programs here at RTD.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, right. She's with RTD.
MIKE MEADER: She's in Bill Van Meter's group. Yes, in planning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BOB GRADO: What a resource. I can't say enough good things about her.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Wow.
MIKE MEADER: And we'll talk a little bit more about the homeless outreach that we've been
doing, the program, and also, we're excited about having a homeless outreach coordinator

coming on Board to RTD through a grant. Obviously, we'll have an opportunity to talk a lot more
about those programs and get feedback after we provide some information to you. I did want to
continue moving along here, just in the interest of time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Do you mind if we-- I mean, you all have been talking about 45 minutes and
maybe we can stop and get a few questions in.
MIKE MEADER: Oh sure, absolutely, Director Lewis, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Mr. Meader, you spoke a bit about the crimes stats. You said
that the crime statistics were going up. And it was kind of convoluted. I wasn't clear if you were
saying specifically to RTD or if you were just saying generally, that's what we're seeing in our
nation and in our transit agency. So I was unclear about that data point that you were speaking
about.
MIKE MEADER: The percentages I gave were specific to RTD. You know, where I said
assaults are up about 30%, about 33%. Robberies are up about 45%. Those statistics that I gave
were specific to RTD. But what the country's seeing certainly translates across the country, are
similar rises in violent types of crime.
So when overall crime is still down year over year, the violent crime aspect has risen
significantly. So that's what we were saying. And many of the transit agencies are experiencing
similar types of rises in the violent crime. And as are agencies, jurisdictions regionally, and
across the country, cities are seeing similar rises in the violence and more violent crimes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I guess it just makes me nervous when we start a conversation around
safety and security and we talk about violent crimes without presenting any of that data to any of
the members of this committee beforehand. And so I'd like to see those data points. I'd imagine
that communities who have been over-policed would probably argue that there's a rise in police
brutality.
And so we also don't have that data in front of us. And so I think we're going to have a robust
conversation, I think we could benefit from seeing the data because we've kind of been all over
the place. We've talked about suicides. We've talked about a number of things.
And I guess I'm not certain I understand the purpose of this committee, just with the information
that has been presented thus far.
MIKE MEADER: Sure. And what we're trying to do is just lay the groundwork. To Director
Williams' point, one of the things we want to get to is obviously a discussion about where we
feel the changes in our model need to be made. But I think it's important because we continue to
get questions from people, from Directors, where it appears that maybe we haven't done a good
enough job explaining what the model is. To understand the roles of the different aspects of our
model.

But I think it's important that we do lay the groundwork just from what we're seeing on the
system, so that as we talk about any kind of changes, we can do it in the context of what we see
is happening out there.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
MIKE MEADER: I will certainly share these statistics that we track. We use both our own CAD
system for the calls that we receive, service calls. And we incorporate information from
LexisNexis which is a well respected information gathering platform so that we can understand
what's happening, out around the system.
There are different sites you can look at from a crime statistics standpoint. And what I'll do also,
is I'll put a couple of those links. You can go ahead and look at it for yourself. I don't necessarily
prescribe to one or the other. A lot of the information we're receiving when we talk about other
transit agencies is gained through meetings that the Chief has on a regular basis with all of the
other transit police Chiefs around the country.
So that's the kind of information that we have there, as well. But I'll absolutely make sure. I don't
profess to speak to anything without it being data driven. That's the way I operate. So I'll make
sure I get those things in your hands to look at, as well.
Really, the intent was just trying to give an overall view of what we're seeing currently during
this pandemic and the trend we're seeing out there in the system.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. That makes sense.
MIKE MEADER: I appreciate that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Thank you so much. I appreciate that information. I also think, as we
talk of them, I'll go back to this conversation around safety and security. I think we still haven't
defined safety or security. And I would include not only our patrons in this discussion, but our
operators in this discussion.
And so I'd like for us to really define what it is that we're doing here for the next five weeks.
MIKE MEADER: Oh, absolutely. I can tell you this real quick. I know these are some very basic
definitions, the way the FDA defines it, or not just the FDA, but from a safety perspective and a
security perspective, that line is blurred sometimes. Because if you ask people, do they feel safe
on our system, many times the response is, yeah, I do feel safe on this particular route or this
particular type of transportation because I see police officers.
Or I see armed security. Those kinds of things. You know, so they equate their safety with how
secure they feel. So there is a little bit of a blurred line when we use those two terms, and they
can be used interchangeably. Really what they say is safety, you're safe. It's freedom from
unintentional harm.

So something that isn't necessarily expected or intentional that could cause you harm. That's
what we're looking at when we talk about safety. From a security perspective, it's being secure.
It's freedom from intentional harm. That is, they define it as, someone's out there intending to
commit a crime, do some harm to somebody, and making sure you feel secure is putting things in
place to mitigate the possibility of someone who's intending to cause harm.
That's how security is defined by most people. So if one's a little bit more active, one's a little bit
more reactive, so to speak.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
MIKE MEADER: So that's really what we're looking at. And yes, I mean obviously, all of these
things affect our operators. They affect our customers. We spend a great deal of time with
operators, talking to them, understanding the concerns that they have. I would say, on a weekly
basis I talked to anywhere from 50 to 100 operators every single week from different locations to
really get that feedback.
I spend time on the buses, I spend time on the trains. To make sure that we're looking at, as do all
of our security and police officers, and we elicit feedback from them, as well. So it's from the
operators point of view, also from the folks that are out there observing.
There's a lot of that kind of data that we use to process and help us make decisions in the way
we're trying to deploy those resources, as well. So we absolutely do consider that. And we'll be
talking about that as we go through this, too. The different perspectives, as Director Williams
said. Let's talk about what's wrong with what we're doing now so we can figure out what we do
right and make it better.
And we'll incorporate all of those perspectives. I just wanted to make sure everyone had a clear
understanding of what's happening out there right now and the model as it stands. So we can
figure out how we want to change it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. It looks like Director Williams has a question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I was going to call on Director Williams.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll just conclude with, I appreciate that. And maybe we could spend some
time as a committee defining what safety and security means. Because safety, does safety not
include risk of falls? And so we've talked a bit about safety stats. We've talked a bit about safety
stats, which we talked about crime, but I think we could probably broaden that conversation and
focus less on the fear and more on defining what that is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Lewis, and thank you, Madam Chair. That's pretty
similar to what I wanted us to spend some time looking at. How we collect feedback, do we have
any way now in place for people to say, I felt threatened. I felt unsafe. I had this incident.

We collect the data that we were talking about earlier about crimes and about suicide calls, but
do we have a way to look at how people feel about what maybe didn't happen? But how they
were uncomfortable. And similar to that, do we have a way for people to say, I do feel safe.
I personally have ridden transit all over the world. And I have never had a moment in RTD
where I was uncomfortable. And I am an older single white woman and I've never felt
uncomfortable in any way. So maybe if we looked at how, to Director Lewis's point, how we are
looking at our safety and security.
Because today safety and security would include some discussion on the air filtering systems on
our vehicles. That's going to make people feel more safe and secure if they know that the air is
filtered. So I am inclined to be with the same mind of Director Lewis. I'd like us to be sure that
this is not a Crime Commission.
That this is a way for us to look at methods to hear from our riders and to make them feel more
safe and secure. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. In and it makes me think about
cultural competency. How is it that we will allow our community members who maybe do not
speak the language or are not from here, to be able to provide that information as well, in a
respectful manner that's in their language, or some place where they can get information so that
they understand it.
MIKE MEADER: Absolutely. Good points. And I will bring to the table, we do have safety
reporting systems. Multiple ways for people to report things. And we do get reports regarding
that. Occasionally, we do hear from folks who are talking about something that might, as you
define safety and security, be more security related. And we certainly address those things.
But it isn't something-- we have a good reporting culture here. And my sense is, because we don't
see a lot of that formal reporting from a security perspective, and it aligns pretty well with my
conversations with, as I said, on a weekly and monthly basis. Generally speaking, people feel
pretty safe and secure out there, our operators.
But I will share all of those reports as well, that we get via those safety reporting systems, with
this committee and with the Board members as well, going forward, as we continue to enhance
the capability for us to collect that information.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Guissinger has a question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks for the information. I agree with the comments that have been
made. And I do think it's important to think about safety in the context of COVID as well, as we
start to hope to bring people back in the coming months.
And in that regard, you mentioned something about the driver interactions over masks. What are
the instructions given to drivers? Can they tell people that they have to wear a mask to get on the
bus?

MIKE MEADER: They can. And most of what I've seen, they'll remind people if they're getting
on the bus without a mask, that masks are required. Again, we don't want them getting into a
push-shove match with someone. We don't want them to get assaulted or something like that.
But my experience has been, and Fred might even be able to speak to this just a little bit more, as
I said, recently most of the people are getting on the buses with masks, with face coverings. So
there's not as many of those interactions. But the majority of the operators I've seen, they'll
remind people and then most often, people will pull it out of their pocket. They've just forgotten
about it.
I think with the order to wear masks outside now, we'll probably see more people having them
on before they get on the buses, is my hope. Fred, is there anything you want to add?
FRED WORTHEN: No, not really. I think this is similar to fare collection efforts. We asked for
somebody to comply. But what we don't want to do is put the operator at risk for assault, or
physically stop service over this particular issue and impact all the rest of our patrons.
We did have operator assaults very early on when we were asking people to put mask on. I'm
seeing far less incidents between passengers and drivers now, when we do ask for compliance. I
think Mike's right. The reports I get from our operators and the things I see, most people are
voluntarily complying.
We've also gone through some massive outreach efforts to try to distribute masks publicly. Those
efforts are very expensive I will say, though. 100,000 masks runs us roughly $26,000, $27,000.
So these efforts aren't cheap, but they've been successful, too, in helping our operators with
people who get on and say I don't have a mask, trying to give them something that they can take
with them.
And I know we have another round of mask distribution coming up soon. So we've seen a
change in culture around this issue.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great. I appreciate all that. Obviously, it needs to be 100%. I know
that's hard to get to. Is there a written policy or written instructions? It seems like I've heard
stories of drivers having different-- you know, that they're not allowed to tell people they can't
get on without a mask, or anything like that. I'd be interested to see if we have something written
that
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
FRED WORTHEN: We have instructed our operators not to deny service over the issue.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
If they refuse to comply, and there's a continued issue with the individual, follow up process is
very similar to what we have for other enforcement issues reported to dispatch.

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Safety and security. We have had areas where-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOB GRADO: Lakewood, Aurora, Arvada, Thornton PD. Those officers work off duty as
secondary employment for us. So that's the equivalent of about 85 police officers, when you look
at the hours they're currently working. And then we're right around 300 uniformed security
officers. That's the contract with the Allied Universal.
Sounds like a lot, but comparatively, to our peer agencies, we're covering eight counties, 40
cities, 2,400 square miles. So it's not a lot. As a matter of fact, we're spending about 50% per
rider than our peer agencies. So really quick
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
We hired our first Civilian Manager of Security. Obviously, we were just Bus Operations and
much smaller.
In the '80s, we added a couple more security specialists. And at that time, it's when Dave Genova
came in and he managed that program. In the '90s, we contracted with Arco Security. They are
no longer here. And then they stood up our first security model in 1994 when we opened the rail
lines.
So once we opened rail services, things became mandated, if you will. Department of Homeland
Security, and now TSA, they oversee the programs through DHS. And then the Public Utilities
Commission. We originally started out in '94 with RTD employees that were fair inspectors.
We didn't have security doing that job. It was a representative position. And in 2004-ish, again,
that program was phased out and it was decided to let those people retire out or transfer, or just
through organic transition, just to get rid of that program.
We currently have one internal RTD person left that's still doing it, all these years later. Bear
with me here. 2001 RTD switched to Wackenhut Security. All of this was through procurement
processes, competitive bids. Wackenhut later became G4S. And at this point, I should say, going
back to the beginning, it was always armed security.
2012, Allied Barton, at the time, won the contract to take over services. And as you guys know,
at that point we were under a major expansion with the commuter rail coming online and the W
line and we were just expanding, offering more services.
As we all know, Allied Barton is now Allied Universal through mergers. Now the transit police
program, 2004, RTD went to the legislation and asked to form an internal transit policing
agency. And the reason that was done, is as we are growing, and more crimes are occurring on
the system, just through organic growth, the security officers or managers that work for RTD,

they would try to get information from, whether it be Denver Police Department or the Aurora
Police Department or Department of Homeland Security, they were not able to interface.
Because law enforcement would say, well, this is a law enforcement issue. You're security, we
can't share this information with you. So in '04, the agency said, you know what, we need to
change the way we're doing business. They wanted to be members of the FBI Joint Terrorism
Task Force and other programs that were out there.
So they asked the legislators to form this internal transit police agency and it was approved. So
initially, 2004 to 2012, the transit police officers only had jurisdiction on RTD property. They
had to actually be on a bus, standing at a bus stop, or on a platform, or in a park and ride, a
property owned by RTD.
In 2012, the legislators said, you know, this is very confusing. And the Colorado Chiefs
Association said, this is disastrous. Because defense attorneys and stuff are arguing that RTD
didn't have jurisdiction. The officer was 20 feet from that bus stop.
So they went back out, went to vote, and it passed almost unanimously, to change the authority
to be in line with the traditional police agency. Which means our internal police have authority in
all eight counties, 44 cities, regardless of where they are.
So just clean that up. And it also allowed-- at that time, the agency was wanting to look at the
regional task force. A lot of our peer agencies have these task force. And it's kind of like a auto
theft task force or drug enforcement task force. A lot of agencies use these task force with police
officers from elsewhere, just like we do with our contracted program, but it would be a transit
task force.
That never really went anywhere. But the idea was to cross commission. If you're a Denver
police officer or Aurora, or whatever, working on the system, you could go across into
Lakewood or whatever jurisdiction we needed you at, that was the initial thought, just to give it
more horsepower.
But there was some concern with potential liabilities to the agency. So again, that phased out,
that idea, anyway. 2017, Chief Tarvet resigned. And that's when I was selected to lead the
organization. I've been here since 2010. Initially, I was in charge of the emergency services
portion, so the Security Command Centers and all the technical aspects of what we do.
Since I've been in the seat, we looked at other transit agencies, Marta in particular, that are
running this high visibility program. We were getting complaints from bus operators and train
operators and stuff that they just didn't feel safe. So we looked at Marta and we really liked their
program.
They have very highly marked police vehicles. They will park at busy intersections and board
buses and say hi to the people and just be more visible. So at that point, we were approved to go
to the marked transit police vehicles. So now you see our police officers driving the RTD transit

police vehicles, as well as Denver and Aurora. They drive our marked cars, as well, just to give
us that visibility.
All right. I'm running through this quickly because I know we're running low on time. 2017. I'll
be very blunt. Marisela, myself, Steve Martingano, we looked at the current contract that was in
place. At that time it was also Allied Universal. And we just felt like it was missing a lot.
Although we were paying for the service, this is a service we pay for, but RTD really had very
little control over it. So we did a complete redesign of that. And we asked for things. We wanted
more training for those officers. We wanted them to have a use of force program with full time
investigators that would investigate use of force issues and then report back to us.
And then also provide us with a spreadsheet that would show us by month any use of force issue.
And by use of force, I mean it could be something simple, like just handcuffing somebody and
detaining them. Or if they don't deploy pepper spray, but they pull out their pepper spray, all that
counts as use of force. Anytime you touch somebody.
And then we also started doing internal spot audits of the time that we were being billed for. OK.
So I'm going to jump ahead a little bit. 2019. So just last year, we started looking at the internal
training of our internal police officers.
And we started to develop-- we formalized a whole new training program. And we're working
towards accreditation through the Colorado Association of Chiefs of Police. So what they have,
is it's a huge checklist, if you will. To be an accredited agency, you must do this type of training.
It's just a bunch of boxes you check.
And then you invite them into evaluate your agency. So we're working through that. And one of
the things that includes is reviewing all of our policies and procedures. For instance, the
elimination of chokeholds. I'll say, we were ahead of that curve. I've never been a fan of
chokeholds.
So we removed that before all this began with the civil unrest and everything that's happening
out there. 2019. I'm sorry, 2020. We thought, things are changing out there in the world. So we
said, let's try an unarmed program.
And it was decided to place these transit safety ambassadors on the N Line. It was a perfect
environment to start. It was kind of isolated out there. And we were forming this security model
from scratch. So we now have 18 of these transit safety ambassadors out there.
They strictly report to the OCC, not to the Security Command Center. Different kind of fare
enforcement, as we all know. Well actually, there is no fare enforcement. They check fare, but if
somebody does not have fare, it's an educational process. And then they just advise that person
that they're riding at their own risk.
If a transit police officer was to board, that they could be cited. So far, it's going very well. And
that's one of the things we wanted this committee to look at, is do we want to expand that

program now? In 2020, I mentioned earlier, we're going to have a total of four mental health
clinicians and that is through a grant program. I'll say, mostly a grant program.
It pays, Steve, you might jump in here. I think it's 70%?
STEVE MARTINGANO: 50.
BOB GRADO: Oh, 50. I was off. I'm glad you jumped in. So I guess we're splitting the cost of
that program. So next year we'll spend a little over $200,000 for the four mental health clinicians.
Also, we have, and this is part of-- Steve worked hard on this with the Leadership Academy and
Capital Programs 2020 this year, we got the Hope Grant, which will bring us a full time
Homeless Outreach Coordinator into our division.
You know, I'm going to jump through this next part to save time. But I have a whole section here
that talks about our 911 dispatch and our CCTV surveillance and the security integration
program. That has grown tremendously over the years. There's a lot of grant funding involved for
these programs.
And that program has recently received the three gold standard awards over the last nine years
and is really a good model that's been copied from agencies across the country. So really quick, I
want to talk about something. This is really important.
I am 100% on board for making recommended changes and-- I was telling Director Walker
yesterday, organizations that fail to change, fail. Somebody told me that years ago. I 100%
believe that. Now with that said, I do believe we need to change and modernize and do things a
little differently.
And I hope we talk through some of those things. But we still have guidelines that we have to
follow. So outside of those programs, I have a section here-- who are we accountable to? The
Department of Homeland Security has a very intense package, if you will, of recommendations.
And it goes everything from clear garbage cans to how we deploy our staff and how we're
posting and how we're responding to incidents. It's very intense. So every three years, they
physically come out here to the agency and spend a week or so going through this checklist. And
they score the agency.
And then annually, they do a mini audit. So we are accountable to the Department of Homeland
Security/TSA Surface inspection Programs. They oversee that program with DHS. And then we
also have an annual security compliance audit by the Public Utilities Commission, PUC.
They look at everything from the training of our internal police officers and then they also audit
the security contractor. Here's the caveat to that. It ended in 2019 because it's switching to the
FDA. So we're still going through that exercise as if we are responsible to them. But we did not
have to actually report to them this year.

And then we also have, as far as the internal police officers, we have annual evaluations and
training and compliance that that's required by the Colorado Peace Officer Standards and
Training Board. So we are reviewed by them. We have guidelines and regulations with the FRA,
with the commuter rail, that are different from a lot of the other things we're doing.
And then we also have memberships, and a lot of this play to the accountability part, as well,
with the ICP, which is International Association of Chiefs of Police, the Colorado Association of
Chiefs of Police, the FBI Joint Terrorism Task Force. The Colorado Information and Analysis
Center, which is the CIAC.
They do all the terrorism reporting and training of our people. We have a Metro Chiefs
Association. We have the app to PAG, which is the Peer Advisory Group. That's all the Chiefs
from across the country, all the major agencies. There's 55 members of the PAG.
And then locally, again, we have the UASI, it's Urban Area Security Initiative. And I have to
state, all of these groups have their own unique policies and recommendations. So we have a lot
of restrictions on us. There are certain things that we have to do. We just have to do them.
So I want to make that very clear, that these are things we cannot adjust. Lastly, I wanted to hit,
this year we had Senate Bill 2217. And I think most of you are familiar with that. You know, at
first, I'm going to be right up front honest with everybody. I saw it as a Revenge bill when it first
came out.
It was lumping every police officer in to this terrible thing. It was so restrictive. And I thought it
was going to result in a mass exodus of the police. They are just going to run for the hills. But I
will say, that it has turned out to be a very good bill. I support it.
It gives us stricter regulations for post certified police officers in the state of Colorado. It has the
body camera requirement. Nobody is arguing against any of this. The issues, I think, were for a
lot of agencies, smaller agencies, was it's very expensive. The body cameras are expensive. The
storage of the footage is expensive.
It was very regulated. But what I like about this bill is there's more accountability. So in the past,
and this is a national problem, I think. Some of these issues you're seeing across the country,
when you look back at the officers that are doing some of these things, generally, you'll see that
they're either brand new and they have they don't have the experience, but a lot of times it's
officers that have been around a long time.
And they have been through processes. They've been disciplined over and over and over. And
the agency, whether it be unions or different guidelines, they can't get rid of these officers. So
what this bill does, is it mandates it. Now you have a mandated internal investigation process and
mandated disciplinary process.
Officers are mandated to tell on other officers, if they see something that's inappropriate. So
there are some great things in there that's going to help the accountability for everybody. You

know, I'll say 99.5% or whatever, I don't know the actual number, officers that I work with are
good officers.
Their heart's in the right place. But it helps you deal with that small group that maybe shouldn't
be there. You know, let's face it. In any organization, you have your bad apples. And you have to
be able to remove those. So that helps us. The state will decertify those people.
And that's it. I feel like I went through that really quick. If anybody has any questions, I'm happy
to answer them. And I'll share this with you guys if you want to look it over, too.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chief Grado, thank you so much. I think it would be great if we
all got a copy of that. That was a lot of information.
BOB GRADO: It is. I'm sorry. I feel like you're all drinking from the fire hose there. But the
intent was to share where we are now and how we got there. And with such limited time, it's very
hard to do that. But a lot of these changes were made because of agency growth and new
regulations.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. I'm going to ask Board members if they
have any questions or comments. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. No, nothing right now. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I mean, it's an observation. He mentioned that
they've contracted with Allied Security and had seen opportunities for improvement with the
contract and had looked at adding additional requirements for Allied Security.
And I find it kind of peculiar that the staff had recognized that there were opportunities for
improvement, put out a new RFP in the contract, never came back to the Board, even though
there were opportunities for improvement that the staff had seen, had the opportunity to see and
evaluate from a contractor perspective.
And so I'm curious how the contract was able to be executed as a routine annual procurements if
there were changes that the staff had identified. And so that's just an observation.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you. Are there other questions?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sorry, Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I knew you were going to call on me next. It was a lot of information. It was
a lot of good information, Bob. So don't feel bad about that. We digested it as well as we could.
And we'll look to understand more when you share the information with us and something we
can take some time with.

I think that's the kind of thing that we want to look at, as Director Lewis and I both keep saying.
We're looking at moving toward making positive change, not dwelling on what is an issue so
much, as what the solutions are. And so I appreciate your work in getting that explained. Thanks.
BOB GRADO: Yeah, I'm sorry I rushed through that. I really wanted to take time to talk more.
Especially in these later years as we transition. We're already 25 minutes over, I think.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's all right.
BOB GRADO: Which I'm fine with. You guys, this is really important to me, to do this, it really
is. I want as many people like yourselves to have eyes into this program. I'm looking for support.
At the end of the day, that's the bottom line. I want support.
And I think if we share this information with everybody and where we think we need to head, I
feel like we went a little bit down a rabbit hole earlier. But that that's my goal in this, is to share
the current model, and talk about ways we think, as people sitting in these seats, that it could be
better. And then just go from there.
And I love the fact that we have so many Board Members on here. Because when we do go to
the Board, I'll have people sitting in the seats that can help explain this stuff.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hopefully. OK. Thank you, Chief. You know, we had this
scheduled till 9:30, so we're OK. But we only have four minutes left. I want to thank the Board
members who really delved in and asked some questions.
And I would ask you to really write them down, send them to me, so that we can delve into it
even more next week. Because I think that it is our role and our opportunity to really talk about
the issues that are around these areas, on how we can work together and collaborate to make sure
that we have a robust program that we can all really feel proud of.
And I think that there's some real innovation happening currently that is really quite
extraordinary. So I'm really excited about that. But Mr. Meader, I'm going to give you the
opportunity to close this out. And then I will see everybody next Wednesday. Go ahead, sir.
MIKE MEADER: Perfect. Thank you. And I appreciate all of the feedback and again, it's your
time today, as well, and in the coming weeks. We did have a real good discussion. There were
some great points brought up. And I want to let everybody know what you can expect to receive
here today after this meeting.
The history, a little more detail that Chief Grado shared with you, I'll share the crime stats with
you as well. So you can see how we collect those. The safety reporting, again, remind everybody
of how everybody, including Board Members, are able to report any concerns about safety or
security or anything that they have. So that we can do that. And next week-One other thing, too, since the question was raised, I'll also send out a comparison of the old
security contract and the training and the previous one, and then the training that all of our armed

security and, of course, you can translate that to, all of the police officers receive this type of
training in even more detail, every single year. So you can see the training that goes into that,
some of the changes, as Chief said. We recognized there were some shortcomings, and how
we've addressed some of those.
Next week, just to give everybody a little preview. We're going to talk a little bit more about the
roles of each of these groups. Just because I think there is some benefit to adding some clarity.
We'll do that very briefly. We'll talk a little bit about what we see from a security perspective
here, the Chief and the group here sees as some changes that we think would be very positive,
that we would make.
And then we really want your feedback and input on some of those things. Because we know
we're not the smartest people in the room all the time and want to make sure that we get just as
much feedback as we can, OK? So that's coming next week. Again, I appreciate your time. And
thank you, again, for it today
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. All right. Anything else from anybody?
BOB GRADO: You know, I just want to say one more thing. I really would like to have an open
and frank, honest discussions on how we feel about some of these issues, too. Just so the Board
Members that are here are fully aware. I don't want anybody hold back, any of us. That's my
hope. That we can all be really honest with each other and just lay it all out there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chief Grado.
BOB GRADO: I see Director Williams shaking her head. Honestly, to get this done and to make
positive changes, I think we have to be brutally honest, too.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, I can assure you, this group will do that. So thank you so
much.
BOB GRADO: OK. All right.
MIKE MEADER: Not concerned about that at all.
BOB GRADO: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Let me see. There's one more thing. So with that, I'm going
to adjourn. It is now 9:30 AM. Thank you all and we will be seeing you next Wednesday
MIKE MEADER: Thank you. Have a great rest of your week. Bye bye.

