Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

May 1, 2012

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on May 1, 2012
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Cohen, Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, McMullen, Tayer, Tobiassen, Williams and
Walker
Directors Anderson and Malpiede participated via phone

Board Members
Absent:

Director O’Boyle

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Skip Brown, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Chuck Culig, John Dawson, Jane Donovan, Shannon Duty, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Ron Enserro, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Mike Gil,
Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien,
Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Ana Mostaccero, Paula Perdue,
Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois,
Walt Stringer, Stan Szabelak, Brenda Tierney, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van
Meter, Del Walker, Phil Washington, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Michelle Brier, Mac Callison – City of Aurora, Matt Christian, CJ
Czupor, Joni Goheen, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Paul McGuire,
Jennifer Brandeberry-Brandeberry-McKenna, Jacob Riger – DRCOG,
Roger Sherman, Marta Sipeki, Bob Wilson
****

Call to Order

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 6:12 p.m.

I.

CAC Update
There were no CAC updates

II.

Recommended Action


Eagle P3 Property Acquisition

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 2
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying certain additional
properties as necessary for construction of the Eagle P3 Commuter Rail Project and
the associated Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility and authorizing staff to proceed
with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.
Motion:

Chair Kemp made the motion to
forward this item to the full board
at the May 22, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Vote on
the motion:

Director Deadwyler asked where
the property was located. Susan
Altes stated the property was
located at about Sable and Smith
Road.

The action passed 14 in favor and 0
against. Directors Anderson and
Malpiede participated via phone and
Director O’Boyle was absent.
Committee Chair Cohen called the
action PASSED unanimously.

Chairperson Cohen read the Resolution associated with this Board action into record.


Withdrawal of 2012 FasTracks Financial Plan and DRCOG SB 208 Submittal
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors withdraw the 2012 financial plan and accompanying RTD 2011
Annual Report to DRCOG (SB 208 Report) submitted to DRCOG in March 2012
for review as required by a DRCOG Board Resolution pursuant to Senate Bill 90208. The RTD Board of Directors further directs RTD staff to develop options for
the timing, approach and assumptions to be included in replacement financial
plan and SB 208 Report that can be resubmitted for a summer 2012 DRCOG
review, and to report back to the RTD Board of Directors on this topic on a
monthly basis. With this action, the RTD Board of Directors also confirms that
RTD will not pursue a sale and use tax election in 2012.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 3
Bill Van Meter briefly went over the Withdrawal of 2012 FasTracks Financial Plan
and DRCOG SB 208 Submittal handout.
Director Bagley asked if there was a specific date. Bill Van Meter stated no, all
they know is it will be around the summer of 2012.
Director McMullen stated that he will be voting against this recommendation and
expressed his disappointment.
Director Williams shared that we have to have a plan B that should begin with
figuring out how we can build trust. We need to take the disappointment and
channel it into getting busy working on a plan B.
Several other Directors voiced some comments and concerns before Chair Kemp
declared we were moving forward.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
forward this item to the full board
at the May 22, 2012 Board
meeting.
Chair Kemp seconded the motion.

Vote on
the motion:

The action passed with 13 in favor
(Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, James, Kemp, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker, Williams) with
Directors Malpiede and Anderson
voting via phone, and 1 against
(McMullen).
Director O’Boyle was absent.
Committee Chair Cohen called the
action PASSED.

III.

Updates
 North Metro
Del Walker and Jane Donovan briefly went through the North Metro update
presentation.
Director Tayer asked what the ridership expectation was. Jane Donovan stated
that she will find out that information and get back with the Board.
Director Hoy asked that in regards to the station proposed at the Stock Show if
the actual name was “Stock Show Station”. Jane Donovan stated no, that’s just
what they use to describe it. They are in the process of picking a name for that
station.
Director Williams thanked the staff for helping her understand why it’s taking so
long for the North West to come along, understanding that the connectivity is a
key piece and without this project, no projects up North will take place.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 4
Director Bagley asked that it be clarified that this segment has nothing to do with
the North West Corridor project. Jane Donovan stated that was correct.


Financial Plan Sensitivity Analysis
Susan Cohen gave a brief update overview of the APE Financial Plan Sensitivity
Analysis.
o All currently funded projects will be completed on current schedule.
o All remaining projects will be completed for the same opening date.
o Under the assumption of the above, the full FasTracks program would be
completed in 2044.
Susan briefly went over the projected FasTracks cash flow through 2035.
Director Bagley asked if the present available revenue growth rate is at
3%.Susan Cohen stated yes.
Director Williams asked Susan to define “funded” as described in the overview.
Susan Cohen stated that the 2nd 60 million commitment that was presented to
DRCOG, those funds don’t apply to this project. Bill Van Meter further explained
that the DRCOG opportunities where they are looking at the 60 projects are
different funds than from the base FasTracks funds.
Director Hoy asked for further clarification of the 60 million commitment. Director
Williams requested a conference call to better understand this issue prior to the
May 15 DRCOG meeting for the RTC voters since this will be an important
discussion. Chair Kemp indicated he would schedule this meeting with Bill Van
Meter.
Director Tobiassen questioned the 1.2 ratio depicted on the graph in the
presentation. He expressed a need for confidence that during the pinch years, we
will have sufficient funds. Susan Cohen indicated the 1.2 was per Board net
coverage policy. The question was asked what the impact of this on debt was.
Theresa Sedmak explained the different types of debt and responded this could
potentially have an impact on the appropriation credit which would impact our
ability in the market to raise cash.
Director Tayer clarified that this is an enhanced BRT, not the original BRT plan.
Susan Cohen stated yes, that’s correct. Director Tayer commented that it was
appropriate to have a hard nose conversation on how to allocate the resources as
they come in. General Manager Washington stated that there will be a meeting
regarding that but it was not going to take place until a later time and date. He
indicated that much of our action will be dictated by the private markets.



I-225 Light Rail Competitive Procurement
Rick Clarke, Del Walker and Chuck Culig presented this item. Chuck spoke
briefly to the current status of the I-225 project and turned it over to Del Walker
to discuss the I-225 light rail competitive/unsolicited proposal process. Del
provided a general description of the RFP process, the evaluation criteria and the
anticipated timeline.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 5
Director Tobiassen thanked the staff for the update and asked if this will involve
any eminent domain. Rick Clarke stated possibly, it’s not all together clear yet.
Director Tobiassen asked about the plans to bring back the G-Line and shared
that it has been at the request of many of the constituents that we bring back
the G-Line and more parking spaces at the Iliff Station.
Director Deadwyler inquired about the DBE goals and when was the time frame
of this being completed. Del Walker stated that this is not the use of Federal
dollars, only local funds will be used so DBE does not apply. Director Deadwyler
expressed her concerns about no DBE goals, especially in light of the fact that
the system will be going through minority communities. She requested additional
information about the RFP including how far it will go.
General Manager Washington asked the Board to allow staff to lay out the details
in the July timeframe but right now they could not provide the level of details
requested. Director Cohen reiterated this is an overview of the RFP process, not
the details.
Director Williams inquired if there is a possibility that the submitter of the
unsolicited proposal could be upset and choose not to submit a proposal. Del
Walker indicated the staff discussed the process in the T3 forum and have taken
appropriate pains not to breach any confidentiality.
Director McMullen asked if the Labor going to be protected. General Manager
Washington stated that this Line will be operated by RTD and in terms of
construction our WIN program does not exclude anyone and will
encourage/propose to whoever wins the proposal the same. Rick Clarke added
that from a wage perspective, they will be paid according to the Davis Bacon
Act.
Director James inquired about the acquisition process and asked about the
34,200 ridership projection by 2035. He asked what the current ridership
numbers are today for Nine Mile and Dayton Station. Staff indicated they will
get back to him with this information.


FasTracks Public Information
Scott Reed, Pauletta Tonilas and Sherman Hamilton introduced this item.
Sherman Hamilton, founder and president of Virtegic, shared that Virtegic was
founded in 2001 and has held many contracts throughout the country with
airports, DOD, Booz-Allen Consultant and others. Pauletta Tonilas introduced the
full PI team that included the RTD staff as well as members of the Virtegic team.
Joni Goheen, Virtegic Project Manager, gave a brief update on the PI Team
Strategic Goals, the PI Team Structure, and the Virtegic Group Approach,
focusing on the 3 V’s; (1) Visibility; (2) Voice and (3) Value.
She reviewed the 2012 YTD Program Highlights for Board Support, Internal and
External, as well as the 2012 Proposed Priorities for Board Support, Internal and
External. Joni concluded the presentation with next steps:
o Keep the public, stakeholders and news media educated and engaged
about FasTracks progress.
o Increase RTD’s exposure as a national leader and innovator in the transit

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 6

o

industry.
Proactively tell the FasTracks story.

Joni thanked the Board of Directors for inviting the team to come share and
stated that the PI Team is here to support the Board of Directors and will be
available at their fingertips.
Pauletta Tonilas shared that the Yale Groundbreaking has finally been set for
Friday, May 11, 2012 at 10am; details will following via email.
Director Tayer emphasized that the work being done with FasTracks needs to be
seamless with the base business operations and we need to make sure that our
public information efforts incorporates the base business. He shared that the
Board of Directors are focused on all projects and not just FasTracks and asked if
in regards to the FasTracks one on one discussion if maybe a questionnaire could
go out to the Board Directors prior to those sessions. Tayer also stated that as it
pertains to “Mascot” we want to make sure it is about our image overall.
Director Tobiassen expressed that it seems that we have always worked on a
crisis to crisis communication and we need to switch from that and begin to be
more proactive working on building trust within the community. We need to stop
checking boxes and focus on relationship building where we have the opportunity
to energize our public and our stakeholders.
Scott Reed stated that the team has already begun to focus on the outreach with
the community, developing who to target and believes we will be successful with
the help of the Board of Directors.
Director Walker asked do we have any external media sessions. Pauletta Tonilas
stated yes and shared they will have a media working group session later this
month. The team has met with the media in a variety of ways to ensure that they
are getting and delivering the correct information.
Chairperson Cohen thanked the team for all their hard work and echoes Director
Tayer in that we need to improve the image of RTD. We need to elevate the
personality of RTD and he believes our messaging of the LRT and service plan for
the West Corridor will provide an opportunity to do so. Cohen stated he is
looking forward to the Telephone Town Hall in June.
General Manager Washington shared that they will take an aggressive role in
educating the community on the progress that RTD has made. General
Washington assures the Board that their numbers in rating will go up once people
see what we have done and what we are doing. It will be a consistent message.
IV.

Other Matters
None

V.

Next meeting date – June 12, 2012

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 7
VI.

Adjournment to Planning and Development Committee
The meeting adjourned at 8:31 p.m.

