2020-07-09
Ad Hoc Cod of Conduct Committee
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I would respectfully ask everyone in the meeting to ensure
that your phones are muted and that your ringers are set to silence. I'll go over the safety moment,
like I did yesterday, very briefly. We are asking that you continue to wear masks for your safety
and the safety of everyone, and that you wear them particularly in enclosed spaces and on RTD
vehicles and in and around the community. Wash your hands frequently and stay six feet apart.
With that, I'd like to go right into our agenda item and just do kind of like, who is on the phone.
So let me just do a really brief roll call. I saw Director Whitmore, and I saw Aubrey. Who am I
missing?
Mr. Ford is here. Ms. McManus is here. Mr. McKay is here. Mr. Ballard and Mr. Meader will not
be attending today.
So let me go through. Is Britta on the line? Oh, hi, Britta.
BRITTA: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good. Gary, are you on? Denise? Carly?
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: Carly said she could not attend.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Bob?
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: Bob's out of the country.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Kate?
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: She also responded she couldn't attend.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. Great. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Hi, Madam Chair. I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Williams I believe could not make it, so
I guess that's everybody.

So for today, Britta, we're so sorry you weren't able to join us yesterday. We had quite a robust
discussion.
We have got the review of the final edits from our staff and we have honed in on one particular
one, and it is number 28. And if I could read it, it says, "Lying on the floor, platform, stairway,
landing, ground or conveyance of an RTD vehicle or facility." And then in parentheses, "Medical
reasons, exceptions."
So that, Aubrey is really concerned and so is Director Lewis about having the term "lying down."
We looked at trying to put it into 34, but the staff really feels that the whole issue around lying
down is one of concern in terms of making sure that people aren't lying next to a door where people
are trying to get in and out. Then paramedics, if they need to get there, could be impeded.
We went ahead and I called other transit agencies, Marisela called other transit agencies. I talked
to the city. We talked to the state to see if they have a Code of Conduct and do they have anything
in terms of lying down. The city and county of Denver does not-- they have their camping ban,
and we all know how that's been going. But Marisela, do you want to talk a little bit about the state
and some of the transit agencies you talked to?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Sure. So I looked at LA Metro, and LA Metro is the only one that was
speaking to the issue of lying down. And if you give me just a moment, it was "standing, lying or
climbing on a sign, bench, passenger shelter, trash container or planter."
There were several others where it was pretty silent. And there was nothing at the state capitals,
specifically, that we were aware of in terms of similar rules that they have. But there is, in the
public buildings, generally directives that you can't sit down, specific laws about sitting down or
lying in the public right-of-way. So nothing super helpful for this conversation in terms of what
others are doing, but that's what Chair and I were up to this morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So let me first of all just say thank you to everybody. And I'd like
to welcome Director Tisdale, who looks quite dapper with his pipe. But what I'd like to say is that
for two months we have torn this document apart, and I have been so pleased with our work and
our commitment to talking to each other and making sure it's a document that we can all support
to move forward as a community.
So let me start by going through-- and I don't know, Britta, if you've had a chance to review this,
but I'd like to hear what you think.
BRITTA: Yeah. Thank you, Madam Chair. So I think the elimination of sitting is really helpful.
That said, I continue to hold the same opinion that I did last time, that is, there are other rules that
get at the impact of impediment that RTD always has the right to look at the impact of somebody's
behavior and see if it is impacting the accessibility of transit.
So I understand staff feel there are challenges. But I also understand, again, what I would say
previously, the freedom and autonomy of movement and knowing when I need to sit or lie down
is part of my human being existence. And I think it's a little specific and prohibitive, and is unlikely

to be applied evenly. And that's my bigger concern is the equity that I feel like we were asked to
bring as a lens to this. And last time I think I articulated that I think if my child is lying down with
their head on my lap across a couple of seats, that's probably going to be looked at differently than
somebody else lying down across some seats.
Then we need to really be asking ourselves about the impact of the behavior, rather than how
somebody might be seen. I'm a squishy white lady. I'm not the type person that people are looking
to with a kid on my lap or something. But that's how we get inequitable results for people, and so
I just still see that as challenging.
And I think the lack of it being in a lot of other cities and so forth, or at least we haven't found,
speaks to the fact that I think other rules can really handle this. I mean, if you were listing the top
10 rules for RTD that would cover things, I think it would be what's safe, what is an impediment
to the access of others. Don't be gross, or drink, or clip your toenails.
Think about the headline here, and I don't think lying down or sitting is the headline kind of rule.
I think it's about the impact of behavior. I know there's been a lot of work on this, but I still think
we should really look at impact of behavior rather than the actual act of sitting or lying.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I really appreciate your point of view. You know
what, I spent all of last night thinking about this and really just kind of contemplating, because I
thought it was a really, really good discussion. Clearly, there is no reason for people to lie down
in a transit area unless there's something going on, for sure. I think that that's true. And I think
transit agencies across the country, they all face that same challenge of what could happen.
One of the things that Aubrey suggested was under eliminating 28 and incorporating it into 29.
And I don't have it exactly in front of me, Aubrey, but it was like sleeping, dozing, or lying down
where such activity may cause concern for a person's well-being. In these cases, RTD may conduct
a wellness check. She liked that compromise.
I'm going to ask Chief Grado one more time to explain his position on this, because I think that
then we can have another robust discussion. Because I really want this to be a deep discussion with
all of us so that when we move it forward, we all feel committed to it and good about it. So Chief
Grado, could you just talk about 28 for a minute?
ROBERT GRADO: Sure. This is probably not the popular point of view here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
ROBERT GRADO: But for us it's a problem. It has been a problem for years, and that's why it
was put in there. We heard Gary speak of them trying to move gurneys through the areas, and
folks, they just refused to move because they want to lie there for whatever reason. But it's really
problematic in our inside facilities, in the bus concourse, Civic Center, Boulder Transit Village-these more confined spaces is where it's an issue.

Plus, there's sanitary issues. There's people that are visually challenged that could trip over people.
There's just, like you said, Chair, there's no reason in transit to lie on a floor. we wouldn't allow it
at Blake Street, we wouldn't allow it at King Supers. I'm sure if I walked into one of the city
administration buildings and laid on the floor, we'd have an issue.
So my opinion is I think it should stay. However, if we're going to move it, I would almost rather
eliminate it, because I don't want to put our security officers in a position where they have to be
judge and jury. To go, you know, OK, well, you're in a safe spot over here so we'll let you lie there.
And then maybe the next person comes along and says, nope, this is not safe, I need you to move.
So it creates a problem for people, enforcement-wise.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So-- go ahead.
ROBERT GRADO: So I guess we could include it in the part where you're impeding elevators and
stairwells and things like that, for safety reasons. But personally, I would like to see it just left
there, because it is a problem for us. And again, platforms, like Mike used the example yesterday,
people lying on a platform where the yellow line is. And the train operators, they're looking for
people sitting and standing, they're not looking for people lying, so there's issues.
So at the end of the day though, we all work for you guys. So we're happy to deal with whatever
you decide here. That probably wasn't much help, was it?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, it actually was a lot of help, because it just shows how big of
an issue that this is. I'm wondering if everybody would be OK if we just inserted the word "lying
down" in number 34? Because it really is all encompassing of all of the things that are impeded.
I know, Aubrey, you had done a suggestion revision. But if we just worked on 34 and incorporating
"lying down," would people be OK with that, and eliminate number 28? So let me go through the
list and see what you think. Aubrey, what do you think of that?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I support that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Britta?
BRITTA: I can support that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Shontel?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm looking for that language so I can read it before I support it. So one
second, OK, Angie?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, let me get back to you. Troy?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Can you hear me all right?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.

TROY L. WHITMORE: OK. That's my second choice. I think it's been enough of an issue for our
first responders that it warrants this separate section, the more I've thought about it. However, if
the group decides that they can't live with it, I strongly urge that it is in 34, as long as it doesn't
cause issues with Chief Grado's officers and the others. I'm a little concerned about that. Yeah,
second choice, but oftentimes second choices in life aren't all that bad, right?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, thank you. Yeah, I was thinking earlier when you mentioned the idea of
blocking a doorway that you can block a doorway standing, or sitting, or any body position, really.
And so I think incorporating the lying down into 34 in some ways might reduce the interactions
with security and patrons that might be lying for one reason or another. As long as they're not
impeding anybody else or interfering in any way, then it might reduce those interactions. So I think
that's a good compromise.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale, what are you thinking?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for the opportunity, Madam Chair. I'll try to be brief. I
personally think that the business of RTD is to move people, and having anything that impairs or
impedes moving people and making them feel comfortable while we are moving with them is
appropriate.
Our security staff has considered this issue, has talked with other agencies, and believes that it is
inappropriate to allow lying down. I have often said to people who talk about any constraints that
we have. Concerning use of Union Station, for example, they say, well, Union Station is Denver's
living room. And I say, yes, that's right, but it is not Denver's bedroom. And so I think that it is
inappropriate to take it out.
I haven't looked carefully at the language in 34 to see whether it may accomplish the same purpose.
And I know that Britta was saying that she thought other sections, in fact, did cover this, but I think
it is worthy of separate articulation. And I would be happy to follow up with the Transit Board
Members Committee at APTA to see what other agencies say specifically about the question of
lying down, because I assure you, whatever the Committee decides, the Board will undoubtedly
have further discussion on this particular point. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you so much. I just wanted to make sure
that-- and I really appreciated the robust discussion around this-- that the focus was on the
impediment, the blocking to transit services. And I think that's exactly what this accomplishes here
in 34. I did have a chance to also look at LA Metro's Code of Conduct for their patrons, specifically,
and the focus is on the impeding to transit services and the way that they blocked out their Code
of Conduct if the focus is on the inability to operate our services safely.

And so, that's a very long answer, but I just wanted to make sure I was understanding it. So I do
support and I think it does accomplish what we are hoping to accomplish, the blocking or
impeding, in putting this into 34. I am in complete support of that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. So, Mr. Ford?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Also, Denise is on the line. I just wanted to tell you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh!
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I saw her pop up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Denise. Denise Maes do you have anything you'd like to add,
ma'am?
DENISE MAES: Madam Chair, no. I actually thought I was going to put in the chat that I thought
that Director Lewis hit it right on that this really should all be about moving and conducting
transportation, and all these other ridiculous things that you had in there originally were clearly
not to that end. So this makes a lot more sense.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you. I really don't have any problem. To me, it's
always going to be about the execution of how things are addressed and how people are treated.
But to move it into the other grouping seems to be appropriate, makes sense to me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. I need to see who else is on this call. Britta.
I want to make sure everybody has the ability to speak on this. And Ms. McManus, I'm having a
hard time moving this. I just want to make sure-- Marisela?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. I hear everyone. I still think that this would
lead to more discussion and enforcement, which concerns me. I think we do have other rules about
impeding movement and ability to access transportation. I get that.
But practically speaking from what I've heard from the Operations Team, lying down is just never
helpful to Operations. It's an interference. And so, again, I'll defer to the group. I am not going to
be the holdout. And I hear what everyone's saying, but that to me is actually my biggest concern.
There's more discussion in enforcement, like Chief Grado was saying. But I agree with also what
Michael Ford said, which was it's all about execution as well. So, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. So before I read number 34-- thank you,
Aubrey-- the other thing I'd like to just say that I know is that we have a robust coalition
coordinating group with a lot of you in RTD that meets on a regular basis. And I'm thinking that
the other piece of this would be asking that the coordinating group look at putting together a

component of training on working with communities of diversity that this could impact and just to
give more information about the community, I think, would be really helpful in terms of extending
that.
But this has to be wordsmithed. And Aubrey, I have yours, but I don't have it in here. So it would
read-- 34 would go something like "blocking or impeding the movement of another person's
blocking a seat, or an aisle, elevator, escalator, pathway, door, stairway." And then if we added
"landing, ground, or conveyance of an RTD vehicle or facility with one's body sitting, standing,
or lying down, or any object except a mobility aid, or interfering with the operations or facility
maintenance in a way that poses a danger, unreasonably impedes a patron's movement or ability
to sit, or displaces a person, paren, subject to ADA reasonable modifications, C code, Section 4,
or medical reasons." That would be the wording on 34-ish.
DENISE MAES: Is there an intentional piece in there so that if this happened unintentionally then
they're OK? I mean, I'm just curious about that piece.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chief Grado?
ROBERT GRADO: I guess I should unmute first. Yeah, honestly at the very beginning of this-- I
don't have it in front of me either. I'm not at my normal desk. But the beginning, it speaks to
educating people. So that's always going to be the first step, is just speaking to them.
In my world, in my leadership, I never want our people to go straight to enforcement, especially
for low-level issues like this. So I think that that would cover it on that side. That's going to always
be the approach. And slowly but surely we're-DENISE MAES: Wait a minute .
ROBERT GRADO: Oh, go ahead. Sorry.
DENISE MAES: No, I'm sorry. So you're saying that even though the language intent is not in
there, we should simply trust the fact that you will enforce it in that way?
ROBERT GRADO: I guess I'm not understanding your question.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Chief, I'm sorry. To bring a little clarity-ROBERT GRADO: Please.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: I think we discussed this, Denise. And you may have not been able to
make it. But I think the idea was that, one, as Chief Grado said, our first step is education. The
idea is not to-- and we've added that piece in the code of conduct to further solidify that's our intent.
But I think the idea is that, knowingly or unknowingly, if you're blocking or impeding, it's causing
an issue for operations. And so the first idea would be to let you know and hopefully get you
moving along to wherever you need to go, or stop the impediment.

But I think knowingly or unknowingly in this sense, it's still in the discretion of the TSL a blocking
or interference. Regardless of whether it's knowing or unknowing, it's still causing that
interference. And so the first step would be to approach and educate and let you know, can you
please move to the side, can you please move along, whatever the appropriate change response is.
DENISE MAES: I understand that, Marisela. Thank you. My point was intent versus unintentional,
not knowingly or unknowingly, because I think there is a big difference.
And again, what I hear you saying is, hey, trust us. We're going to do education first. And
regardless, if our education doesn't work, if you are unintentionally blocking, then you are going
to get a citation. That's where I'm trying to understand. That intent is not an issue here.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, this is Bob Grado again. This is all rules. These are just rules. These
are not criminal acts, so there would be no citation. The only time a citation would come into play
is if somebody refused to cooperate, and that's the last thing we want to do.
I know Director Lewis has been saying over and over, and I say the same thing, we can never
enforce our way out of some of these issues. It just doesn't work. So we will always try to get
people to cooperate and really do the right thing, because it's a rule. It's not a law. There's no
criminal act for laying on the floor. There's nothing we could argue with.
DENISE MAES: I guess when I read at the very, very end about how you can enforce all of the
above, there are sanctions. Whether you call them criminal or not, there are sanctions. For example,
you can ask somebody to leave. You can suspend somebody for a period of time. So there are
repercussions, I guess is my point.
ROBERT GRADO: Right. And even that, we do have a policy as far as suspensions and things.
That's a separate policy. But all of our enforcement starts with warnings and education.
So the only thing you could do is if somebody was refusing to cooperate, they're refusing to follow
the rules, they refuse to move, there comes a certain point because we are asking them to leave.
The only charge would be a trespassing charge. So you can do that. Even our suspension policy
says there has to be a criminal act, so it would have to come to that level before they would even
receive a suspension.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Denise?
DENISE MAES: I think, given that explanation, I don't understand why "intentional" is not in
there. But we can move on. I don't see the point of persisting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Got it. All right, is there any other discussion on this before
we move forward? Not seeing any.
Let me go back again and say if we wordsmith this number 34 to include lying down and pull in
the piece that was with it on 28, are you OK with that as a compromise solution? Let me go through
the list again. Denise?

DENISE MAES: Well, no, but we've already gone over it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Doug?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think if it's a compromise let's work with that. And
I think it's functional and I agree with the statements made before that whether it's intentional or
unintentional, knowing or unknowing, it creates an impairment.
And so you tell people, please, you're in violation, move. That's how you start, and then most
people move on. If they aren't, then it becomes intentional. That's a separate issue. But I think the
compromise probably is functional.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Aubrey?
AUBREY: Yes, I'm in support of that, as long as through the wordsmithing it still reflects the spirit
of what you read out. So thank you so much, everyone, for working on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Britta?
BRITTA: Yes, I support it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Shontel?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah, I support it. I think it's as good as it's going to get, honestly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Troy?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Well, to use Director Tisdale's term, it's functional. It's not my first
choice, because I don't see much need for lying down in our facilities. But I will compromise and
call it functional and leave it at that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, ma'am. I'm fine with the compromise. And if for some reason it's
insufficient or there's unintended consequences or it doesn't allow the breadth of enforcement that's
needed, then we can always revisit this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: I'm good, Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So I'm going to call it and say that we will eliminate number
28 and we will incorporate it into number 34. And we will bring that forward to the Board of
Directors-- is it July 21st, Ms. McManus?

BARBARA MCMANUS: We will bring it forward in Operations on the 14th for final approval to
the Board on the 21st.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. On the 21st. All right, thank goodness.
Thank you so much, everybody, for this discussion. I really think that this is a living document
that we can go back in and address on a regular basis. But I really think the code of conduct has to
be one piece along with the training for everybody, so that everybody really is on the same page
and hearing the same words and experiencing a bunch of stuff.
I'm encouraged by the fact that RTD has someone on their staff that's going to be doing outreach
in the homeless communities and that you are all part of this committee and are looking at ways
to partner and collaborate, because I think this transit agency belongs to everybody. It's going to
take all of us to move it forward. So I cannot thank you enough for participating.
I am so honored with your honesty and your commitment to our community. I'm really grateful to
RTD to listen and to be flexible, because I think collaboration is the way that we're going to move
forward in a successful way, particularly in such a diverse time that we're all living in, which has
just been quite extraordinary.
So with that, what I'd like to do is have Marisela talk a little bit about the whitepaper.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to add, I really liked Britta's original
proposal for the language. I'm not sure exactly where we're going to be landing on the language,
but I thought that was a quick and simple, clear edit, if we're going with a compromise, which we
are.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Britta, will you send that to us?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: I'm sorry, Aubrey. I'm so sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We have yours, Aubrey.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Yeah, I think that was in the parentheses was quick and simple. I echo
Chair's sentiments. We really do appreciate it. We think we have a better document and it's just
great to get all your perspectives and expertise.
So next we're going to talk about the White Paper, which is referred to in the charter as the "final
report." And it was not very clear exactly what to include, but that's why we're coming to you to
make sure everything is included that you think is appropriate. The final report is supposed to
incorporate our findings.
And so I'm going to try to share my screen here. I hope it works, because I've begun to draft the
final report, but I wanted to give everyone an opportunity put some input on organization and all
of that.

I apologize in advance. There was a little bit of confusion and I think miscommunication about it.
We were hoping to have a draft to you before this meeting so that way you could review it and
then we'd have a more thorough discussion.
You can take a look at what it looks like so far. Happy to edit it, add things, delete things, et cetera,
but we'll send it out. We still have a little bit of time. It's a shorter timeline. I'm really sorry, but
you'll still have time to review it on your own time with all the time you have, I'm sure.
So one second. Let me see if I can share my screen.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, while Mariella is looking to share that-- this is Barbara McManus- I just want to say that the Code of Conduct itself will go forward to the Board. But this final
document is a record of what the committee did. It's not Board approved, it's just a review and
substantiation of what has happened-- the meetings that we had, what happened during the process
that was outlined in the charter, and an overview of Board of Directors' activities with outside
communities. So I just wanted to add that, that it's not part of the approval process, which is why
we have a little bit of time before the 21st to get this completed, based on the charter.
ROBERT GRADO: Ms. McManus, this is Bob Grado again, if I could chime in. I just have a
question. Would it be possible to add this when it's completed and everyone's happy with it?
For me, it'd be great to have this as a link off of our Code of Conduct that's posted on our website.
So in the future if people go, well, how did they come up with this crazy thing, it'd be nice to have
people to be able to see the involvement and what went into it, and the thought process, at least on
our side. Because at the end of the day, I want everyone's support in all of this moving forward,
and just to be able to review or refer back to that would be great.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Absolutely, Bob. This is a public meeting and the document is public.
I don't know where the code of conduct lies right now, but we certainly can get this added.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Let me just welcome Director Williams. Welcome, Director
Williams, we are right now on the White Paper discussion. So Marisela, I'll turn it back over to
you.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Thank you, Chair. So here is what I've come up with. We can just take
a look at it more superficially, maybe we could just go through the headlines and see. And then
hopefully Barbara and John can help me get it out to you and then you can really look at the
substance of it.
But again, this is technically called The Final Report. We're referring to it as The Right Paper, kind
of the same idea. But the idea would be to present this to the Board, as Barbara and everyone else
has mentioned, starting with an executive summary, or something brief if someone is just looking
for a quick overview.
Then with the background of how we got here, why the committee was formed, and the events
leading up to that. Then the purpose of the committee, which was stated in the charter and at the

meeting where this committee was established. The members-- so all of you, and how great you
were in improving this document. The meetings-- so just a little bit of the work we actually did
when we met. The scope and the processes-- so I tried to outline how our process worked, which
initially started, if you'll remember, with a presentation on the Code of Conduct. And then an
individual review of the Code of Conduct, as well as any suggestions for edits, which as you know
we worked very hard on editing and approving this document, thanks to all the feedback and
positive criticism from all of the committee members.
The next one, which I would like to spend a little bit of time on if we have a few minutes, is the
findings. So in the charter, we are to report our findings to the Board and in this report. And to me,
I can craft these, but I was just hoping for a little more input from the group because everyone
worked so hard. And so I wanted to know if anybody had any specific findings in this process that
they wanted to include in this report, or think it's vital to include in this report.
And I know, again, it's a little unfair to put you on the spot. So if you don't have initial reactions,
we can definitely give you that opportunity to think about it and give us them so we can incorporate
it in the report. But I wanted to open it up now if anybody had any gut findings or initial reactions
for this section.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, let me just go through and ask. Aubrey?
AUBREY: Well, I suppose I am not sure exactly what you're looking for in this section. But I'd
say the major themes that stuck out to me were modernizing the language, based on new
technologies and new [INAUDIBLE], using person first language and centering people, and also
focusing on the impact on the delivery of services.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Wow. That's great for right off the cuff. Britta?
BRITTA: Those sound great. I'm just not sure what the other sections are in this document, because
I haven't seen it scrolled all the way through.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: It would be results which would be-- I believe it's more than 20
revisions. I will confirm that, if you see my little note here, once I redline the original document
which was adopted on the 21st to now, the one that we'll present to the Board. I also wanted to see
if anybody thought it was important to specifically go over each edit and describe why we made
each edit that we did and the discussion behind that.
The document could get a little long because, as you know, it's been a robust discussion, but we
will be attaching a redline so people can see that. The meetings are public, as Barbara mentioned,
so if someone is curious they can go back and review them. But really, it's a group document-- I
know everyone's busy, I just wanted to get a jump start on it. If you have any criticisms initially,
let me know or propose changes. And then if not, we can send this out and you can review it more
carefully.

BRITTA: Thanks for that context. I do think just the redlines and the recordings are fine for me. I
don't think we need to recapture all of the intent, because there's not shared 100% consensus on
every little thing. So I think you show where we landed.
Also, it sounds as if it only focuses on the edits. And if you're going to do that kind of analysis, I
think it would need to be, what's the intent of every rule? Just the ones that we edited and that was
I think beyond the scope here.
So I'm pretty comfortable with the three bullets for the findings that Audrey quickly rattled off-the modernizing for [CHIME] technology, the person first language, and the impact on delivery of
services as a lens. I think the only other one that I would add is what was up in the purpose. And
so it may be redundant, but to look at how rules can be enforced equitably, or applied equitably.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Thank you, Britta.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I actually wouldn't change anything. The only one that I was going to add
was the enforcement. I know we talked a bit about this. I don't know if we spoke enough about it.
And I know Mr. Ford has brought it up quite a bit. It's not enough to have the Code of Conduct,
but to know how these specific rules within the Code of Conduct are being enforced, I think, is
another layer of the conversation. But I'm OK with the recordings, and I do think that there was
philosophical differences instead of the recordings and the redlines are totally OK with me. I also
don't respond well in the moment if I hadn't had the opportunity to review this, and so that's as best
as I can do, considering this is the first time I saw this thing.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: No, thank you. We really appreciate that. I just wanted to get a jump
start. We still have a little bit of time, not as much as we would have liked to give, so we apologize
for that. You'll be able to review this. So, thank you.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I don't have anything else to add.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thanks. Yeah, I don't have much. I think the last two bullets that were
added are good. But beyond that, I'm a little like Director Lewis, I need a little more time with it.
But it's a great start and it's a monumental task for her staff. So I appreciate Marcella and others'
work on this.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yes.

TROY L. WHITMORE: It's going to prove to be, I think, an important document, as Chief Grado
had said, here in the future. Thanks.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Denise?
DENISE MAES: I don't know. I may have more to add later. But I do think I will say that I do
think that we've come a long way from the original draft in a positive way. I remain concerned
about vague language that's left very much to the discretion of RTD. So I guess I'll reiterate my
concerns on enforcement, and that it is not disproportionately enforced against individuals
experiencing homelessness.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I think Britta caught it exactly. And I
think it's very important that this committee was formed, as I understood it, to focus on enforcing
equitably and applying the rules equitably. And I agree wholeheartedly that that was the charge,
and I believe that has been the accomplishment. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. No, I don't really have any comments other than
just the enforcement of the policies and the procedures, and the check and balances, just to ensure
that we're consistent with what we do and say, and that we're treating people fairly and equitably.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Chief Grado?
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, I don't have anything to add. I pretty much agree with everything I'm
seeing here. I also want to see people treated fairly, and consistencies. I mean, that is the ultimate
goal here. And again, I said earlier, having all of your support on this document, and I think if we
can demonstrate that we are being fair that we will have your support. That's the goal.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. For me, I think that the thing that was really
interesting is that RTD is in the business of transit and moving people. And I think we get so caught
up in doing that day-to-day and making sure that the schedules hit the right time and that we have
all the things in place that we forget that we have our own jargon and that we assume people know
what we mean when we say The Trailblazer.
Nobody knew what that was, which is kind of like the book that every driver has to have and know.
Where do you turn right at this time? Where do you turn left? What do the passes look like?
So it's their Bible, so to speak. And I thought that was really fascinating when we started going
through that all of you said, what does this mean? What does this mean?

And so I think that our jargon is something that we need to continue to look at as we're working
on policies and procedures, and assumptions that we just assume people know where we're coming
from. And so for me, the biggest takeaway from this is never assume what we are writing is
connecting to what community is understanding. And if we can take that a notch back, then I think
that we're going to be so much more successful in terms of providing service and working in
collaboration with everybody, providing a safe and reliable service. And how do we do it? We do
it together by looking at all of these things.
So those are my comments right now. But I'm looking forward to reading it more in-depth. OK,
Marisela, does that give you enough?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: I believe so. I think the next step is I'll try to incorporate this-KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair, hi.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, hold on. I'm so sorry. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I was getting tired of holding my hand up there. Now you're all going to wish
that you hadn't called on me, because I'm going to throw a monkey wrench in this entire thing. At
no point in this did we address the situation that we are in today, and that our Code of Conduct at
some point in time is going to have to address the safety of all of our lives.
We don't say anything about wearing masks any place in here, or reacting in recommended ways
to help situations, or life-threatening situations, or future pandemics. We have overlooked that in
this. I just came from a meeting with a member of the union, and that is something that they asked
us to look at. So unless this committee is solely aimed at dealing with homelessness, then maybe
in our Code of Conduct we want to look at how people deal with protecting each other. Sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, don't be sorry. And, in fact, we did discuss the pandemic and
the use of masks, and that was going to be incorporated. Mr. Meader and I, actually we did it at a
committee meeting to talk about making sure that we had the full component in here about keeping
everybody safe by wearing masks during a pandemic. Chief Grado, can you talk about that a little
bit?
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't necessarily want it to specify masks, because we don't know what
could be the next problem we have. Maybe the next problem is not touching things.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Director Williams, here's what I'm thinking. I'm thinking that
we move forward-- the committee's voted to move the Code of Conduct forward. And then at the
Operations meeting on the 14th when we bring it forward, that you bring that up and we have the
Board do a discussion about that component of it. It might be a good place to bring it forward.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm good with that. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great. Thank you so much.

BARBARA MCMANUS: So Chair, this is Barbara McManus.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, ma'am?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I believe in the last meeting, Mike Meader said something about adding
some generic language?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And so I know it didn't get incorporated in right now, but perhaps we
can get at least a generic statement into this document prior to discussion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I think that would be great. But I do know that we did discuss
it, and I take to heart exactly what Director Williams is saying and bringing forward. I think that
we still have time to change this a little bit in terms of adding those components, so thank you so
much.
OK, with that, is there any other matters to come before this committee?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Chair, if I may, I just wanted to go over the timeline, if you will, for
this document, this final report.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sure.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: So I wanted you to take a look here on the screen. We're planning to
get it to you at Friday, July 10th, at noon, or if you want to see it now. I don't know what the group
prefers, but I wanted to clean it up a little bit. And then you would have until Tuesday, July 13th,
by close of business to submit any comments, then in between Tuesday and Thursday I would
incorporate those comments.
And then Thursday, July 16th, is when the final report has to be submitted to the Board through
the Board packet. This must be done prior to the Board meeting where it will actually be presented
on the 21st. And then there's a few other things. These dates may be a little off, I was told by John,
but those are the key dates for you. Does that seem reasonable? What do you think about that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think it's a short period of time, but I think it's workable. Does
anybody have objections to that? Let me look. I'm not seeing anybody.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: How long is this document?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: I'm sorry? How long?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Uh-huh.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: It's three pages, and I'm hoping that it's an even-handed, fair report.
It's supposed to be objective, just kind of an overview and report of what happened. So I'm hoping

we wouldn't need a lot of discussion on it, but we would value your input. But it's three pages so
far.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So any other comments on that? I think three pages I can do in a
couple of days for sure. OK, not hearing anything else. Any other matters to come before the
committee? Not hearing any.
I cannot say thank you enough to our staff, Ms. McManus, Mr. McKay, Mr. Ford, Chief Grado,
Mr. Meader, Mr. Ballard-- I mean, all of you have been just amazing. And it goes without saying
that the community members that have been at this table have provided such amazing counsel to
this Board. I feel very honored and humbled by that.
We are so looking forward to continuing our relationship with all of you. And with that I'll say we
are adjourned at 12:25 PM. Thank you.
MUTIPLE PARTICIPANTS: Thank you.
MUTIPLE PARTICIPANTS: Thanks, everyone.
MUTIPLE PARTICIPANTS: Thanks so much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye.

