Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, December 5, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Remote
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Absent

Arrived

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

5:30 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present

4:54 PM
5:20 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:30 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Absent

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

5:14 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present
Absent
Present

5:31 PM
5:31 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Committee Chair
Director, District A

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:07 PM

5:10 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Caitlin Arnold, Rolf Asphaug, Nicole Carey, Lou Cripps,
Jeff Cluphf,Paul DesRocher, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry
Emmons, Andrew Gale, David Genova, Adriana Gibson, Bob Grado,
John Hersey, Jim Kelly, Mitch Kuharski, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Jeff Miessel, Allen Miller,
Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Ruth Seleske, Bill Sirois, Amruta
Somalwar, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma, Michael Washington, Brian Welch.

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Holly Buck, Patricia Doersch, Tim Drake, Mike
Hylez, Enrique Maguire, Anne Mieno, Chris Nevitt, William
Richardson, Dave Sachs, Vivian Stovall, John Thompson, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan Wagner.

Director Anderson participated via phone. Directors Archuleta, Lubow, and Solano were
absent.

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates
Committee Chair Walker commented that Roger Sherman of CRL Associates
was unable to attend, but his written report was included in the meeting
packet. He noted that if a Director had any questions they should contact
Mr. Sherman or Sherry Ellebracht, RTD’s Government Relations Officer.

• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry~McKenna (BBMK), said that the
Transportation Legislation Review Committee (TLRC) had met the previous
week and there was conversation about a draft bill regarding state funding
for supplementing low-income transit riders. She noted that it failed, but
given some interest by legislators, BBMK had been meeting with House and
Senate members to update them on the status of RTD’s pass program
working group and to answer questions. She anticipated legislation on this
topic to come up during the next session, which was scheduled to convene
on January 10, 2018. She also noted that BBMK had met with
Representative Lebsock, who had an interest in auditing the district. She
noted that he was unaware how many times the state audits RTD and that
BBMK was able to educate him on other topics as well. Finally, she
commented that lawyers from the Scientific and Cultural Facilities District
(SCFD) had been working all summer and fall on draft bill language that
could be amenable to both the Republican Senate and Democratic House.
She added that there would be a robust stakeholder group meeting on the

811 call system, which impacts a lot of utilities and could impact the
district, and said the bill would likely be introduced during the next session.
Committee Chair Walker noted that he had forgotten to read the safety
procedures when the meeting began. He reminded the Board and audience
what to do in case an emergency situation occurred and proceeded to read
the safety procedures.
Director Broom asked if there had been any rumors about putting people
putting strings attached to the reinstatement of the marijuana tax.
Ms. Brandeberry commented that the only rumor she heard came during the
special session, but it was not drafted or put into legislation and she had not
heard anything else to date.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Patricia Doersch, Squire Patton Boggs (SBP), stated that she, along with
colleagues Anne Mieno, Tim Drake, and Mike Dino would provide the federal
update to the Board.
Ms. Doersch stated that $63.3 million dollars was in the House
Appropriations Bill, the Senate Appropriations Bill, and the President’s
recommendation for the Appropriations Bill, and SPB believes that the $63.3
million for the EAGLE project will be in the final transportation appropriation
bill presentation, which should be finalized by Christmas or shortly
thereafter. The $63.3 million represents the final and full amount for the
EAGLE project.
Mr. Dino stated that FasTracks continued to receive recognition by people in
the administration and was one of the prime items always on the agenda.
He noted that:
• FasTracks:
o More than $1 billion in contracts to small, Minority Business
Enterprise (MBE), and Disadvantaged Business Enterprise
(DBE) businesses over 12 years, through the FasTracks
program.
• Improvements / Expansions:
o RTD received a five-year approval from Federal Railroad
Administration (FRA) for the University of Colorado A Line and
the B Line.
o Reopening of the state-of-the-art Civic Center Station.
• Federal Funding: $63.3 million for the final year of the Eagle P3
project, part of $2.8 billion in federal grant and loan
commitments.
o Funding is included in the House and Senate Fiscal Year 2018
Transportation/HUD appropriations bills.

He noted that, as Ms. Doersch had mentioned, SPB was looking forward to
Congress finishing the 2018 appropriations in order to finish the final grant
for the EAGLE P3 project.
Mr. Dino commented that RTD continued to be a leading voice in public
transportation. He noted that:
• Senate Environment + Public Works (EPW) Committee held a
Roundtable on Transit Finance in May
o CFO shared RTD’s innovative approaches for generating and
capturing the economic benefits of transit.
• RTD sent a letter to US DOT Secretary Elaine Chao in support of
continued New Starts (Capital Investment Grants/CIG) funding in
May
o RTD shared its Eagle P3 experience after reviewing FY 2018
budget proposal that would end funding for new CIG projects
nationwide.
• Rail-Volution Conference was held in Denver in September
o
RTD co-hosted conference; Board Chair and CEO
participated as plenary speakers.
• Site Visit by House T&I Chairman Bill Shuster occurred in October.
o RTD hosted Chairman Shuster for a tour of Denver Union
Station (DUS), the surrounding transit oriented development,
and the University of Colorado A Line.
Mr. Dino commented that the Federal priorities included:
• New Starts: Securing full funding for the Eagle P3 in the 2018
fiscal year omnibus appropriations bill expected in late December
or early January.
• FRA approvals for commuter rail service: RTD successfully
secured a 5-year FRA approval for the University of Colorado A
Line and B Line.
• Return of Credit Risk Premium (CRP) funds on Railroad
Rehabilitation & Improvement (RRIF) Loan: RTD is currently
seeking the return of the $29 million credit risk premium paid on
the RRIF loan for the DUS project.
o Making RTD’s case to:
• US Department of Transportation (DOT) Build America
Bureau
• House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee
staff
• Senate Commerce Committee staff
• Senate Banking Committee staff
• Upcoming Opportunities:
o Infrastructure bill in early 2018
o Highway Trust Fund revenue solution

He noted that Director Folska had inquired about the Highway Trust Fund
(HTF) and if any technological innovations would help that issue. He added
that the return of the CRP was something that SPB continued to forage for
in Washington D.C., with the Colorado delegation as well as the rest of
Congress.
Ms. Doersch stated that she wanted to pose the questions that Mr. Drake
and Ms. Mieno would answer so that the Board would know what RTD was
struggling with at the moment. She noted that funding for programs and all
government agencies ended on Friday, December 6, 2017. She asked what
Congress planned to do to keep the government operating while the House
and Senate tried to reach an agreement on tax reform and budget deals. She
noted that the government was currently operating under a two-month
continuing resolution and, because of that, transportation funding was on
hold. She added that it should be infrastructures turn in Washington, and if
so, she questioned what Congress, the White House, and the Department of
Transportation (DOT) had in mind. Finally, she stated that open positons
were being filled at the DOT but noted that RTD would need to be cognizant
of policy changes due to those appointments. She further commented that
one thing SPB is working towards was the refund of the CRP, but she stated
that would require top secretarial input, along with the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB).
Ms. Mieno remarked New Starts funding for the EAGLE P3 project was
reliant on:
• House and Senate bills that would fully fund the Eagle P3 funding
request
o RTD’s FY 2018 request: $63.3 million.
• President’s FY 2018 budget request:
o $63.3 million
o Pending House and Senate FY 2018 Transportation, Housing,
and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD)
appropriations bills: Both fund the Eagle P3 project at $63.3
million.
• A full-year spending bill: US DOT will not award grants under
discretionary programs (programs in the control of the
Appropriators) in the absence of a full-year spending bill.
• It is likely that no FY 2018 New Starts funding will be awarded
until after a full-year omnibus spending bill is enacted.
Mr. Drake commented that DOT leadership under Secretary Chao is ongoing.
He started that:
• Nominations and appointments were in progress:
o Pace of nominations and appointments had increased.
o RTD should expect substantive policy decisions to follow.

•

•

•

•

Chao’s top 3 US DOT leaders had been confirmed:
o Deputy Secretary: Jeffrey Rosen
o Under Secretary for Policy: Derek Kan
o General Counsel: Steven Bradbury
Federal Transit Administration:
o Awaiting nomination of an Administrator.
o Deputy Administrator: Jane Williams has been appointed.
Federal Railroad Administration:
o Administrator: Ronald Batory had been nominated;
awaiting confirmation.
o Deputy Administrator: Heath Hall had been appointed.
Build America Bureau (TIFIA, RRIF, private activity bonds):
o Executive Director position vacant.

Mr. Drake stated that opportunities in an infrastructure bill included:
• Potential for a long-sought HTF revenue solution:
o Closing the gap between spending levels and dedicated HTF
revenues seen as “unfinished business” after Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation (FAST) Act.
o Still broad bipartisan Congressional support: In June, a letter
from 253 House Members sought long-term revenue solution
in tax reform.
• But surface transportation funding is not a must-pass bill:
o FAST Act funds surface transportation programs through
2020.
o Other Trump/Congressional priorities include: healthcare, tax
reform, and trade.
o Competing transportation priorities in FY 2018 include: Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization, autonomous
vehicles.
o Same politically difficult revenue options such as: taxes on
gasoline, oil and gas production, vehicle-miles traveled.
Ms. Mieno remarked that the Infrastructure and Tax Reform Bill was:
• Congress’ current focus was tax reform:
o House passed its tax reform bill on November 16th; Senate
passed its bill on December 2nd.
• House and Senate would vote on a final tax bill before the end of
the calendar year.
o Early hope was tax reform could serve as a vehicle for an HTF
revenue solution or at least a one-time funding boost, neither
of which were included in the House or Senate tax bills.
• Republicans were using tax reform to lower rates, not
for new spending.
o Yet the gas tax debate continues:

White House advisor Gary Cohn recently floated the
idea of a gas tax increase to the bipartisan
congressional Problems Solvers Caucus.
• Senator Schumer recently voiced opposition to a gas
tax increase as a regressive tax; favors use of one-time
repatriated revenues.
Now playing defense: fighting to keep favorable infrastructurerelated tax provisions such as private activity bonds, advance
refundings, and commuter benefits.
•

o

Ms. Doresch noted that the President’s Infrastructure Proposal had:
• Still too much speculation and very few specifics.
• Timing: Anticipated by early 2018 after tax reform. Congress
likely must vote on a bill by May; thereafter the window for
moving a bill starts to close due to elections.
• Funding and Finance: the President’s original proposal still stood
which included leveraging $200 billion in Federal funding to
attract a total of $1 trillion in infrastructure investment.
o Financed through both public and private capital.
o Recently, the President stated that P3s were “more trouble
than they’re worth.”
• Regulatory Reform: reducing or eliminating burdensome
regulations to cut red tape and advance project approvals more
quickly.
o Secretary Chao asserted that regulatory red tape was the
biggest hurdle to project advancement than lack of funding.
• Transportation stakeholders were not giving up on an HTF
revenue solution; if not in tax reform, then here.
•
Ms. Doresch commented that changes in transit programs could include:
• Authorizers reluctant to revisit carefully-crafted compromises in
the FAST Act.
o Authorizers wanted any additional Federal funding to be
distributed via FAST Act formula programs, which were in
place through FY 2020.
• Republican-led Congress rejected Trump Administration
proposals to zero-out TIGER and new CIG funding in FY
2018 Transportation, Housing, and Urban
Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) bills.
• Where change was likely was in regulatory reform:
o White House Council on Environmental Quality focused on
streamlining and reducing permitting requirements on
infrastructure projects.
o US DOT pulled back two-man crew rulemaking and sleep
apnea rulemaking for FRA-regulated operators.

US DOT eliminated local hire pilot program for highway and
transit projects.
Strong support for Buy America requirements government-wide
o

•

Director Broom said that, in terms of the TIGER Grant, the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT) was counting on a TIGER Grant to
widen I-25 from Castle Rock to Colorado Springs. He asked how many
applications were standing in Colorado and whether that one project would
wipe out all of the funding for the state.
Mr. Dino commented that he did not know the total dollar amount for all
applications submitted, but stated that Colorado did not have a great history
of receiving funding from the TIGER program. He noted that it was a very
competitive program and this was the first time the program was being
administered under a new administration. He added that the billions of
dollars RTD received over the years had not gone un-noticed, and being very
competitive, it did not help that the state had not come up with a
coordinated program to seek TIGER funding.
Ms. Doersch added that it was difficult to make two awards in the same
state, but there was broad support within the Colorado delegation.
Director Folska noted that CDOT’s TIGER application for the I-25 expansion
was $62 million dollars, whereas RTD’s TIGER application was for $12
million, and she asked if that would make a difference.
Ms. Doersch stated that $62 million would be unprecedented, and $12
million is typically considered the sweet spot.
Director Folska asked what impact it had if the head of a government
agency was acting or confirmed.
Ms. Doersch stated that if someone was in an acting role they had full
authority for as long as they were in that position
Director Folska asked if they had any updates on the Vehicles Miles Traveled
(VMT) Tax pilot program going on in Oregon.
Mr. Drake stated that the pilot was ongoing, and Oregon would report their
findings over the next two years.
Director Francone asked if the $550 million TIGER Grant appropriation
approved by the Senate was a normal amount.
Ms. Doersch said yes, and noted that it was always appropriated around the
$500 million level.

Director Francone asked if there was anything that RTD, APTA, or other
transit agencies could do to ease the current administration’s minds that
P3’s were an important component to public transportation.
Ms. Doersch said that General Manager Genova weighed in with a letter
back in May and took a leadership role in saying that, through FasTracks,
local voters agreed to tax themselves to help pay for the project while still
having the largest new starts grant ever made. She said that local, private,
and government funds were all needed to fund projects such as FasTracks.
Director Francone asked, with respect to the credit risk premium, whether
SPB was optimistic that RTD would be refunded that money.
Ms. Doersch said that she was hopeful. She commented that this was under
the control of the DOT and OMB. She noted that, while they could make the
decision for the refund, no one had ever received their CRP payment back.
She remarked that, if the DOT did not act quickly enough, RTD could go
back to the Senate Commerce Committee.
Director Folska asked what type of transportation FTA Deputy Administrator
Williams would favor, since she did not like trains.
Ms. Doersch explained that Deputy Administrator Williams viewed rail as an
antiquated and expensive way to move people. She added that Deputy
Administrator Williams supported Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), platooning buses,
and automated buses and wanted to further explore technology.
Director Sisk asked, in terms of preparing for the next year, what the
agency’s talking points should be, considering the current uncertainty, how
RTD should make its points, and what staff and the Board should be thinking
about.
Ms. Doersch stated that, RTD should say thank you when it received the
last portion of its $1.03 billion Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) Grant.
She noted that for next year, depending on where the government was on
the infrastructure proposal, RTD could have a chance to influence that and
could get a final definition of BRT at the same time. She added that it would
also be an opportunity to show leadership and push RTD’s issues.
Mr. Dino noted that RTD may need a push with the help of the Colorado
delegation and hopefully the University of Colorado A Line, B Line, and G
Line would continue to go in the direction the Board expected. He said if it
needs a little push come march, it would be worth mentioning too.

Director Sisk inquired as to who
Representative Polis about the north.

would

volunteer

to

meet

with

Mr. Dino stated that he could do it again.
Director Anderson stated that she was concerned that, if the tax exemption
for parking went away, RTD could lose its Eco Pass program and inquired if
that was a correct assumption.
Ms. Doersch said that yes, it could go away. She said that, if an employer
could no longer write it off, it would be a disincentive.
Director Anderson asked if local government wanted to use both public and
private capital, what the difference would be between that and a P3.
Ms. Doersch explained that P3’s in the transportation sector are considered
to be design, build, finance, operate, and maintain (DBFOM) projects. She
said P3’s shift responsibility and risk over to the private sector partners, and
if they do not have any investment of their own in the game, the project is
not a P3.
Director Anderson stated that the President’s idea would be an investment
and then refunded with interest.
Ms. Doersh said that scenario would be more akin to a cash flow tool,
similar to issuing debt.
Committee Chair Walker asked if there were any disincentives for the private
sector to get involved in P3’s.
Ms. Doersch said that the House Bill had a bit of a disincentive because it
eliminated private activity bonds, which were tax exempt, and entities that
do not meet the public use standard.
Mr. Dino commented that he and his colleagues would like to thank the
Board for continuing the relationship with SPB and they looked forward to
supporting RTD for another year.

D. Other Matters
Director Folska commented that one of the most important things the Board did
every year was continuing education through Accelerate Colorado, which benefitted
the RTD Board and the Colorado delegation in Washington D.C.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 6, 2018
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 6:27 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

