Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11, 2007, 12:00
p.m. Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

December 10, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11,
2007 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

Staff Present:
Others Present:
Call to Order:
I.

***
Chair Martinez, Second Vice-Chair Quinlan (via phone),
Secretary Brohl, Treasurer Kemp, Directors Chacon and
Ruchman. Director McMullen (via phone)
Cal Marsella, Paula Perdue, Marla Lien, Bruce Abel, Phil
Washington
Steve Fesch, Jessica Guerrero
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 12:05
p.m.

December Board Meeting Agenda Review
 Unanimous Consent
Cal Marsella reviewed the items listed under unanimous consent.
Item B, Request for Approval of Property Acquisition Services
Contract-Eminent Domain Counsel, generated much discussion from
the Committee.
Director Chacon expressed real concern about the lack of diversity in
the 3 firms that are being recommended and felt while there was no
DBE requirements, RTD should do due diligence in communicating our
commitment to diversity and inclusiveness to the proposed firms. Cal
Marsella shared that there were zero certified firms registered as
diversity for this type of service and therefore RTD did not have a
legal standing to require this as a goal. Phil Washington further
stated that the EE01 report is not required if there are no goals,
although they have used language in other contracts with no goals
for diversity.
Director Brohl questioned if the issue stated was statutory or policy
as this would affect the recourse for the Board.
Director Kemp inquired as to what would be the impact to the
schedule if this recommendation was not approved and Cal Marsella
responded 60-90 days delay.
Director Chacon questioned why we could not have followed the
model used for DUS or the RFP for PPP where language could be put

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11, 2007, 12:00
p.m. Page 2 of 6
into the agreement requesting information on their outreach and
diversity efforts.
Director Kemp agreed that the favor of the Board is to show RTD’s
commitment to diversity and suggested having a study session to talk
about the requirements for SBE/DBE. He suggested that in the
interest of time so as not to impact the schedule, the Committee
should proceed with the approval of the recommended action but
consider passing a resolution in 2008 to include language for
diversity.
Chair Martinez summarized the issue to say the Board is serious
about our commitment to diversity on the FasTracks and provided his
support to Director Chacon to champion a resolution from the Board
that would speak to this commitment for our professional services.
Phil Washington indicated he could craft up some language that might
be appropriate for this issue. Marla Lien suggested also that the
Board might consider doing an interview with the selected firms to
better understand their outreach and diversity efforts for their firm.
The Executive Committee elected to move this item to recommended
action.
The following items were approved to move forward to the full Board
as unanimous consent:


BackCountry at Highlands Ranch Annexation
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the annexation of the 467 acre
BackCountry property at RTD. The property owners, Shea Homes
Limited Partnership and Sand Creek Cattle Company, have petitioned
RTD to approve the annexation. Upon approval of this annexation,
the area will become part of District H.



FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee – Reappointment of
Committee Members
It is recommended by the FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors re-appoint four members of the FasTracks Citizens
Advisory Committee (CAC), Tom Asburn, Thomas J. Burns, Charles
Choi and Ken Hotard, for a three-year term.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11, 2007, 12:00
p.m. Page 3 of 6


Park Meadows – Cost Sharing Agreement
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to amend the existing Cost Sharing Agreement with the
Rouse-Park Meadows in order to provide additional RTD financial
support for the operation of the Park Meadows shuttle during the
2007 holiday season and to transfer $50,000 excess funds from the
BroncosRide budget to cover the additional expenses.



access-a-Cab Subsidy Increase
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to increase the access-a-Cab subsidy from the current
$7.00 per trip to up to $12.00 per trip.



Amendment of “Evergreen call-n-Ride” Contract to include additional
Saturday Service
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee, to amend the existing contract, 16D0046, with the
Seniors’ Resource Center for inclusion of a second vehicle on
Saturdays for the Evergreen call-n-Ride service.



Recommended Action
The following items were discussed as part of recommended action:
Acquisition of Property-Englewood McClellan Reservoir Foundation
This is an item that will come before the Board at an Executive
Session on Tuesday, December 18th.





Recommendation for Modification to RTD Salaried Pension Plan
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the existing RTD
Salaried Pension Plan (the Plan) be closed as to new salaried
employees effective December 31, 2007 and that a new defined
contribution (DC) plan be created for all salaried employees hired on
or after January 1, 2008. It is further recommended that the
contribution for the new plan be 9% of payroll per employee and that
the board separately fund administrative costs to create and operate
the plan. The investment of the contributions to the new plan would
be self-directed by the employee from a list of Board of Trusteeapproved investment vehicles. This will have no negative impact on
any existing salaried RTD employees or existing salaried pension
retirees.
This item died for lack of a second motion to move it forward on the
agenda.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11, 2007, 12:00
p.m. Page 4 of 6


Authorization to Execute Letter of Intent with Executive Oversight
Partners and the Union Station Neighborhood Company
This is an item that will come before the Board at an Executive
Session on Tuesday, December 18 th.
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion
to move this item before the full
Board for a vote.
Director Kemp seconded the
Motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:
II.

The motion passed

GM 2008 Goals
Director Brohl re-emphasized the importance of getting the General
Manager’s 2008 goals complete by December 14, 2007. According to
his contract, if goals are not completed by this time, Cal will
automatically get 2-1/2% by default.
Director Brohl reviewed the goals that she had for the various
committees. Cal Marsella expressed his concerns with the goals as
written. The Finance and Administration goal was accepted as is. The
contracted operational services goal will be re-written to strike out
ridership as a performance item.
Both the Operations/Customer Service and Planning and Development
Goal were rejected by Cal Marsella. Cal Marsella expressed that he did
not want a goal that he could not control and felt that the
Operations/Customer Service goals had components that he could not
control. Chair Martinez responded by stating that in his experience, it is
common to have goals that one cannot control and there are several
goals which he could not control but it is up to the respective manager to
figure it out by working collaboratively to make it happen. He used as an
example, incentives that could be tried to bring the bus drivers to the
table. Cal Marsella indicated that union rules would forbid this type of
incentive.
Director Brohl emphasized the importance of having SMART goals that
have a stretch component to them. Cal Marsella reiterated that the
Planning and Development goal was not realistic and used as his support
that he had looked at the last year of Board agendas and determined only
one time that an item appeared where the Board had not been provided
ample notice. In general, many of the items approved are basic routine
operational approvals and do not require 2 months of notice.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11, 2007, 12:00
p.m. Page 5 of 6
Furthermore, he expressed the Board is given full pros and cons of
options presented. Cal Marsella also stated that this Board is not a
policy board but is directly involved in the operations.
Chair Martinez stated that if this is so, he would like for RTD staff to
identify/define which of the action items coming before them are policy
and which ones are merely operational. If the Board is asked to make a
decision especially the ones affecting policy, they need access to all
information in ample time to acquire a full understanding of all issues and
alternatives.
Several Board members (Brohl, Ruchman, Martinez) disagreed with the
General manager’s premise on the amount of notice given and shared
other examples of how this 2 month advance notice was not provided.
(i.e. customer service route changes that comes before the Board and
gets cited as impact to the runboard if action is not taken immediately).
After a notable amount of time was spent discussing the GM goals,
Director Barbara Brohl, Chair of GM Evaluation Committee, requested Cal
Marsella to review the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing and P&D
goals to provide acceptable revisions within 24-48 hours.
Director Chacon indicated that given the earlier discussion on diversity
and she felt the General Manager understood the concerns, she was OK
to include the FasTracks goal in the request for revisions by the General
Manager.
III.

Champion of Transit
Chair Martinez reviewed the Champion of Transit selection grid and
asked if the Committee members were clear on the voting process.
After some re-visit about the process, the Executive Committee
members present provided their vote for the awards to Paula Perdue,
Executive Manager to the Board of Directors.
Director Quinlan who was participating by phone indicated he would
Send a corrected voting sheet to Chair Martinez.
Director Ruchman made the recommendation that the process is
changed next year to allow full Board vote.

V.

Other Matters
Director Chacon expressed concern over the low responsiveness of
retirees who attend the Board meeting to accept their award and if
incentives could be provided such as having their respective Directors
contact them or take them to lunch.
Director Chacon expressed a desire for a more equitable system for
Board passes that would perhaps prioritize the needs of the non-profits

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 11, 2007, 12:00
p.m. Page 6 of 6
over some of the other uses of the Board passes. Director Kemp
provided an example where passes are given not based on need but
based on promotion of transit or ridership. Both are valid uses.
Chair Martinez noted the presence of Steve Fesch to the meeting but
stated that since Steve is now represented by counsel, members of the
Board should not speak directly to him. A copy of the letter that Steve
had passed out had been copied and given to Committee members and
RTD legal counsel but no response would be provided from Board
members. Steve was in attendance per his conversation with Director
Quinlan. However, upon hearing this explanation, Director Quinlan
concurred with the appropriateness of the response.
A copy of the memo given to the Board from Steve Fesch is located in
the Executive Committee Minute notebook located in the Board office.
VI.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 2:00 p.m.

