1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, September 9, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:03 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:30 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

5:30 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Absent

5:31 PM
5:30 PM

Judy Lubow

Committee Chair

Present

5:20 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:29 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:21 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:12 PM
5:15 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:07 PM

Staff Present:

Mike Barnes, Jeff Becker, Lacy Bell, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick
Clarke, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Heather Deckard, John Elias,
Joan Garcia, David Genova, Mike Gil, Cheryl Holmes, George Hovey,
Terry Howerter, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Tina Jaquez, Austin
Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod,
Tony McCaulay, Barbara McManus, Judy McMurphy, Deborah
Menendez-Wilson, Brenden Morgan, Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue,
Scott Reed, Steve Reilly, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Georgann Van
Gemert, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington, Kate Wilson

Others Present:

Marshall Crawford, Doug Gragg, Sherman Hamilton, Brian
Lewandowski, Robert McNown, Scott Ramming, Jeanne Shreve,
Marta Sipeki, Joe Triplett

B. Recommended Actions

• Transfer Funds to Support the Light Rail Gearbox Overhaul Program
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee,
to transfer $676,745 from the event recorder capital project (10360) to the
Light Rail Vehicle Maintenance campaign expense line item.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this item to
the full Board at the September 16, 2014 Board
meeting.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Austin Jenkins, Assistant General Manager for Rail Operations,
explained that this item is a general housekeeping matter. The
transfer of funds from capital to expense has no financial
impact.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James,
Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen,
Walker
Gary Lasater

ABSENT:

Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Updates

• Board Report January 2015 Service Changes
Dave Genova, Assistant General Manager for Safety, Security and Facilities,
introduced Mike Gill, Deputy Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations,
and Jessie Carter, Manager for Service Planning & Scheduling. Dave
Genova emphasized that these changes are presented to the Board for
informational purposes. The final proposed changes will be brought to the
Board for approval at a later date.
Jessie Carter introduced Jeff Becker, Senior Manager of Service
Development. Jessie Carter then presented the January 2015 Service
changes Board Report included in the Operations and Customer Service
Committee Meeting Packet for September 9, 2014. He stated that the
proposed changes totaled a $600,000 increase. The goal of the proposed
changes is to improve services while meeting Board adopted service
standards. The proposed changes include service improvements and
extensions as well as some service curtailment and cancellations. He
mentioned that there are five public meetings scheduled. The three offcampus meetings will be in the town of Parker, Highlands Ranch, and
Federal Heights. These are the areas affected by the proposed cancellation
of Call-n-Ride services.
Director Folska asked for further details on the service reductions for route
40. She asked if these changes included peak hours. Jessie Carter said
that trips are proposed for every 30 minutes instead of the current 20
minutes throughout the day, including peak hours. This reduced the route to
two trips an hour instead of three. He stated that the ridership on route 40
has decreased south of Colorado Boulevard. Jessie Carter mentioned that
there was some service duplication with route 46. Director Folska
commented that she has not received complaints on route 40. She also said
that route 40 offers a one bus trip for certain areas that are not served by
route 46.
Director Daly asked Jessie Carter to explain the meaning of the term
“hostler” as used on the W rail line service proposal. Jessie Carter explained
that a “hostler” is an employee who prepares the train at the end of the line
for the next trip. This allows for a longer break for the light rail operators.
Director Solano thanked staff for responding to his constituents’ request of
adding a bus stop on Holly between 60th and 63rd. He said he has received
positive feedback.
Director Anderson noted that the Belmar route was proposed to be
discontinued. She said that the Parker Call-n-Ride has been on life support
for a while. She asked if the town of Parker contributes towards the Call-n-

Ride services. Brian Matthews, Manager of Special Services, clarified that
the Belmar Flexroute is the one proposed for discontinuation. The Belmar
route will continue as it exists today. He said that the town of Parker does
not contribute towards the Call-n-Ride. Douglas County provided some
support.
Director Anderson pointed out that the Federal Heights is also marked for
discontinuation. She asked if staff has done marketing to increase ridership
on these routes. Brian Matthews said that there has been extensive
marketing done for these routes. The Parker Call-n-Ride averages 1.5
boardings per hour. He noted that even with the recent growth, the Federal
Heights Call-n-Ride has not met the minimum of 3 boardings per hour.
Director Hoy asked for an explanation of the last two lines of the Special
Services Report that reference the 5311 services. He said that these were
not included in the May or June reports. Brian Matthews explained that
these are services provided by non-profits in Boulder, Adams, and Jefferson
Counties. RTD provides a match for operations. He added that these nonprofits pull their numbers together to report to the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT). The process to get specific metrics is slow.
Directory Hoy said he had further questions that he would take offline.
Director Hoy echoed Director Anderson’s concern regarding the Federal
Heights Call-n-Ride. He said he could not justify cancelling a service that is
increasing while other services are declining. Director Hoy asked staff to
explain when the service change process ends. Jessie Carter said that
proposals are always modified after community, staff, and Director input.
The process ends when brought to the Directors for final approval.
Director Bagley emphasized that the 3 areas with proposed Call-n-Rides
cancellations (Parker, Highlands Ranch, and Federal Height) will each host a
public hearing. He recalled that the Federal Heights Call-n-Ride started as
the result of a grant in 2012. The community is aware that the service
would be cancelled if it did not meet the requirements. He noted he has
been in conversations with Brian Matthews regarding the Highlands Ranch
Call-n-Ride. Director Bagley said that these three Call-n-Rides are in
residential areas where most people own a car. He noted that the most
successful Call-n-Rides are in office development areas. Director Bagley also
stated that all Call-n-Rides are different, attract different levels of citizen
participation, and need different kinds of marketing. These factors require
that each Call-n-Ride be looked at separately without generalizing the report
numbers. He asked staff for feedback on his comments to ensure accuracy.
Brian Matthews affirmed the uniqueness of each Call-n-Ride while
mentioning that there is a service standard. Jessie Carter said that the
Federal Heights Call-n-Ride does not operate out of RTD’s budget. In the
next year, if not cancelled, it would become a cost increase for RTD.

Chair Sisk said he was advocating for the Federal Heights Call-n-Ride
service. He noted that the ridership was growing. He pointed out that the
area is economically challenged thus in need of the service. Chair Sisk
suggested that RTD work with municipalities, in this case, Adams County,
to explore cost-sharing options. He said that he understands the service is
not costing RTD anything; however, if discontinued there may be a cost in
how RTD is perceived in the community. He encouraged staff to extend this
service since it has only been available for less than 3 years. Brian
Matthews commented that RTD extended an invitation to all the Call-n-Ride
communities for a 50% cost-share option. Federal Heights replied with two
offers: one until May, 2015 and another until December, 2015.
Director Deadwyler said she was happy about the service extension for
routes 15 and 15L. She asked if this meant extra buses or service times.
She said that the route stops at Chambers Road at 7:00 p.m., forcing some
of her constituents to walk four miles home. Jessie Carter said that routes
15 and 15L are in a league of their own, with over 24,000 combined
boardings a day. The proposal is to add weekday morning and middle of the
day trips to the 15L. He also said that staff has asked the consultants on
the East Corridor to include the 15L services in their process. This includes
studying the possibility of extending the hours of operation past Chambers
Road.
Committee Chair Lubow asked why the Denver Union Station (DUS) routes
have no specific gate assignments. A constituent complained that this
makes it difficult to utilize the services. Jessie Carter said that DUS has 22
gates. Some bus routes have more frequency than others. Staff allowed
this flexibility in order to learn from the growth. After a few months of
operations, staff is ready to make some decisions on gate assignments.
Committee Chair Lubow asked how the public will be notified of these
changes. Jessie Carter said the timetable would be published. He
mentioned that the Rider Alerts could be used as well.

• US 36 Bus Rapid Transit Branding Update
Nadine Lee, Project Manager for US36 and Northwest Line, explained that
the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) will be a new class of service for RTD. It will
provide the quality of rail service with the flexibility of bus service. It is
expected that 20,000 passengers will board the service daily. She said that
branding will give the BRT its unique identity distinguishing it from other
RTD services. The report included in the Operations and Customer Service
Committee Meeting Packet for September 9, 2014 outlines the stakeholders’
engagement timeline.
Nadine Lee introduced Stephen Reilly, Communications Manager for
Marketing. Stephen Reilly introduced Kate Wilson, Marketing Account

Executive, and Cheryl Holmes, Manager for Creative Services. Stephen
Reilly unveiled the design for the Flatiron Flyer. He said the design is the
result of a year and a half collaboration with stakeholders, Senior Leadership
Team, Maintenance, and Operations. The design is modern and eyecatching, highlighting the topography of the corridor. He noted that it is
cost-effective, easily installed, and easily maintained.
Director Menten asked if the design would interfere with advertising space.
Stephen Reilly answered that the branding is on the top half of the bus to
allow for advertising. Any advertising would cover the “swoosh” area of the
design, which is not essential to the branding. The back of the bus allows
for the essential functions of the vehicle and branding.
Director Menten asked if safety was considered in the design of the bus.
She also asked if the buses will have reflective stripping on the back.
Stephen Reilly said that safety is always a concern. He noted that his team
is working with the body shop to achieve safety measures on this vehicle.
Chair Sisk expressed his gratitude for working together with the
stakeholders and other participants through this process. He said that staff
has embodied so many aspects to make this BRT a service for US 36.
Director Hoy called the marketing staff exceptional. He mentioned that the
marketing team had to navigate through mine fields of staff and politicians.
He noted that staff was able to create a great design while working with
groups that may not move in the same direction. He applauded everyone on
the team for their work.
Director Folska asked when the first bus would be delivered. Nadine Lee
said the first bus would arrive in October, 2015.
Director James asked how branding a service and/or corridor fits into the
greater scheme of RTD. Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of
Communications, said that this corridor is the first true BRT and a part of
FasTracks. This makes it a unique service. He noted that RTD has naming
rights and branding rights in process through IMG Consulting. Any branding
opportunity will be brought to the Board for approval. Beyond these, RTD
has no current plans for branding other services. Director James noted that
it sounds like RTD may be exploring branding options. Scott Reed agreed.
Committee Chair Lubow asked if any new arterial BRT lines would also be
branded. Scott Reed said that this BRT is unique given the origin and
destination of the line. Arterial BRTs will be slightly different as they will be
in traffic and crossover with other routes.

Committee Chair Lubow asked if the branded buses would be exclusive for
the US 36 Corridor. Scott Reed said that there will be a flexibility agreement
depending on the system-wide needs.

• Public Relations/Marketing Update
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for Communications, told the
Directors that they have a copy of RTD’s Annual Report. The report, a
collaboration between Public Relations, Marketing, and all other
departments, will be sent out via email to all stakeholders and constituents.
He introduced Pauletta Tonilas, Senior Manager for Public Relations and
Public Information. Together they presented the RTD Public
Relations/Marketing Update included in the Operations and Customer Service
Committee Meeting Packet for September 9, 2014. The presentation
included an update on the Transit Watch Smart Phone App, Light Rail 20th
Anniversary celebration, FasTrack Vote 10th Anniversary, first commuter rail
car display, the I am FasTracks/I am RTD campaign and the I Heart My RTD
campaign.
Georgann Van Gemert, Account Executive for Marketing, expanded on the I
Heart My RTD Student Art Contest. This pilot program is designed to create
favorable RTD experiences for Middle School students through art. There
are 18 teachers enrolled and 2,400 students submitting entries from the
Cherry Creek and the Aurora Public School Districts. The deadline will be in
several of weeks. The voting process will be online. The winning design
will be featured on the side of a bus. Stephen Reilly noted that Dallas has a
similar program with an average of 120 submissions, highlighting the impact
of RTD’s pilot program. This program emphasizes the collaboration efforts
between municipalities, school systems and RTD. Director Folska is the
sponsoring Director for this program.
Pauletta Tonilas noted the FasTracks brochure is available. The brochure is
currently being translated into Spanish. She re-introduced Tina Jaquez,
former Public Information Manager for I-225 and currently working as
Manager for Public Relations. She also introduced Deborah Mendez-Wilson
as the new Senior Community Relations Specialist. She will target
grassroots outreach, Title VI Community Groups, marginalized low income
communities, ADA, and serve as the Spanish speaking spokesperson for
RTD.
Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager for Marketing, noted that each year the
first place winners of the AdWheel Awards are notified in advance of the
APTA Annual Meeting. RTD won 8 First Place Awards, the most ever won
by the agency, including both subcategories of the Special Events category.
The Special Events recognized are Market St. Station Closing and DUS
Opening. He said that RTD has a good chance of winning the Grand Prize in
this category. Grand Prizes are awarded during the APTA Annual Meeting.

He noted that usually judges are members from other transit agencies. This
year the judges were marketing professionals from the Washington, D.C.
area. He recognized the marketing team, including Joan Garcia, Graphic and
Web Designer.
Director Bagley noted the relevance of the FasTracks Vote 10th Anniversary.
He said that Tom Clark, Executive Vice President of the Denver Metro
Chamber of Commerce, calls FasTracks the number one economic
development tool for the area outside of Denver International Airport.
Director Menten asked what the budgets are for the I am FasTracks/I am
RTD campaign, and the I Heart My RTD Student Contest. Pauletta Tonilas
answered that the combined budget for the I am FasTracks/I am RTD
campaign is $45,000. She said the fall rollout will include marketing on
buses, newspaper, community papers, billboards, and earned media.
Pauletta Tonilas mentioned that 5280 Magazine will publish an earned media
advertisement in the next issue. Stephen Reilly added that RTD is using as
much available space on RTD property for all campaigns. He said that he
doesn’t have the specific number of the I Heart My RTD Student Contest
budget. Stephen Reilly acknowledged that the budget is very limited. He
noted that all work has been done in house, from design to execution. He
invited Director Menten to talk to Director Folska and Paula Perdue,
Executive Director of the Board Office, for specific details.
Chair Sisk said the team has to be praised for their work with constituents
and stakeholders. He commended Director Folska on her initiative with the
student contest. He thanked Paula Perdue for taking a real interest in this
project. Chair Sisk said that by reaching 2,400 students RTD is also
reaching their parents, families, and school communities. He noted that
money spent on the student contest is money well spent. He looks forward
to this initiative growing and eventually being funded in conjunction with
school districts.
Director Deadwyler thanked Director Folska and Paula Perdue for their
involvement in the student contest for the past 2 years. Director Deadwyler
acknowledged Director Folska and Paula Perdue’s hard work obtaining
outside funding for the student contest. She said that it swells her heart
how marketing has taken the student contest to heart creating such a
beautiful design. She said this initiative is exciting for the kids and teachers.
Director Deadwyler noted that she can see this pilot program growing. She
again thanked Director Folska and Paula Perdue for not letting the concept
die when they did not get full support from the Board right away.
Director Tobiassen said that RTD’s marketing staff is a great team. He
expressed his disappointment with Tina Jacquez leaving the I-225 project.
He hopes another ace will join the I-225 team. He believes the student

contest is a great opportunity. He suggested that staff linked the student
contest with RTD’s Facebook page, which has grown exponentially over the
past year. He said that if linked, parents, siblings, friends, and others could
be connected to RTD through social media.
Director Solano said that he is happy the contest is happening at schools.
He expressed his hope to see cultural diversity outreach in future contests.

• Smart Card Project Status Update
Judy McMurphy, Program Manager for Information Technology, presented
the Smart Card Update included in the Operations and Customer Service
Committee Meeting Packet for September 9, 2014. The update covered the
College/EcoPass Program, the Smart Action List and File Compression,
establishing business processes in support of the MyRide Program, Smart
Media Technologies (SMT) engagement with Fare Study Committee, SMT
involvement in the 2016 Rail Line openings, and Phase 1 of the Web Portal
Enhancements.
Judy McMurphy noted the capacity constraints of some of the validators.
She said that Xerox has made great strides in this area. Testing remediation
steps begin in four weeks. Staff will still be able to manually manage the
product behind the scenes.
Director Hoy asked if the BRT system would have validators on the platform
or in the buses. Judy McMurphy answered that she believes the validators
will be in the buses.
Director Hoy asked how a customer would add value to a card. Judy
McMurphy said that customers could go to an RTD sales outlet and load a
specific value. She said they could also use the web portal. Eventually
there will be Retail Point of Sales (RPOS) at King Soopers and Safeway. She
said the team is looking into other possible venues to place RPOS. Director
Hoy said that these questions have been brought up during his participation
at recent commuter events. He noted that commuters would have to plan
ahead with the Smart Card.
Director Folska added that thinking ahead is part of using public transit. She
asked if there would be multiple RPOS at different locations in case of
malfunction. Director Folska noted that people tend to abandon a service if
there are inconveniences. Judy McMurphy said that her team has not
thought about multiple devices at grocery stores and other location. She
noted this was a good point and that she would take it back to her team.
Director Folska asked about card security and the possibility of stealing pin
numbers as well as other personal credit information. She also asked about
the size of the RPOS. Judy McMurphy said that the financial transaction

occurs through the grocer, not the RPOS. The RPOS tells the card what
kind of contract/pass to load. She said the RPOS is about 12”x8”x6” with a
3”x4” touch screen. These machines are a bigger than credit card machines
because they include a printer for receipts.
Director Tobiassen said he hopes the Smart Card process has integrated
Cyber Security Manager Sheri Le’s feedback. Judy McMurphy affirmed
Sheri Le’s involvement in the process. She also noted Senior Internal
Auditor Kevin Parker’s involvement. Judy McMurphy said Kevin Parker asks
difficult questions throughout the process.
Chair Sisk addressed Director Hoy’s question regarding BRT validators. He
said that his understanding was that the validators would be on the
platform. Chair Sisk asked Judy McMurphy to check with US36 on this
item. Judy McMurphy noted that she has not been informed to order
platform validators. Scott Reed said that Judy McMurphy has not received
an order because a final decision has not been made. Staff is still working
with stakeholders on this aspect.
Director Anderson recalled her recent experience with Smart Cards in
Montreal. She said that it was very easy to tap the card inside the bus. The
process added no significant wait time.
Committee Chair Lubow called for a five minute recess at 7:01 p.m.
The meeting resumed at 7:08 p.m.

• RTD Fare Study Update
Lacy Bell, Manager for Planning Projects, covered the Fare Study
Presentation included in the Operations and Customer Service Committee
Meeting Packet for September 9, 2014. The presentation included the
results from the focus groups and feedback from public engagement. The
themes that surfaced from the feedback were:
 Affordability
 Light rail zone confusion
 Transfer and fare media technology concerns
 Pass/discount programs confusion and availability
 Public education
 Bus and rail system integration
 Increasing ridership.
The next step is to work with CH2M Hill, consultants, to develop alternative
fare structures for evaluation. The team will begin planning for the next
round of public engagement to present alternatives and preliminary findings.

Director Tobiassen said that he found the Aurora Fare Study public meeting
very interesting. He noted that he was at the Nine Mile Station as an RTD
ambassador on Sunday for the Broncos game and that the new ticket
vending machines are pretty intuitive. He asked if the Fare Study
Committee will incorporate the cost of parking availability into consideration.
Lacy Bell said that parking is incorporated into the technical analysis.
Director Daly asked about passes for DIA employees. Lacy Bell said that
DIA is an EcoPass employer but not all business within DIA utilizes the
EcoPass. Regional trips have been allowed for SkyRide users in order to
increase affordability.
Director Hoy said that the Fare Study meeting he attended only had 10
people in attendance. He noted that a couple of groups had advocates
attending all the meetings sharing their message. He encouraged staff to
take those comments into consideration as a single instance instead of
multiples.
Director Hoy suggested clustering small businesses into utilizing EcoPasses
or other group fare media in order to increase affordability.
Director Rivera-Malpiede thanked Lacy Bell and her team for such
tremendous outreach to the community. She noted that meetings were held
in different areas, times, and days to allow for maximum participation.
Director Rivera-Malpiede said she attended three of the outreach meetings:
Transportation Management Associations/Organizations (TMA/TMOs), nonprofit sector, and public meeting. She pointed out that the conversation at
all of them was free-flowing. The main points in her opinion were the
working poor, confusing fare zones, and transfers. She noted that parking
was not brought up as an issue.
Director Solano said he attended the meeting held at Adams County High
School. This meeting had three government officials and one citizen in
attendance. He said that in his District the main issue is affordable fares.
He was glad to see it come up as a common theme.
Director Walker noted that the Fare Study Committee has a lot of work
ahead. He asked if the committee received any suggestions during this
round of public engagement, such as peak fares. Lacy Bell said that they
received a lot of comments asking RTD to do fares like another transit
system in the nation. She said this was due to a great experience this
particular person may have had in using a particular system. She noted that
informing participants of the Peer Agency Review phase was well received.
Lacy Bell added that some people brought up peak hour fares. She said that
given RTD’s history with peak hour fares she did not expect them to become
a recommendation. Director Walker pointed out that fare zones are a part of

most transit system. He is interested in what the Fare Study committee
develops.
Director James said he understands the apprehension of starting a Fare
Study as there are so many issues beyond fares. He noted this is also a
great opportunity to exercise customer service interface. He asked for more
information on how TMA/TMOs were involved in the process. Lacy Bell
replied that TMA/TMOs representatives were invited to RTD’s monthly
government representatives meeting. The conversation with this group was
delivered in a focus group setting.
Committee Chair Lubow agreed that the Fare Study review is a complex and
exciting process to go through. She asked regarding a letter from Boulder
County suggesting the creation of a Technical Advisory Group (TAG) to
study and comment on the data throughout the process. Lacey Bell said
that a TAG would not be created but that the Committee will update those
particular government bodies throughout the Fare Study process. Committee
Chair Lubow emphasized that these governments wanted to study the data
and provide their comments. Lacey Bell said that the data will be presented
and at that time they will have an opportunity to make comments.

• 2nd Quarter 2014 Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary
Dave Genova, Assistant General Manager for Safety, Security and Facilities,
said that the next 5 items are 2nd Quarter Reports. He asked that staff be
prepared to step forward when their update was called upon.
John Tarbert, Transit Police Chief, pointed the Directors to the 2nd Quarter
2014 Security Statistics and Fare Inspection Summary included in the
Operations and Customer Service Committee Meeting Packet for September
9, 2014. The update included fare enforcement statistics, light rail station
and on-board enforcement sweeps, plain clothes police officer fare
inspection, and security officer use of force incidents.
Director Hoy told Chief John Tarbert that he convinced him that the system
works. Director Hoy mentioned that his friend got asked for fare twice on
the W Line, one of them resulting on his wife getting a ticket. He said that
the real problem lies on the platform machines.
Director Tobiassen reiterated his earlier comments about the ease of use of
the platform machines. He added that he has received positive feedback
from operators and riders regarding the security efforts. He thanked Chief
John Tarbert and his team for their good work.
Director Deadwyler appreciated the positive feedback. She noted that the
feedback from her District is not as positive. She mentioned that many of
her constituent have issues with EcoPasses cards not being recorded when

tapped. These constituent will then encounter issues when asked for fares
including having to leave the train. She said she has received calls from the
Secretary of State’s office regarding the matter. Chief John Tarbert asked
Director Deadwyler to have those constituents contact him directly to
address the problem. Dave Genova said that some people are not using the
EcoPass appropriately by tapping at the validator. He noted that in some
cases the validator does not work. He pointed out that riders with an
EcoPass or similar type of fare on their possession are not asked to leave the
train because the fare is valid, just not properly used. Dave Genova said
that a full enforcement will be done when machines are at 100%
functionality. Director Deadwyler said that she hoped staff had an apology
for those that encountered issues.
Director Folska asked about the cost of college student fares as included in
their semester fees. Scott Reed said that the amount varies by campus.
Director Folska said that most of the college fares, when broken down, are
about $2 a day.
Director Menten wondered if RTD will ever get to the point where validators
are at 100% functionality. She noted that some of her constituents are
concerned that their cards will be taken away due to recurrent violations
caused by faulty validators. Dave Genova said that all validators will work
as the system matures. Chief John Tarbert reiterated that Smart Cards
violations are not enforced.

• Access-a-Ride 2nd Quarter 2014 Report
Mike Gill, Deputy Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, Larry
Buter, Manager of Paratransit Services, and Carolyn Conover, Senior
Manager for Contracted Services, pointed the Directors to the Access-a-Ride
2nd Quarter 2014 Report included in the Operations and Customer Service
Committee Meeting Packet for September 9, 2014. The report included
information on ridership, revenue hours, on-time performance, and customer
complaints.
Director James noticed a significant increase in Access-a-Cab ridership. He
asked staff to explain the data. Larry Buter said that ridership will continue
to rise as new companies join the service. Staff recently handed agreements
to a few new companies. Their lawyers are looking at the agreements.
Director Folska commended the staff on an outstanding job with so many
unique customers. She appreciates staff’s quick response to mistakes
made. She asked Larry Buter to share the experience with Fresenius Medical
Care (FMC) near the Broadway and I-25 Station. Larry Buter explained that
FMC asked to move a bus stop closer to their facility entrance. The move
was done right away. FMC also asked for a paved way from the lightrail
station to their facility. This request will take longer to fulfill. Larry Buter

noted that there is a paved sidewalk across the street that may be used in
the meantime. Director Folska thanked staff for their response to the FMC.
Their patients come from all parts of the metro area. She pointed out that
enabling these patients to used fixed routes cuts down on RTD expenses.
Director Deadwyler said that on time service continues to be a problem. She
noted the need for more Access-a-Cabs that can transport mobility devices.
Larry Buter explained that all cab operators are independent contractors who
often purchase their own vehicles. Vehicles that can transport mobility
devices cost more, deterring drivers to acquire them. He mentioned that
there has been an increase of this type of vehicle in the fleet. Larry Buter
said that this was a slow process that is moving in the right direction.
Director Folska noted that an incentive could be provided to some cab
operators by providing funding through the Department of Vocational
Rehabilitation. Larry Buter said that this was an interesting idea. He would
continue the conversation with Director Folska offline.

• Special Services Report 2nd Quarter 2014
Mike Gill, Deputy Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, Brian
Matthews, Manager for Special Services, and Carolyn Conover, Senior
Manager for Contracted Services, pointed the Directors to the Special
Services Report 2nd Quarter 2014 Update included in the Operations and
Customer Service Committee Meeting Packet for September 9, 2014. The
update included information on preventable accidents, customer contact,
boardings, and Call-n-Ride comments.
There was no discussion on this item.

• Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 2nd Quarter 2014
Mike Gill, Deputy Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, Greg
Smith, Manager for Competitive Services, and Carolyn Conover, Senior
Manager for Contracted Services, pointed the Directors to the Contracted
Fixed-Route 2nd Quarter 2014 Report included in the Operations and
Customer Service Committee Meeting Packet for September 9, 2014. The
report included information on preventable vehicle accidents per 100,000
miles, passenger accident ratio per 100,000 miles, on-time preventive
maintenance inspections, on-time performance, miles between lost service
road calls, and operator complaints per boarding.
Director Folska thanked Scott Reed and the Public Relations staff for the
way they handled the incident with the First Transit operator.

• Customer Complaint Analysis 2nd Quarter 2014
Mike Gill, Deputy Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, Greg
Smith, Manager for Competitive Services, and Carolyn Conover, Senior

Manager for Contracted Services, pointed the Directors to the Customer
Complaint 2nd Quarter 2014 Update included in the Operations and Customer
Service Committee Meeting Packet for September 9, 2014. The report
included an analysis of the customer complaint trends for the quarter as well
as comparison of customer complaint data for the 2nd Quarter 2013.
There was no discussion on this item.

D. Other Matters
Director Tobiassen reminded the Directors about the RTD Bus Roadeo. Mike Gill
said that the Roadeo is on Saturday, September 20 at 7:00 a.m. He noted that
there will be entertainment for the whole family.

E. Next Meeting Date - October 21, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned to the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee at 7:51 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

