Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

March 18, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
March 17, 2009 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fourteen (14) Board members were present at roll call.

Director Daly was absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retirees for this month.

IV.

SPECIAL RECOGNITION
Jim Moffett (Veolia Driver)—The Board recognized Jim Moffett, a former RTD driver and a
current Veolia driver, for his heroic act in assisting two passengers across the street and in the
process getting hit by a truck. Mr. Moffett remains in the hospital with multiple injuries but his
family was present to receive the award on his behalf.
Jim’s wife Donna graciously accepted for Jim and read a note from Jim indicating he wished
he could be present in person and did not remember the day he got hit but does recall the
jaywalking ticket that he received. He sincerely thanked the outstanding team that he works
with at Veolia.
After Chair Kemp read the plaque that was presented by the RTD Board of Directors, Mr.
Moffett’s two sons spoke and again thanked RTD and the Veolia team. The jaywalking ticket
was a slap in the face but luckily the Colorado State Patrol saw the error of their ways and
rescinded the ticket. They stated their father is a wonderful man who would do it all over again
if it meant saving someone’s life.
First Responder of the Littleton Freight Train Derailment—Director Bagley introduced the three
first responders in his district who were on the scene when eighteen tankers derailed on
January 16, 2009 in Littleton creating a hazardous risk for the Southwest Rail Corridor.
Heather Coogan, Littleton Police Chief, Mike Gelski, Salvation Army and John Mullin, Littleton
Fire Department Chief were all recognized for their quick and immediate response to divert a
catastrophic failure. Each of the recipients spoke positively of the training they have received
and how they have partnered with RTD and the light rail since its installation in their district.
The light rail is part of the Littleton community. Jeff Christ accepted the award on behalf of
John Mullin. Director Bagley summed this up by stating how important it is to have good
partners to work with and RTD appreciates all the work that they do. He is excited to be the
representative for Littleton that is his community.
Genevieve Hutchison —was not present but recognized by the Board for being named the WTS

Emerging Leader of the Year.
V.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Chair Kemp asked each speaker to limit their time to the 3 minutes and asked Board members
to give full attention to the speakers.
Jack McCroskey, former Board member, made a correction to the February 17 minutes where it
was stated that he was instrumental in the approval of FasTracks. Jack clarified that he started
light rail, not FasTracks. He also stated he was interested in three mantras that President
Obama has set forth: transparency, trust and fairness and expressed some concern over the
General Manager’s contract in these areas.
Mike Ward, Aurora, spoke of some positive improvements with the contractors, dead time and
the steering committee that has met two times since the last meeting. However, he still has
some concerns with the schedule where he tracked over 180 miles to pick up 5 clients. They
are making progress but still have a ways to go. He thanked the efforts of Bruce Abel and
Larry Buter on this committee.
Nick Patrick, Denver, wished everyone a happy St Patrick’s Day but admonished them not to
drink and drive. He relayed an incident on March 13th where he was dancing at the Proof and
got pulled off the floor by a driver around midnight which was earlier than scheduled. His
complaint was that he had not been called or informed that he would have an earlier pickup
than requested. On the positive side, he has been in touch with RTD that has provided him
with free coupons.
Robert Baxter, Pine Junction, expressed concern over the parking management program where
out-of district residents are charged and on the economic stimulus package where they had
hoped to receive money for the Pine Junction park-n-ride. He requested RTD rescind the
parking management program and to provide some portion of the requested $2M for the parkn-ride.
After an initial refusal, Bruce Beckhorn was granted permission to give his 3 minutes to Pam
Beckhorn, President of the Riders 285 Coalition. Pam reviewed the history of their efforts and
expressed huge disappointment that they were unsuccessful to receive any of the economic
stimulus funds. She thanked Director Daly for his efforts and reminded the Board of all the
work by the US Coalition including Park County and Jefferson County residents outside the
district to partner with RTD, CDOT and others for a more permanent solution. She indicated
they were reviewing sales receipts of riders outside the district to determine how much money
they are putting into the district. She respectfully requested RTD consider providing at least
$200K of the requested funds.
Lisha St. Clair, access-a-ride user, provided a log of her experiences with access-a-ride. She
shared the experience of a lady who had a tracheotomy and ran completely out of oxygen
before she could get home (shared ride pickups). This lady is subsequently scared to use
access-a-ride. Lisha also shared that her pickup time and someone else’s pickup time down the
street was the same and this was not possible to do. A copy of her log is available with the
Board meeting minutes in the Board office.
George Gerstle, Director of Transportation for Boulder County, stated their appreciation of the
$7.5M for the US 36 queue jumps from the economic stimulus funds but shared concern that
this should not be a precedent to supplant RTD funding versus supplementing funding as was
the intent of this program. (Please refer to the letter dated March 16, 2009 from Senator Polis
and Representative Perlmutter on this issue) He stated the US 36 Corridor is committed to
working with RTD to acquire funding for this project.
Rick McNeal, Denver, stated he has been attending these Board meetings since 1982 when he

was a candidate for the Board.
members at large.
VI.

What he has heard tonight supports his idea for Board

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no committee reports.
Director McMullen asked Roger Sherman to introduce the seven new members of the Citizen
Advisory Committee who were present. These were selected from an application pool of 97.
Chair Kemp stated that in the interest of transparency and community involvement, this
committee has expanded from 11 members to the current 17. This shows that RTD does
listen and takes community feedback very seriously.

VII.

METRO MAYORS REPORT
Chair Kemp shared the Metro Mayor’s Task Force is progressing ahead with their support of a
tax increase to complete FasTracks by 2017. The MMC is supportive of going out for a tax
increase in 2009. The RTD Board has not made a decision and is still deliberating on the
options that were presented by the MMC Task Force. RTD has indicated their intent to move
ahead with a decision on the Eagle P3 program and will not jeopardize the $1B of Federal
money that may be available. The Metro Mayors understands the Board must move ahead and
in their latest meeting, 24 of the Mayors who were present provided their support to move
ahead on the recommendation. He reminded the Board that only 7 of the Mayors were part of
the original Task Force when RTD was approved in 2004 and this has been an educational
process to re-engage these Mayors. What has come out of this is a re-commitment and
support to move ahead on FasTracks. The Metro Mayors understand this is a regional program
and it takes a full regional vision to make it work.
Director Busck added that a primary concern is if the East, West and Gold Lines get completed,
funds and voter support will not be there for the full completion of the rest of the corridors.
Some of the options on the table address these concerns but the RTD Board has to make a
decision based on lots of information. The bottom line is not only have we re-established this
partnership with the Metro Mayors but there is a commitment in the future for an ongoing
partnership. He also stated that originally when these meetings were set up, they were for
elected officials to elected officials. We have now progressed beyond this point and it is time
to bring the General Manager back to the table for negotiating through this next phase.
Cal Marsella commented that there is a genuine fear of moving ahead with the East, West and
Gold corridors because lack of available funds could erode support for the other corridors in
queue. However, a number of Mayors throughout the City (Centennial, Lone Tree, Greenwood
Village, and Denver) stood up and provided assurances that indeed this is a regional project
and the Mayors would not abandon the needs of the rest of the corridors upon completion of
the East, West and Gold corridors. It is important to know that people come to and fro across
the region-approximately 20% of the people who work in the DTC come from Boulder and
other points out of that district. We need to think like a region, act like a region, and be a
region. There is no such thing as once” I get mine, I walk away.” This sentiment is wrong
and does not reflect the position of RTD, this Board, stakeholders, Mayors or the district in
general.
Director McMullen stated we are still on the FasTracks schedule for full completion.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 17, 2009

MOTION:

Director Bagley moved for the adoption of the February 17,
2009 regular board meeting minutes.
Director Martinez seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Daly was absent
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

Director McMullen noted a change was needed in the FasTracks Committee Minutes to
reflect that he adjourned the meeting.
Chair Kemp requested the minutes are corrected to reflect Mr. McCroskey was
instrumental in light rail, not FasTracks as noted in the minutes.
Director Cohen requested a change to the section VI, public participation, paragraph 13
of the February 17 Board minutes which stated Chair Kemp had noted to the public
that the General Manager had agreed to a salary and bonus freeze in 2008.
The minutes were correct as stated on February 17th and therefore are not changed.
However, this change as requested by Director Cohen is now noted in these minutes of
March 17, 2009 and the appropriate language should state “The General Manager had
offered but not agreed to a salary and bonus deferment” to more accurately reflect the
action.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
a. Meeting with U.S. 36 Mayors and Staff on March 3
Cal Marsella and Chair Kemp met with U.S. 36 Mayors and staff to discuss FasTracks,
Stimulus and other issues. The U.S. 36 Mayors expressed concerns but provided their
support to the full FasTracks buildout.
b. Taught Leadership Course to FTA and FHWA staff on March 3
Cal Marsella taught a leadership course to approximately 50-80 FTA and FHWA staff.
He received positive reception and feedback from the course.
c. Participated in DRCOG Stimulus Program
Cal Marsella participated in the DRCOG Stimulus Program evaluation. The $18.6M for
DUS was approved but the $15M for US 36 Queue Jumps did not get approval. RTD
has stepped up to include $7.5M for US 36 Queue Jumps in its recommended projects
for economic stimulus funds.
d. Attended Grand Opening of the Aurora Centrepoint Transfer Center
Cal Marsella and Director Tobiassen attended the Aurora Centrepoint Transfer Center
Grand Opening. This has been a long time coming and Former Director Yamrick who
had been instrumental in driving this effort spoke at the event.
e. Attended APTA Legislative Conference
Cal Marsella and a number of Board members attended the APTA Legislative
Conference in Washington D.C. This was a very productive conference with
opportunity to participate in discussions and meetings with Federal Legislators about
FasTracks, the economic stimulus and other funding programs. RTD received lots of
positive feedback and encouragement.
f. Attended Metro Mayors Caucus Special Meeting on FasTracks March 11, 2009
Cal Marsella along with Chair Kemp and other Board representatives attended the
Metro Mayors Caucus special meeting on FasTracks. There is definite movement by
the Mayors to support a full FasTracks buildout and to go to the polls in 2009 for a
tax increase. We still have some issues to work through but we are in support of
optimizing Federal funding opportunity for $1B.

g.

Attended Longmont City Council Meeting on Monday March 16

Cal Marsella, Chair Kemp and staff attended the Longmont City Council meeting on
March 16, 2009. The Council expressed concern about the 10-12 a.m. window where
the trains would not be available. About a month ago, they passed a City resolution
supporting RTD going back to the ballot to build out the full tracks and program.
h. Presented to Ratings Agency with DUS Partners on March 16, 2009
We made a presentation to a couple of rating agencies on bond ratings for DUSPA
which is in the process of issuing bonds that will be paid for through the special taxing
and financing district created by the City of Denver. RTD talked about our intermodal
plans which were well received.

X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Director Martinez requested that item A, approval of contract amendment with David
Evans and Associates for West Corridor Final Design Consultant and Design Services
during construction, contract No 15DH007, be removed from unanimous consent to
recommended action.
MOTION:

Director McMullen moved that the Board of Directors
adopt the Unanimous Consent Agenda items B through F.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Daly was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

B.

Approval to Release the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility Supplemental
Environmental Assessment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
direct the General Manager to release the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility (CRMF)
Supplemental Environmental Assessment for public and agency review.

C.

Approval of New FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors appoint seven citizens to the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee; one
member to fill a vacancy created by a resignation from the Committee and six new
members for pro-rated terms of one to three years.

D.

IT Owner’s Representative to Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and CAD/AVL
Systems
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
IBI Group (IBI) a contract to become the Owner’s Representative to Support
Replacement of RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle
Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (RFP 18DH016) in the first-year amount not-to-exceed
limit of $722,000. Due to the complexity of the project, the subsequent year’s scope
of work and fee will be reviewed and negotiated annually. IBI was selected through
the competitive bid process. The contract has a 5-year period of performance with a
one-year option to extend the period of performance. The RFP required eight (8)
percent Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) participation. The notice to proceed
is estimated to be on April 1, 2009. The contract value for subsequent years will be
determined based upon RTD’s need for services.

XI.

E.

Inducement Resolution- FasTracks Private Activity Bonds
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board approve
the attached Inducement Resolution (the "Resolution") expressing the intent of the
Board to issue private activity bonds, pursuant to Section 142 of the Internal Revenue
Code, to finance a portion of the costs of its FasTracks program.

F.

Cost Containment Transfer Request
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $19,563,202 from the budgeted
expenditure accounts, as summarized below, to a reserve for the purpose of controlling
the 2009 RTD budget.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
A.
Approval of Contract Amendment with David Evans and Associates for West
Corridor Final Design Consultant and Design Services during construction, contract
No. 15DH007
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or designees to execute all documents
necessary to award and implement a contract amendment to David Evans and
Associates (DEA) for the following services: inclusion of final stakeholder comments
into the Issued For Construction (IFC) documents; Additions to the Scope of Work: and
Design Services During Construction (DSDC) for them and their consultants to
administer field design changes and to inspect portions of the construction for which
they have certified the design. The total increase in contract No. 15DH007 is
$2,660,802.00. Funds are included in the budget for the West Corridor.

MOTION:

Director McMullen moved to
approve contract amendment with
David Evans and Associates for
West Corridor Design Consultant.
Director Bagley seconded the
motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Martinez expressed concern on this contract as well as
two additional contracts in the FasTracks budget. On the original
contact with David Evans, the DBE goal was $14M at 21%. The
current DBE on the contract is 17% and David Evans is not
meeting the DBE goal. Tonight’s action would raise that contact
to almost $30M which almost doubles the contract over the
period of time. RTD has paid out 109% of the original contact to
the prime who has only paid 69% of the DBE goal. Will David
Evans be able to fulfill the DBE portion of this contract and its
original intent to reach the 21% DBE goal?
In the future, I want to request to staff that when we are issuing
change orders, when there is a significant change, and they are
not meeting the DBE goals, this is pointed out to us early at that
time. I have a hard time approving this amendment when there
appears an already failure in the original contract to reach the
DBE goals. We are in the first corridor of FasTracks and when
we move further along, this becomes more problematic. As
Board members, we must be cognizant of this and as we set
goals, we need a good process to make sure those goals are
achieved so we are not short-changed at the end, especially

when we are doing these change orders. There was not a DBE
component put in this change order which is the reason why it
escaped us but we need to make sure that DBE component is put
in these change orders for future orders both this contract and
other contracts for FasTracks.
Cal Marsella responded by stating he worked with the West
Corridor staff team, Dennis Cole, John Shonsey, Rick Clarke, and
what they want to propose is a modification of this resolution
which would give them an opportunity to remedy where we are
today so we can move ahead on this contract. I will ask Phil
Washington to read to you the amendment that we would like
the Board to consider with a conditional authorization to execute
this amendment.
Phil Washington read this recommended change to the
amendment:
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
or designees to execute all documents necessary to award and
implement a contract amendment to David Evans and
Associates (DEA) for the following services: inclusion of final
stakeholder comments into the Issued For Construction (IFC)
documents; Additions to the Scope of Work: and Design
Services During Construction (DSDC) for them and their
consultants to administer field design changes and to inspect
portions of the construction for which they have certified the
design. The General Manager has been authorized to execute
this amendment pending receipt (from DEA) of an acceptable
DBE plan (in writing) that maximizes DBE participation to the
greatest degree possible. The total increase in contract No.
15DH007 is $2,660,802.00. Funds are included in the budget
for the West Corridor.
Director Chacon expressed several concerns with the change
order process. They have effectively pushed this back to the
end of the contract so now about 30% of the rest of the
contract will have to meet DBE goals. This is not an easy task to
accomplish. I am concerned about the change orders. The initial
bid was about $13M but since then we have given them over
$3M in change orders making this contract about $16M. Think
about this. If they were selected based on low bid and now we
have added all these change orders, this puts them as the 3 rd
highest West Corridor contracts. They are not the only ones.
There are a number of contracts that started off like David Evans
that through the use of change orders that do not appear well
tracked or managed, and now have gone up almost 4X the
original amount. What do we do about this? My second issue is
we went back when commodity prices and prices went down to
ask some of our consultants to redo their numbers. Did we do
this with these engineering contract vendors?
Cal Marsella addressed the change orders to say it is not
uncommon to, in a contract like this, to make awards in
increments. We negotiate a work order based on change order
that initially breaks out tasks, estimates and does reflect market

based costs. This one is a little different in that it is not a
construction contract-it is design and engineering. We have not
seen the same kind of fluctuations but we have been able to
negotiate some changes in cost. However, this is a task driven
contract and will probably not be the last one. In the stimulus
we have some minor changes that will need to be made. We
need to maintain continuity with the designer and engineer of
record for they are the ones to certify all of their designs. It is a
little atypical to see changes of this magnitude but the real
matter at hand is the DBE goal. They are at 17% versus the 21
% with 25% of the work left. We need some time to negotiate
with them on how they will get to the 21%. We have upped our
DBE monitoring. We believe for the $2.6M change we will be
able to negotiate some remedies to get us close to the 21%.
Director Chacon responded we need a lessons learned on the
change order. Cal Marsella stated this has been a troublesome
corridor and articulated a few of the change orders for this
corridor. He concluded this is a very unique corridor.
Director Brohl wanted to know how will we monitor these
contracts before we get to the end of the contract or work?
There is a possibility here that we could have gotten to this end
of this contract without ever addressing their failure to meet the
goals. When in the process can we bring this monitoring up
early and often enough (maybe quarterly basis) so changes can
be made in sufficient time to make sure these will not be
problems in the end of the contract or the latter phase?
At the time of the change order may be a good time to revise or
review the DBE component.
Phil Washington stated they are monitoring this and they think
the 4% difference with 75% complete is still attainable.
Director Martinez indicated that item 5 in the David Evans
Board report made reference to a reimbursement by DRCOG in
2012. He wants to see the reimbursement amount and wants
subsequent reports to include that amount.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was
taken with 14 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Daly was absent.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.
G.

Approval of Projects to be Submitted for Economic Stimulus Formula Funds Available
to RTD
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and Staff to apply for approximately $72.8
million Economic Stimulus grant funds under the American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act (ARRA) of 2009, to be allocated to the Base System and FasTracks projects as
outlined in this board report.
It is further recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board
authorize the transfer of $8,994,000 from the Intercity Bus Procurement Project and

$3,815,007 from the Transit Development Reserve to fund projects not included in the
2009 Adopted Budget. These funds will be reimbursed by the ARRA grant funds in the
2009 Amended budget. See Attachment I.
MOTION:

Director Tayer made the motion to
approve the projects to be
submitted for Economic Stimulus
Formula Funds Available to RTD
Director Pulliam seconded the
motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Martinez referenced the letter dated March 16, 2009
received by the Board members from Senator Polis and
Congressman Perlmutter and asked for clarification on the issue
of “supplant versus supplementing” of funds. Cal Marsella
responded that the $220M of BRT is not programmed money and
that the $7.5M of the economic stimulus money for the US 36
Queue Jumps will be deducted from the $220M. This is not a
violation of the requirements since we do not yet have these
monies. It is part of the FasTracks Plan but not programmed
money.
Director Martinez asked for clarification of the statement made
by Robert Baxter during public participation that referenced the
letter to Oberstar that listed Pine Junction. Cal Marsella
responded this was part of the comprehensive list that had gone
forth for shovel ready.
Director Brohl made reference to page 2 of the revised Economic
Stimulus Board Report and shared that of the three assumptions
used to prioritize the projects, her focus had been on the third
assumption (i.e. the funds should be allocated to the extent
possible to those projects that would offset the current TDP
funding shortfall). Those projects she had brought up in a
previous meeting related to best use of the $17.1 recommended
farebox monies did not meet this criteria with the exception of
two which are listed and the reasons for the delay. Therefore she
is OK with the recommendation.
Director Tayer thanked the staffed for their efforts in pulling this
package together. He thanked the staff for their support of the
US 36 Queue Jumps. He suggested that as we move forward,
we provide a thoughtful look at how we will handle further
additional funds for projects. What are the principal and
precedent we want to use?
Director Busck wanted clarification on if the $220M designated
for US 36 BRT were appropriated funds. Cal Marsella stated
they were part of the FasTracks Plan but not appropriated. The
bottom line is if the Federal money comes in, this frees up money
that may have been intended to be spent in that corridor. The
$7.5 will come off the $220M in the FasTracks Plan.

VOTE ON

MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was
taken with 14 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Daly was
absent.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
XII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Cal Marsella shared that an executive session is not necessary and he could provide a general
update on the labor negotiations. We have been directed to move into arbitration and we have
submitted our best and final offer. We each have submitted a list of arbiters (not arbitrators).
We are working with the DOL to do strikes to get down to 2 arbiters and the DOL will get to l.
They will use the baseball rule (1 or the other).
Phil Washington added the strikes will be done tomorrow (3/18) and they will end up with 1
arbiter. Arbitration will convene April 30th.
Director McMullen asked if DOL could go outside the arbiters. Marla Lien indicated initially
they had said this but now is looking at the arbiters. These arbiters do not have to be qualified
arbitrators.
Cal Marsella shared that he will be on vacation next week.
Director Busck complimented Director Daly for his work in trying to get Pine Junction on the
economic stimulus work. He has worked hard and advocated strongly on behalf of the district.
Chair Kemp thanked the members of the public who were also there to advocate on behalf of
Pine Junction and apologized if he appeared to come off harsh. That was not his intent but the
need to move the process along.

XIII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 7:25 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, March 17, 2009

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
John Tayer, Treasurer
Kent Bagley
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bill James
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen

District I
District B
District K
District O
District H
District D
District C
District J
District M
District A
District E
District G
District L
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Larry Buter
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
Dennis Cole
Carolyn Conover
Martell Dyles
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
Eric Farrington

David Genova
Ed Gonzales
Kenn Hardin
Terry Howerter
Tom Hughes
Marla Lien
Caitlin Magee
Cal Marsella
Robert Merriman
Paula Perdue

OTHERS PRESENT:
Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)
Chris Taylor – AV Tech
Jack McCroskey
Rick Hammond
Nick Patrick
Mike Ward
Robert Baxter – Riders 285 Coalition
Bruce Beckhorn – Riders 285 Coalition
Pam Beckhorn – Riders 285 Coalition
John Beauparlant
Bruce Behnke – Veolia
Donna Moffett
Heather Werling
Mark Moffett
Daniel Moffett
Ken McDonald
Arnold Brodsky
Alice Borodkin
Alex Sammoury
Gary Ulberg – First Transit
Ken Burns

Scott Reed
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
Dean Shaklee
Cal Shankster
John Shonsey
John Tarbert
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington

Lisha St. Claire
Debra Wilcox
Debra Smith – DRCOG
Mike Gelski – Salvation Army
Heather Coogan – Littleton Police Chief
Jeff Christ - Littleton Fire Department
Carolyn Cove – Kebaya Coaching and Consulting
Don Moore
Nioufar Vakil
David Lewis
Fred Hansen
George Gerstle – Boulder County
Rick McNeal
Jan Swensen
Roger Sherman

