RTD Operations and Customer Service 10-20-20
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. The Operations and Customer Service Committee will now
come to order. We are convened as of 8:46 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully
ask that everyone connected to this call please mute your phone and set your ringers on silent.
I also want to point out now that if you've been on this call for four hours, you will be placed into
a 20-second music hold and then will be re-entered into the meeting. Don't worry. Hang out.
You'll come back. Just in case you're in the middle of a statement when your time comes up, you
may drop off for a moment.
I'd like to remind everybody, as was noted in the previous meeting, that if you would like to be
acknowledged during tonight's proceedings that you wait for me to call your name and/or
announce yourself if it's necessary. Speaking out of turn doesn't make things easier for anybody.
I will call on each Director in turn as we progress through the agenda.
We have two recommended actions tonight. The first recommended action is on the January
2021 service change proposal's final-- well, let me break for a minute. Melanie, do you want me
to call roll to see who's here?
MELANIE SNYDER: You know, Madam Chair, I think you can just note for the record that we
took a break and we previously conducted roll and all Directors are still present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Just wanted to make sure.
OK. We will move on to our first recommended action, which is, it is recommended by the
Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Broad of Directors approve the January
2021 service change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A and to authorize the
General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators to services impacted by these changes. This recommended action supports the
following General Manager's goals: Board goal number one, successful delivery of transit
services.
Do I hear a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Do I have a second? Hey, is there anybody here?
TROY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore. Second, Whitmore.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Let me make a note. That was Chair
Rivera-Malpiede and Director Whitmore.
OK. I think first I'm going to ask Michael Ford if he and his staff would like to speak to this, and
then we'll see if there are questions following. Mr. Ford.

MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Director Williams. This is Michael Ford, COO. And I just want
to give kind of a recap of the focus of this service change.
We're here, obviously, to present to you to seek your approval for the COVID service plan for
January 2021, which is a distinct and significant change from our current COVID service plan
that was adopted this past April. This update incorporates service enhancements, service
reductions, and service suspensions.
Over the course of this month, we've held five virtual public meetings via Microsoft Teams and
Facebook Live with over 140 active participants in the meeting process. The details are included
in your packet, along with other sources of information from the public.
This plan is designed to be resource neutral and delivers about 60% of our pre-pandemic service
levels to address our current ridership, which is about 40% of our pre-pandemic service levels.
Again, this methodology is consistent with staff's previously articulated comments from our
Director of Special Projects, Bruce Able, and our Chief Financial Officer, Heather McKillop.
They have continued to articulate our financial viability through previously held study sessions.
The information and data in your packet also contains market analysis, graphs, and charts that
illustrate our different modes of service and provides a comparison of service levels of ridership
from roughly 2019, of April and May timeline, versus 2020, as another measure of what services
are maintaining productivity and which services are not.
The proposal for January 2021 service also articulate modifications to the light rail service,
maintains existing levels of ADA service so as not to impact ADA service delivery efforts as part
of this proposal. Additionally, where there are service gaps in coverage due to redeployment of
needed service coverage in other areas, we are working to backfill services, where warranted,
with van pool, FlexRide Uber, Lyft, and other creative service opportunities by thinking outside
the box.
Additionally, we are in continued discussions with our contractors to determine the appropriate
level of services and maintenance going forward. We will also ensure that mandating of our
employees will continue to be stabilized virtually non-existent as it is now. And we will be very
methodical in bringing back services as conditions and/or circumstances change. We will also
have to look at modifying or addressing our social distancing requirements as customers return.
And finally, it should be pointed out that any reemergence from our current service levels will
take time due to resource constraints, recalling of employees, and hiring and overall operational
readiness to ramp up service, so we will not be as nimble in adding or addressing service-related
needs in the immediate future.
Another key component that I mentioned at our update last month was just talking about the
service plan and the focus areas that the Board had adopted. And we want to be very sensitive to
the direction that we had received. And we will prioritize mobility for people must depend on
transit during the pandemic. We will strive to maximize mobility during the pandemic for those

customers who most depend upon service to access essential jobs and necessaries while also
keeping our community activity centers appropriately connected. So that's just another focus.
And then I know going forward there are some deliberations about guiding post and restoration
of service. So we want to be clear that we understand about the foundational pieces to ensure that
we have proper amounts of needed revenue for both the short term and long term for sustained
operations, reallocation of funding for vital projects that will help RTD sustain and thrive now
and well into the future, [AUDIO OUT] demand research and data to determine when likely
modifications or enhancements are able to move forward, including necessary timelines of
implementation after sustained trend line analysis, and action plans that are realistic in restoring
service that can be realized in accordance with our service planning efforts so we can backfill
services that are needed three times a year via our collective bargaining agreement, and also
ensuring that the equity analysis has occurred.
So we just want to make clear that we were very cognizant of these issues and we will obviously
adhere to whatever the Board determines there. So I just wanted to give an overall view of the
2021 January service plan. And I'm going to turn it over to Jessie Carter to provide some
additional comments and maybe some other levels of detail.
So thank you for this opportunity. We look forward to your support. And I'll turn it over to
Jessie.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Michael. I'm going to be very brief, given the hour past my
bedtime. So I want to make sure that everyone gets a shot at getting some sleep before tomorrow.
With that said, Michael did mention that the public process was healthy in virtual meetings. And
we actually, that came with a really good outcome. And that is, we had over 140 participants.
But even more notable is the fact that on the Facebook Live meeting, where we had 52
participants, we also still had 124 people actually view that same recording over again, which
kind of goes towards the goal of making sure that reaching out to as many people as we possibly
can.
So with that, I want to note that in the service change, as we typically do, we did have some
additional changes that we did not have when we initially brought this to you in September. And
those are primarily maintenance changes to the proposal. With the implementation of the N Line,
we did have a number of schedule adjustments that we needed to make to routes that are
associated with the N Line.
With that said, we are still making additional changes, or we're researching what we can do about
the services that were proposed for suspension. For example, the CV and EV and GS routes, the
regional services that are proposed for suspension, we are proposing that they be replaced with
van pool type services.
I had a chance to talk to Mr. Tim Robinson, who works for Enterprise as a part of the DRCOG
program. And he has received 18 phone calls, 5 email messages, and is actually canvassing cars

as of today to give more input about van pools. So we're kind of excited to hear how he's shaping
up that program from there.
With that, I want to open to any questions that you may have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Carter. I will go-- and Mr. Ford, also-- I'll go though the
Directors and see if anybody has questions or comments. Let's start at the top of the alphabet this
time. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: I guess my question is, are we going to plan on keeping the new schedule in
place for the entire year of 2021, with maybe some additions along the way when they're
warranted, or are we going to still continue to do the three different schedules that we normally
do during the year?
JESSIE CARTER: I'll go ahead and start with that. Thank you, Director Broom.
We have a collective bargaining that requires that we offer our operators three times a year an
opportunity to vote for new work. So we will be having the May service change. So we'll be
coming back to you, of course, sometime in the December, January timeframe to talk about the
next run board, which would be for the second week in May.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you. That's all I have.
Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks. Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair-KATE WILLIAMS: Who's speaking?
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Lynn. This is Lynn Guissinger.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'd like to make a motion to amend. And I don't know if this is the
appropriate time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sounds fine to me. Go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thanks to the staff for all the good work on the service changes.
You know, we've cut service 40%, which is obviously a huge amount. And we can't return
service, based on ridership, to the extent we have cut service. So I think it's important for us to
look at this as a temporary pandemic plan.

And we have had a previous discussion, which I think most [AUDIO OUT] members, Board
members, signaled their agreement with that. Staff recognizes in the proposal that this is a
pandemic plan too. And I just would like to make it explicit that the plan is temporary and will
be revisited by no later than September 2021, with the goal of returning, when we can, to a
service plan that goes back to the January 2020 run board and changes we made then.
I think this is also in line with the Board's view that decisions that we're making now should be
temporary. We did that with Reimagine, pausing it, and with the budget, the Accountability
Committee and the Northwest mayors and commissioners and others who have supported this
approach to making temporary decisions.
I'm going to make the motion in just a minute. But I'd also say that I think that this is a good
opportunity for us to partner with local jurisdictions. And as Director Williams suggested to me
when I talked to her earlier, perhaps the local jurisdictions could set up a portal for their residents
to help us gather information. A big part of what's going to be changing over the next year are
when the universities and community colleges and schools go back. And I think that the local
jurisdictions will have a much better sense of that. So I'll encourage us to work closely with our
local jurisdictions.
So the motion is the January 2021 service changes are pandemic plan two, intended to be
temporary. The cuts and changes in this plan and the original pandemic plan will be read visited
by the Board no later than September 2021. In the meanwhile, RTD will establish, in
coordination with local jurisdictions, a documented process for restoring or restructuring
suspended and reduced services. This process will use the January 2020 run board as a baseline,
also considering the changes in transit use and lesson learned in Reimagine and during the
pandemic.
I managed to send this out to some of the staff that's been working on this late this afternoon. I
apologize that I'm bringing it up this late. It just was a busy week, and-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'll second the motion.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair? This is Director Catlin. We did not have a motion. So to
amend the motion right now might be premature?
KATE WILLIAMS: So stand by [INTERPOSING VOICES], everybody. Melanie? Quest?
PEGGY CATLIN: We're just doing a staff report and then-- I didn't hear a motion. Am I
incorrect?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, we had a motion and a second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, we did have a recommended action-PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I apologize. I apologize.

KATE WILLIAMS: Time out.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was distracted. Sorry. Never mind.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's OK. So my take on this-- and Melanie, you can correct me-- is that
we have a recommended action that we are still discussing. Right now we have a motion from
Director Guissinger that has had a second, I believe, by Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Correct. And so now we're going to have discussion on that, and then we
will revert to the recommended action. Is that correct?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder. Yes, that's correct. You're going to
have discussion and you will address the motion to amend before you return to the main motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. OK. Thank you, Director Guissinger. You stand by.
You may have to answer some questions on this. I'll start through the roll again.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Just if I may please have the specific motion. I heard
the language and I think I caught the motion. Could the motion to amend please be restated so
we have it clearly on the record? Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely. Director Guissinger, have at it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. And I'll send this over to Barbara and whoever else.
The January 2021 service changes, our pandemic plan 2, intended to be temporary. The cuts and
changes in this plan and the original pandemic plan will be revisited by the Board no later than
September 2021. In the meanwhile, RTD will establish, in coordination with local jurisdictions, a
documented process for restoring or restructuring suspended and reduced services. This process
will use the January 2020 run board as a baseline, also considering the changes in transit use and
lessons learned in Reimagine and during the pandemic.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Tisdale, does that work?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am. I understand and I'll speak to the motion when it's my turn.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Broom, you would be at the head of the alphabet.
We are speaking now to the amendment that Director Guissinger brought. Director Broom?
Maybe he's on his 20 seconds of time out.
Director Buzek, you're up next.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, I understand the amendments. I support the
amendment. I think it's a good idea to, again, let everyone know this is temporary and also to
begin to establish the process that involves and includes our stakeholders in discussing bringing
services back. I think it's a great idea. I'll support it. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And forgive me for my lapse of concentration, I
guess. I support this amendment I believe that it gives me a little bit of comfort, given what I'm
facing in my region. But I also think, given the given the volatility of our situation, that it's
important to make sure that we can revisit this in a more timely fashion. So I appreciate Director
Guissinger's amendment. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin, I just had you conditioned by skipping the motion each time.
So it wasn't you.
I agree with the motion, will support it. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was good, Director Cook. Thank you. Director Folska.
PEGGY CATLIN: I expect I will get a second bite at the apple for the full-- for the full motion.
Because we only got to two Directors for the actual motion. This is for the amended motion. But
I expect that we'll go back around to reconvene those people who hadn't spoken to the original
motion. Am I correct?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am, that is my intention.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Folska, we're speaking to Director Guissinger
amendment now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I think it's a great idea to memorialize that. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Guissinger, do you want to speak to your own
issue?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't think so. I think I'm OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Guissinger, can you send me the language?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. [AUDIO OUT] right now.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis, I can come back to you if you want to wait till you get that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I support the amendment. I very much support the idea of
creating a process with our stakeholders, a regular process to figure out how to reinstate service
so that it will be fair and equitable. I like that.
I do have a concern that, I think it was January '20 was going to be considered the baseline. And
that's OK as long as it's not kind of mandatory imposed on [AUDIO OUT] imposing ideas about
service that may or may not be any longer accurate. So actually, can I ask Director Guissinger
about that when she is asking that it be [AUDIO OUT].
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. The final sentence says this process will use the January 2020 run
board as a baseline, also considering the changes in transit use and lessons learned in Reimagine
and during the pandemic. The idea is that we're not starting at 40% down. I think we're actually
past the May service changes at the same time. So it may be that that's included. But the point is
to not assume we're going to start from 40% down as we move forward in the future. And
obviously, you know, we're watching ridership. But hopefully, as part of this process, working
with our local governments we'll be able to set up a good process for adding service and reducing
service in a different way other than just in response to the pandemic.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. All right. Well, thank you. And I am in support of the amendment. That's
it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So as I've heard the motion a couple of times, what I'm picking up out of
this is that reduction of inefficient services will be temporary.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd say that was well said. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. Say it again. Reduction of inefficient services will be
temporary?
NATALIE MENTEN: Correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that what you said? Yeah, I mean, you could say it that way. I guess
the idea is that, we did the original pandemic plan and this one based on the pandemic, and that
we would go back and look at it again.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?

NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Well, I think back to almost a year ago when our CFO stated,
we cannot continue-- this is pre-COVID-- we cannot continue to operate this system as is based
on the financial outlook. And that was pre-COVID. So I can't support a motion that says we will
bring back inefficient services. It goes against the fiscal policy we just looked at.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Let me just-- that is not the intent is to reinstate. The intent is that we are
looking at these services, and you know, again, not in the middle of a pandemic, and evaluating
them with what we've learned and where we are at that point. But this doesn't become-- this 40%
doesn't become the baseline.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I believe that what staff is trying to do here is look for the financial
health and the inefficiency, the services that have been kept in our system for many, many, many
years. Because there's people have highlighted this in articles that everybody's kind of just
waiting for the service in their district versus the regional outlook, the efficiencies. I already
know, after many years, we address service changes three times a year.
I do have trust when Jessie Carter says-- hopefully he's still awake there, I know you said it was
your past your bedtime-- that when those services and needs change, they do get addressed. So
I'm not willing to write it into what sounds to me like we're going to be bringing back inefficient
services. Our financial health can't stand that. That's where I stand Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. Can I respond, Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that-- if you wait one second, Director Guissinger, then I'll let you.
Director Menten, I think the idea here is to reassure our public, who may not have the same
background that you have, that we will not forever continue to cut services and that there is a
light, we hope, at the end of not only the COVID tunnel but the RTD tunnel. And I think that this
does not make any statement about the specifics but in fact is simply offering reassurance that we
will continue to look at what service is possible.
Director Guissinger, do you want to add to that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's very well said. And I think we've cut routes completely based on
the fact that nobody's riding them right now. And that does not mean that they weren't being
ridden before. And I can give you examples. The FF2, the FF3, the FF4 come to mind, the AB2.
Those are all in my area. But we need to start back at a place where we're looking at the services
and the productivity and everything else with our local governments, with a post-COVID view.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Let's go on and have some more comment and then we'll come
back. I thank you, Director Menten, for your outlook. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm all for the collaboration and a longer time frame
window for communicating some sort of a what the transition needs might be with the
municipalities. I know Parker and Lone Tree would certainly be interested in that kind of
collaborative discussion.

I guess one of my hangups, though, is that tying it to that baseline, January 2020, Director
Guissinger just mentioned a post-COVID world. No one knows when that's going to be. They've
been working on corona vaccines for decades. There's not one that's ever been developed. And to
think that it's going to happen now in six months, year, five years, no one knows. So I don't know
if this is just a goodwill gesture. And I guess that's one thing.
But remember, we've also set a pretty high bar for the new General Manager around fiscal
sustainability. And I don't want to instantly put a parachute or lead boots on her in that area with
something like this. Again, I think the baseline of January 2020 is ambitious, and but for that, I
would be supportive. That's all I've got.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Mihalik. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I do support the resolution, but I guess
I would like to point out that, first of all, it is what we already do regarding outreach. We are
known for our communication, collaboration, and cooperation with all of our constituents. And I
believe that in that sense it merely restates what we are already committed to doing in terms of
working with our partners, our stakeholders, and our riders.
Secondly, the resolution or the amendment as stated would actually-- someone's walking, I'll let
them finish walking first-- secondly, that the motion to amend, as stated, is actually less
responsive than we usually are. It extends out to September a process that we would ordinarily
be undertaking in late March and April in pursuance of the May changes. So I'm not sure that it
actually adds much.
I think it's a good restatement. I have no qualms about that and I like being able to have some
redundancy when we demonstrate our communication, collaboration, and cooperation. That's
fine. But I'm curious about the fact that we say could be revisited no later than September when
we're actually going to be doing it in April and May. Obviously, legalistically to say no later than
September, well, of course, we're doing that.
But as I said, I appreciate the statement. I'll support the statement. But I just want to point out
that I think it restates what we already do and renders less restrictive what we have imposed
upon ourselves when we go through service changes.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I'll agree with part of what Director Tisdale said is that staff does
this every or-- Three times a year, we look at our service and bring back what's needed and try to
shed what's not needed. Part of the problem that we had with our driver shortage is that we kept
inefficient and unproductive service in service and we ran our operators ragged, working six
days a week by doing that.

I don't want to give the impression-- and I think this might give the impression-- that we'll bring
back service come September of next year. It doesn't say that. But it might give the impression
that we will. Just like FasTracks plan doesn't say promise anything, but a lot of people believe
that it does say promise. And I don't want to get-- even though I won't be on the Board, I don't
want to see the agency that I love and the buses that I ride, I hope to be riding every day, come
January or February, I don't want to see time wasted having that discussion when that might not
be the intent of this language.
You know, we added 600,000 hours of service over six years. So we added a lot of hours where
it was needed, and some places where it wasn't needed, or we kept it where it wasn't needed. So
it's not like we just cut, cut, cut. We cut this time. We cut deep this time because the service
wasn't needed. Whenever it's needed, it'll come back. I guarantee it because I've seen it happen.
The 104, that's low hanging fruit. But the 104 and the number 4, both-- well, the number 4 was
brought back from extinction. 104 was created because the demand was there.
So I don't think it's necessary. I'm afraid it might bind up staff, and even Directors, who have to
explain, come January, if there's a vaccine, if, or if there's no vaccine, if there's no demand, why
the service isn't back. And explanation's going to have to be because the demand isn't there.
So anyway, I appreciate the intent. I appreciate the spirit. But I think it might cause problems
down the road. So I won't support it, because staff does this all the time and I don't want to see
staff have to take that extra step like we did for years with running service that wasn't necessarily
needed or productive. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, the only thing I would say
is that just as long as we realize that the resource availability will determine how we're going to
move forward. I mean, it really is about getting the resources available to institute it. But I'm OK
with the resolution. And I agree with what has been said about we do do this three times a year
already. But I do think that we are in a time of transition and really collaborating with our key
stakeholders. And unfortunately, I have to disagree with Director Tisdale I don't believe the
community and our stakeholders feel like they are part of the process and the discussion. So I'll
be supporting this. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. OK. I don't have anything to say either. I think
I've said what I needed to say.
So now I'm going to take a vote on this-SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.

KATE WILLIAMS: --motion to amend. Yeah? Oh, I'm sorry, Director Lewis. I said I would
come back. Please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's all right. So I have a question for the staff. So we mentioned, not only
in this new language that Director Guissinger has put forward, the Reimagine lessons learned,
but also in the proposal that Mr. Ford and Mr. Carter put forward, there was a mention of the
Reimagine process and making decisions from that process. My understanding is that we've
paused on the Reimagine. And so I'm trying to understand how staff has gone about reconciling
that. That's my first question.
And then the second question is I actually would just like to hear from staff about how they are
interpreting this and if this is something that they think might be useful for them moving
forward.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that's a reasonable request, Director Lewis. Mr. Ford or Mr. Carter,
would anybody like to comment?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes. This is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling.
Thanks for your question. And as a point of clarification, when it's mentioned in the Board paper
about the Reimagine process, it's really focused on the rail plan and the combination of the
different service patterns. So it's speaking to that process that identified the patterns that should
operate, not necessarily as seeking some type of overreaching methodology of designing the
service plan itself, but just in particular to the light rail service plan.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director-MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO. And I think the other question was our
comments on the proposed, I don't know if it's the amendment that you're referring to, but just in
terms of how we would proceed. I think we do have a process in place. And we can always
improve on our communication and our outreach to our constituents. And I think we really try to
do that with working with Marketing and Communications to provide them kind of an overview,
not just what the service plan is but what other things that are going on with RTD.
So I think we strive and have made some headways in that area. So in terms of outreach and
communication, I think that's in the forefront of everything that we do to make sure that, given
the tight timelines that we have, that we are out there, we're communicating, we're using social
media. We're using all tools available to us to make sure that we're impacting or hearing what
people are having to say and making adjustments where we can and, obviously, using data and
other information to make the most intelligent decisions about service delivery.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. And for one follow-up question. To Director Menten's point, I
appreciate her raising it and I always do, the way-- and maybe you all haven't seen this language,
and if you haven't, I'm sorry to hear that, but the way in which this is written, could this be
interpreted as, you know, there are routes that don't necessarily have the ridership currently to be
in existence that we might bring back because of this language. Or is it still going to be based on
the methodology that each of you use?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger? Mr. Ford? Who wants to address that?
MICHAEL FORD: Just making sure I understand your question. Could you maybe just repeat
the essence of it again? I just want to make sure I'm understanding it completely.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure. I just want to be sure I understand that the way in which this
language is written could not be interpreted, or at least as you all are seeing this language, to
Director Menten's point about having us services that, offering services that don't necessarily
have the ridership right now because of changes to how people are traveling, could this language,
as it is written now, be interpreted as we'll bring back services, even if the services aren't
warranted, from the methodology that you all would use on the net assessment?
JESSIE CARTER: Director Lewis, this is Jessie Carter again. The way I understood the language
was to return to the January level of service as a baseline for the return of service, not necessarily
to say that, hey, we'll start exactly with line for line, trip for trip the service that was provided in
January, but as a baseline for service. And of course, we would have to look at and analyze how
those services are performing and how peer type services are performing before we did make the
suggestion that any type of service will return.
I would like, at some point in time, to talk to the Board again about what the current COVID
service plan represents as far as our network of services and compare that against the services
that are currently not operating. Once you see that, get an idea of the types and levels of services
that are [BEEPING NOISE] operating, I think that might give us a clearer picture as to what the
return should look like.
I hope that answers your question.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford.
SHONTEL LEWIS: [AUDIO OUT]
MICHAEL FORD: Go ahead, sorry.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, go ahead.
MICHAEL FORD: No, I just wanted to kind of elaborate. We saw this as more of an aspirational
objective. And obviously, it's going to contend on our financial availability. And just like some
of the comments that were put together about not just our service but our financial means, our
capital, our infrastructure, there are other competing issues. So I would want to think about

looking at it in its entirety, because I think those are going to be other strains or tensions that
we're going to have to deal with as we think about service delivery. Because there are other
things that without the attention, they are also vulnerable as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And then my last-LYNN GUISSINGER: May I respond? Would that be helpful? Oh, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's just that-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger, hang on. I'm going to let you speak to everybody when
we're done. That's been the policy in the past.
Director Lewis, go ahead with what you're asking.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And then the final question, because I see it mentioned in this language and
also the actual proposal, with the W-- I think it was the W line-- the Reimagine process in using
the data that might have been collected in that process to make decisions in the future. Is that the
plan? Or is that on pause? I guess I'm still confused about that piece.
MICHAEL FORD: Right. And in that section, that's referring directly to the W line and our
current overcrowding situation that we have there. And it was pointed out in some of the
Reimagine work how we could address that. And that's what's been proposed is to increase the
frequency between 6 AM and 8 AM on the W line itself.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So we are using the Reimagine data in some areas, or throughout the entire
system?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, the Reimagine data and that, in the way that it was being analyzed, is
still our data as well. It's still coming off of our ATC systems. So it's the data that we normally
collect and recognize as things that we would normally do in the service change process and
addressing things that need to be maintained. And that's exactly what the W line needs at this
point.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis? Oh, I wonder if she's gone off to her 20-minute rest break,
or 20-second rest break, whatever it is.
OK. Director Guissinger, if you'd like to speak to the whole discussion, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. Should we wait till Director Lewis is back?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, she'll be back in a minute. It's OK.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, just, she had some questions.
Yeah. Just to be clear, this is not intended to say, let's bring back routes that are not meeting our
requirements. It's intended to say, we've made a lot of quick decisions and we have discontinued
or suspended routes, and we can't look at those and say we'll bring them back with ridership
comes back.
And so I think we need a planned process, working with our local governments, for figuring out
how we proceed at that and how we bring back the services. And the idea is that we start with
where we were and look at our lessons we've learned, look at Reimagine, all of those things.
I don't think that we're working really closely and really well with our local governments on
some of this, because that's what we're hearing from them. And I think that this is intended to
say, let's start now and work with them. They're going to be closer to the information. But let's
bring them into the process and let's come up with a process for moving forward aside from the
pandemic.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Director Lewis, are you back?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I am. I heard most of her comments. Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yeah. I had my mute button on, I guess, when I was speaking earlier. But I'm
concerned that there's-- we're setting up a expectation that we're going to reinstate all service in
September. Maybe it wouldn't be effective until the following January or something like that.
And I don't know whether we're going to have the financial resources to do that.
So once you say that, there is an expectation that you're going to deliver. I'd rather under promise
and over deliver than over promise and under deliver.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So I think what we're going to do now, people, because it is late and
we've had a lot of talk about it, is we're going to vote on the motion. And if you don't like it, you
can vote against it.
So I'm going to go backwards this time. And that usually means that I start with me, but I'm
going to start with the Chair.
MELANIE SNYDER: And Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Melanie.
MELANIE SNYDER: Just to be clear, we're voting on the motion to amend.

KATE WILLIAMS: That is correct. We have not yet gotten back to the first of the recommended
actions. I'm going to get everybody to vote on the motion.
So Chair Rivera-Malpiede, can I have your vote?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. That's my vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are a yes. Thank you. Director Whitmore, what is your vote on the
motion?
TROY WHITMORE: It is yes, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Mihalik.
VINCE MIHALIK: I'm a no.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Hang on, I'm writing this down. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Lubow. Uh-oh. Director Lubow may be her 20-minute time
out.
Director Lewis.
JUDY LUBOW: Sorry, I was muted.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow. Yes, what is your vote on-JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, sorry. I want to say that it's a no. Wait, wait. But I have to say that
it's not because I don't like it but I think it needs to be reworded, and perhaps we can do that.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Guissinger, what's your vote on the--

LYNN GUISSINGER: [AUDIO OUT].
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm assuming that was a yes from Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [AUDIO OUT] yes. Can you hear me?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I can hear you now, yeah. Thank you. Director Folska, what is
your vote on the motion?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yeah. So that means we have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
eight yeses and seven nos. The no votes were Director Walker, Mihalik, Menten, Lubow, Lewis,
Folska, and Broom. And this resolution will be added to the, the amendment will be added to the
recommended action.
OK. Thank you, people.
Now we are back the original recommended action. And we only let Director Broom speak to
that, and it was a while ago. I'm going to let him speak to it again. Do you all need me to read the
recommended action again?
DOUG TISDALE: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. OK, Director Broom. Do you care to add-BOB BROOM: I'm in favor of the main motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Buzek.

VINCE BUZEK: No questions or comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Catlin.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize to my fellow Board-- I apologize to my fellow Board members,
but I do have a couple of questions. And I know it's late. But Jessie, I participated in all but one
of the town halls. And there were a number of commuters from the Evergreen Conifer area who
commented. And several said that on some of the buses they were approaching the 15-person
limit. And you made a statement that you would take a look again at the count before making a
decision. And I noticed that there was no adjustment to the CV and EV routes. And can you
please explain to me what your additional analysis showed, if you did do additional analysis?
Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Director Catlin. This is Jessie Carter.
I did receive another APC count. And we do have-- I have don't have it yet-- but a stand check
that was performed by our service inspectors. And I will, as soon as that is complete, we will
give that to you as well. The numbers are still very low for a route that starts out with a pull out
from our garage in Denver and goes out to Conifer and/or Evergreen, and either from Boulder to
Golden, in the case of the GS, to then carry less than 10 passengers, or less than, in many cases,
four or five passengers.
It just doesn't bode well for mass transit in that the resources necessary to actually carry that
could be used on routes that are actually having to pass people up. That was part of the analysis.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Jessie. How many days did you conduct that APC?
JESSIE CARTER: The APC data is collected every weekday. Not every trip is collected on
every day. But we did get a very good composite look at the report. And again, I will certainly
send that to you. As far as having the service monitors, that's actual folks going out taking a look,
those are one-day checks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I just, based on the comments that were received by a number of
constituents from both Evergreen and Conifer, I just wanted to make sure that we had a good
response to them.
JESSIE CARTER: And I understood that. And I can appreciate what you're saying. We had them
actually noted in the back of the Board report, as well. There is a gentleman who mentions that
there are 25 people on his trip. I'm pretty sure I would be ecstatic if I did see 25 people on one of
the CV trips at this point. That's not what the APC data is showing. And I'm pretty sure we can
confirm that with our service monitors.

PEGGY CATLIN: And I'm confident that you can. I just want to make sure that I have that
information. And I know perception is a little different than, in terms of a crowd size, is different
than reality in many cases.
Thank you, Jessie. That's all I have.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook, questions, comments on the
recommended action?
SHELLEY COOK: Just one. I hope to highlight something I talked to Jessie Carter today about,
and just to get it on the record so people who are concerned would know we'd had a couple of
comments about it. Currently the 38 and 44 terminate about a half mile from the Wheat Ridge
Ward Road station. It's not in District L, but it's surrounded by and serves a lot of people from
District L. So it's a stranded station, so long as 125, the 125 isn't running.
And Jessie, you could confirm you guys are going to look at that and take aim for that for the
May service changes, correct?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes, Director Cook, we are definitely going to look at that. One of the
reasons why we can't do it for January is we don't have enough recovery time on one of the
routes. And that's the Route 38. In May, we hope to actually take a look at interlining the 38 and
the 44. And that's a process in which we would join two routes and allow for shared recovery
between the two of them, which would allow for us to make that extension.
So that is something that we want to do and it actually will add more usage to the bus slips that
we currently have out there at the Ward Road station. And that's something we would like to do
as well.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. And would provide service, or connecting service, for people coming
off the train, too. Thank you very much. And I'll support the motion.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook.
Director Folska, if you'll hang on one second, I just want to point out that there's some very
interesting things going on here that have to do with an elected Board of Directors is that people
who are elected to a particular district look at little things, like what Director Cook was just
talking about, that may not happen in when there was a Board that was appointed. So I am
appreciative of your concern for your districts, Directors. Thank you. Director Folska.
PEGGY CATLIN: No. No comments. Move along.
KATE WILLIAMS: (LAUGHING) OK. Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, just a couple of things. I noticed that there-- somebody just pointed
this out to me-- there are a number of individual letters and a letter from Aurora. There were also
letters submitted from the Northwest mayors and commissioners, from the city of Boulder, the
county of Boulder, Boulder Transportation Connections, Community Solutions. I don't see any
of those. If they were submitted before the deadline, I want to be sure that those were received
and considered. Is that right?
JESSIE CARTER: I'm sorry, Director Guissinger. Those were definitely received. We had two
from not only US 36 Community Solutions, but from the County of Boulder. They will most
certainly be a part of that. We'll make sure that they are attached in the final report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. Those raise a number of issues that I've talked with you
about. And the bus is not running to Lyons. And the work you're doing there, I appreciate
working with the county to support the taxi voucher program. I think that'll be a good start for us
to see how that works. And concerns with Heather with some of those things. So once we show
that those are considered and we look at those as we move forward after COVID. Thanks.
JESSIE CARTER: Right. And we are actually looking forward to our next meeting to talk about
the taxi vouchers with the Route Y replacement.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I wanted to thank you all for the work that you did with the
Facebook Lives. I know many Directors have been asking that we offer that as a tool of
engagement and it seems like a successful one. I think I shared earlier my concerns with just
offering the Microsoft Teams, because you have to have that software, as opposed to Zoom,
because not everyone has that software. And so just wanted to share that.
And then, there were some things that Jessie has been working on in my district and making sure
that those who are really dependent on service have access to it. And I wanted to thank you for
that and your commitment to not running empty buses in other districts. Because that harms so
many in my district, and I know other Directors. And so I thank you for that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Lubow.
JESSIE CARTER: Sorry. Madam Chair, if I could make a comment to Director Lewis.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely, sir.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. With regard to the Facebook Live, I'm a convert, at this point, I would
have to say. Not only did we have our largest meeting on Facebook Live, but [AUDIO OUT]
information that was provided via Facebook about people viewing it and looking at the videos

afterwards was kind of reassuring that the message was getting out there. So we will try to use
that outlet as a way of providing outreach and perhaps doing our public meetings in the future.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate it.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Carter. We all appreciate that. That's a good thing. If we are
reaching our constituents and our riders, that's great. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I wanted to reiterate what Director Lewis said about the Facebook
Live, and I'm glad that people are jumping on that bandwagon. And I'm wondering if there are
other things like that that just have a greater accessibility than what we've been doing and maybe
we can switch. I think it's a great idea.
I have no comments about the changes because it doesn't impact my district very much. Thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I also joined in with several of the-- or three, I guess-- of
the public outreach meetings. So I was glad to hear the feedback. Although we had a lot of
attendees, I don't think we got a lot of comments, which is interesting.
Just as a follow up, I've done a lot of ride checks over the last-- well, it's actually been going on
quite a while. And especially over the last three weeks when we got the service plan, or
thereabout. Did want to speak to some of the time that I've spent at Civic Center. I can speak
firsthand to the CV and the EV route while I was down there doing counts. And actually on the
CV, took that during the 4:24 and the 5:24 PMs. And then I would jump off, take the 0 back and
then get for the next one. And so I could do the actual counts all the way through on that.
Because after 9th and Broadway, it would head up the hill.
EV, I could only do the counts at Civic Center. But Director Catlin, for those counts, the most I
counted was on the CV at the 4:24 time and that was seven people loading at Civic Center and
one at the last stop. Then the 5:24 PM, during the two times that I did this, there was never more
than three on that one. And the EV was like a count of four during the 4:18 PM, two people
during the 5:18 service.
So I felt pretty confident that we were nowhere getting near to capacity, even though I did hear
that at our public hearings. And with that, that's all of the comments that I've got on the service
proposal. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, nothing for me. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Carter, more than one Director has stated that
our local government partners do not believe that you have communicated and collaborated with
them regarding service changes. I am shocked, shocked to hear that you have not engaged with
them. And I wanted to afford you the chance now to apologize for that or perhaps to correct the
record on that point about your outreach.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Director Tisdale. That's placing me between a rock and a hard
place. However, I will say we do have our normal communications that go out about our public
hearing process. We have standing meetings with City of Denver. We met with the city of
Aurora on a number of occasions regarding this proposal by itself. We even met with the City of
Boulder representatives to talk about the service change that was being proposed.
So I think there may be an opportunity to communicate more in the future. But typically what
happens if someone doesn't agree with the communication that was had, they may not think that
they were heard. So I would apologize for that [AUDIO OUT] exception.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Carter, it was a rhetorical question. I know that you do that outreach. But
the impression was left that you hadn't, or that some people didn't think you had. And I know
that you did. Thank you, sir.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Yeah, I'll reiterate that. I know that our staff is out there working
with companies and jurisdictions to find out what service is needed all the time, all the time. It
might not be taken. If the service isn't warranted, it often doesn't appear. Sometimes it stays
around for too long. So I can understand the impression that some people might have that their
voices weren't heard. But every voice is heard. Whether they get the answer they want is another
question.
I don't have any questions about the service changes. I got to attend a couple of the meetings.
Great job. And I was pleased with the attendance and the presentation. I was nervous about how
those would go, but I think everything went well. Thank you, all. That's it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No comments. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome, sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just one question.

Hey, Jessie, I sat in on most of those conference calls. And the one question that came up a
couple of different times were, I believe they were from Conifer, was that if they used the van
pool program through DRCOG, would there Eco Pass pay for that or would they have to pay
additional money? And I guess I wanted to know the answer to that question, if you have it.
JESSIE CARTER: Unfortunately, I'm sorry-- this is Jessie Carter again-- unfortunately, I don't
know offhand right now. But I will certainly circle back with you tomorrow and answer that
question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thanks. That's it.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. OK.
So I have nothing further to add at this time. And I want to point out that many of these
questions, you all have, Directors have the information several days before this meeting and the
staff is always available to you. If you wanted to have some of these discussions before we came
to the meeting, we might not be here quite so late at night.
I'm going to go through in alphabetical order and take a vote on this recommended action. I have
a note that the Chair was the mover and Director Whitmore was the second. But I'll go through
everybody in alphabetical order for a yes or a no vote on the recommended action.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, as amended.
KATE WILLIAMS: As amended. Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, as amended. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. And I am a yes, which makes that unanimous on the
January 2021 service change proposal as amended. Thank you, everybody, for your work on that.
We have another recommended action tonight, which is the adoption of the 2020 performance
measures. And hopefully, I'm going to read this right off of this paper, because I just got kicked
out of the program. Let's see if this works.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the attached 2021 proposed performance report and the accompanying
performance measures for mission statement goals number one through seven. In 2021, there are
44 proposed performance measures to be tracked for the General Manager, which is two higher

than in 2020. This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals: mission
oriented goal number one, successful delivery of transit services.
Do I have a motion? Hello.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved. Rivera-Malpiede.
SHELLEY COOK: Second, Shelley Cook.
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.
KATE WILLIAMS: I got Cook and Tisdale. But I'm going to say Cook because she comes
before alphabetically. Thank you both for that.
I'm going to ask the staff, Jannette Scarpino, can you speak to us about this? And then we'll have
some more discussion on it.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yes, I can. This is Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager.
We are recommending two changes to the 2021 KPIs, key performance indicators. The first one
is 3.1, which is on-time performance. And here we are recommending that we break out the goal
for commuter rail to measure the N Line separately from the A, B, and G lines. But the goal
remains at 90%.
The second one is 3.2, service availability. Again, recommending that we break out the goal for
commuter rail to measure the N Line separately from the A, B, and G lines. The goal remains at
97%.
I want to make a comment about ridership, which is 6.2, and fare revenue, which is goal 6.3. We
are going to establish both of those with the 2021 budget. We are not recommending that they be
changed right now. There is too much uncertainty now. There is too much volatility. And we
want to see more actuals for 2020 before we try to make that forecast.
So we can return to the Ops Committee with the goals for ridership and revenue in the early part
of 2021. So those are my comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much. I think that's a great idea that we do do that. I'm
going to go through the roll and see if anyone has questions or comments, noting again that we
did have this information in advance.
So Director Broom, do you have any questions or comments?
BOB BROOM: No question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Buzek.

VINCE BUZEK: No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry, but yes, I have a comment. And that is that we're recommending
these to be adopted now. We do not have our new General Manager on board. And this makes
reference to the GM goal. And I'm a bit concerned that without her input and without our 120day plan, I'm just a little bit concerned about casting this in stone at this point.
That said, I think the performance metrics are good and I like the changes. I just [AUDIO OUT],
because it says the GM goals, I just wanted to make reference to that. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's a fair comment. Thank you, ma'am. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No questions or comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think Director Catlin raises a good concern. No other comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I appreciate Director Catlin's concern as well.
I did have a question specifically about the N Line and the thinking behind separating the data
from the N Line from the A, B, and G.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. What's the question?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry. Was that the question? Was that the question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, ma'am. That was the question.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: OK. Our thinking was that because RTD operates the N Line, we need
to measure our performance separately from the DTP operated A, B, and G lines.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. There wasn't a lot of information here. So forgive me. When you say
that because RTD operates it that we need to look at it different, separately. I'm sorry.

JANNETTE SCARPINO: We just need to report it separately. Because we don't want the
numbers to be mixed in with DTP's performance. We want to just measure our own performance
separately. The goals are the same in both cases for on-time performance and service availability
for all of commuter rail.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, this is Michael Ford, COO.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, I would just also point out that we also separate our contractors out
from our internal, on our bus side. So it is really consistent with how we measure our
performance. We do make those separations.
KATE WILLIAMS: Think that's reasonable. Director Lewis, does that help?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, it wasn't about it being unreasonable. I just wanted to understand
why.
KATE WILLIAMS: Got it. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No comment. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No questions or comments. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No questions or comments. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No questions or comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No questions or comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to say that I share the
same concern as Director Catlin.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that insight. I have no questions or comments myself.
Now we're going to do a vote so that we can move on down the line. And I'll go back to the
beginning again this time so that we don't have to have the Chair speak first.
Director Broom, what is your vote on this recommended action?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Mihalik.

KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Affirmative.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm a yes. Holy cow, that's two unanimous votes in a row. That would be 15
yeses and no nos. That one also moves on.
OK. So we have no updates tonight. We had a variety of information items, including service
availability, lost service hours, rail operations and update, what we get on a regular basis. I am
assuming that everybody had a chance to look at those and that you could speak to staff with any
questions that you had.
And so with great regret, it looks like we approaching the end of the evening. But I see that we
might have other matters. Under Other Matters, I see an ad hoc Safety and Security Committee.
Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you want to speak to that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes Thank you, Madam Chair as you may recall there had been
some discussion about the security system at RTD. And back in April, we put together an ad hoc
committee to really focus on the code of conduct and incorporated a lot of community members
and Board members and our staff to really look at that in depth, to make sure that it was more
user friendly and really made sure that it was revisited. And so that was very, very successful.
After that, we did have a Board member bring forward a resolution about our security system.
And out of that, there were five Board members who were very interested in this issue. And so I
decided to put together an ad hoc committee to really take a look at our Security Department and
to work with our Chief and our Assistant General Manager with five Board members who really
showed an interest.
And so I'm looking for a short-term ad hoc committee that will really be taking a deep dive look
into the whole system around security and the issues around using social workers and conductors
and just really getting briefed on it to bring it back to the Board to do a much more

comprehensive in-depth acknowledgment of what is in place, what is planned, what's being
done, and what's new and innovative, and if there are things that we're going to need to change.
So the committee originally, we were going to start meeting tomorrow. And I think because of
the lateness of this, my apologies, we will reschedule the first meeting. They will be held on
Wednesday mornings at 8 AM through Zoom. So people can check it out and join in on this.
And so the following directors have agreed to participate. Director Guissinger, Director Walker,
Director Lubow, Director Williams. And Director Lewis has been invited to participate as well.
And I will be part of this. Mr. Meader, our Chief Safety Officer and AGM of Safety, Security,
and Asset Management, Marisela Sandoval, our Associate General Counsel, our Chief Grado,
Steve Martingano, our Deputy Chief of Police, Ms. McManus and Mr. McKay will also be part
of this. So we hope to bring back some pertinent information to the Board in December. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. OK. Now that I have gotten kicked out of my
computer again, I won't know the date of the next meeting. Yes, Director Lewis, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I received that document from Chair Rivera-Malpiede yesterday and so I
hadn't had the opportunity to review it. I had hoped to get that into my inbox a bit sooner, which
is why my name is tentative there. I think I shared the hope that this practice would be more
collaborative with not just Directors but community, particularly as we're talking about policing
and overpolicing in communities. And I thought this would be a really great opportunity to have
different perspectives represented on the committee.
But again, I hadn't had the opportunity to view that as I received that yesterday. But I did want to
say that for the sake of the record that yes, I was invited. But I do not agree to things that I have
not had the opportunity to review first. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome.
OK. I think if there are no other matters-- are there any other matters to be brought before this
committee?
Hearing none, I'm going to ask for a move to adjourn. The next meeting date, before we go there,
will be November 10. We will meet at the same location. And do I have a move to adjourn?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Whitmore.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. [PHONE RINGING] We are adjourned.
Ooh, somebody's calling. Good night.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good night.

