Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held Tuesday, September 11, 2007
Page 1 of 3
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

September 12, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, September 11, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T & D

****
Committee
Members Present:

FasTracks Committee Chair Director Chacon, Vice-Chair Elfenbein,
Busck, Brohl, Christopher, Daly, Kemp, McMullen, Pulliam, Ruchman,
Yamrick

Member Absent:

Directors Kinton, Martinez, Quinlan, and Tayer

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, David Genova, Lloyd Mack, Paula Perdue,
Liz Rao, Scott Reed, Phil Washington
Sherry Ellebracht, Daria Serna, Pauletta Tonilas, Jennifer Heisler,
Carol Duecker, Susan Cohen, Rick Clarke, Mike Turner, John Tarbert,
John Shonsey, Jerry Nery, Bill Sirois, Stan Szabelak, Caitlin Magee,
Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Brad Langner, Tim Romer, Albert Lin, Kevin Flynn, Jeff Leib, Holman
Carter, Stephen Roberts, Roger Sherman, Dwight Shock, Bob Walsh

Call to Order:

Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:07 p.m.

I. Updates
Railroad Negotiations Update –
Cal Marsella provided the update on the railroad negotiations with Union
Pacific (UP). Cal expressed they had a positive meeting but there are issues
with relocation that the Fort Lupton community and stakeholders have which
he has asked Maria Garcia Berry to use her expertise to help address.
Cal indicated the discussion with Burlington Northern (BN) focuses on
EMU/DMU technology. The staff is preparing information and will come back
to the Board in October.
Revised FasTracks Plan and Financial Component—
Cal Marsella provided the highlights from the 2007 Revised FasTracks Plan
and Financial Component. A copy of this presentation is available in the Board
office under the minutes from this FasTracks Monitoring Committee.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, September 11, 2007
Page 2 of 3
After the presentation, Director Chacon opened the meeting for Board
questions and comments:
Director Yamrick: If streetcars are added, will it require separate maintenance
facilities?
Cal Marsella: Most likely.
Director Daly: On page 27, there is a significant difference in the slope of the
line for ADA that was in the draft and the presentation that was presented
tonight.
Liz Rao: Yes. We had to make some adjustments.
Director McMullen: I give this an A+ presentation. We are on track and our
constituents can be happy.
Director Brohl: Can you provide a perspective on why Arvada would be
requesting single track in Olde Town?
Cal Marsella: Arvada is interested in preserving the historical Olde Town
properties and there is some concern on the impact that the double tracks
may have on properties.
Liz Rao stated the concerns were primarily
environmental. It was also noted that Director Pulliam was not in favor of
single tracks for that area.
Director Brohl also inquired on the number of proposed stops on the North
Metro Corridor, especially between 88th and 124th Avenue. Liz Rao indicated
these had been arrived at over a period of time and Director Busck provided
information on the various drivers for these stops along the route. Cal
Marsella indicated the final decision will basically be an outcome from the EIS
process and they will come back to the Board with a full array of
upside/downside on the recommended number of stations.
Director Daly queried on the status of the Northwest Rail going through
Westminster Mall and Director Christopher responded that options were under
discussion with Westminster. Director Daly asked clarification of what does
unsuccessful concession bid mean. Cal Marsella explained it would mean that
after bids are received and reviewed, RTD may reject for a variety of reasons.
Director Chacon inquired about how many municipalities were included and
was advised approximately 38. She also wanted to know how the matching
local fund would work. Cal Marsella explained we are looking for a 2.5% local
fund match that could be provided in a number of ways such as land
exchange, etc and does not necessarily mean cash. Director Pulliam asked
about the response from the local municipalities and Cal Marsella responded
we have received general receptivity as the municipalities see this as an
opportunity for economic development.
Director Elfenbein wanted to know if there will be a mix of three and four
cars. Cal explained yes but the system will be built to the design specs for 4
for future expansions.
Director Christopher shared that 1.5 is considered the norm for debt service
charge and wondered if the projected 1.2 in years 2017-2022 could result in a
lower rating for RTD. Cal Marsella shared he does not believe it will as we
have been carrying this projected ratio for some time.
Director Christopher asked what happens if an entity refuses to sign an IGA.
Cal Marsella responded there are different scenarios one of which could be we

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, September 11, 2007
Page 3 of 3
would have to re-open the EIS which could result in a 1 year delay. Another
option could be they could impede the segment from JeffCO center to the
Federal center but the remainder of the route would stay intact.
Director Ruchman expressed some concern on the delay that could be infused
into the route through the number of station stops added and that his
constituents are interested in how quickly they can get to DIA. Director
McMullen commended that he perceives a major value of the route will be for
the working class along that route and he sees great opportunity for economic
development.
Director Kemp asked if there would be capital cost savings if both the North
and Northwest corridors use the same technology. Lloyd Mack explained that
there could be savings especially where they use a common chassis and other
interchangeable parts. Director Kemp then commented that this should
provide the capability to perform a true technology to technology comparison.
Director Christopher queried what would the additional COP funds be used for.
Liz Rao responded for cars, vehicles, buses and other rolling stock.
II. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at approximately 6:25 p.m.

