Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 08, 2008
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

April 8, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee Meeting held on
Tuesday, April 08, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

Bruce Daly, Chair; Barbara Yamrick, Vice-Chair, Noel Busck, Barbara
Brohl, Juanita Chacon, Bill Christopher, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp,
Christopher Martinez, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, Neill Quinlan, Dave
Ruchman, John Tayer
Daryl Kinton

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, David Genova, Trent Ratcliff, Teresa Sedmak, Caitlin
Magee, Richard Rost, Errol Stevens, Robert Merriman, Bruce Abel,
Brian Matthews, Carolyn Conover, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Paula
Perdue, Ed Gonzales, Sherry Ellebracht, Lloyd Mack, Marla Lien, Bob
Lewis, Phil Washington, Tony McCaulay

Others:

Ira Schreiber, Steve Weinstein, Holman Carter (ATU 1001), Bruce
Behnke (Veolia), Roger Chapin (First Transit), Eric Biga (Veolia), Gary
Forbes (First Transit)

Call to Order:
I.

****
Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Transfer of Funds for the East Metro SAU Project – David Genova, Assistant General
Manager, Safety, Security, and Facilities introduced this item. Staff would like to
transfer money from the Market Street Station Atrium glass project to fund this
project. Staff has decided since Market Street will not be used in the near future that
the glass replacement project money would be better used elsewhere.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 2 of 4

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $250,000 from the Market Street
Station Atrium Glass project and $88,370 from the Low Value Furniture and
Equipment account into the East Metro Supply Air Unit (SAU) Replacement project.
Both the funds being transferred and the project funds are included in the 2008 RTD
budget.
Motion:
Director Yamrick made a
motion for approval before
the full Board at the April 15,
2008 Board Meeting.
Second:
Vote On
Motion:

Director McMullen seconded
the motion.
The motion passed
unanimously.

II. Update on First Transit – Longmont Driver Staffing – Bruce Abel, Assistant General
Manager, Customer and Contracted Services, spoke to the memo that was distributed in
the packet. Barbara Yamrick commended First Transit on reducing the overtime. Director
Tayer felt that not enough progress based on his conversation with operators and asked the
District’s staff to help First Transit with this issue. Bruce Abel spoke about shifting some of
the Route 228 from Longmont garage to Denver facility where there is adequate staffing.
Bruce Abel felt that fixes to this problem are going to come in small, incremental steps.
Roger Chapin of First Transit addressed the Committee. He said that First Transit shares
the concerns of the Committee. They are now offering a bonus of $900 if an operator
refers someone and they stay with First Transit for a year. First Transit is exploring the
option of a sign on bonus for new operators as well. They have a full time recruiter and
they are open to any ideas.
Director Tayer asked for continued updates on this situation.
Director Christopher asked about the shifting of the Route 228 to the Denver garage and
if that shouldn’t be the procedure to eliminate this problem. Mr. Chapin responded that
it is cheaper to operate the route out of Longmont and also easier because of how the
services work together.
III. Special Services Fare Update – Bruce Abel gave this update and referred to the memo
that was distributed in the Board packet. Discounts and passes will now be honored on
Special Services. There will be a financial impact to the District.
Director Brohl was concerned about publicity so the public knows passes can be used.
Mr. Abel responded that all Rockies Ride brochures have been updated and Scott Reed
said that the information was distributed in two news releases and it is available at all
Customer Information Centers.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 3 of 4

Director Christopher asked about contacting the legislative delegation about working
with the FTA regarding changing this decision. Cal Marsella said that the District
prefers to work with FTA at an administrative level to get decisions changed. Director
Ruchman asked about addressing FTA within a year. Cal Marsella said he would write
a letter to FTA with a copy to APTA and the Board.
Director McMullen asked about sandwich boards at the bus stops advising the
consumers about fares and passes accepted. Mr. Marsella responded that this will be
done.
IV. Update/Revisions to GM Evaluation – Contracted Services – Bruce Abel spoke to this
item. There were many questions as to the language of the goal and what it means
specifically. Mr. Abel distributed a memo clarifying the language in the goal as well as
a 2007 Year End Performance Review Summary of the Private contractors. Both of
these documents are available for review in the Operations and Customer Services
Meeting Minute Notebook. The committee was satisfied with the proposed language
clarification and agreed that this change would be retroactive to the GM Evaluation
2007 Performance Goal Achievement and to the 2008 GM Evaluation Performance
Goals.
V.

Other Matters – Director Yamrick shared her idea about offering permanent free rides
for Disabled American Veterans, free rides on Mother’s Day for females and free rides
on Father’s Day for males. Director Quinlan wanted to know the financial impact of
this issue.
Director Kemp spoke about eminent domain bill HB 1278 and some things that
happened today (April 8, 2008). Marla Lien met with Representative Bill White this
morning and is working on an amendment to this bill as a possible compromise. The
proposed amendment was distributed and is available for viewing in the Operations
and Customer Services Committee Meeting Minute Notebook.
Director Ruchman expressed concern about the language in the amendment.
Director Brohl pointed out a clear flaw in the language concerning air rights and its
implication on RTD.
Director Daly spoke that this is a way to show that we are willing to work with the
legislature and willing to compromise.
Motion: Director Tayer made a motion to
support amendment in principal
with added request and
understanding that legal will do
further research on implications.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 4 of 4

Second: Director Busck seconded the
motion.
Discussion: Director Christopher gave a concern about pushing more people away
from selling to us and into condemnation. There was extensive discussion about this
bill including the appropriateness of this bill when RTD already follows the eminent
domain process. Several Directors thought this bill would be a good way to show
sensitivity to the concerns surrounding the eminent domain process.
Director Christopher called the question; the vote was unanimous to end discussion
on the motion.
Vote On
Motion: The motion failed on a 5-8 vote.
Motion: Director Martinez made a motion
to direct the lobbyist in a position
statement that RTD recommends
a uniform standard to which this
bill can be applied to all entities
affected by eminent domain
without singly targeting RTD.

Second: Director Yamrick seconded the
motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed on 12-1 vote.
(Director Ruchman opposed)

VI.

Next Meeting Date: This next meeting of the Operations/Customer Services
Committee will be May 13, 2008 at 5:30 p.m.

VII. Adjournment – Hearing no objection, Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 7:34 p.m.

