2024-03-04
Performance Committee Meeting
JACK KROLL: Should be.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good morning. The Monday, March 4 Performance Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 8:35 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this morning. The committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be
held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the
unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
Every attendee of a committee and Board meeting of the RTD Directors may access Communication
Access Realtime Translation services, also known as CART, for a real-time transcript of the meeting.
Furthermore, the CART transcript can be set to be automatically translated into Spanish. Anyone who
would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com and a link will be provided. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube
page.
I will now call the roll for the committee members. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Board Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman. All right. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I know that Peggy Catlin, our Committee Chair, sends her regrets that she's
unable to join us. And I am Lynn Guissinger. I am here. So we have five of our seven members present.
For the record, I also see that Director Jaime Lewis is present. Am I missing anybody else? I think that's it
so far.
I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to
speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses, but if you would like to be

contacted regarding your comment, please email the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.
Are there any hands raised or anyone who has signed up for public comment?
JACK KROLL: Hi, Vice Chair Guissinger. This is Jack Kroll. I heard something come through there, but it
didn't quite make sense on my end. Hi, Vice Chair Guissinger. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of
the Board Office. We did not receive any comments in advance via email and we do not have anyone
currently present who has indicated a desire to speak.
Oh. And Vice Chair Guissinger, you're on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --mute myself. All right. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the
public comment period at this time.
There's one recommended action on the agenda this morning and that action is for the GM/CEO total
compensation market analysis and annual 360 performance assessment tool contract solicitation. For the
Board of Directors to approve the scope of work summary for a solicitation and to subsequently authorize
the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to enter into a contract for consulting services for either
or both of the following, a comprehensive and systematic benchmarking analysis of the GM/CEO total
compensation package and the development of an automated and customized GM/CEO 360 degree
performance assessment instrument.
Do we have a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Davidson.
VINCE BUZEK: Second, Buzek.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I hear Director David-- or Chair Davidson as the movant and Director Buzek as
the second. Thank you.
And I believe we will start off with a presentation from Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer, to present
this item to the committee.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Hi. Good morning. Thank you, Vice Chair Guissinger. Charlene Polege, Chief
People Officer.
You do have before you the one recommended action today. And this is, as Vice Chair Guissinger
indicated, a summary of the solicitation that, if approved, the agency would embark on on behalf of the
Board. It is designed to, it's written so that this could be one vendor who maybe could have the skills and
ability to do both the compensation, total compensation analysis, and the design and development of the
360, the customized 360. Or it's possible that we could have one vendor who would do each. Hence, you
see different timelines.
Important to note that this action was and is captured within the Board's 2024 fiscal budget. And we've
outlined specific timelines. Specifically the one I want to call out that's most important is the total
compensation analysis and ensuring that that review is completed in alignment and before the August 31
deadline that was noted in amendment to the GM and CEO contract.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Ms. Polege. And before I ask for questions and comments,
I'll just say that Committee Chair Catlin and I had the opportunity to meet with Ms. Polege last week and
talk through some of the scope of work. And in particular, some of the particulars that we have talked
about, like who would be part of the 360 and are there things we would want to change from what
Gallagher did in the comp analysis that we will have an opportunity to meet with the consultants
afterwards to go through those things, that the scope of work is not defining those things in particular.
Both of these are tools. And the 360 will be, of course, a tool that comes back to the Board for the Board
to do the final evaluation. So I think that's an important point to keep in mind. Are there any questions or
discussion on this motion? Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Committee Vice Chair Guissinger. And thank you, Ms. Polege, for
moving this forward and presenting this. Huge thank you to everybody for being involved here. This is an
important step. Obviously, a lot of discussion last year that led to this. And thank you for moving it
forward.
One question I have, and I think Vice Chair Guissinger, you were just touching on it, was with respect to
the compensation benchmarking analysis. There was quite a bit of discussion last year around the
methodology of Gallagher and particularly around who the peer agencies were and how they were
selected. And I think, Vice Chair Guissinger, you and I had a chance to talk a little bit about this.
But just wondering if you or Ms. Polege wouldn't mind touching on how much will be available to the
Board and how much will be flexible when Performance Committee has its meetings with the consultant
once they're onboarded versus what's prescribed by the scope of work. Just wondering if you could talk
about what the guardrails are and what opportunities there would be to shape the peer agencies that will
be reviewed.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm going to ask Ms. Polege to address that, if you would.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. Thank you, Chair Davidson.
So what I would say is the flexibility is-- the guardrails would be the compensation, the GM and CEO
compensation philosophy on one side. So specifically the philosophy-- I don't have it word for word, but it
calls for targeting the 50th percentile of the market of relevant or related public and private enterprises.
So it's not just transit agencies. It's not exclusive just to other transit agencies. But it also does not open
up and has to be a related or relevant public agency. So it couldn't be, for example, a GM and CEO
position for Microsoft or something like that, because that would not be relevant or related to the work. So
that's on one side.
The other side would be with the consultants, from a methodology perspective, to ensure that you have a
good, what we call a job match. And so that you're looking at the organizations as a peer but then also
the position. So what does that look like for a GM and CEO position? Is it a like match? That would be the
guardrails.
Then the consultant would work with the Performance Committee and members of the Board to help
determine what comparator agencies would be utilized. And so those would be now what the consultants
would give guidance then on. For example, we might think, the Board might think just agency A is a
comparator. And there would be a discussion on why agency A is or is not a good comparator. That

would be the skill and expertise that a consultant would bring in. But that would be a conversation with the
way it's designed with the Performance Committee.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you very much. That answers my question. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And I'll just add that I think that was great. Thank you, Ms. Polege. That was
very helpful. But I think in terms of going back and looking at what the Office of State Auditor has said and
some of those. For instance, Gallagher went through, they did the comparator organizations plus a
published list analysis that we don't know anything about. So that may be something we want to-- that's
the kind of thing we may want to talk to them about whether that's appropriate or not.
Does anybody else? Ms. Johnson, do you have anything? Anybody else have anything they want to say?
No.
OK. Are there any no votes on this action? Let me just say that Director Guzman has just joined us.
Secretary Guzman, thank you. Are there any no votes on this action?
OK. With, what are we up to, six? Yeah, with six yes votes and zero no votes and one absence, this
motion passes.
There's one discussion item for today. It's the 2024 Performance Committee Work Plan. I'll introduce this
and then I'll see if Jack Kroll and Ms. Johnson have anything to add on this.
I think the work plan that was in our packet was based on what we set out, I think in our September, our
last Performance Committee meeting, that we discussed that in September. And a number of things have
changed. Now we have, rather than just the kind of quarterly meetings, monthly meetings for much of the
year, not including August and December. But in April, May, June and July, we have meetings set.
So we will be changing some of the pieces in the work plan. For instance, we still have to set the metrics
from the retreat. Hopefully, we'll have a draft of some ideas coming back in April and be ready to move
forward on those. There may be some other things in terms of when-- we've got performance report from
the CEO on the CEO and on the agency pretty much every meeting that we have listed here. So we just
need to talk about how often we do that.
I think also in September, this committee said that, or there was at least discussion, but I think the
committee said that the Executive Committee would have an executive session at every monthly meeting
to talk with Ms. Johnson about whatever in terms of performance. That was before we were meeting
monthly. That may be something we want to discuss as well.
So that's what we're here for is to discuss these things. Ms. Johnson, do you have anything to add?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Vice Chair, and good aft-- or good morning,
all.
A couple of points of clarity that I would like to ensure that we delve into so the work plan reflects
appropriately. Recognizing at the retreat there was a discussion relative to agency performance metrics,
we talked about lagging leading indicators that feed into key performance indicators that could be
translated into the agency metrics. There was still yet to be any clearly defined committee to which those
would go to. It was my understanding that this committee would look at that, then make a determination,
considering that at the Operations and Safety Committee there is a report out on our people power. We

have report outs as it relates to other elements regarding personal security in and around the system to
create a welcoming transit environment.
So I am still seeking clarity from this committee upon what that is. And in relationship to reporting out,
recognizing that in my role as being the General Manager and CEO, my performance has a direct
correlation with the agency performance, so those terms are being used independently but there is a
clear cut nexus. And I need guidance from this Board or this committee so I understand what the rules of
engagement will consist of. And that would be immensely helpful as I direct my staff, recognizing that we
have some upcoming committee meetings just next week and we have reports that will be provided. So
any insight would be helpful. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I see Chair Davidson's hand. Jack, did you have anything to add before
that?
JACK KROLL: Vice Chair Guissinger, I don't have anything to add just yet. As the conversation
progresses, there's a few things I want to make sure that you all hit upon. But I'll let that evolve and then
chime in if there's things that are still hanging out there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Vice Chair Guissinger. And thank you, General Manager and CEO
Johnson. That's actually along the lines of something I wanted to bring up for the work plan and our
consideration.
Obviously, we're doing something a little new here. My proposal for the group's consideration here would
be that the Performance Committee really take ownership of-- today has ownership of General Manager
and CEO performance evaluation. I think given the natural intersection that General Manager Johnson
was touching on with agency performance, I believe it's good for the Performance Committee to also own
that.
The way I would see this working would be-- and I think we need to get this reflected in the work plan, if
this is aligned with the Performance Committee members' expectations here-- would be that Performance
Committee would work to take the discussion from the retreat-- and I'm happy to help with my notes, as
well as the notes of the facilitator-- put together a proposal around what the rolled up priorities are and
what the rolled up metrics for measuring agency performance are, both on a leading and lagging basis.
I would then think that this committee over time would then develop the habit or the recurring discussion
item of receiving updates. So General Manager and CEO Johnson, you would be bringing forward
updates to the leading and the lagging indicators in terms of how the agency is performing. And then this
team, this committee, would be looking at agency performance using those metrics, if adopted, and then
would be looking at General Manager and CEO performance.
As it relates to the other committees, Finance and Planning and Operations and Safety, I think that
metrics will inevitably break out further that have more operational detail, still at the policy level but a little
bit more detail. So what I could envision, for example, is if this Performance Committee adopted, in the
area of workforce, adopted the General Manager and CEO's goal as we did around retention. However,
from an agency performance standpoint, this group may also adopt several other metrics that it wants to
look at from a leading and lagging standpoint. I would think this committee would receive those regular
updates.

But Operations and Safety, I think there are many things that get into a lot more detail. And I would leave
it to the staff in those individual areas, as well as to the committee chairs of those areas to determine
what's appropriate to bring to those committees. So in the area of workforce, if there's a particular topic
concerning, for example, our security personnel and our police force recruiting and retention, there would
be a deeper dive into data and discussion at that committee meeting.
So I just would put that forward for the committee's consideration. I'm open to feedback and obviously
would love to hear from committee members, Board members, and the General Manager and CEO on
the concept of Performance Committee owning both General Manager and CEO performance, agency
performance, having regular reporting on progress against both, and then, where necessary, where
there's additional detail or additional dive into data as it relates to informing policy on an Operations and
Safety basis or a Finance and Planning basis, those discussions would ensue at committee.
So I'll leave that there for consideration. I think if that is amenable to the group, we need to do some work
to get that reflected into the Performance Committee work plan. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And I agree. I think that's kind of what I had in mind as well is there
would be some overlap but we would have the agency metrics.
Any other comments from other Directors or from you, Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, if I may, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of course.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thanks to Chair Davidson for that input. I would agree with that path forward. And
I would offer up to you, as the Vice Chair, and to the Chair, and the Chair of the Board, that we could set
a meeting whereby we can have discussions so we can flesh out the work plan, in turn share that with
members of the Performance Committee. I think that would be the most prudent course of action if this
committee is amenable to that path forward. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I see some heads nodding. And that sounds good to me. All right. Other comments,
questions? OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Just-- thank you very much. And I apologize, I should have raised my hand but couldn't
find that as quickly as I could find the unmute.
Relative to the various revisions that we're doing to these measures, are we looking at, as I commented
on at the retreat, at the measures that are contained in the strategic plan and revising those? Are we
scrubbing those completely and starting from scratch? If I could have some clarity on that. Because we
did work an extensive amount of time on those and came up with very precise percentages as to what
each one contributed to an overall score.
So if you can just provide some clarity on that for me. And I apologize, you may have stated that and you
may have stated it earlier at some other time. But I have to confess, I've missed it.

LYNN GUISSINGER: And which measures are you referring to? It gets very specific in the strategic plan.
Are you talking about the ones we use to do our performance evaluation?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. I mean, the four pages of performance measures that we have there. I don't have
it in front of me. It's down in my office rather than up here in the library, so I don't have it in front of me.
But it's what we specifically addressed at the retreat when I said, here we have this document with four
pages of single spaced enumerative factors that added up to various scores.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, it looks like we got two hands here. I'll take them. Debra first, Ms. Johnson,
and then Chair Davidson.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I believe Director Tisdale is talking about the
specificity as relates to the quarterly performance scorecards, where we break down, for instance, on
page 22 of the document, community impression of security, percentage of community members who
agree or disagree. Does that sound in alignment with what you were referencing, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. I don't have the document before me but it sounds like-- yeah. And there you go,
Director Guzman has it.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So keeping in mind that we as a team basically, as the caveat states in this
document, we have looked at a myriad of different KPIs, recognizing that we have honed in on three
strategic initiatives, i.e. back to basics, people power, and a welcoming transit environment. And so
relative to that, we used input as we went forward from our community and employee and customer value
surveys to discern what those KPIs would be.
So to your question, are we throwing these out? No, we're not. We're leveraging them. But contingent
upon what we're doing and the feedback that we received, we've made some slight modifications,
recognizing on page 10 of the document it says, work plan tactics are subject to change during the
duration of the plan.
And so I just wanted to qualify that as we have discussions around this relative to what the goal is we're
trying to seek, we may have to make some modifications, recognizing that there could be an uptick in
catalytic converters that are stolen from work sites and things of the like. So I just wanted to provide that
context that they're still there but we're making some modification relative to what it is we're trying to solve
for, based upon the feedback we've been able to garner from key audiences, be they employees or
members of the community or the like.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you. Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson. That touches on a
lot of what I was going to share.
I would also note that Director Tisdale, I think, one the retreat, I think, was a great opportunity to hear
from Directors what we think the priorities are right now that we've been hearing from recently. Also, quite
a few things that are in the quarterly performance scorecards on 22 and 23 of the strategic plan, pages 22

and 23, are somewhat lagging in nature. There was a lot around customer satisfaction and measuring
that, for example.
And I think with the retreat, having some discussion around what might lead into that, as we were talking
about another lagging being on-time performance being something that would be of interest to customers
and then the leading potentially being around staffing availability and vehicle availability. I think there's an
opportunity to use the scorecard to select what really matches the updated priorities we discussed and
put together a proposal, which I'm happy to help the Performance Committee and the Chair and Vice
Chair with as we distill that feedback from the retreat.
So just another way of echoing, I don't think we throw it out. I think we captured some more priorities and
some thinking around what's leading and lagging to help view this through an alternative lens to help
refine a set of metrics that this committee would review.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. So as I understand it, what we're looking for is a proposal that would then be a
proposed amendment to the strategic plan, to adjust what is in the strategic plan in the way that you have
described. Am I correct in hearing that?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Madam Vice Chair, if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of course.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I don't know that I would quite couch it as an amendment. I think maybe we could talk
about what the mechanics of that would be. I think it'll be relatively new for this Performance Committee
to adopt the review of a set of metrics. And therefore, I think our priorities very much remain aligned with
the strategic plan.
And one way we could look at it is Performance Committee is saying we want the quarterly scorecard
coming forward and therefore we need to amend it. Another way to look at it would be, well, we're actually
creating a new construct within the Performance Committee of what it is that we're going to review. And
so I'll leave that to other members in the committee to determine the best path forward. But we could kind
look at it one of those two ways. I'm sort of looking at this as a somewhat new construct in terms of
Performance Committee taking on this reporting task.
DOUG TISDALE: Hmm.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman. We'll come back, Director Tisdale. It sounds like you're not quite
settled.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Good morning, everybody. I'm sorry, conflicting schedules. I ran on as fast as I
could. So with this conversation, Director Tisdale, you have a really good question. But I look at it this
way. It's like we've thrown everything in the soup pot, like all of the pages of reviewing tactics and
specifics, they're all there. And it's all information that we have access to, right. Director Catlin would say,
data rich, information poor.
So we've got to get to the essence of what we're trying to work on. And in our agreement with Ms.
Johnson, we've agreed that there are three areas specifically that we will look at. And so those are
contained in these metrics but it's a much more distilled work plan when it comes to focusing on those.
Not that nothing else in here is important, but the way that I understand it, if we as a Performance

Committee work together and stay focused on those three things, then we will have all of the necessary
feedback and all of the necessary indicators to be able to fill out the rest of this. They'll all be there.
We may not have to focus on every single one of these boxes, because we're going to be looking at other
things. We're going to be looking at an overarching specific part, right. So the back to basics part that
we've talked about, the people power and the welcoming environment, which is Safety, Operations, and
Performance, but it all starts with those three.
And so what Ms. Johnson has done is defined a path forward to look through these tactics and through
these measurements that she would like to proceed with, if I understand correctly-- Please correct me if
I'm wrong, Ms. Johnson-- but then for us to be able to focus on three items, three areas specifically of
performance while we continue to have a conversation about those indicators. And the indicators we've
talked about, that's everything else that's in here, right.
Some of it we can predictably say the buses will run tomorrow. Can we say how many of them will be on
time? We won't know for a month. And so we need to figure that part out. So it's a little bit of finding
ourselves in the middle to be able to proceed forward with an ongoing performance discussion and
conversation.
I'm really comfortable with the direction that we're going, but I am interested in figuring out with the rest of
you how we're going to define what needs to be brought here for indicators and having that conversation,
because we want to make sure that we have the right data points to be able to base our decision later in
the year or throughout the year, really, because it's an ongoing performance discussion on this committee
about how the agency is doing and how our CEO is doing. So I'm excited for this.
Ms. Johnson, did I misstate anything? Are we in line? Am I out of my mind? What's going on?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Madam Vice Chair, if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you, Director Guzman. I believe you hit the nail on the head. As we
talk about what we're doing collectively, there is a myriad of different KPIs that we utilize. And as we talk
about on-time performance, while that's minus 5 plus 1-- or minus 1 plus 5, excuse me-- meaning that a
bus is on time, a train is on time if it's a minute early or five minutes late.
To the point that you raised, yes, that would be, as we look at where we're going, we basically cannot tell
you, in reference to the example, of how many we had late in the moment. But basically there's certain
elements that we can do from a leading indicator vantage point that could garner a better understanding
of our service delivery being optimal by having a key goal of being off the lot, right, that's on time. That
would enable one to get to their time point. And then you're setting yourself up to meet those other
elements in a systematic fashion to adhere to a schedule.
So I appreciate your comments. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, if I may. There is one-- because we keep coming back to this discussion of
leading indicators and lagging indicators. And the sense is it's somewhat pejorative and describing a
lagging indicator in the sense that well, perhaps it's not as good as having a leading indicator. And I view

the lagging indicator as one that validates and verifies the assessment and assumptions you make based
upon having a leading indicator. And I see a head nod there.
So I mean, if we understand it that way, then yes, I do agree with that. I think if you have, for example,
capacity indicators saying, all right, we do have this much capacity, then that's a leading indicator. Then
your lagging indicator is-- and, in fact, it performed and we were all on time. Those are the things that I
think in my language I would put it that way. And I just wanted to confirm that I was on, to use a phrase,
the same page with everyone there. Thank you very much. I'll be quiet now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, thank you. You're asking great questions. I'm seeing some head nods. And
what you're saying is consistent with my understanding and also the importance of having both. The
lagging indicators are really what people are looking at and it needs to be in there too, along with the
leading.
Anything else? Did you have anything else to add, Chair Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No. Just, I would say no, I think that I agree. I think they're both equally important. And
lagging tends to be how we're measured, just as you characterized, Vice Chair Guissinger, and what the
bottom line, so to speak. And leading, if we're doing our job, gives us the preview of where the lagging will
be, where the puck is going. So yeah. Thank you. I'm in alignment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. Anything else?
All right. We are at Other Matters. Are there any other matters that anyone wants to raise? Then I believe
we are at the end of our meeting and have a motion to adjourn.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Moved, Davidson.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. This meeting is adjourned as of, what is it, 9:09 AM. Thanks, everyone.
See you next month.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks, team.
JACK KROLL: Bye for now.

