Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, December 13, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

1. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 7:22 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Present

Arrived
7:14 PM
7:24 PM
7:14 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Remote

7:26 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Remote
Present

7:21 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

7:19 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

7:21 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present
Present

7:22 PM
7:15 PM
7:17 PM
7:16 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Chair of the Board
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

7:21 PM
7:17 PM

Directors Folska and Francone participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Gina
Callahan, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Heather
Deckard, John Ewy, Nate Currey, Phil Eberl, Terry Emmons, David
Genova, Doug Gragg, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Kim Kinnison, Mitch
Kuharski, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Michelle Madrid, Brian
Matthews, Mac McIntosh, John McKay, Barbara McManus, Steve
Martingano, Mike Meader, Eric Miller, Brenden Morgan, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Kevin Parker, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Jannette
Scarpino, Greg Smith, Dana Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg
Straight, Monika Treipl-Harnke, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Josh Benninghoff, Doug Brockwell, Eric Esten, Zachary Kiefer,
Brad Langner, Craig McKenna, Dan McKenna, Mike Newman,
Scott Ramming, Joe Triplett, Gray Van Dorn, Kate Williams, Deya
Zavala

2. Recommended Actions
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, indicated that the first
four items were housekeeping items. He said that each of the four projects were
included in the 2017 Adopted Budget.

Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move
the first four items on the Agenda to the
full Board at the December 20, 2016,
Board Meeting.

Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Committee Chair Anderson stated that it was moved to
combine the first four items for approval at the same
time.

Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, commented that as
long as there were no objections by the Board, the four
items could be moved together.

Director Francone asked how the van pools were
operating and if staff had performance statistics.

Bruce Abel remarked that the van pool has grown from
10 to 122. He added that staff subjects those to the
same analytics of subsidy per passenger and the van
pool is one of RTD’s best performing services.

Director Francone inquired if staff had a customer
service metric for the 5311.

Bruce Abel stated that 5311 is a moniker that comes
from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) legislation
regarding rural service. He added that staff does have
metrics, and the performance would be evaluated in
terms of RTD’s service standards.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James,
Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• DRCOG Vanpool Cost Share Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver
Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the
DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This
agreement is for calendar year 2017 and shall be in an amount not to exceed
$1,058,600.

• 5311 Agreements
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via
Mobility Services and the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial
support for the provision of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for
Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These Agreements
are for calendar year 2017 and for amounts not to exceed $372,232.00 for
Boulder County, $366.026.00 for Adams County and $113,411.00 for
Jefferson County.

• Hop Cost Share Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement
with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial support for the operation of
the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the City of
Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business and
residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2017 and is for an
amount not to exceed $1,454,514.00.

• Art Shuttle Cost Share Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement
with the City of Englewood to provide RTD financial support for the
operation of the art circulator bus service in the City of Englewood. This
agreement is for calendar year 2017 and is for an amount not to exceed
$311,356.00.

• Authorization to enter into contract with Nordco Mobile Railcar Movers (16DR004)
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager or his designee to enter into a
contract with Nordco Mobile Railcar Movers for the purchase of a LRV Recovery
Vehicle in the amount of $550,360.00.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 20, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
REMOTE:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James,
Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Code of Conduct for Persons on RTD Vehicles and Property
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Code of Conduct for persons on RTD
vehicles and property.

Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the December 20,
2016, Board Meeting.
Chair Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Deadwyler asked who would enforce the code of
conduct.
Rolf Asphaug indicated that most of these items were
common sense items that people know not to do anyway. He
said that a bus or rail operator would contact transit security
should an issue occur.
Director Deadwyler inquired if there might be a situation where
bus or rail operators would try to enforce the code of conduct.
Rolf Asphaug stated that bus and rail operators would not
enforce the code of conduct, but they might offer a gentle
reminder.
Director Deadwyler asked how staff will inform RTD’s
ridership about the code of conduct once it is passed by the
Board before it goes into effect.
Rolf Asphaug noted that RTD’s Leadership Academy has been
working on a marketing campaign to promote the code of
conduct.
Rolf Asphaug added that the American Civil Liberties Union
(ACLU) had two minor changes to the code of conduct: Item
15 would now read as “Distributing or posting handbills in
RTD vehicles, or on RTD property or vehicles parked on RTD
property” and Item 21 would now read as “Engaging in
activities not authorized by RTD’s Facilities Use Policy”.
Steve Martingano, Transit Policy Commander and Fare
Enforcement Officer, stated that RTD has reached out to the
Homeless Coalition and we provided them with a copy of the
new Code of Conduct. He stated that they did not request
any changes, but they did provide staff with locations to place
the Code of Conduct pamphlets so that people can easily
access them. He noted that the majority of the public are
already adhering to the Code of Conduct, but the written
document is for security to show in case they are asked to
prove something in writing.

Committee Chair Anderson asked the mover and the seconder
if they would accept the two minor changes suggested by Rolf
Asphaug. Directors Deadwyler and Chair Tobiassen said yes.
Director Francone inquired about RTD’s policy for expressive
speech.
Rolf Asphaug stated that RTD’s policy for expressive speech
was approved several years ago and it allows for expressive
activities. The only exception is expressive activities may not
occur in interior spaces. He noted that generally, the policy is
supportive of first amendment activities because it is very
broad and applied with a light touch, and so far, people have
been okay with it.
Director Deadwyler asked if a smoking section had been
created on RTD property.
Rolf Asphaug indicated that RTD does not have the rights at
our bus stops to tell people they can or cannot smoke. He
stated that for a typical location in Denver, RTD does not
regulate smoking unless it is within 15 feet of an interior
space.
Director Bagley asked when staff could post signs at the
Littleton and Mineral light rail stations to inform passengers
that smoking is prohibited.
Rolf Asphaug commented that staff would have to come back
to the Board with more information for that particular item.
Director Bagley stated that RTD needs to protect its property
from cigarette litter that is not covered by local jurisdictions.
Director Bagley inquired about item 23 and the use of light rail
boarding ramps. He stated that the Code of Conduct says the
ramps are not for patrons with luggage, bicycles or shopping
carts. He asked if someone had a 50-pound suitcase, how will
they get on to the light rail train.
Rolf Asphaug noted the intent of item 23 is to demonstrate
that the ramps are meant for and the priority is given to
disabled passengers, except with operator permission. He said
the ramps can be used for other purposes, but the priority
must be given to ADA passengers.

Motion to
Amend:

Director Menten requested that the motion be amended so
that item 20 would read as “Engaging in unwanted
conversation with any other person while such person is a
captive audience (i.e., standing in line for a vehicle, or while
riding a vehicle)”.
Director Menten requested that the motion be amended so
that item 20 would read as “Engaging in unwanted
conversation with any other person while such person is a
captive audience (i.e., standing in line for a vehicle, or while
riding a vehicle)”.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.
Committee Chair Anderson stated there was a motion and a
second to amend.
Director Francone remarked that she has had personal
experience with being harassed on a light rail car and while
she is not opposed to Director Menten’s amendment, she
thinks the language should be left as is.
Director Deadwyler commented that she is okay with
removing petitioning, but soliciting needs to stay.
Director Walker said he is opposed to any change to this item
as it represents a specific type of activity at a specific point of
time. He said that item 20 does not infringe on anyone’s first
amendment rights.
Director Bagley noted that he preferred the specificity of item
20 and both petitioning and soliciting should stay.
Director Menten stated she would accept keeping soliciting as
long as petitioning was removed.
Steve Martingano added that Denver has an aggressive
panhandling law. He said if the language is kept as is, it
would be useful for educational purposes.
Committee Chair Anderson called for the vote on Director
Menten’s amendment to the motion to remove petitioning, and
keeping soliciting so that item 20 says, “Soliciting, or
engaging in unwanted conversation with any other person

while such person is a captive audience (i.e., standing in line
for a vehicle, or while riding a vehicle)”
Vote on Amendment to the Motion:
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
REMOTE:

PASSED
Natalie Menten, Director, District M
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Anderson, Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Kent Bagley
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone

Committee Chair Anderson declared the amendment to item 20 to keep Soliciting
PASSED.
.
Vote on Amendment to the Motion:
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
REMOTE:

PASSED
Natalie Menten, Director, District M
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen
Lorraine Anderson, Kent Bagley, Jeffrey Walker
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone

Committee Chair Anderson declared the amendment to item 20 to remove Petitioning
PASSED.
Director Lasater asked why item 23 did not include strollers.
He stated that the ramps should not be used by patrons with
strollers.
Rolf Asphaug commented that patrons with ADA strollers
would have priority use of the ramps, but they are not
intended for non-ADA strollers. He added that RTD has
provisions for strollers in the Trailblazer, and stroller issues
should be addressed on a case by case basis by the vehicle
operator.
Director Sisk stated he has an issue with item 13 concerning
eating on any RTD vehicle. He said item 13 prohibits any
eating, and he has serious concerns with where staff and the
Board is going with candy bars and candy. He noted that
littering, including spilled foods and liquids are covered in item
16.

Rolf Asphaug remarked that right now, buses say no eating.
Trailblazer’s say there is to be no eating on RTD vehicles. He
noted that as a practical matter, it will not be an issue if
someone pulls out a lifesaver or lozenge.
Director Folska said that when she was going to school, her
commute was two hours each way. She asked why the buses
and trains do not have garbage receptacles to collect litter.
She said there are people who are diabetics who need to eat,
and young children need to eat too.
Rolf Asphaug indicated that no one would bother someone
who is feeding their child. He added that garbage receptacles
in vehicles would be a security concern, and the various
departments would not want to start having to clean garbage
out of trains or busses.
Vote on Code of Conduct:
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
REMOTE:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Chair Tobiassen, Director, District F
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James,
Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

3. Updates

• L Line Service Proposal Planning and Operations
Bruce Abel said the first update is to provide information to the Board. He
stated that staff is evaluating a new concept and service, the L Line. He
noted that it will bifurcate the D Line to create a downtown loop.
Eric Miller, Senior Rail Service Planner/Scheduler, indicated that the L Line
would run on a loop making transfers to other lines possible. He stated that
the L Line will fit into other changes within the system. He commented that
the next steps will be to work on the equity analysis and Welton Survey
later this year.
Bruce Abel noted that the service change process for May 2017 is ambitious
and as of right now, this is only a concept that staff is proposing. He said
that this is not a definite service change.

Director Bagley said he is in favor of moving forward with this as it is an
improvement of service, and it will save RTD money.
Director Lubow asked if there would be any cost involved in starting this
new service.
Bruce Abel remarked that there would need to be improvements to switches,
but there would not be any new construction.
General Manager Genova added that this is a service plan change, so the
costs would come from the Base System.
Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs,
indicated that costs would be under $100,000. He said that staff would
need parts, materials and updates to the switches.
Bruce Abel noted that this service is not intended to replace the central
connector. He said this is to improve the current system, and if all goes
well, service could begin with the August Run Board.

 Eagle Review (no back-up)
General Manager Genova said that yesterday he, along with Greg Straight,
Henry Stopplecamp, Mike Meader and Denver Transit Partners staff (DPT)
were in Washington D.C. to meeting with the Federal Railroad
Administration (FRA). He said that staff presented a progress report on the
At Grade crossings and most of the items on the progress report have been
completed. He said a full update will be provided to the Board tomorrow
during the lunch and learn.

 Olde Town Arvada Service Update (no back-up)
Bruce Abel stated that bus service from Olde Town Arvada to Union Station
will begin on Sunday, December 18th. He said service will be operated by
Rambling Express via the Charter Authorization and funding which was
approved at the November Board meeting. He stated that Rambling will
operate the service until the January Run Board at which point in time staff
will examine if we can operate that service internally.

• Lost Service Hours Review 12 13 16
Committee Chair Anderson indicated that the next seven items were reports
that the Board had included in their packets for review. She asked if there
were any questions.
Bruce Abel added that staff is prepared to answer any questions the Board
may have.

Committee Chair Anderson stated there were no questions from the Board
and moved on to Other Matters.

• 2016 3rd Quarter Contracted Fixed Route Report
• Access-a-Ride/Cab 3rd Quarter Performance Report
• Special Services Report 3rd Qtr 2016
• 2016 3rd Quarter Drug & Alcohol Compliance Monitoring
• 2016 3rd Quarter Customer Complaint Analysis
• 3rd Quarter 2016 Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary
4. Other Matters
Director Walker indicated that he had recently traveled to Washington D.C. to
attend the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) December
Leadership Committee Meeting. He said that Gina Callahan was a star at that
event, and APTA is considering a similar leadership program for Board Members.
He stated that he would keep the Board updated after each of his trips.

5. Next Meeting Date - January 17, 2017
6. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 8:56 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

