Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 3, 2012
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Executive Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

April 3, 2012

Subject:

Corrected - Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, April 3, 2012.
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Cohen, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Hoy, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Williams and
Walker
Director Deadwyler arrived at 5:53 p.m.
Director James left at 6:05 p.m.

Board Members
Absent:

Director Malpiede

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Susan Cohen, Libby Cox, Chuck Culig, John
Dawson, Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Jane Donovan, Sherry
Ellebracht, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Kate Iverson,
Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Andy
Mutz, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Teresa
Sedmak, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Danielle Smith, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil
Washington, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Mac Callison – City of Aurora, Sherman Hamilton, Julie McKennaBrandeberry-McKenna, Roger Sherman-CRL,
****

Call to Order:


Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General Manager to
Execute Purchase and Sale Agreements (PSA for the A and B blocks at Denver
Union Station (DUS).
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the resolution given that authorizes the General Manager and/or his
designee to execute Purchase and Sale Agreements for the A and B Blocks at
Denver Union Station with the Union Station Neighborhood Company or an affiliated

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 3, 2012
Page 2 of 5

designee in the amount of $10 million each.
Further recommended that an adjustment to the earnest money deposits for the
cost of asbestos remediation on A and B blocks be authorized, that RTD agree to
authorize a change order with DUSPA for the remediation and enhance the building
foundations. The Board of Directors authorized the General Manager to execute
purchase and sale agreements in January 2008.
It is further recommended that the General Manager be authorized to transfer up to
$6 million from the combined total sales proceeds to DUSPA for uses to include
working capital which will be refunded at the close of the project, RDT approved
change orders for asbestos remediation and enhanced foundation work, any costs
associated with other changes and schedule adjustments requested by RTD, an to
enter into any related agreements necessary for dedication or development of
roadways, easements, and rights of way to benefit the DUS Project.
General Manager Phil Washington stated that there currently is not an agreement
and RTD is in negotiations.
Marla Lien walked briefly through the presentation presented to the Board of
Directors. She shared some of the challenges still to be worked out around this
agreement.
Motion:

Director James made the motion to
forward this item to the full board at
the April 17, 2012 Board meeting.
Director Cohen seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director Daly asked if the letter of
intent that was created in 2008
changed. Marla Lien stated no,
that it is a binding contract.
Director Williams asked what
phase the removal of the asbestos
was at. Marla Lien stated that it’s
in Phase 2 and beyond. Director
Bagley explained his role on the
DUSPA Board and gave a brief
comment to provide a perspective
as to the difference from 2008 and
now stating the staff has come a
long way. He stated that DUSPA
did not exist in 2008, there was
no long term funding, FTA loans
did not exist and with those things
in place now it has changed the

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 3, 2012
Page 3 of 5

diameter a bit. He gave thanks to
the staff and stated the DRCOG,
CDOT, and the City and County of
Denver have all done a great job in
the assistance of this project. He
also thanked Bill Mosher for his
work.
Vote on
the motion:

The Board voted unanimously to
move this item forward for Board
approval on April 17, 2012.
Chair Cohen declared the motion
PASSED unanimously.

Marla Lien will make the correction of the committee name to the Board report.


Updates
 DUS
Bill Mosher briefly went through the presentation provided to Board of Directors
sharing that the DUS project is about 61% complete and have spent $300 million to
date. He pointed out a couple of things including progress on the regional bus
facility where the critical path for the entire project goes through the bus box
structure. He commented also on the DUS potential development by land use that
projected in a feasibility study 2009-2019, the projected absorption rate for
commercial use ranged from 611,000-873,000 SF compared to actual absorption
as of March 2012 of 772,000-1,1167,000 SF. Retail, hotel and residential actual
use appears less than the projections from the feasibility study.
Board of Director comments/questions:
 Director Bagley queried about the downtown Development Authority and if this
included the residential component. Bill stated that it is what they call the
Downtown Development Authority. The rough boundaries are from 15th – 20th
and the railroad tracks run down Wyncoop. DUS is inside it and includes some
of the property owned by RTD but also exceeds it.
 Director Hoy asked when the feasibility study was completed. Bill stated that
the first study was done in 2007 but updated in 2009.
 Director Daly asked where the steel fabrication was located. Bill stated he
believed it is being done in Pueblo; however Jerry Nery clarified that its being
fabricated in Phoenix and shipped here to be assembled and that the rail that is
currently laid will be recycled in Pueblo for additional rail usage.
 Director James questioned why the retail numbers from the study changed
drastically. Bill stated that in his view the figure was over projected but that it
could be made up on the commercial side. He also stated that parking is a
problem for retail downtown requirements and retail tenants request parking
space.
James asked if it was possible that once the RTD station opens if that would

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 3, 2012
Page 4 of 5





increase retail. Bill stated he believed that the demand would increase as time
goes on.
Director McMullen asked if the $300 million spent was well accounted for. Bill
stated yes and that RTD has just completed an audit that was submitted to the
DUSPA finance committee today.

Boulder Junction
Kate Iverson spoke briefly from the presentation. She shared that in September
of 2011 the committee submitted to the Board, the Boulder Junction TOD
project in which the award was approved to Adulson and Peterson for the
construction of the project. Since that time, the project has been approved by
the Boulder Planning Board and it is anticipated to move forward to the City of
Boulder for both its technical document and for its final Platte which should
happen by May or June of this year. The site is north of RTD’s existing facility at
Table Mesa park-n-ride, located roughly at 30th and Pearl. The property is of
mixed use which includes a hotel, RTD bus transfer facility and affordable
housing.
Marla Lien gave brief description of what moving forward looks like stating the
intent is for RTD to sign an option agreement with the developer by April 30 or
early May because the developer has to do a 1030 exchange. Marla Lien spoke
to some of the nuances to this deal and the need for RTD to separate out their
parking from the development to address issues posed by the RTD Act
requirements. She expressed a change in legislation is needed to achieve the
more long term goal of partnership with the parking arrangement.
Board of Director comments/questions:
 Director Williams asked in regards to the affordable housing what is the
percentage. Bill stated that its 100% affordable housing according to the
affordable housing requirements.
 Director McMullen stated that he was encouraged of the project and that if its
successful it will help him with the South East Denver area as it shows what
can happen in that area in the near future.
 Director Tayer commented briefly on the history of this parking lot structure
which was originally going to be surface parking lot but the City of Boulder and
RTD got together and worked out a plan which is where we are today. The
project has become a major source of pride for Boulder County and the officials
are pleased with RTD’s effort on such a challenging project. Marla stated that
staff may have to come back to the board regarding an option that will be filed
later in May or June.
 Director Deadwyler asked how the decision was made to do affordable housing
and not include lower income standards. Bill stated that they followed the
federal guidelines of what the city considers affordable housing.
 Director Tobiassen if the housing units have parking spaces per unit. Susan
stated yes.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 3, 2012
Page 5 of 5



Other Matters
None



Next Meeting Date—May 1, 2012



Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:17 p.m.

