Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 13, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

March 13, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 13,
2008 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Absent:

***
Chair Pro Tem Martinez, Treasurer Tayer, Secretary
McMullen, Second Vice Chair Busck
Chair Kemp

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Paula Perdue

Others Present:

Jeff Lieb

Call to Order:

Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the meeting to order at
12:05 p.m.

Board Members Present:

I.

Recommended Action Item
RTD Board Operating Guidelines
Chair Pro Tem Martinez asked for a motion to move this item forward for
discussion and approval by the Executive Committee.
MOTION:

Director Tayer made the motion to
move
the resolution for the RTD
Board
Operating
Guidelines
forward for the full Board
approval.
Director McMullen seconded the
motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Tayer raised a concern to
see if packets can be delivered on
Wednesday rather than Friday. He
indicated he would be bringing this
issue up and asked Cal Marsella
and Paula Perdue to consider what
would be involved to make this
happen.
Paula indicated one
concern is lack of opportunity to
turn this around following weekly
Tuesday night meetings.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 13, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 2 of 5
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

II.

The motion passed 3 in favor and
0 against. Director Busck was late
in arrival and Chair Kemp was
absent.

March Board Meeting Agenda Review
Cal Marsella reviewed the agenda items from the unanimous Consent
and indicated some revisions to the language on some of these actions
items will be forthcoming following the committee meetings tonight.



Unanimous Consent
Recommendation for Contract Award to Parsons Transportation
Group for the Southeast Corridor Extension Environmental
Evaluation/Basic Engineering (EE/BE) Contract
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a
contract to Parsons Transportation Group to perform an
Environmental Evaluation study and Basic Engineering for the
Southeast Corridor Extension project. The contract award will be in
the amount of $2,073,699. Funding for this contract is included in
the 2008 Adopted Budget for the Southeast Corridor Extension
project and in the FasTracks financial plan for 2009 and 2010.



Recommendation for Contract Award to Parsons Transportation
Group for the Southwest Corridor Extension Environmental
Evaluation/Basic Engineering (EE/BE) Contract
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a
contract to Parsons Transportation Group (PTG) to perform an
Environmental Evaluation (EE) study and Basic Engineering (BE) for
the Southwest Corridor Extension project. The contract award will
be in the amount of $2,193,669.
It is also recommended by the Planning & Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
transfer $600,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to
provide the full funding for the 2008 portion of the contract. This
action is required because the funds appropriated in the 2008 RTD
Budget were not sufficient to cover both the costs of the EE/BE and
the cost of the Lucent property acquisition. However, the total
funding for this contract and the property acquisition is included in
the overall Southwest Corridor Extension Project budget as part of
the FasTracks Financial Plan for 2008 – 2010. The 2008 Budget
Amendment process will address the budget allocation issue and
restore the FasTracks Contingency Reserve.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 13, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 3 of 5


IT Consultant – Universe/Legacy Programmers (Exercise Second Year
Option)
It is recommended by the Finance/Administration Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to exercise the second one year option in the
amount of $300,000 to extend the current contract for non-personal
services for an IT Consultant-UniVerse/Legacy Programmer
(16DK001). This contract was originally awarded May 1 st, 2006 to
5280 Solutions, LLC (a WSCA company) through the competitive bid
process. The contract allowed for an initial year plus three one year
options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The
total contract amount with this option year requires Board approval.
The second one year option is to begin on May 1 st, 2008 and remain
in effect for one year until April 30, 2009.



Exercise the Option to Purchase 99 Replacement and 44 Expansion
access-a-Ride Cutaway Buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
exercise the option to purchase 99 replacement and 44 expansion
cutaway buses to be used by access-a-Ride. The option price is not
to exceed $52,000 each for a total award not to exceed
$7,436,000.



Fares Adjustments for Special Services
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that RTD’s fare structure for special services (RockiesRide,
BroncosRide, BuffRide, RunRide, CU/CSU Football games at Invesco
Field and Race for the Cure) be adjusted as indicated in Attachment A
in order to comply with the new Federal Transit Administration
regulations regarding the provision of charter services.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez shared a concern about the $3.50 rate which
will require riders to carry change. Cal Marsella indicated that for
special events, they can make change at the event.



Recommended Action



RESOLUTION NO.____, SERIES OF 2008 RTD BOARD OPERATING
GUIDELINES



RESOLUTION NO. ____, SERIES OF 2008 CONCERNING
APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEES TO THE ATU 1001 PENSION TRUST
AND THE ATU 1001 HEALTH AND WELFARE TRUST
Director Tayer asked why the Board could not look at similar type of
indemnification for the ATU as the Salaried Employees on the ATU

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 13, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 4 of 5
Pension Plan Trust. He indicated he thinks of the ATU who are on
leave as in a contractual relationship to RTD during the time they are
trustees and we can provide this type of indemnification for our
contractors. Director Busck expressed the issue more succinctly to
say to Cal Marsella, “Tell us how we can do it.” Cal indicated that
Marla Lien will be discussing this issue at the F&A meeting tonight
but there are liability issues to consider.
MOTION:

Director Busck made the motion to
move
the March Board Meeting
agenda forward to the full Board.
Director Tayer seconded the
motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

The motion passed 4 in favor and
0 against.

III.

Executive Committee Meeting with Governor
This discussion was tabled since Chair Kemp was absent from the
meeting.

IV.

Other Matters
Cal Marsella provided a brief explanation of the security briefing which
will be performed during the executive session on 3/18/08.
Cal Marsella provided a briefing from the Legislative Conference held in
Washington D.C. on 3/9-11. He stated that the attendees (Cal Marsella,
Sherri Ellebracht, Directors Busck, Daly, Kemp and McMullen) met with
every member of the Colorado delegation and provided them with
updates on the three main projects, namely DUS, West Corridor and PPP.
Cal Marsella also had the time to talk to Jim Simpson, FTA
Administrator, and Sherri Little, Deputy Administrator. Several other
groups were meeting simultaneously in Washington during this time
including the National Mayor’s Conference and they had a chance to
dialogue with them. Altogether, it was a very productive trip.
Director Busck added that it was important that they did not perceive
RTD as earmarks but that the RTD projects were necessary for
transportation. Patton Boggs had done a good job in setting them up
and making appropriate arrangements.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez asked if there were any discussions on eminent
domain. Cal responded that he provided an update and that the Federal
government understands RTD is following the Guidelines as defined
under the Federal government. Cal has asked them to refer any

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 13, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 5 of 5
questions they receive to RTD. The issue does not appear to be with the
Federal government understanding but representatives on a local and
state basis who do not understand eminent domain.
V.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 12:35 p.m.

