2025-09-10
Operations Safety and Security Committee
IAN HARWICK: Hello, everyone. The Wednesday, July-- wait, this is the September 10 Operation Safety
and Security Committee meeting now come to order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM. I would respectfully
ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please know that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communications Access Real Time Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Director Buzek. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
IAN HARWICK: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Present.
IAN HARWICK: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present.
IAN HARWICK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
IAN HARWICK: And I am Director Harwick, and I'm also here. So that gives us six members and a quorum.
Before we start this meeting tonight, and if I get emotional, sorry. The Operation Safety and Security
Committee of RTD extends our heartfelt concern to the students, families, and staff at Evergreen High
School.
Our thoughts and prayers are with you. We strongly denounce all forms of violence in a time when incidents
across our nation and here in Colorado remind us of our shared vulnerability. We also want to affirm our
shared humanity. The OSS community remains committed to working closely with the RTD police,
community partners, and neighboring jurisdictions to safeguard our customers and communities. This is a

moment for all of us to stay aware, care for one another, and stand together for safety and peace. Sorry.
Got a wife and kid at Jeffco, so it's real close to home.
OK. All right. I think I've got myself back together. For the record, I would like to open-- now I'm going to
open to public comment anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the
published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have
not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Board Manager Kroll, if
you could let me know if we have anyone that would like to speak.
JACK KROLL: Yes, Director, just a couple of other notes. You are joined this evening by-IAN HARWICK: Oh, thank you.
JACK KROLL: [INAUDIBLE] and Director Benker at this time. If other Board members join, I will certainly
note it. I believe Director Guissinger had planned to join, but I'm not sure if I see her here yet. There are a
number of individuals who have indicated a desire to provide public comment by raising their hand. The
first individual is James Flattum.
IAN HARWICK: Mr. Flattum, you are free to speak.
AUDIENCE: Good evening, Director Harwick. Can everyone hear me?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
AUDIENCE: OK. Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak. Yes, my name is James Flattum. I am
speaking on behalf of Greater Denver Transit, and also speaking tonight on the Access On Demand
program modifications in solidarity with our allies to adapt and other voices in the disability community.
So just conscious that we've all had-- I think today has been exceptionally hard across the country. And I
understand there is also a feeling of frustration, of exhaustion surrounding a lot of the challenges in terms
of rightsizing RTD's budget and trying to put together a path forward for this year, given the challenges I
think we can expect, given the shortfalls we've been seeing at the city level and the state level.
But I think we need to call out something that we see as wrong from what we can tell, which is that several
months ago, we called out that what we expected to be a paratransit review ended up being a myopic focus
on paring back Access On Demand, which is the most popular, most lauded part of RTD's paratransit
program that is commented on as being most vastly, far and away, most useful by riders with disabilities.
And the fact that over the last couple of months, we've asked for clarifications. We've called for this review
to be expanded to the scope that we believe would be fundamentally appropriate, which is looking at
Access-a-Ride with journeys that are over $100 per rider and criticized for being extremely inflexible with a
design that appears to belong in the last century. We just do not believe that it is acceptable to call for cuts
first. After we went through this whole political campaign to debruce RTD to try to keep services going, to
avoid cuts, the first thing that gets cut is Access On Demand, which to us is unconscionable.
So what we would call for is we call for a Board resolution, because we realize that part of this is that staff
and RTD management have not provided the level of detail needed to get into the nitty gritty of Access-aRide in particular. The Access-a-Ride is subject to federal requirements. We've done some cursory
research on our side about what those federal requirements are, but we do not believe that Access-a-Ride
is untouchable.

We think that there are improvements that can be made that have been demonstrated by members of the
disability community who have written to RTD management about this. We believe this needs to be done
as a fundamental step of responsibility, both from a fiscal perspective to the agency to address an obsolete
and expensive service, but also address the needs of these riders.
So anyway, I will yield the floor. I know there's a whole bunch of other folks who are going to convey their
perspective and their experience tonight. I reaffirm they're urgent in those needs, that access on demand
is something that we have been proud of as a lifeline to those users in the community who have disabilities
that otherwise prevent them frequently from using the normal fixed route service that RTD has operated for
the longest period of time. Access-on-Demand is something that is provided a lifeline that should not be
cut. So that concludes my comments for this evening. Thank you for the opportunity to speak.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Mr. Flattum. Board Manager Kroll, I got another timer, so I'm good there. Who
is our next speaker now?
JACK KROLL: Yes, next we have-- I apologize. Next, we have Tim Keenan.
IAN HARWICK: Hey, Mr. Keenan, if you'd please state your name, then you feel free to speak. You'll have
three minutes.
AUDIENCE: Alrighty. Thank you very much, everybody. I use Access-on-Demand to get back and forth to
work. I work over at Amazon in Aurora, and I work a lot of overnight shifts. So I was really freaked out when
I saw all these scenarios that they're going to cut.
I barely somehow make it inside the service area restrictions that would be enacted, but my overnight hours
aren't compatible with these hourly restrictions that they have enacted. And I was never clear on the
rationale, especially for the hourly restrictions that would pretty much close the service between 1:00 AM
and 4:00 AM or something like that.
I mean, the fact is that as James alluded to 10 months ago as part of the campaign to debruce RTD, one
of the promises was that they needed this to continue funding for services with people with disabilities. Well,
RTD got their money, and here we are having to defend this super efficient and very much appreciated and
relied upon service by so many people.
And there are at least three or four other blind people that work at Amazon overnight. And as far as I know,
they have no idea that this is even coming down the pipe. So I bet you there are a lot of people like that out
there that would just get blindsided by this.
And as part of the memo you received, you no doubt saw that costs for the program basically doubled
because now they include the WAV, Wheelchair Accessible Vehicles, in their analysis. But at the same
time, Access-a-Ride hasn't changed. So where is this money budgeted? Why is this suddenly being counted
as a cost of Access-on-Demand? It should be either/or. It makes no sense to me that these costs are under
Access-on-Demand now, and I hope you can get clarification from that.
And I mean, I've noticed that sometimes you guys don't always get direct and complete answers to your
questions when you ask them. So I hope that in this critical juncture that if you have a question and you're
not getting the answer that answers your question that satisfies you, that you keep asking your question
until you get an answer that does satisfy you.

So I've looked at all these scenarios and I like obviously scenario six is the most generous in that fares are
$2.50. But if RTD's financial situation is super dire-IAN HARWICK: If you can wrap this up.
AUDIENCE: Scenario four, we pay our fair share. We pay the same as Access-a-Ride. There are no early
area or hourly restrictions. Thank you very much.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes, next we have Sue Myers.
IAN HARWICK: Sue Myers, if you would state your name, then you will have three minutes to speak.
AUDIENCE: Hello, my name is Sue Myers. I'm here with my husband, Michael. I want to thank you,
Directors. We appreciate the opportunity to comment on the Access-on-Demand proposals tonight.
As parents of a 36-year-old paratransit user, we wanted to give our input into the scenarios for the Accesson-Demand services being considered. We urge you to support the scenarios that maintain the Access-onDemand service area to be the entire RTD service area. Many transit riders live or work or have
appointments more than 3/4 of a mile from an RTD bus route, including our son, who lives in Superior.
Currently, he is able to use Access-on-Demand independently and successfully go to work. If that service
is restricted to a 3/4 mile boundary, he will not have any safe and doable way to get to work. It seems unfair
to restrict some paratransit eligible riders from the Access-on-Demand service due to a 3/4 mile boundary.
We also support looking at ways to promote Access-on-Demand services over the more cumbersome and
less flexible Access-a-Ride services that cost RTD significantly more than the Access-on-Demand services
on a fixed and per ride basis. Therefore, we strongly recommend a price no greater than $4.50 per trip.
And finally, in the program report from Miss Johnson in August, she introduced the program cost of WAV,
which we had not heard of before, and yet $12 to $16 million is being forecast for that item. We would
strongly suggest that the WAV program be described and contrasted, as it was not included in the June
report to the Board, or the most recent Board meeting.
We ask for your support on no boundary for Access-on-Demand and at the price of $4.50 that matches
Access-a-Ride. We appreciate your consideration and look forward to the future. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Sue. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Next is Jessica Beecham.
IAN HARWICK: Jessica Beecham, if you could say your name, and then you'll have three minutes to speak.
AUDIENCE: Hi, my name is Jessica Beecham, President of the National Federation of the Blind of
Colorado. And I want to thank this committee for thoughtfully considering the scenarios brought forth.
But I do just want to say, I still don't feel like we have the financial information that we've been begging for
from the RTD staff to really thoughtfully consider making any major changes to the current Access-on-

Demand service. As mentioned, we now have the wheelchair accessible vehicle costs that has been added
to Access-on-Demand, but hasn't been taken out of anywhere else.
That money wasn't just floating in space. It was accounted for somewhere, but it hasn't been removed from
anywhere. And why has it been added to the Access-on-Demand budget? The numbers and projections
don't really seem to be based on much, except what somebody sort of is just saying is, oh, we think this is
going to happen.
And so we really don't feel like that we have true information to base our budgetary decisions on, and
people's lives are hanging in the balance. We've heard already tonight from people who won't be able to
work anymore if we restrict the service area. We've heard in the past from parents who won't be able to
take their children to do the fundamental activities that they enjoy doing and that are enriching to their lives,
and that make Colorado the beautiful place that it is for us all to live and thrive. And it's just so important for
individuals with disabilities that we keep this service intact.
Obviously, we understand that there may need to be some changes. And we support particularly scenario
six, which would include a base fare but would not restrict the service access area or the times that people
can currently use the Access-on-Demand program.
I work at Buckley Space Force Base, and to get into base, I have to go into the Sixth Avenue gate. And I'm
pretty sure I'm not going to be able to get to work anymore if we have the 3/4 of a mile restriction placed on
the service. And I know that many of my peers are going to be in the same position.
So just really would like to ask that-- I know we keep moving this down the road, but I think we keep moving
this down the road because we're unable to get the information, the clear and concise and real numbers
that we need from RTD staff in order to help us to be able to understand how this program truly impacts
our budget. It's a pretty small piece of the RTD budget when you think about it. It's just a little over.
IAN HARWICK: If you could wrap this up.
AUDIENCE: Yep, I'm so sorry. It's just a little over 1% of the budget currently, but it makes a huge difference
to our community. Thank you for your time.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Next is Brian Grewe.
IAN HARWICK: Brian, if you would state your name and then you'll have three minutes to speak.
AUDIENCE: Can you all hear me OK?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
AUDIENCE: Sorry, technology. Good afternoon. My name is Dr. Brian Grewe, and I'm the executive
Director of Atlantis Community Inc. Imagine being told that you finally got the job you've been working
towards, but the very next day, the cost of getting there makes it impossible to accept.
That's what this proposal means for thousands of disabled people across the Denver Metro area.
Transportation isn't a luxury for us. It is our bridge to independence. When fares go from $0 to $6.50 and

we cut trip subsidies, you're not just changing the numbers on a spreadsheet. You're closing doors on jobs,
health care, education, and community.
As I mentioned, I'm the executive Director of Atlantis. This is one of the birthplaces of the National Disability
Rights movement. And I'm here today on behalf of thousands of disabled residents who rely on Access-aRide and Access-on-Demand to live, work, and participate fully in our community.
The proposed changes, raising fares from $0 to $6.50 per ride and reducing trip subsidies from 25 to 20
will have a devastating impact. For many of my staff and our consumers, these services are not a
convenience, but they are a literal lifeline. People with disabilities are already twice as likely to live in poverty
and face significantly higher unemployment rates. Forcing someone earning a minimum wage to pay $13
a day or more than $260 a month just to get to and from work creates a financial barrier that will push
people out of the workforce and deepen dependence on the public benefits.
I want to stress deeply that this is a reality, as I think about my staff who rely on this service. They will be
making hard decisions on when or if they can continue working. Right now, we have people living at 201
South Cherokee, which is inside the Baker neighborhood, who already make daily choices regarding what
necessary services or supports are ones that they can afford and ones that they can live without.
There are folks who live within our building who have no phone access other than being when they're on
public Wi-Fi. And if you're telling me that they will pay $6.50 to get from home to a appointment or other
service provider isn't accurate.
This isn't just about economics. It's about equity and independence. Without affordable, accessible
transportation, disabled residents will be cut off from jobs and health care, education, and community life.
Raising these costs doesn't just raise fares. It shuts people out of work. It shuts people out of community
and out of opportunity. We can't build an equitable Denver by leaving our disabled members behind. Thank
you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Dr. Grewe. Dr. Kroll. Dr. Kroll? Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Next, we have Richard Bamber.
AUDIENCE: Good evening, Chair Harwick and the committee. Thanks for the opportunity to speak. When
a paratransit peer review was first announced, admittedly at GDT, we seemed positive. We were hoping
that this would be a good thing for the disabled community.
I will admit, as an organization, we were pretty light on details, but we'd heard a few things, heard a few
little sort of things of why the service wasn't the best. We now step forward many months later and we've
got two things have happened.
One is we have had what I can only describe as a sham of a paratransit peer review. We have focused on
the one bit of the paratransit service offering that is genuinely providing good service and is generally valued
by the disabled community, and we have left the problem child alone, the Access-a-Ride. And we have
been told that the reason is because it's federally mandated, it is untouchable. The only thing that would
have been off the table with any Access-a-Ride modification would be abolition of the program in full.
The second thing is we are sitting, on August the 29th, the memorandum came out from the GM and CEO.
Suddenly, there is these costs for wheelchair accessible vehicles into the AOD program. It's come out of
nowhere, and suddenly it's doubled the cost, $12 million, $15 million a year. As Directors, you need to ask

staff searching questions about why this key piece of apparently unbudgeted financial liability and also
operational practice has been withheld from so long.
But as it now appears that we can provide a WAV on demand service, and we can use the 21st century
dispatch technology to send a fully accessible vehicle to the disabled community, that is kind of the sort of
modifications that will bring the Access-a-Ride program to something that the disabled community actually
wishes to use. It will get rid of the long booking times, the long waits, the unpredictable journey times. It will
bring the standard of AAR properly up. And why it was not done, I really wish I could know.
Secondly, GDT absolutely deplores on the last page of the memo, sent on the 29th of August, an apparent
linking that if we don't vote for cuts in AOD tonight, bus services, some of the most popular routes RTD
operates, will have to be cut instead. Why does the agency have an obsession with cutting the things that
are popular? And also, why does that sound like a threat to me, an able-bodied transit advocate, that if I
speak for the disabled community, I'm at threat of getting the transit that I personally rely on cut.
IAN HARWICK: If you could wrap it up.
AUDIENCE: Yeah, wrap it up. So it is clear that what needs to happen tonight is a proper a paratransit
review, including Access-a-Ride needs to happen. We stand with the disabled community 100%, and this
thing needs to be completely reviewed. The improvements to AOD that are on the table need to be made,
and everything else needs to be studied.
IAN HARWICK: Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Next, we have Amanda Ropek.
IAN HARWICK: Ropek, if you could state your name and then you'll have three minutes to speak.
AUDIENCE: Wonderful. Can you guys hear me OK?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
AUDIENCE: Great. My name is Amanda Ropek, and I'm reaching out to you guys from the Broomfield
Housing Alliance. As you consider proposed changes to the Access-on-Demand program this Wednesday,
I want to emphasize the critical need to maintain the Access-on-Demand service across the entire RTD
service area, rather than limiting it to the 3/4 mile boundary.
Many riders live, work, or have essential appointments beyond this limit. They are exactly the community
members this program was created to serve. Restricting service would leave them without safe, reliable
transportation, undermining both their independence and the program's purpose.
The Broomfield Housing Alliance is especially concerned as we work to build 40 units of deeply affordable
housing at The Grove at Cottonwood, just 500 feet outside of the current boundary. Without full RTD
coverage or a clear process to request a point of deviation, future residents, many with intellectual and
developmental disabilities, will be cut off from jobs, health care, and community life. Thank you for your
leadership and commitment to equitable mobility for all residents. Appreciate your time. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Amanda. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Next, we have Cynde Vaughn.

IAN HARWICK: Cynde, if you'll say your name, you'll have three minutes to speak.
AUDIENCE: Hi, this is Cynde. Can you hear me?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
AUDIENCE: OK, so this is Cynde Vaughn. I am an individual who is deafblind, and I live in District H. This
is an area that is actually pretty poorly serviced by the RTD fixed route system, as I think your Director from
the area can probably attest to. And yet, that area also houses a number of individuals who are blind, and
it actually includes the Center for the Blind, run by the National Federation for the Blind.
There's a few things that I want to comment on. Number one, I want to thank really the Board, all of you, all
of you tonight and all of you on the entire Board, because I have listened in April and again in July to all of
you carefully consider the Access-on-Demand issues, and you guys have really showed more
understanding of the needs of the disabilities community then I feel is ever represented and the
recommendations you're receiving.
There's a couple of things that I want you to consider. One is specifically around the service area potential
limitations. There has not been any transparency in what we are being told about the potential limitations
within the whole 3/4 of a mile issue, because when they say that this potential limitation will, quote, "mirror
the routes" in terms of days and hours and service areas, we have repeatedly been told, as we have asked
during this process, that in fact, it is not possible to do this.
The only thing that is possible is to limit perhaps the service areas, but the days and the hours will have to
be a template, because certain areas, like in my area, certain routes get cut short on Saturdays and don't
even exist on other days. And we're told, well, what'll happen is there will be an across the board cut off of
times, but it won't be specific to any one fixed route. It will not mirror it. So I would ask you to please ask for
the transparency and what this actually means before you actually ever agree to that.
And then the second thing is to everyone has talked about the fact that people use Access-on-Demand as
a reliable way to get to work. They can depend on it. The employers can depend on i. And changes in a
national level for health care, for Medicaid, for other programs that many people rely on in the next year are
now going to require many people who have disabilities to work at least 20 hours a week. So if you make
it unaffordable or not even possible for people to access transportation, they will not only lose their job, their
housing, but potentially their benefits. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Cynde. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Next is Maureen Nietfeld.
IAN HARWICK: Maureen, if you would state your name, you'll have three minutes to speak.
AUDIENCE: This is Maureen Nietfeld. Thank you so much to everyone on the committee for hearing us out
today. And of course, am a disabled person and I'm also a parent. I have multiple disabilities, and I do rely
on this critical service to go to doctor's appointments and work.
And I'll just echo what everyone else is saying. To cut this would be catastrophic for the disabled community.
The voters have already voted that they want to support transportation for disabled people. And It feels
really suspicious for us to all of a sudden see millions of dollars in these wheelchair accessible vehicles
being budgeted now in AOD and then not removing it from somewhere else in the budget.

To put in there that if you support scenario six, which is the most ideal scenario for us, then we're going to
start cutting popular buses like the 15L. Why would we ever want to cut the 15L? And there's already so
many fixed route cuts. I mean, we just saw more cuts just come out in September, especially down South.
I mean, even for people with disabilities that could take buses, we can hardly take buses anymore because
they've all been cut.
So I just urge you, please, to really ask the hard questions. What is this WAV money? Why are we putting
in here the threat to cut more popular buses in the downtown Denver area that so many people depend
on? And just to really dig in and to demand that we have the information that we need to really make this
kind of a critical decision that is going to impact thousands of Coloradans and how we can get around.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Maureen. Appreciate it. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yes, next we have Chelsea Cook.
IAN HARWICK: Chelsea, if you'd state your name and then you'll have three minutes to speak.
AUDIENCE: Hi, my name is Chelsea Cook. Can you hear me?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
AUDIENCE: Thank you very much. Thank you for the opportunity to comment and looking at this issue very
thoroughly. I definitely echo what Cynde, Maureen-- I also live down South-- and the first person who spoke
today said. In the past, I've talked about my personal experience, the impact. Today I want to focus on the
voters.
Last November, 69% of voters voted for the ballot measure that gave RTD more money so that they could
not and would not cut these services. I mean, setting aside the fact that you're breaking an unconscionable
promise to the disability community by considering this and for having us to show up again and again and
again to defend freedom, essentially, you're also breaking a promise to your bigger taxpayer base. And if
you are interested in breaking that promise as a Board, the voters, they might notice that. And also, they're
the ones who give you the majority of your revenue.
So I hope the program stays the same. We in the disability community, I'm a person with a disability, are
being attacked on all sides right now. Please just make it this one bright spot in the world where we can
continue to get where we need to go. Just because our biology is different doesn't mean our humanity is.
Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Chelsea. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Next, we have an individual identified as Mary.
IAN HARWICK: Mary, if you'd state your name, you'll have three minutes to speak.
AUDIENCE: Yes, hi. Thank you for having me. My name is Mary. I use the Access-on-Demand service
pretty often to get to medical appointments. And some of these medical appointments are either not covered
by Medicaid or are not covered within the Access-a-Ride boundary. And so to put in boundaries is throwing
people out, basically.

And to be very direct with you, we don't need Project 2025 when it comes to our transportation. We're
already dealing with it with the caps and cuts to Medicaid and housing assistance. And as somebody who
depends on this transportation, the last thing we need is to have this issue with getting around to medical
appointments, work, et cetera.
So if I can quickly propose option six, that would be the most ideal. However, we also don't want to cut our
bus routes, because Access-a-Ride could be affected if bus routes are being cut. And then of course,
Access-on-Demand, we want to make sure that there are no boundaries. So again, please keep this in
mind.
We're already dealing with an exponentially huge cut because of what our federal government chose to
vote for in July. We don't need to put up with this within our transportation. So to our Board members,
please think about your constituents. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Mary. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Next, we have Mary. Oh, I apologize. Next is actually-- we've got two people unmuted at
once, and I believe next in the queue was Mary Henneck.
IAN HARWICK: Mary Henneck. If you would announce your name, you'll have three minutes to speak.
AUDIENCE: Hello, my name is Mary Henneck. I'd like to reiterate some of the things people have already
said, but I'd like to remind the Board of Directors that you are elected to represent your constituents. And
less than a year ago, your constituents overwhelmingly voted to approve ballot measure 7A. The numbers
on that approval I have is 79% rather than 69, what somebody previously said.
This measure allowed to keep about $50 to $60 million a year in revenue above the TABOR cap, instead
of refunding that to taxpayers. And the language in that measure stated very clearly that its purpose
included, I quote, "maintaining the availability of services for people with disabilities." Unquote.
By continuing to pursue cuts to the Access-on-Demand program, it is clear that you have no intention to
uphold one very clear objective of this measure. You have used the disability community as a ploy to get
this measure approved, and now you're turning your backs on them.
As others have said, it's very expensive being disabled, and now there are cuts coming from every direction.
Housing vouchers are being cut, provider pay is being cut, and you want to cut the only means that people
have of getting to and from work. People with disabilities have a hard time finding employment, and when
they do, it's often at minimum wage. Where do you think they're going to get the money to pay for increased
transportation costs?
You're hearing different things from different people about different scenarios that would be acceptable to
them. But what you don't understand is that everyone with a disability is different. Service areas are
important to some. Service hours are important to some. Costs are important to some. But you don't know
that, because you haven't done the work to find out.
So people have made decisions about where they live and where they work based on having Access-onDemand available to them. And if you approve the changes, people will lose their jobs or become isolated
from their communities. There is no justification for cutting AOD, and your own projections verified that.

But as others have said, when those numbers didn't support the cuts, CEO Debra Johnson simply changed
them. Suddenly, we're told AOD costs are actually twice as high as what was previously reported. You
cannot just change the numbers to fit your argument. You, the Board, need to do better. Strong Boards
demand evidence. Strong Boards don't make million dollar decisions on shifting numbers and sloppy
analysis. I urge you to vote no on the proposal being presented tonight, and demand a thorough analysis
of the entire paratransit program. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Mary Henneck. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yes, just to check here, we have about five individuals left who wish to provide comment
that have raised their hand so far. In case the order gets diverted in some way, the intent here is to go with
ADAPT, then Gabe Gates, Suzanne Eck, Bob Dinegar, with Claudia Folksa, being the final speaker. So
next we have ADAPT.
IAN HARWICK: OK, ADAPT. You have three minutes.
AUDIENCE: Hi, I'm Dawn with ADAPT. To borrow a line from an earlier civil rights movement, we are sick
and tired of being sick and tired. RTD is more than happy to bask in the glory of the disability rights
movement, which began in Denver in 1978 under the leadership of Reverend Wade Blank and the
legendary gang of 19. This movement gave birth to ADAPT and resulted in the ADA being signed into law
12 years later.
At the time, RTD was not our friend. We had to drag you into court to gain access to public transportation.
Now, once again, we are sick and tired. Once again, you're effing around and you're going to have to find
out. Just five weeks ago, RTD put on a nice show celebrating the 35th anniversary of the ADA with members
of my community as window dressing for your photo ops. My God, that's just disgusting.
As GM/CEO Johnson states, you as Directors are ultimately responsible for everything this agency does.
If the OSS committee votes without data from a neutral impact study, you'll be on record for cutting viable
program for people with disabilities, with no substantiated evidence, merely staff provided assumptions that
are a dangerous precedent.
Our community is relying on your common sense and sound judgment. If those words don't seem familiar,
do your damn job. Read my email from yesterday. Also, don't even think about dedicating Civic Center
Station in Wade's name if you don't heed our word. Oh my goodness.
IAN HARWICK: Dawn if you could wrap it up.
AUDIENCE: I will. If you don't hear our words, we won't tolerate policies which are actually restrictions on
our freedoms. You've used us for years. Now, it's time to get serious. We demand an independent impact
study and we want to give a shout out.
IAN HARWICK: If you could wrap up.
AUDIENCE: We want to give a shout out to GDT. Thank you for showing up for us. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yes, next, we have Gabe Gates.

IAN HARWICK: Gabe Gates, if you'd say your name, and you have three minutes to speak.
AUDIENCE: Yes, this is Gabe Gates. Can you hear me?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
AUDIENCE: Hi. Thank you for this opportunity to speak. I had put together some talking points before this
meeting, but after I heard the genuine empathy expressed about the victims and the family of the victims
at the shooting at Evergreen, I threw all that out.
And everybody here has poured out their hearts to talk about how much the Access-on-Demand program
has meant to them and what it means in their lives, the careers, the recreation, all that stuff. They've poured
out their hearts to always end up meeting resistance. Just imagine how many times over the many years
and decades that the disability community has came to say something, speak about something, to only be
met with resistance.
I work as a Director of Disability Support Services at Front Range Community College, and I can tell you
everything, with my expansive knowledge about ADA, 504 laws, policy, and how that might relate to trans
transportation services. But as a person who is blind, I believe I can also speak on behalf of everybody. I'm
proud to be living in the Denver Metro area because of Denver's RTA transit and paratransit services
programs to include the rideshare options.
As much as I know about disability law and stuff like that, in the field that I work, my leadership, I've come
to realize that it's not my students who care about how much I know. They want to know that I care. So this
evening, I'm asking that the Board, whatever decision you make moving forward with the Access-onDemand program, that you make that decision with your hearts. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Gabe. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Next is Bob Dinegar.
IAN HARWICK: Bob, if you could please state your name, you have three minutes to speak.
AUDIENCE: Hi, this is Bob. Dinegar. Can you hear me OK?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
AUDIENCE: Thanks. Director Harwick, I'm grateful for your heartfelt expression of the pain reverberating
in all our hearts this evening. Members of the OSS committee, I'd like to believe each of you are caring,
compassionate humans. I suspect some degree of fatigue has set in regarding the important work before
you tonight. To my mind, the most important task before you have to do with paratransit, particularly Accesson-Demand.
I'd like to remind you that fatigue is an impairment. It's illegal to operate a motor vehicle while impaired.
Please don't fall asleep at the wheel on having an independent impact study done. I know you think your
work is done. It's not. Slow down. Pay attention.
This agency has very few proud moments to celebrate. Harming the most vulnerable among us by turning
a deaf ear to the expressed needs of the disability community will be a stain on your reputations and
careers. I'm here to let you know this community will see to that. Thank you.

IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Bob.
JACK KROLL: Next is Sylvia Vigil.
IAN HARWICK: Sylvia, if you'd announce your name, you'll have three minutes to speak.
AUDIENCE: Hi, my name is Sylvia Vigil. I'm a proud citizen of Littleton, Colorado. I'm a user of the RTD
Access-on-Demand. I use it to go to appointments, also to work. I also use Access-a-Ride when needed,
although there are two differences with Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand that you really have to look
at, I think.
Although both of them are ways of transporting people to places that they have to go, they have very
different ways of doing so and very different policies. One thing I think we need to look at is Access-a-Ride
helpful, yes, but it can also be a pain, because you have to call in 24 hours.
You have a wait time of an hour or so before you could get picked up. Sometimes I've even got left because
I had to go to the bathroom. That's ridiculous. Not to mention, when I was at work, I got off at 2 o'clock. It
took me two and a half hours to get home because of all the other pickups and drop offs.
With Access-on-Demand, it's easier, because you can actually get a car to you, to your place. They can
drop you off without picking up and dropping off people. Plus you get to work on time and it's more efficient
and fits more into our schedule. Me as a blind person, and probably everyone else who has spoken up and
said this, we use it to get to work and other things, but especially getting to work is the more important thing,
because being on time for your job is very important. Because even though my bosses are nice, I don't
think they would take to me being late all the time. With Access-on-Demand, it's easier to get to work on
time.
And not to mention, if you put in these charges of $4.50 or so many trips, that can add up pretty quick. That
would be a lot of money over the week and throughout the month. And so that's not very fair and acceptable.
You need to put yourself in our shoes and take a look.
IAN HARWICK: If we can wrap it up, please.
AUDIENCE: All I ask is that this Board puts themselves in our shoes and examines all the facts that we
have given you tonight, and do this with open hearts and minds. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yes, next we have Kori Gonzalez.
IAN HARWICK: Corey, if you could state your name. You'll have three minutes to speak.
AUDIENCE: Hi, I'm Kori Gonzalez. I'm the mom and caregiver for my 31-year-old daughter, who has an
intellectual and developmental disability, and her only means of transportation is the paratransit system. So
I want to give my input into the scenarios for the AOD services being considered at this meeting tonight.
I did email all of you this information, and I included my previous email to you from when I spoke at the
Board meeting on June 20, or I'm sorry, on July 28. And I asked you all to imagine that you were the parent
of my daughter and she had the opportunity to live in an apartment complex that would give her support so

that she could live independently. You heard previously from Amanda Ropek regarding The Grove at
Cottonwood. That's the place that she has the opportunity to live at.
So I implore you to support the scenarios that maintain the AOD service area to be the entire RTD service
area. If you don't, my daughter and many others like her will not be able to live where they will receive the
supports needed to live independently.
Now, I know that there's some associated cost with these different scenarios, so I looked up I looked up
the live program and how it's supposed to help defer the additional costs being evaluated. So I researched
the program, and according to PEAK Colorado, to qualify for the program must live in the RTD service area.
And then it goes on to say RTD districts include parts of Broomfield. If the RTD Board chooses one of the
scenarios that doesn't maintain the entire RTD service area, you've also taken away her ability to qualify
for the live program.
And I also want to point out, because Broomfield lacks an RTD service, there's approximately 80% of our
population that is not within a half mile of an RTD stop, and we only receive approximately $0.37 in service
for every dollar paid to RTD. If RTD chooses to limit AOD service to the same as Access-a-Ride, I ask you
to include a process for property owners and service providers to request a point of deviation beyond the
3/4 mile Access-a-Ride boundary.
The Grove at Cottonwood is only 500 feet outside the current Access-a-Ride service area. Making an
allowance to include both Access-a-Ride and AOD at this location will have a profound impact on the lives
of some of our most vulnerable. I ask you to support my daughter and thousands of others like her, so that
they can live a better life. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Kori.
JACK KROLL: And next we have Claudia Folska.
IAN HARWICK: Previous Director Folska, if you'd like to announce your name, and then you'll have three
minutes to speak.
AUDIENCE: Hello, can you hear me?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
AUDIENCE: My name is Dr. Claudia Folska, former Director of District D for RTD for eight years. So many
times we have come here. I think it's now 18 months that we've been coming to provide input for public
participation. And I find it to be really deeply troubling, humiliating, and difficult for all of us to keep coming
back and talking to you over and over to use your common sense.
Also, during my tenure on the Board of Directors, and after that, we have asked you, staff, to improve
Access-a-Ride. And then what we had was Access-A-Cab that eventually evolved into Access-on-Demand.
And then, lo and behold, out of nowhere we find out about the WAV service and might call it WAV on
demand. Fabulous. You have finally figured out how to provide perfect, wonderful, great service in real time
to everyone that meets their needs.
And yet you're clinging to Access-a-Ride that is old, antiquated, doesn't serve anybody, doesn't serve the
people, you've heard that tonight, that use it. It doesn't serve the taxpayer, because the subsidy per
boarding, no matter how many people are on that vehicle, each one RTD is paying Transdev $106, while

also providing them the vehicle as a pass through for $1 a year, also providing them the fuel, a pass through.
I'm not sure if that's in your budget as well, but that's a lot of money. According to the numbers that staff
has provided you, Board members, it's costing you $53 million a year.
Suppose you had $100 dollars in your pocket, five $20 bills. And suppose you could just use 20 to get
around town in a reasonable, humane, on demand way, whether it's WAV or Access-on-Demand. Or would
you prefer to use an inferior, 35 year old, out of date service for $100? Use your common sense.
It is a false premise for anyone on this call, for staff, and in particular for you, Board members, to think that
you need to do any one of these scenarios. You can reject all of them, and I urge you to reject all of them
tonight. Continue as is with Access-on-Demand and WAV and put your effort into the big problem, Accessa-Ride, and funnel those monies back into improving what you can do. You've demonstrated it. It is
evidence. Every single person for the last 18 months has told you so. We know. We are the subject matter
experts. We know how it works.
You don't use it. This doesn't impact you. You're not even hurting for money. Your annual operating budget
is $1.32 billion. You have $800 million in the bank, and you pay your CEO $400,000. And you're going to
sit here and talk to us about $2.50? No, I don't think that's appropriate at all. Each one of you should outright
reject this recommended action and go and tell the staff, because you're the boss.
You have one employee. Her name is Debra Johnson. Act like her boss. Tell her we're not changing
anything. We want an impact study. Increase the service area so people can actually live their lives and
move forward.
Now, you also heard from people tonight about the unintended consequences, the little details that will
make a catastrophic change, a negative, catastrophic change, devastating to their lives, their everyday
lives, as if it's not already.
IAN HARWICK: Dr. Folska, if you could start to wrap this up.
AUDIENCE: Usually I get six minutes, Chair Harwick, as a former Board member. It's a courtesy. I'm sure
you'll want one when you're a former Board member. Because I also have knowledge of history being a
Board member.
You guys need to think about the long range impact that this action you may take tonight will have on the
district as a whole. What about the trust and good faith that the voters have in you? The taxpayers are not
going to look kindly upon this. And when you want to go back to the taxpayer for a tax increase, Debra
Johnson will be gone, and you'll be looking around. Who's going to carry the bag and be responsible? At
the end of the day, you guys are responsible. It will impact who you are when you walk through the
neighborhood, when you go to your store, and when you have to look people in the eye and explain why
you did this, when it's the one and only service that actually works, that does a good job, and that people
really like.
IAN HARWICK: Dr. Folska.
AUDIENCE: Thank you very much.
JACK KROLL: Chair Harwick, would you like me to now read into the record the names of the individuals
who provided written public comment?

IAN HARWICK: Yeah, that'd be great. Thank you.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, seeing as how we have no further speakers in the queue, I will move forward with
that. We received two letters from-- or you all received two letters from Guyleen Castriotta, Mayor of
Broomfield, on behalf of the City and County of Broomfield, related to Access-on-Demand. All of the
following letters were related to Access-on-Demand but for one, which was from Ross Starritt regarding
transferring between lines in Longmont.
But the following individuals wrote in on Access-on-Demand. Tess Rittenberg Greater Denver Transit,
Suzanne Eck, Jo Elizabeth Pinto, Derek Selbo, Mary Henneck, Jennifer Ramon, Tim Keenan, Kori and
Tracy Gonzalez, Sue Myers, and Kristin Heiser. I should also note that Greater Denver Transit provided
some additional comments beyond Access-on-Demand.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Appreciate it. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public
comment period at this time. There are no external entity reports on the agenda for today's meeting.
We're going to now move on to recommended actions. With three key recommended actions before us
tonight, we will aim to address each one with both diligence and efficiency. The first action is for the
Longmont and Boulder fixed route service contract. For the Board to authorize the General Manager and
CEO or her designee to enter into a contract with Transdev Services Incorporated for the provision of fixed
route services as described herein.
This contract is for three years, with two one year options for a total of five years at a total not to exceed
the cost of $127,095,000. Additionally, RTD will reimburse the contractor's direct fuel costs in an amount
estimated to be $11,955,000 over five years. The total five year not to exceed cost for services and fuel is
$139,050,000. Do we have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved. Whitmore.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Second.
IAN HARWICK: I hear Director Whitmore as our mover and Nicholson is our second. I would ask Erin
Vallejos, acting Deputy Assistant General Manager, Bus Operations, to present this item to the committee.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Good evening, everyone. Erin Vallejos, Acting Deputy Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations. My apologies, got hung up on my own title. We did have a discussion item about this back
in July.
And so as is outlined in the Board report, we are recommending moving forward with Transdev, which is
the current provider of our Longmont and Boulder service, which is primarily where these services are
operated. I think, again, I don't have much to add. I think the Board report is pretty self-explanatory, but I'm
happy to answer any questions.
IAN HARWICK: Do we have any questions from the Board right now? Director Nicholson, you have three
minutes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you very much, and thank you, Miss Vallejos. So I am going to be a no vote
tonight on this contract. And I understand the concerns from staff, obviously, with the possibility of this
getting voted down. But I believe that there is a fundamental question that we have not asked that needs
to be answered before we move forward with any additional contracted service.

And that is why are we still doing this? What is the value to the agency about outsourcing our labor and our
most fundamental service, our bus operations? These contracted services are the product of a decades
ago conservative effort to privatize RTD in a way that very few people on the Board now I think ideologically
agree with.
And I think that it is absolutely time, well past time, for us to ask whether or not, when it comes to the quality
of service we receive, when it comes to the implications of having one large contractor who, if they were to
go out of business, we would be out half of our capacity for providing bus service, to deal with one large
contractor, who is often criticized for the working conditions of their service, for the quality of service that
we receive.
I think we owe it to the voters to ask whether or not this still makes sense. So I'm going to leave it up to
other Directors to determine whether or not this moves forward at this time. But I remain steadfast that I do
not think we should keep doing this blindly without having staff produce a comprehensive document that
explains to us whether or not this is actually worth our money and worth our time, and providing the high
quality service that our people deserve. And until I get that, I simply can't be a yes on extending these types
of contracts. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Director Nicholson. Director Benker, I see you, but I'm going to go to Director
Paglieri, as he's on the committee, first. And if there's no other else on the committee, I'll bring you on.
Director Paglieri. Sorry, long day. Your three minutes.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair Harwick. A contract of this size deserves very deep understanding. I
think that there is an enormous risk in liability to the agency. And unfortunately, tonight, I do not feel like I
have the understanding of the risks and the implications, and I think to echo Director Nicholson, kind of
fundamentally why we use a contractor when we have services in-house. And so I will be voting no tonight
because of those reasons.
But I also would like to put forth the idea of a future study session to really deep dive into the financial
impacts of contracted service. I would like to understand in the future really how much money we save or
don't save and really the risk the agency as well and understanding how many people can bid on this if
Transdev is the only competitor or only operator of the size in the state of Colorado. Doesn't sound like a
very competitive contract process. But those are all criticisms that can be addressed at a later date, and I
think would be best served in perhaps a study session. So in the future, would like to see more information
and better understanding delivered to the Board before such a large contract is voted on. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Director Paglieri. Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A question for staff. How many bidders or how many bids
did we receive for this route? Was it just Transdev or do we have multiple bidders?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
IAN HARWICK: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: It is my understanding that it was Transdev solely.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: OK. Sometimes other governmental entities that I've worked with over my career
have-- if they only are getting one bid or they expect to get one bid, they do some groundwork to go out

and solicit additional contractors that might be interested. Did we do any of that or was this just an RFP that
went out in the street?
We got one bid, and it could be people didn't have the availability to do it, or it could be that people see a
moat around RTD that Transdev has with scale that they just don't bid. I mean, I personally have done both.
So do we have any insight into whether or not we solicited additional interest from other potential bidders
and they just said they couldn't do it, or did we just issue the RFP and then this is what we got?
IAN HARWICK: GM Johnson, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. I was contacted about the potential of the solicitation beforehand, before
it was active. And the potential other bidder at the time did not put forward a proposal.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: OK. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Erin. Sorry, Miss Vallejos.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Not a problem. So I do want to note this was published using our online solicitation
platform. And I'm sorry, I'm reading numbers, so looking over here. But through that online solicitation, it
was a pretty comprehensive process. There were over 2,600 firms that were notified of the RFP. 881 viewed
the requirements, and there were 54 firms that downloaded the solicitation. So there was quite a great deal
of visibility for the RFP itself. So just wanted to note that, that while it wasn't included as specifics within the
Board report, there was a lot of interest.
And GM/CEO Johnson, I would like to take the opportunity, I should have raised my hand earlier, just in
response to some of the questions about the contractor themselves. I will note that the contractor has
performed well. They are meeting many of our performance requirements. And so this contractor has shown
solid performance that would be in line with our expectations of our contractors and RTD.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Director Nicholson, I see you, but I'm going to go to Director Benker, and then
I'll come back to you after that. Director Benker, you have three minutes.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. It's nice to see everybody this evening. I completely
agree with what Director Nicholson had said previously. Back in the days when I first served in RTD, I
worked closely with the union to try to actually limit the amount of privatization that was going on in RTD.
And when I came back this time around to see such high privatization numbers, I was pretty surprised.
When this comes before the Board, I will be voting with Director Nicholson. I will be a no vote. I do believe,
one, you need competition. But more important, I believe we need to bring a lot of this service back inside
to RTD. And I would like to see our own employees do it.
Just a suggestion. I know I'm not a committee member, so I can't make a motion, of course. But maybe we
would go forward with this contract for one year and do some research, learn more about privatization. And
once the Board is up to date, we understand what we're getting into, then perhaps we could go with another
contract. So thank you for the opportunity.

IAN HARWICK: Thank you. You can go, but just if we could keep it shorter just in the interest of time.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: It's an important contract, but I understand. I have a question for Miss Vallejos,
actually. What metrics do you have to compare the quality of the work that we receive from Transdev on
the last handful of years that we've been running this contract with them to the work that we receive from
RTD?
And obviously, there's basic stuff like on time percentage, but the complaints that I've heard repeatedly
have been around things like quality of service, customer experience, the operators skipping stops, and
just a general lack of diligence that you get from people who work in-house. So I'm wondering if you can
run us through, aside from it's right in front of us and we'd be out a bunch of hours of service and basically
hosed in the Boulder region if we don't approve this, tell me why we should do this on the merits of the
performance that they've been doing. Make the case for why this is worth doing.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Yeah, so there's a number of metrics that we regularly monitor. You are correct. Some
of them are pretty standard. Obviously, we monitor on time performance. That's a pretty critical one. We do
monitor lost service, which is what we call mean distance between failure or a couple of different terms. But
monitoring their road calls when a bus breaks down and is no longer able to provide service, how frequently
and what is the impact of that.
We do also monitor service availability, which is the percentage of service that's delivered versus the
percentage of service that's scheduled. We monitor missed trips. We monitor also customer comments per
boardings to track that measure as well. And then those are the primary ones that are coming to mind right
now that I have right in front of me.
Again, as I stated, the contractor themselves is performing within all of those metrics very well. And I would
defer to GM/CEO Johnson if there's anything else that they would like to add for measurements.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Miss Vallejos, and thank you, Secretary Nicholson, for the
question. Quite naturally, as we discuss different metrics, things that I look at when I meet with our Office
of Civil Rights, quite naturally, pass ups as it relates to our customer base. In addition to that, any type of
interaction that may be discriminatory in nature as we move forward. And I can attest that the reports that
I've seen relative to those actually have been on the low side relative to what we would expect going
forward.
And as Miss Vallejos indicated, any entity that is doing business with the Regional Transportation District
has to adhere to the same requirements and specifications that we are as being a provider of public
transportation services. And when we have audits and reviews, this is in place for our contractor as well,
especially when we talk about what we refer to as our triennial audit that takes place every three years with
the Federal Transit Administration. Going forward as well, they are subjected to the same type of analysis
and review that the agency is as well. So with that, I'll yield the floor. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: OK, before I go to you, Director Nicholson, I just want to make sure there's nobody else in
the queue just for fairness. Director Guzman, and then I'll circle back to you, Director Nicholson.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is a question for our General Counsel. I am curious if in
the RTD Act, I believe it's 32-9, maybe 32-9-115 and I can't find it right now. I believe it was under Governor
Owens, RTD was given the responsibility or given the authority, I cannot remember which, to contract out

the services to try and do it for cost savings. There was a requirement originally about how much we were
to contract out. Does that still exist in the statute?
MELANIE SNYDER: Mr. Chair, if I may.
IAN HARWICK: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: So, yes, Director Guzman, you're correct. Over the years, the statutory provision that
has to do with contracted services has changed. The current statute right now doesn't require, but
authorizes RTD to engage in contracted services up to 58% for its services for bus.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. That satisfies my inquiry.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson, you have the floor again.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. One simple, final question. How much profit do we expect Transdev
shareholders to make off of us, off of this contract in particular, out of the entire cost of the contract? I'm
just curious how many millions of dollars we are going to hand to a corporation instead of giving to transit
workers for the work that they're doing.
IAN HARWICK: GM/CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Recognizing the question you posed, I think it would be most prudent that we
would circle back, because we could provide some kind of guesstimate, but I don't think that would bode
well with the Board. So happy to engage with my team and address that question more diligently in the very
near term. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Once again, Director Nicholson, I would ask that you would not assume that
making a profit for a company is a bad thing. Transdev does produce a service, and quite frankly, they
produce a service that RTD finds adequate, if not exceptional in all of the metrics that have been asked to
provide. And because they are providing that service, they deserve to be paid for that service as per their
contract.
And it should not be assumed that by making a profit that anybody is doing anything nefarious. So once
again, Director Nicholson, I would ask that you would be softer in your language and recognize that they
deserve to be paid fairly as well, and that is per their contract.
And so I just would caution you, especially in the light of the future, where we are going to try to request
additional input from other agencies that might want to bid, that we as an agency do not come across that
we are trying to be negative towards outside businesses here in the Denver Metro area. So thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Director Chandler. Director Nicholson, within reason, but just be within reason,
please.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So I do not have any problem with us paying for services from private companies.
To be clear, we do that for a lot of things. We do not do everything in-house. The question was simply what

is the profit margin on this contract or what is the profit margin on the previous contract, if that's easier to
calculate. And so yeah, I would just ask GM/CEO Johnson to have that number by the Board meeting so
that we can talk about that number in the Board meeting and what that actually looks like. So I appreciate
you giving me the latitude, Chair.
IAN HARWICK: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Mr. Chair, I just wanted to express I'm concerned less about the private sector
performing this work in this case. What I'm concerned about is this is a really big contract to have one bid
on. And we have got to do something different to solicit more competition. And I don't know what that is.
And honestly, I spent more time on Access-on-Demand than I did on this particular issue, so that's my fault
today. I'm a yes vote to move it on, but I reserve the right to-- I want to read the documents again and
perhaps ask some questions. But I mean, this is a massive part of our spend, and not getting a competitive
bid is almost reason to go out and reprocure for the size of it.
In fact, if I was an owner's rep on this, I would reprocure, and I would restructure the contract, because it's
just simply too big to have a single bidder on, no matter how much outreach we did. I mean, the bidder
community is crazy. They have all sorts of reasons why they don't bid and that's fine. That's their problem.
Our problem is not getting a competitive bid.
And so I think we need to look at how the work was structured, what incentives we're putting on the table
to bring in someone, because I'm afraid that everyone's looking at RTD and sees a big Transdev moat
around it, and they're not offering a bid. And we need to break through with that reality. So I'm a yes to go
forward with the reserve the right to be a pain in the ass and change my vote in the future.
IAN HARWICK: OK. I see no other Directors and I know there are no votes. So now I'm going to do a roll
call. Director Buzek is not here. So first we have Director Chandler. How do you vote?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No.
IAN HARWICK: Director O'Keeffe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
IAN HARWICK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: And I'm Director Harwick, and I'm also a yes. This passes four yeses and two no's. Give
me a second while I get back into my notes.

OK. So our second action item tonight is to approve modifications to our Access-on-Demand program.
Before I ask for a motion on this item so we can commence our formal debate, I want to share a bit of
background on this topic and outline our path to debating this item tonight.
The Access-on-Demand program was launched as a pilot program in limited zip codes within the RTD
service area in December of 2020, as an innovative approach to serving paratransit eligible customers.
Over the next year or so, the pilot steadily grew until March of 2022, when the program was expanded to
customers in all zip codes of the district.
It is a popular, really, really popular program, and it's growing with a growing customer base, and I believe
that it is one of the most innovative efforts at RTD. Staff's work to establish the program and its subsequent
growth should be commended. For the last 19 months, going back to February of 2024, our Board of
Directors meetings have included a steady stream of public comment from the Access-on-Demand
customers related to the program's parameters and potential changes to those parameters.
Also in February of 2024, General Manager and CEO Johnson commissioned a paratransit peer review to
review all paratransit programs, including Access-on-Demand, and issue a set of recommendations. That
report was presented to this committee in September of 2024. Since that time, we have formally placed
Access-on-Demand related items on a committee agenda or a full Board meeting agenda over a dozen
times, with the latest, of course, coming during our July meeting cycle.
As a Board, it is our job to set policy for the agency, and the time has come for us to set our policy on
Access-on-Demand and move forward. As with any element of our operations, the agency will continue to
monitor the performance of Access-on-Demand program and continue to seek feedback from the program's
customers.
The decisions we make today and later this month at the full Board meeting will guide the program moving
forward, but these decisions are not etched in stone. We can and will revisit the program's parameters, fare
structure, et cetera should the need arise. And that is no different from how we revisit from time to time
other services and other service parameters provided by this agency.
With that background, I want to say a few notes about the process I recommend we take to review and vote
on this item tonight. As a reminder, the starting point of our debate will be the program modifications, as
amended by the Board at its meeting on July 29. For reference, those are listed at the bottom of the packet,
page six. In a moment, I will ask for a motion to approve the modifications as amended, and we can begin
our formal debate discussion on the matter.
Before I do that, I want to acknowledge the staff has included their recommendations for our consideration.
Those are listed on packet page 18 and reflects staff's recommendations to this committee presented to us
just a couple of months ago on July 16. While we approved those recommendations with a slight
modification from Director Nicholson on a vote of 5 to 2, the modifications were later significantly amended
following the extensive public comment at our Board meeting on July 29.
Since then, staff worked diligently to analyze cost estimates for various program scenarios, and the packet
includes a memo issued to the Board on August 29. That memo appears on page 8 through 17 of the
packet.
Finally, following many in-depth conversations with staff members of the community and my colleagues on
this committee, I requested an additional scenario be analyzed, one that I believe reflects a fair, balanced

approach to setting parameters for the program. Information from that scenario analysis was distributed to
you all yesterday for your consideration and review.
After the motion is introduced to approve the program modifications, I intend to introduce a motion to
substitute the program modifications as approved by the Board on July 29 with the program modifications
I worked to develop and which I believe to be a good compromise. At that point, we will debate the merits
of my proposal. Should my proposal be approved, we will then vote to send the modifications to the full
Board for approval.
And I'm just going to take a little bit of privilege here beyond this and just say this has been extremely
enlightening. This hits close to home for a lot of us. I have friends that will be impacted by this. I have a
friend in a wheelchair, other friend that works at King Soopers on a very low wage. So these things are not
lost on me, and I know they're not lost on all of our fellow Board members.
When I think about this and I think about when this was set up, and it being set up as a free program, while
admirable, I think in the end has really set us in a really hard spot. Because we do run Fare Free for Youth,
but the buses keep running whether or not the kids are on it, and this is different. This is different.
We have to operate this. We have to pay for this. And so being set at 0 just really puts us all in a very tough
spot. And while I wish that there was a way to keep that going, it's just not financially feasible as we head
into a tough financial situation, which the whole country is heading into as well.
Lastly, I hear you on Access-a-Ride. I hear you on the WAV vehicles, and it's my intention to really look
next year at Access-a-Ride, Flex Ride, AOD, and also the partnership on demand programs that we run.
They're not exactly the same by any stretch of the imagination, but they are similar.
And I think it's really in our best benefit to look at those programs and see where there are similarities,
where are there differences, where costs are, correct where they might be higher than we would prefer.
And so you have my word that I'm going to pursue that next year to really look at how we do that and really
look at them together.
So with that being said, I will now ask for the following motion for the Board of Directors to approve
modifications to the supplemental premium Access-on-Demand AOD service for RTD's paratransit
customers, as amended and described herein, effective October 1, 2025. Do we have a motion?
BRETT PAGLIERI: So moved.
IAN HARWICK: I hear Director Paglieri. Do I have a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
IAN HARWICK: Director Whitmore. Now, I am going to make a motion to amend the Access-on-Demand
program modifications to reflect the following parameters. To set the base fare for an access on demand
trip to $6.50. Set the LiVE fare for Access-on-Demand trips to $3.25. Define an allowable multi-stop trip as
follows.
Customers may schedule multi-stop trips with a maximum of two destinations per origin, i.e. from home to
elementary school and then to work, utilizing providers that allow multi-stop functionality with the initial
destination not counting toward the monthly trip cap or requiring an associated base fare. Is there a second?

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Second.
IAN HARWICK: OK. And I heard Director Nicholson as the second. At this time, I would ask those Directors
who have questions or who wish to speak to raise your virtual hands, and I will call on you in turn. For
Directors or staff calling into the meeting, if you wish to speak, please press star 9. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Director Harwick, I appreciate your leadership in this area, and I know that this
is a heartfelt discussion we've had individually with each other, with Miss Johnson, and me with many in
the disability community. I would ask that you support this reasonable solution at this time. I am 100%
behind Chair Harwick in looking at all of this, Access-on-Demand, Access-a-Ride, all of this next year,
hopefully even sooner than that, and really coming up with a more comprehensive solution.
But I do think right now, we cannot go backwards. We have to go forwards. And so I would ask that you
would support Director Harwick's reasonable proposal, putting it forth, and that we can then look at this in
very much more comprehensive overall arching program. So please, let's just move this forward. Take all
of the comments that we've heard for months and months and months to heart and make this program
better for the future.
IAN HARWICK: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to echo the first comments that Director Chandler
had. I think that I would rather make the mistake that people are making the best decisions with the
information they have in front of them. And I ask that rather than a lack of grace and assuming that motives
are wrong, it's a tough way to go through life if you're assuming people are doing something nefariously.
Grace is in short supply in public debate today, and I hope that all of us, as Directors, and people
commenting as members of the public have just a little more grace than suspicion. Sorry if that sounded
lecturey, but it just feels like that's where we are.
That said, I think we are, personally, I think we're headed down the wrong path with paratransit. I think we
have a popular program right now that is probably the wave of the future. We'll talk a little bit more about
that in a second. I think as an alternative to your plan, which I acknowledge has been really difficult, I think
your stewardship of this issue gets a lot of credit. Whether or not people agree with your final proposal, you
personally have shown a lot of attentiveness to the issues at hand.
That said, I think GDT, Greater Denver Transit, offered some great alternatives with an independent
analysis. I don't think we're at a crisis point with this program, and so this feels rushed without adequate
information on what the causes of costs are and what the value of the different options are.
And I'm not asking you to change anyone's mind, but my philosophy on government is that the first thing
government should focus on is helping those that can't help themselves. Beyond that, I'm more of a small
government person, but I'm a big government person when it's performing that safety net role. And I think
this program has done that for people. It's popular because it's life normalizing.
I challenge anyone to plan your day on a 24 hour headway. And I wish there was other alternatives for
people to move around. We're it for some people. And this life normalizing program has meant a lot to
people. And I think our economic changes to it are going to have impacts for people that enjoy that life
normalization. Again, I've said cost isn't-- I just truly don't believe in the whole scheme of things that this is
the budget crunch that we're focused on.

I know I'm not supposed to do this, and I apologize for the visually impaired people. It's a horrible drawing
anyway. You're probably happy you can't see it. But there's these two columns which you can see, and this
is our budget line right here that apparently we're causing problems with. There's two ways to look at this.
We're looking at it that it's the top. This is the program that's busting the budget.
I prefer to think of this as the bottom of the column. There are a whole bunch of things that we could look
at to skinny up our budget. I don't think this is the thing that's driving it.
IAN HARWICK: You're at you're at three minutes.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I'll wrap up. And this program is the direction. It's the future. This customized pickup
is the first and last mile direction. We're learning something by operating this program. So I ask that we
continue to focus on this, and I'm a no vote tonight. I appreciate your efforts, but I'd rather see us go back
and take a little bit more of a holistic view. Thanks.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll get to the merits of the vote when we get to the main motion.
I just wanted to say that I really, I know how strongly you feel personally about this issue, and I know how
much you want personally for us to have as low a fare as possible, for us to have as generous a service as
possible.
I've seen your heart as you have addressed this issue, and so I appreciate so much the time that you have
taken to call every member of this committee to consider to speak with every possible stakeholder as you
work to come up with what we're going to be voting on in this amendment. It's the only way to make half
decent policy in an indecent world.
And I think that we owe you a debt of gratitude as our new-ish Chair for the amount of time and energy,
and zeris, as we say in my religion, that you've been willing to put into to making this happen. It's not an
easy thing to do. So I'm in support of the vote to accept your amendment, and I think we all owe you a huge
amount of gratitude.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Director Whitmore and then Director Benker.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
IAN HARWICK: Oh, hold on one second, Troy. Real quick, sorry. Also, Jack, can you throw up on the
screen, can you throw up the amendment and then also the comparison?
JACK KROLL: Sure, I think maybe I can show the cost comparison first and then circle back when you guys
are ready to take a vote and put the amendment up, if that's helpful.
IAN HARWICK: That's perfect. Thank you so much.
JACK KROLL: Let me just make sure that I have that ready.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Sorry, Director Whitmore, please proceed as Jack works on that.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, sir. I echo the comments of Secretary Nicholson. I appreciate your leadership on
this, Mr. Chair. And there are a lot of us that are pained to have to go through a modification of a very

popular and effective program. And I do feel that these types of programs are the wave of the future. Had
that conversation with a number of constituents and a former Director on numerous occasions.
One clarification, and I think it's probably up on the screen right now, is when you summarized, you did not
mention, at least I don't think you mentioned the service area as being all locations within the RTD service
area. And that's certainly a critical one for the more far flung districts.
And I don't represent Broomfield, but we've heard from those folks a lot, and I certainly understand where
they're coming from. And we have that in Director Catlin's district. We have it in my district and numerous
other ones. So I just want to make sure, for the record, that that is part of the amendment that you made.
So with that, let's move ahead. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Director Whitmore.
JACK KROLL: Director Harwick, could I show the other screen? Because I think that'll help clear things up
here.
IAN HARWICK: Please. And then after that, Director Benker, you'll have the floor. I'll let you know when
you're ready.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, let me just put this up here and explain where you guys are at again. So can everyone
see this Word document that you're looking at a section that says Access-on-Demand demand
modifications proposed by Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JACK KROLL: Great. So as a reminder, per parliamentary procedure and your processes, you are starting
from a baseline with your debate with where the Board amended these modifications at its meeting on July
29. At that point, a modification or an amendment to the proposed modifications was made to include all
locations within the current RTD service area.
So unless you act otherwise tonight, that will be the recommendation that moves forward from this
committee to the full Board. And so as you can see here, I've got a section that indicates what Director
Harwick is changing from where things were left on the 29, and that is simply the base fare, the LiVE fare,
and further identifying the multi-stop trips.
Also moving forward with the recommendation, should Director Harwick's amendments be approved, and
then this subsequently forwarded to the Board via another vote, would be these other elements that were
set or perhaps left alone on the 29th, including the total trips, the per trip subsidy, the service area, the
notion that there would be explicitly no waiting period, and the current Access-a-Ride hours being the hours
for this service.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. I appreciate that. Director Whitmore, I see your hand is still up. Do
you have a follow up or are you good?
TROY WHITMORE: No follow up. Sorry.
IAN HARWICK: OK, perfect. Mr. Kroll, your hand is still up too. Are you good. OK, Director Benker, I'm
going to go I'm going to actually go over to CEO/GM Johnson, and then I'll go back to you.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Following up on Mr. Kroll's statement relative to
parliamentary procedure, this has not been touched upon, and I think it's a very important element,
recognizing the baseline for the discussion talks about what occurred on July 29. In that recommended
action, it did state that any amendment described there in the document would be effective October 1 of
2025.
Considering that this would continue on to the Board on September 30, I'd be remiss not to state, I think it's
highly improbable that we would have a meeting on Tuesday evening and something would be effectuated
on October 1. And so before the deliberations and conversations ensued, I wanted to ensure that I was
being responsible and responsive to this discussion by calling that out, because I believe that needs to be
addressed. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Sorry, Director Benker, I see Director Chandler, and then I will pop over to you. Director
Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes. I have a question then. The hours, the current Access-a-Ride hours. I don't
know that that is going to help a whole lot of people. If someone has an emergency in the middle of the
night and they're blind and a family member is at the hospital, how do they call? How do they use the
service if it's not available 24 a day.
So I would like to make an amendment, a friendly amendment to extend the hours for specifically the
Access-on-Demand to extend longer hours. For all the things that we're trying to do here, I understand,
Director Harwick, where you're coming from. I too have agreed. I just didn't realize that there would be a
current restriction on the number of hours. So I would like to make an amendment, if appropriate at this
time, to take away the service hours and make it available 24/7.
IAN HARWICK: Do I hear a second?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Director Kroll, I think we're messing up procedure right now. So I guess you're going
to tell us.
JACK KROLL: You're not messing up. Excuse me, thank you, Chair Harwick. I'm saying you're not
necessarily messing up procedure, but there is a cleaner way to do this. My recommendation, given that
GM/CEO Johnson also flagged for you all an implementation date that needed to be updated, would be to
move through the amendment that you have made, Director Harwick, and then you return back to the main
motion, at which time it would be appropriate for Director Chandler to raise her amendment.
That's just a little bit cleaner of a way to get through this, because you're going to also need to take a
subsequent amendment on the implementation timeline here. So if that's amenable to Director Chandler
and to Director O'Keefe, I would recommend going that route just to keep things a little bit less convoluted.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: That is more than acceptable.
IAN HARWICK: Director O'Keefe, are you good pulling your second?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Withdraw my second.

IAN HARWICK: And just to clarify, Director Chandler, you're withdrawing your motion right now, your
amendment right now?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Director Nicholson, I'm going to go to Director Benker, and then I will circle back to
you. Director Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you very much. First of all, I do not have any amendment to offer, even though
I'm not on the committee. So everyone can at least relax their. I have two questions, though. I'd like some
information. I don't fully understand the WAV cost. Is that a one time capital cost to purchase the vehicles?
Could Erin perhaps answer that? Some explanation of what that is, WAV.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, and then I will yield the floor to Miss Vallejos if the Chair would permit me to
do so.
IAN HARWICK: Go right on ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. I appreciate that, sir. So, wheelchair accessible vehicles,
recognizing that we offer paratransit services, the one of which you all are very familiar with being Accesson-Demand is premium supplemental, and then Access-a-Ride being the ADA mandated complimentary
service. Recognizing that we are trying to provide services through a lens of fairness, leveraging wheelchair
accessible vehicles to be available for those that may need them considering the third party entities may
not have wheelchair accessible vehicles available for service deployment. And so that's where that cost
basically germinates.
KAREN BENKER: Excuse me. So is it a capital expense or an operating?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, it's operating. And, Miss Vallejos, I will yield the floor. I just wanted to provide that
context. Thank you very kindly.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Yes, so GM/CEO Johnson was correct. Within the Access-on-Demand program with
many of our TNCs, as many of you know, when you call a Lyft or an Uber, those are often provided-- not
often, those are provided through personal vehicles that the driver owns, meaning that there is not a large
pool of wheelchair accessible vehicles available within those services.
So when this program was started, in the larger picture, the decision was made to provide that wheelchair
accessible service. It is still through our TNCs, but it is operated with our RTD vehicles. So those are costs
that are currently being attributed to our paratransit contracts, which are the contracts that provide our
Access-a-Ride service, but they are really costs that are associated with those AOD trips.
I know that can be a little bit confusing, but it is operational cost. It is the cost of providing the service itself.
Those vehicles are already owned by RTD and accounted for.
KAREN BENKER: OK, so the dollars that you've got listed under WAV are not purchasing additional
vehicles.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Correct.

KAREN BENKER: OK. And I'll still have questions, but not right now. The other clarification I wanted, if we
go forward with the motions that have been discussed, I just want to make sure and ask the question.
Broomfield is in my district and Broomfield has very little RTD local service. And so consequently, the
number of folks that are eligible for Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand is quite limited.
So under this motion, I would like some assurance or discussion, or if you could just give me the information,
would more of Broomfield, and my other cities too, be covered by this motion and they would now have
service? Because Broomfield has been very aggressive in putting together some low income housing
projects, and they want, and I agree with them and I'm fighting for them, they want to make sure that those
projects will get Access-on-Demand service. So if you could answer that question, I'd appreciate it. Thank
you.
ERIN VALLEJOS: OK, sorry. Just waiting. So Erin Vallejos again. As the amendment is done today, since
service for Access-on-Demand specifically, just want to make sure we're being very clear, would be within
the entire RTD district boundary provided, which I think they are, but without verifying, I would hate to be
wrong, provided they are within the RTD district, they would have Access-on-Demand service. A lot of
caveats there, but I know words matter. But yes, provided they are within the RTD district, they would have
Access-on-Demand availability.
KAREN BENKER: But not Access-a-Ride necessarily?
ERIN VALLEJOS: Not Access-a-Ride. That would still fall within that 3/4 of a mile boundary.
KAREN BENKER: OK, thank you. I appreciate the answer.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Oh, go ahead, Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So I'm just going to follow up with a quick clarifying question on what Director Benker
asked. When we talk about within that 3/4 mile, they would have Access-on-Demand service, we're talking
just about the Uber subsidy, or sorry, the rideshare subsidy service. And the WAV service that's listed, that
would still be within 3/4 of a mile. That's AAR vehicles, as I understand it. So that would still be 3/4 of a
mile. But the rideshare subsidy, that would be district wide. Is that correct? Or would the WAV service that
is a part of AOD also be district wide?
IAN HARWICK: Miss Vallejos.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Yeah. So I do want to be clear. Again, that WAV, providing that wheelchair accessible
vehicle, as part of our TNC offerings, that is our Access-on-Demand service. It is just the manner in which
we are providing that today. So again, there will still be a wheelchair accessible vehicle component available
to customers that can use our Access-on-Demand service as it stands with everything that's on the floor
right now.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So just for clarity, would that service be available district wide?
ERIN VALLEJOS: Again, that is Access-on-Demand. While we are distinguishing between the cost, that is
still part of the Access-on-Demand program. So yes, if you are eligible for paratransit and you can use
Access-on-Demand, you will still be able to get a wheelchair accessible vehicle should you need it.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Got it. Thank you.

IAN HARWICK: Miss Vallejos, I have a quick question, and I don't see anybody else, so I'm going to go.
When is our contract up for AAR and Transdev? And if you don't have it, I understand. But if you could get
that for us.
ERIN VALLEJOS: I do have that, actually. So our contract for our paratransit services, we actually have
two providers. It is not just Transdev, it is Transdev and MTM. The initial three year base contract for those
services is up come June 30 of next year, so June 30, 2026.
But what I do want to note is the WAV components is actually that was a decision that was made at the
time the service was started. And so as part of whether it be a request for information or a request for
proposal, that would really be the time for our new access on demand contracts to possibly look at how we
might structure that a little bit differently, because I think that might be where your question is going.
So our paratransit contracts are not necessarily tied to how we do access on demand and that WAV
component. That is how we are doing it today, but that is also something we are looking at as part of the
RFI or RFP. Again, language matters, so I just want to make sure I'm including all of the options.
And so again, we're putting those out, I think as everyone knows, we're doing the contract extensions
through June 30. So the timing is very similar. But that will be something we look at as part of that process,
not necessarily our paratransit contracts, if that answers your question.
IAN HARWICK: It does. Thank you. GM Johnson, I see you, and then Director Guzman, I see you after
that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, just as a clarification to Miss Vallejos' last response, she indicated that we are
doing contract extensions to June 30. That is the next Board item that will be provided to you all for your
consideration, as staff does not have the delegation of authority to make that decision sans a discussion
with this policy body. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: This may be in the packet, but I have not had time to read it. I've been focused on the
other committees this week. I apologize. But with respect to contract extensions, typically we do a three
year with two year options. Is this the same type of contract or where are we at with this? And I just don't
know. So thank you for entertaining my question.
IAN HARWICK: GM/CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, Director Guzman, for the question. This would merely be
a time extension due to the fact that when staff had anticipated modifications to this program, there was a
timeline associated. We have since passed that and the contracts are set to sunset. It would be staff's
intent, with the Board's approval, to extend the contracts to six months. That would then sunset June 30 of
2026, in lieu of the sunset date that's right around the corner, being December of 2025. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Do I have any other Directors? OK. So we're going to vote on my motion, and
then we will go back to the original. I know there's a-- Director O'Keefe, you're voting no on this particular
part, correct? So I will go through, do a roll call. And Director Chandler, how do you vote?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.

IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Director O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No.
IAN HARWICK: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Director Harwick and I'm also a yes. That's five ayes and one no. OK, now we will go back
to-- OK, so yes, now we will go back to the original. Hold on. Mr. Kroll, do we need to-- besides Director
Chandler's part, where do we need to change that October 1? Can she do that here as well or do we need
to do that as a second amendment?
JACK KROLL: I would recommend keeping things separate. You could do it that way, but I just recommend
cleaner, because it might not be consensus on one.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Do we know the date that we need to revise October 1 to?
JACK KROLL: That would be a question for the General Manager.
IAN HARWICK: GM Johnson, what's a better date than October 1?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would recommend, for simplicity's sake, that we make it finite, being January 1 of
2026. It will give us time to engage, inform, make modifications relative to the next agenda item if you
basically act on that accordingly. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. OK, Director Chandler, I see you.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I make a motion that we amend the October 1 date to be revised to January 1,
2026.
IAN HARWICK: Do I have a second?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Second.
IAN HARWICK: I hear Director Nicholson is the second. Do we have any no votes on this?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'd like to discuss it, if that's OK.
IAN HARWICK: OK, yep.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: So sorry, I should have had my camera on. So it's my understanding that the primary
reason that we limit the service area for WAV vehicles, in this case, is because we also limit the service
area, sorry, the timeline. Service timeline. My apologies.
IAN HARWICK: Wait, wait, wait. Director Nicholson, we're talking about moving the date from October 1.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Oh, sorry. My apologies. I got confused because-IAN HARWICK: OK, do you have questions about the date change?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: My apologies. No I don't.
IAN HARWICK: OK. All right. So we have a second. Do we have any no votes on this? OK, with no no
votes, this will pass with six ayes. Now, we have the potential second. OK, Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Chairman Harwick. I make a motion that we change the hours of the
Access-on-Demand to reflect a 24 hour clock, instead of mirroring the Access-a-Ride hours.
IAN HARWICK: Do I hear a second?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second for the second time.
IAN HARWICK: Second for the second time. OK. So I have Director Chandler as the amender and Director
Nicholson as the second. Director Nicholson, I see your hand for the question. Proceed.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I believe it was Director O'Keefe, first off, who seconded this particular motion.
IAN HARWICK: Sorry. Oh my gosh.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: We sound the same.
IAN HARWICK: It's been a long day.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, yes, and it's going to be longer. So I actually have a question for GM/CEO
Johnson on this matter. Because while I understand very much where Director Chandler is coming from,
I'm wondering what logistical hurdles there are to implementing a 24 hour clock. Given that, as far as I was
reading, do not implement one for Access-a-Ride at present either.
So first question, am I right that Access-a-Ride does not have 24 hour service? And under our existing AAR
paratransit contracts, what challenges exist to offering WAV service 24/7 hours a day? And would we have
to do that if we offered the rideshare subsidy service 24/7 hours a day?
IAN HARWICK: GM Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much for the opportunity to address the questions posed by Secretary
Nicholson, Mr. Chair. So the first question I heard was relative to the wheelchair accessible vehicles in
relationship to being provided with the ADA mandated paratransit services branded Access-a-Ride. Those
services mirror the operational hours of our fixed route service delivery. Hence, it's not 24 hours a day. First
response.

Second response relative to logistical challenges relative to the wheelchair accessible vehicles that are
utilized to supplement the premium service known as Access-on-Demand, it's contingent upon having
vehicles readily available. More to the point, as you heard from Miss Vallejos, we have two contractors that
provide those services. It's incumbent upon us is when we have individuals that are operating, providing a
service delivery to human beings that we need to mitigate fatigue.
And in doing so, it may be difficult to ensure that we have vehicles readily available as we move forward.
We will have to look at structuring schedules in such a way whereby they may be available and have the
paratransit ADA, that is contractors, available if, in fact, it's outside the standard windows. And that's why
we had had some difficulty.
And I will yield the floor momentarily to Miss Vallejos to correct anything that I am saying relative to having
wheelchair accessible vehicles available for those that are using the ADA mandated paratransit services.
Oftentimes, that's why those vehicles are shared in reference to providing trips to those customers. Miss
Vallejos, I will yield the floor for you to add or detract. Thank you.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. No, I think you did a great job of explaining. It is really
about resource management, again, fatigue management. Again, I still want to be clear. I know we're calling
out those WAV costs. But again, this is still AOD. And so if it is available 24/7 hours, it would be the
expectation that we would have wheelchair accessible vehicles available during those times as well. And
again, really about resource management and fatigue management when it comes to those items also.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I just have a general question. Thank you, Chairman Harwick. Have we
approached all of our Uber, Lyft, taxis, all of those services to maybe ask them what are they doing to
provide wheelchair accessible vehicles? I mean, we could maybe incentivize them to provide that so that
we don't have to. They're available 24/7 hours a day. I can call an Uber, I can call a Lyft, I can call a taxi 24
hours a day. So that takes care of that for a population that doesn't need wheelchair accessible vehicles.
But my question is, have we incentivized others to provide that so that we don't have to rely so much heavily
on our staff, on our people doing that 24/7? There are so many other people that have the ability to do this,
and I don't think we're thinking creatively enough to incentivize them to come to the table and to say, hey,
if you can supply this solution to our problem, we can incentivize them within maybe an additional subsidy
or something.
But it just seems to me like we aren't being innovative in our thinking processes here. And it's quite
frustrating to keep coming to these meetings and having to be thinking through this when I think the staff
needs to come a little bit more creatively with solutions instead of always just we can't do this because. So
I don't mean to be a downer and I don't mean to be critical, but I just think that there needs to be a sense
of there can be a solution, we're just not thinking about it.
IAN HARWICK: Miss Vallejos.
ERIN VALLEJOS: I see GM/CEO Johnson's hands. I'd like to give her an opportunity first.
IAN HARWICK: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. And I will yield the floor to Miss Vallejos to answer the question more
directly. But I would be remiss to state, as we talk about providing paratransit services, RTD, and this is not

an excuse, this is fact relative to what we are obligated to do as we move forward, is providing certain
parameters relative to the services that we provide.
RTD is overseen and regulated by different entities. Contracting with a transit network company that
basically employs gig workers aren't necessarily trained in the same manner in which those contractors
and employees that we may have, as it relates to providing services to individuals that may have reasonable
accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act, meaning that they may need door to door
service.
I'm certain most people in this virtual room have utilized TNC services, and it's highly unlikely that you would
have an individual that would leave their vehicle and escort someone to the door. As we talk about
incentivizing, it's a lot more than just putting forward monies and saying we need someone to do this.
Recognizing what I stated previously to the matter that we discussed regarding our fixed route service, that
we have to ensure that we are adhering to certain regulations and guidelines.
That's not an excuse. Director Chandler and I have talked about this several times, so she understands, I
believe, the perspective I'm coming from, because I have agreed that there is an opportunity for us to be
innovative. Currently, where we stand, we have existing contracts, and there is a scope of work that was
put forward in order for us to leverage that contracts. Going back to deviate from those contracts in this
point in time would not yield itself to the open and fair competition aspect of what it is that we put forward
for a bid.
So while I am empathetic to Director Chandler and understand where she's coming from, I share that same
sentiment, but we are working within the confines of the existing contract. That does not negate the ability
going forward to be more creative, and Miss Vallejos alluded to that. As I have shared with Director
Chandler, different solicitation vehicles whereby we can do what we call a request for information to garner
an understanding of what might be possible by asking certain entities, i.e. service providers, what might
they be able to do prior to actually putting forward a request for proposal or a request for bid.
So I just wanted to share that with everybody relative to the innovative aspect, because currently the
innovation is hamstrung just by virtue of the contracting vehicle that we are engaged with at the time. With
that, I will yield the floor to Miss Vallejos. Thank you very much.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. You're doing a great job. I don't even need to be here for
this presentation this evening. But no, that is 100% correct.
At the time when we did implement this, there weren't really as many options maybe. So this was the
solution that we came up with. But as I mentioned, we are looking at how we might address this with the
next request for information. That is our intent to include this as an element of that. And so we are looking
at ways we can be innovative. We just can't do that today. But that is definitely an important thing to us and
something that we are planning to include going forward.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Director Nicholson, I see you, but we have not called on Director Whitmore for
this one, so I'm going to go to him, then to you, and then to Director Benker. So Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. We've talked a lot about reviewing programs in the very near
future, and it seems like this amendment, per what CEO/GM Johnson just said, fits into something to look
at not tonight, but in six weeks or six months. We need to move ahead with this program in some way,
shape, or form. And I'm just not comfortable with this amendment. So I would urge a no vote on the

amendment. But a strong reminder to keep this in mind, as Miss Vallejos had mentioned, for future tweaks
to this program and others. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you. One question, and since it looks as though the entire RTD district is now
going to be included in the AOD, how will potential clients be certified to use this service? Will they be able
to use the service if they're not within the 3/4 mile?
ERIN VALLEJOS: Yes, so that is something that I do think has gotten a little bit of a misunderstanding as
well. You do not have to live within 3/4 of a mile of a fixed route service to be eligible. We definitely have
people that do not live within 3/4 of a mile that are currently eligible to use our paratransit service. So all
you have to do is be eligible based on that criteria.
And again, there's an application process, there's a medical evaluation process, there is an assessment
process. So all of those things would still have to happen. But you do not have to live within 3/4 of a mile to
meet that eligibility.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: OK. I'm not seeing any more questions. So now we can take a vote on Director Chandler's
amendment. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No.
IAN HARWICK: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No, with the belief we'll come back and review this. Thanks.
IAN HARWICK: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
IAN HARWICK: I'm Director Harwick. And as much as I completely agree with this. I want this to happen.
But also I'm with Director Whitmore. I just need to see how we're going to make this work. And, if it was no
WAV vehicles, totally, I get it. But I just feel like right now that is an Achilles heel that we need to work
around. So I'm going to be a no vote on this one. And I believe that puts us at four no's and two yeses.
Then the no's have it. Oh, sorry. OK. Board Manager Kroll.
JACK KROLL: You were getting there, but now you're back to the main motion. You still need to vote on
that to move it forward to the full Board. You could entertain any further discussion on that and then take a
vote. And then just a time reminder, I would recommend a break once this item is settled.

IAN HARWICK: OK. Director Nicholson, I hope you're pushing a yes for the main motion.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Eventually. For the moment, I would like to offer an amendment to set the LiVE fare
at $1.50.
BRETT PAGLIERI: I second that.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Can I speak on the motion?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. There is a real challenge that I think many of us don't appreciate that
people who use this program and make very little money have when they try to get around. We charge
$1.35 right now for a three hour bus pass. And that's expensive if you only have $150 to live on over the
course of a month.
I had a really long, emotional, detailed conversation with Brian Grewe, who runs Atlantis, about the impact
that these programs have on his residents and the value that they bring. And he identified how many of
their members live on less in a month than many of us make in a couple hours of work, for which the
difference between a $3.50 fare and a $1 fare, while that doesn't seem significant to me or you, because
it's the difference between $180 or so and $60 or so, I'm not doing the math perfectly in my head, that's a
huge amount of money. If your discretionary is only $250.
So I recognize that there are significant-- how can I put this? I think that we need to take real care when we
make changes to programs that affect the very poor, in particular because of the impact that those changes
have on people who have nothing. It's easy for me, given my living conditions, to ignore those concerns.
But I think that when we don't sit with that lived reality, we face serious concerns about ignoring the impact
that this will have on folks who really do have nothing.
All that being said, I have one significant question about my motion, because my understanding is that we
have an existing policy around the fares that we create. And so I wanted to ask of GM/CEO Johnson, how
would this change interact with the fare policy that we currently have?
IAN HARWICK: GM Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. So for everyone's edification, Secretary Nicholson is
referring to the fare policy that was effective as of January 1, 2024, which came to fruition after a 18 month
fare study and equity analysis, which the Board of Directors on July 25 of 2023 unanimously approved.
There was a myriad of outreach done over the course of 18 months. And during the consideration of the
fare structure that was ultimately approved, it was decided that the LiVE program and discounts would be
included to be consistent across all of our different programs and fares, so they would all be at 50%. I do
recall at some point, and I don't have this information off the top of my head, but we had different discounts
for those that were chronologically advanced of being 62 plus an age versus youth discounts versus people
with disabilities.
And so as we talk about this motion that is here, we have yet to analyze the impacts going forward. While
it is a good practice to look at it holistically, since we don't understand the adverse impacts in this current
situation, I would say relative to the paratransit program, we would be offering a significant discount to the

supplemental premium program versus the ADA mandated program, which I believe could-- this is my
personal opinion-- it could cause confusion.
So that is my response off the cuff without me having an opportunity to analyze with my team implications
going forward. So that's what I'm able to offer at this point in time, in this moment. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So this is really tough, because every change we make is going to have
a meaningful impact on the lives of the people that use it. At the same time, I think one of the challenges
we've had with making policy for this program has been playing Calvinball with our processes and not
following through on the deliberations and the decisions that have been made by previous boards.
And as GM/CEO Johnson laid out, it was not a small amount of work that went into deciding on the existing
fare policy, and it was not a small amount of work that went into deciding how we would create an overall
fare structure.
So it's really hard for me to say this, but I think that it's in the interest of our policy making process to stick
with what you've proposed and to move forward with that the way it is right now, and to work with GM/CEO
Johnson to look at whether or not we need to amend, change, modify, update our fair policy to address
some of these questions around inequity going forward.
We don't need to get everything right right now, and we never will, or we'll just keep deliberating on this
forever. But I want to call out the very real, meaningful, and significant concerns that folks like Mr. Grewe
and many, many others have raised when it comes to deeply low income access to these programs. And I
would hope that when we do get around to reviewing this next year, we're in a position to make the kinds
of changes necessary to ensure that folks who really do have nothing can have effective access to this
program. So I'm withdrawing my amendment.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Now we'll take a vote. OK. Board Manager Kroll, I was about to take a vote.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, would Director Paglieri also withdraw his second on this just for-IAN HARWICK: Thank you.
BRETT PAGLIERI: I withdraw my second.
IAN HARWICK: OK. So I know there's a no vote. So I'm going to do roll call. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No.
IAN HARWICK: Director Paglieri.

BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: I'm Director, and I also am a yes. That's five yeses and one no's. And the ayes have it.
Now, in the interest of our poor CART person, I want to take a 10 minute break. We're going to reconvene
at 8:03, and we will jump back in and hit the last few things that we have on the agenda. So thanks,
everybody. I'll see you in 10 minutes.
Rock and roll. We are reconvening the OSS meeting for September 10 at 8:03 Denver time, not 9:03
Chicago time, which is where I'm at. So we are now going to come up with our third and final action for the
Access-on-Demand contract extensions. Do we have a motion?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: So moved.
IAN HARWICK: OK, Director Chandler's a mover. Do I have a second?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Second.
IAN HARWICK: Director Paglieri is the second. Do we have any discussion. Director Paglieri, I see your
hand up.
BRETT PAGLIERI: I'm sorry, my brain did not return on the break. I'm trying to bring it back. What exactly
are we now discussing?
IAN HARWICK: Oh, sorry. Miss Erin Vallejos is going to fill us in on this.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Yes, good evening again. Erin Vallejos, acting Deputy Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations. This is simply the action item authorizing the General Manager and CEO to enter into the
contract extensions with our current Access-on-Demand service providers through June 30.
Again, as we discussed during the last item, our contracts are set to sunset on December 31 of 2025. That
does not give staff enough time to get the request for information and go through that process. So as such,
we are asking for contract extensions so we can continue to provide the service while we go through the
request for information process that we discussed during the last item.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So the previous item basically authorized an RFP. Am I understanding
that correctly? Was that just us telling you, here's the terms of the program going forward for whatever
contracts you do authorize?
IAN HARWICK: GM Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, Director Harwick. Secretary Nicholson, during the course
of these discussions, when I have asked the Board to provide direction, we were unable to do anything with
these contracts, recognize the timeline was elapsing due to the fact that we had no understanding what the
program modifications would be.

Hence, in order for us to ensure the continuity of services, we need to extend set contract. It will give us an
opportunity to look at the program modifications should this move forward to the full Board, and it's acted
upon, for us to provide a procurement vehicle to discern what might be available getting back to the point
raised in the previous discussion, when Director Chandler was talking about the innovative aspect of it all.
We have a current contract vehicle that we need to extend so we can provide the services as they are
currently, and then more to the point, talk about the modifications within that six month window with the
extension. So this is a separate item, but we could not bring this item forward without having an
understanding what we were doing relative to the program in and of itself being accessed on demand.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson, do you have a follow up or are you good?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I do. So I guess the only question I have is really, what is the necessity of passing
an agenda item separate from the actual contracts that sets the for-- if we're passing this without a second
item that says, here's the pieces of the AOD program going forward, do you have the power under the
existing delegation of authority to just set the terms of the AOD program?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, can I ask for clarification? I'm not tracking with you. Because the current
TNC contract sunsets at the end of this calendar year. We are running against the clock whereby we're
coming up on October. We would not have an opportunity to modify the program, not to mention the current
contract scope did not include the parameters of which this committee just modified.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Right. Sorry. My apologies, Mr. Chair. May I continue? Yeah. What I'm basically
trying to draw out is if we can make these sorts of modifications without voting on the content of the program
within these extensions, not modifications, if we can make these extensions without voting on the-- as a
component of it, the structure of the program, do you even need to come to us to address?
When we do this again in January or February or whenever we do this again, why do we even need to be
the ones addressing the underlying structure of the program, or is that something that we chose and that's
why it was on the agenda in the first place? You set the terms of a lot of contracts without coming to us
about how much we're going to do and how much we're going to charge and what we're going to buy. We
got very deep into the weeds on AOD.
And I'm wondering, is there something in your delegation of authority that requires that, or will we have to
do that on every single contract? Or is this something that we really never even had to address in the first
place, and you could have done yourself?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may. Recognizing that the delegation of which I receive had a fixed dollar
amount of not to exceed, and that's being modified pursuant to the delegation of authority, I have to come
back to this body and seek authorization to move forward. So by virtue of what you've posed, it's relative to
the delegation of authority.
The delegating authority to me in my capacity as the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer from
the collective body being the Board of Directors. So I could not have modified this as the General Manager
and CEO without coming forward to the Board, because it was a not to exceed amount upon which was
delegated to me. And by virtue of the program and the costs that have been expended, I do not have current
authorization to continue on because we would run out. I do not have that authority to go beyond that
amount that was approved.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK. I'll address this with you over email, if that works, and then we can follow up at
the Board meeting if necessary. I think there's a bit of cross talk happening.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, and if I can just say really quickly, Chair, and then we can close it out.
IAN HARWICK: Great, yeah. Perfect.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So basically, it was also part, keeping in mind, of the peer review that I commissioned
back 14 months ago as it relates to what we were doing. Because for all intents and purposes, we've had
conversations relative to fare and what's going to be charged, and that was something that I committed to.
And the modifications you just adopted would be incorporated into the amendments relative to what we're
doing for the contract in and of itself, to have the third parties provide the service. So I will yield the floor.
Thank you, Mr. Chair, for indulging me.
IAN HARWICK: Nope. Any time. Director Nicholson, are you relatively happy?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'm always happy.
IAN HARWICK: OK are you done? How about that? All right. I'm aware of a no vote, so I'm going to do a
roll call. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah.
IAN HARWICK: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Sorry, I went out of order. Director O'Keefe. Sorry, I went out of order. I was like, I know
I'm missing somebody.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I was doing the alphabet in my head real quick.
IAN HARWICK: Sorry, I thought I could do it just from my brain, and that's not happening.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Obstinately consistent no.
IAN HARWICK: OK, all right. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: OK. And I'm Director Harwick. I'm also yes. That's five yeses and one no. The ayes have
it for this one. OK, so now we're moving on to discussion items. There are two items for discussion. The
first item is for the 2026 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, the PTASP. I would like to ask Timothy
Tyran, Director, Safety and Environmental Compliance and Chief Safety Officer, and Sky Mott, Manager,
Safety Management Systems, Program Development, Safety and Environmental Compliance to present
this item.

TIMOTHY TYRAN: Well, good evening, everybody. I am Tim Tyran. I am very humbled to be your new
Director of Safety and Environmental Compliance and Chief Safety Officer at RTD.
IAN HARWICK: Welcome.
TIMOTHY TYRAN: With me today is Sky Mott, who is the Manager of Safety Management Systems
Program Development, and we are presenting on the 2026 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, also
known as the PTASP.
Here's a quick outline of the topics that we'll be covering in today's presentation, or I should say this
evening's presentation. We'll go over the PTASP's background, we'll provide some updates, and our next
steps.
So let's first talk about the PTASP background. So what is the PTASP? Under 49 CFR Part 673, RTD is
required to develop and implement and maintain a comprehensive Public Transportation Agency Safety
Plan, designed to proactively manage safety risks and ensure the safety of public transportation operations.
Our PTASP really is the blueprint of how we are managing risks through our Safety Management System.
And we're going to talk about SMS in more detail a little later on in the presentation. But first, let me clear
up a common misconception about SMS. The Safety Management System, or SMS, is not a software. It is
not a tool. It is not an app. It is a formal approach to managing safety, and it's required by the Federal
Transportation Administration-- excuse me, Federal Transit Administration or FTA.
The PTASP is simply it's the written plan that documents how RTD applies SMS in practice. It's how we
show the FTA that we're meeting the federal requirement to manage safety systematically, and most
important, proactively. So SMS is the system, the way we manage safety and operational risks. The PTASP
is the plan, the document, the blueprint that we follow, and it's scaled to our organization. Again, neither of
these are software. They are a part of how we ensure that safety is embedded across every level at RTD,
from front line operations all the way to senior leadership.
As you can see on the presentation slide, safety at RTD is highly regulated. We fall under many safety
regulations from both federal and state agencies, such as the FTA and the state of Colorado. We're required
to follow and be in compliance to 49 CFR Part 670 through 674. We also must comply with the code of
Colorado regulations for CCR 720-7. And lastly, we also must comply with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
of 2001.
And it's also important to note the roles of the Board, and they are simple for the PTASP. The Board of
Directors appoints the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer, who is ultimately responsible for
safety. And the Board, number two, the Board of Directors annually approves the PTASP.
So our PTASP isn't a standalone document. It ties directly into RTD's mission, values, and strategic
priorities. RTD's mission is clear. We make lives better through connections. The PTASP reinforces that by
keeping our system safe and reliable. It also reflects our values of passion, respect, diversity, trust,
collaboration, and ownership. Safety really depends on those values being lived every day by every
employee.
The PTASP also supports our strategic priorities, which are customer excellence, community value,
employee ownership, and financial success. So by aligning the PTASP with these priorities, we
demonstrate that safety is not separate. It's woven into how RTD achieves its goals, and it's how we do
business every day.

So let's talk about the contents of the PTASP. The PTASP contains our safety targets and goals for the
year, providing a snapshot of our SMS. It also contains the SMS processes and activities we follow to
manage operational risk to acceptable levels. Lastly, and really, it's most important to know this, this is a
living and breathing document. It is a constant work in progress. We review the PTASP every year to ensure
its effectiveness under a continuous improvement cycle.
So what is an SMS? We talked a little bit before about it, and you can see there's a really formal definition
for it. In fact, the first word is formal. An SMS is a formal, top down, agency wide, data driven safety
management approach. In simple terms, SMS is all about managing risks in the operation, with the focus
on being proactive and taking proactive actions and measures.
The SMS contains four interconnected yet interdependent processes, and they are safety policy, safety risk
management, safety assurance, and safety promotion. And these SMS processes enable RTD to have a
safe and healthy workplace, prevent work related injuries and illnesses, and it helps us continually improve
safety performance. I will now turn it over to Sky for PTASP updates for 2026. Sky.
SKY MOTT: Thanks, Tim, and good evening, Directors. For 2026, we made targeted refinements to the
PTASP, basically to capture that snapshot in time that Tim talked about, about the continuous improvement
efforts concerning safety performance.
First, we updated the safety performance targets, leveraging relevant national transportation or transit
database data. What this means. So this basically is directly related to the 14 safety performance measures
that are required by the FTA for the covered transit modes, such as light rail, bus, paratransit.
These updates to the safety performance targets aid in supporting the safety management system, aid in
supporting the safety management system, and the safety risk management and safety assurance
components of the SMS. So basically, it helps us use a cycle of continuous improvement.
The next thing that we did is we worked with light rail operations to incorporate the new final rule
requirements related to rail transit roadway worker protection, and to the existing light rail roadway worker
protection manual. Just as a note, the RWP updates or Roadway Worker Protection updates can be found
in the PTASP exhibits.
Moving on from there, we also provided clarity on how employee concerns and safety events are captured
and how they're entered into the safety risk register. That's where we capture any concerns that employees
basically submit through our employee reporting system related to safety and/or security concerns.
Furthermore, we also updated language in the PTASP describing our safety committees. We basically
wanted to refine what was provided in there to align the scopes and the applicable responsibilities. This
tied in to what was in the update in 2024 for 49 CFR 673 as it related to the Safety Committee, which in
terms of 673 is what is describing the Joint Labor Management Safety Committee.
And then finally, we align the PTASP language with the latest Colorado Public Utilities Commission program
standard updates to incorporate considerations for the risk based inspection program. Along with that, we
also incorporated an updated language to be an alignment related to revised event reporting criteria.
The changes that I just mentioned above are basically intended to keep the agency focused on results, and
ultimately making sure that we're taking strides towards improving overall safety performance across RTD.
And with that, I will pass it back to Tim to close.

TIMOTHY TYRAN: Thank you, Sky. And this now concludes our short 2026 PTASP presentation. And we
would be happy to take any of your questions at this time.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson, you have the floor.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So I have a few questions, but I'll start with a simple one. I don't hear
much about safety incidents as a Board member. Pretty much on a regular basis, the only updates that I
get about safety are when someone is hit by a train and we get an email from GM and CEO Johnson about
a trespass, as it's formally called.
And I'm wondering, I saw a line, and I should have written it down, in the document that talks about the
different types of reports that the Board has as its responsibility, either directly or through the GM/CEO to
review. And so I'm wondering, as a matter of good governance and good practice, what information is it our
responsibility when it comes to safety, to be reviewing on a monthly basis? What should I be paying
attention to? What should I know about? Or should I only find out about stuff once a year, once a whatever.
My question is, as the Chief safety Officer, what is good practice for the Board to know about how things
are going with safety? What types of information should we be reviewing to understand how things are
going?
TIMOTHY TYRAN: Thank you, Director Nicholson, for the question. So as I had stated in the presentation,
the Board's responsibilities are really simple. You appoint the GM and CEO to be responsible for safety.
And we worked closely together on all things safety, but it is not the responsibility of the Board to review
the four bullet points that are listed in the PTASP. So I want to make it clear that it's not the Board's
responsibility to review the safety targets and goals.
Now, the other responsibility is to approve the PTASP as it is revised every year. Like I said, it's a living
and breathing document to where we assess its effectiveness. So the best way to describe it is you have
GM/CEO Miss Johnson, who is ultimately responsible for safety. We work closely together on ensuring we
meet our safety target and our safety performance goals. And if we're not meeting our goals, we're in a
constant mode of continuous improvement.
So I hope that answers your question. It is not the Board's responsibility to review the accidents and
incidents and all those investigation reports. It is up to the GM and CEO of RTD to be responsible for that.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Can I follow up?
TIMOTHY TYRAN: Absolutely, sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So then I guess my question is what information should we have beyond
just you review a PTASP once a year and we get emails when there's a trespasser strike? Is there any
additional information that the Board, in your opinion, should be receiving in terms of doing our part in order
to understand and provide proper oversight on safety?
TIMOTHY TYRAN: Thanks again, Director Nicholson. So please remember, once a year, we will be giving
the Board a presentation on our safety performance. If we have met our targets and goals, and if we have,
we'll celebrate and we'll promise to continue to do better. And if we haven't met them, we'll provide you with
a strategy and a plan. So there is a once a year review of the safety performance of the organization to the
Board.

IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Director O'Keefe.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I just may.
IAN HARWICK: Sure, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so further to the point that Mr. Tyran put forward, here at this organization, we
have come before this body on a biannual basis providing information. If you recall a couple of months
back, I would say it was in the March time frame where a member of the safety and environmental
compliance staff provided you with a grounding in various elements that centered upon the SMS, but
broader than what's required under the FTA, more forward thinking as well, with the Federal Railroad
Administration that oversees our commuter rail obligations from a regulatory vantage point. And we
provided information to you all regarding aspects of what our targets were in near-misses and things of the
like.
Keeping in mind the point that Mr. Tyran iterated is in relationship to the requirements as stated in the
various rules with by virtue of the role that I currently occupy, serving as the accountable executive, whereby
there are requirements pursuant to the Federal Transit Administration by which I work in tandem with Mr.
Tyran and with the Colorado Public Utilities Commission, serving in the capacity as our state system
oversight agency. Materials are provided as well in reference to our regulatory adherence. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you. Just real quick, and I'm sorry if it was in the presentation. I cut out for a
second. How do lessons learned or causal analysis, whatever term we use internally, how are those lessons
shared across all of our contractors? We have a lot of people providing services. We have a lot of people
providing back of house, maintenance, things like that that may or may not be within the RTD direct family.
How do we share those? Is there a safety point, a safety lead for each one that you meet with regularly?
What's the interaction with all our different moving parts?
TIMOTHY TYRAN: So I'm going to ask Sky if he can assist me with this, since I am so new to the
organization. Sky, can you assist with that question?
SKY MOTT: Sure. As it relates to contractors, they have their own safety department and safety team, and
they work through basically identifying the hazards, the associated risk. If there are events, they conduct
their own investigations. And they handle that all in-house.
Now, there is a concerted effort, in the spirit of continuous improvement, to do exactly what you just were
alluding to as far as being able to share lessons learned and information. But at this time, we haven't. We're
still in the development process of collaborating more closely, specifically the safety department with the
safety departments of the contracted service providers. But I would like to pass it to Erin, because I think
she can provide more insight as it relates to all the efforts related to safety and safety performance that the
contracted service providers currently do.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Good evening again. You guys get me again. Erin Vallejos, acting Deputy Assistant
General Manager of Bus Operations. So I will say that my team here at the organization is the primary point
of contact, at least for the fixed route private contractors, paratransit, and flexride.
And we do regularly share information, though. There is quite a bit of information that goes back and forth.
There are regular bulletins that come out from our Transportation Department that are shared with our

contractors. There are, again, maintenance bulletins, best practices, and things like that that are shared
with our contractors.
As Sky acknowledged, they do each have their own safety department. But we do definitely monitor trends,
monitor, say, accidents. And then the contractors also have very strict and their own safety committees. So
there's a big focus on this. There's always room for more coordination. But I think we do do a great job of
sharing information between RTD and the contractors.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: And it's a two way street. So if we have an incident, we push it out to them too. So
we're not just collecting, we're sharing back out? Is that what I'm hearing.
ERIN VALLEJOS: And I think the great thing too is a lot of our incidents that happen on the street, the fixed
route contractors' primary point of contact when they're in service is RTD dispatch. So we are getting all of
those incidents through there as well. And we also work with our Transit Police to try to identify trends,
areas where there might be a lot of activity for safety incidents. So yes, that is a two way street. We get all
of their incidents, and all of that information comes directly through our dispatch group.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: OK. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Oh, sorry, Director O'Keefe. You good? OK. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Miss Vallejos. That was essentially my question was how does
Transdev and their compliance kind of work together with us? Because obviously, RTD is in compliance,
and I assume Transdev would have to be in compliance. And how do we then do all of this reporting based
on RTD being the overarching organization? Do we then take their information and report on their behalf,
or how does that kind of work? And this is really directed at a lot of what Director Nicholson's concerns are
about the contracting with Transdev.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Yeah, absolutely. We are still required to report on all of the same items that RTD has
to report on to the National Transit Database for the contractors as well. So we do have someone on the
contracted services team. Obviously, we're all familiar, but there is someone that takes point on that. So
we gather that information every month that is reported via the same mechanism that RTD would report all
of that data. So we are regularly reporting that as well.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler, are you good? Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. Appreciate the presentation. Thank you for not presenting the entire PTASP
to us tonight. It's been a long evening. So this was the first time I've ever actually seen a document like this,
and I appreciate you all putting it together. I do have some feedback a little bit on process and a little bit on
what I saw.
So I did have a very short opportunity to sit down with some rail professionals just to strum through this,
because I, in my own capacity, do not feel like I have the ability to really understand a document like this
with such short notice. So I think I just have some feedback on process and on the document itself for the
committee members.
I would have liked to see more time to, I think, digest a document like this and then perhaps include it in
additional material like the presentation, maybe a change log or some sort of thing that we can see
improvements of this document versus the last time we've made this document so I can have an idea of
what's different.

And then also I just noticed some of the graphics, in the interest, in the effort of continuous improvement, I
will just mention that the graphics in the document were not necessarily professional. Thank you. Looks like
Jack, you have a question as well, just to make sure you see him.
IAN HARWICK: I see him. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: I was just going to politely-- I think I might have froze. I was just going to politely point out
that we do have a training on related topics scheduled for the Board coming up on the 24th of September.
So that's available. And then additionally, for Board members who have questions about this, the
aforementioned annual safety report was presented to this committee, I think, back in March or April of this
year. And there is a recording on the website.
And it was a really thorough presentation, about 90 minutes long, and we maintain these records for
purposes of being able to go back and refer to them. And internally, we're probably some of the biggest
users of the public facing Database of all of these records. And so I just offer that up for any Directors who
are looking for more information on this topic.
IAN HARWICK: GM Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, thank you very kindly. What I wanted to share was recognizing that the Public
Transit Agency Safety Plan is a large document. It's intentional that we brought this here as a discussion
item this month, because this will return in the month of October to give you adequate time and to go
through it.
And then more to the point, I do know, Director Paglieri, indicated that you met with some real professionals.
This is not your subject matter expertise. But I would also qualify there is a difference recognizing that the
PTASP is relative to the Federal Transit Administration that has auspices over bus and light rail transit
services.
And when we talk about commuter rail or passenger rail, that is within the auspices of the Federal Railroad
Administration. I broached that intentionally because there are separate regulations to which we adhere.
So I think that's something that I wanted to get on the record just for clarification and edification for all that
are assembled. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson, you're up. Just if we could keep it brief. Trying. We're going to talk again
next month. So I'd like to wrap this meeting up before three hours and 30 minutes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Sure. RTD experienced more than a dozen derailments and collisions in 2024, and
COPUC reports show dozens of open corrective action plans. What specific systemic changes in training,
oversight, or maintenance in the PTASP, or in the PTASP, excuse me, to prevent these incidents from
reoccurring, and how will the Board be updated on the progress?
SKY MOTT: This is Skyler Mott, Manager, Safety Management Systems Program Development. While we
don't directly go into explicit detail within the body of the PTASP, there are efforts that are happening outside
of the document to leverage the data from those lagging indicators of those events that you mentioned, in
order to put together leading indicators that actually have better controls to mitigate the overall risk
associated with those identified hazards associated with those events.
That would be found through event investigation reports. It would also be found through other types of
activities, safety risk assessments, things of that nature, to essentially put things in place that are not only

addressing the problem now, but can be leveraged for other similar types of events. And again, in the spirit
of continuous improvement, it's not just a one and done.
We take all of that data that we have. We look at it to see if there are any commonalities or if there's any
opportunity to leverage any of our internal expertise, whether it be bus, light rail, whatever it may be, in
order to implement and sustain any of those changes that hopefully improve the safety performance and
reduce the likelihood of those events that we don't want to see occur in the future. But that's at a high level.
But as far as the documents to support that, we do have a number of various ways that that information is
captured and being leveraged.
IAN HARWICK: GM Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. And further to the point that Mr. Mott raised, recognizing that it's about
continuous improvement and causal factors. We have a Leadership Safety Committee that I convene, and
it's with the modal leaders, as well as with our Chief Safety Officer and other safety and environmental
compliance staff.
And the intent behind that is looking at what we can do collectively, honing in on the different aspects, i.e.
human factors. What are we doing proactively to mitigate going forward, and how are we training to that?
We do have internal reviews that are had. We call them the audit before the audit, recognizing that being
an agency that provides transportation services to human beings, that we are heavily regulated and audited
going forward when you talk about corrective action plans. There could be one incident, but there could be
subsets within that relative to proactive measures we are taking to rectify the environment or understanding
what led to types of incidents and we train to that.
So if it's something in light rail, per se, we are leveraging our modal partner there and our leaders who are
working in tandem with a safety and environmental compliance staff person specifically. Going to roll calls
and things of the so we can ensure that we are going to where the people are and leveraging activities in
conjunction with our union partners through the Joint Labor Management Safety Committee as well.
And so I qualify that recognizing my role as the accountable executive and then meeting with Tim Tyran,
who has direct access to me, is very important as we move forward and as we talk about the various training
exercises that we're doing. More specifically, we have some safety exercises that are on tap so we can
ensure that people are prepared and have an understanding of what to do in the event that there is a
circumstance that would be qualified as hazardous or catastrophic, or any of the other adjectives one could
use to describe incidents that may occur just by virtue of the nature of the business that we're in. Thank
you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair Harwick. This is Director Paglieri. I just want to say thank you,
GM/CEO Johnson, for your response, and I will be reaching out to you during our one on one and Jack,
you as well, to understand the process around my question so I can better understand it. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Several major incidents-- sorry, several major events in 2024 were
reported late to the COPUC with no reason given. What measures in the PTASP to ensure timely,
transparent reporting of incidents to regulators and the Board and what accountability exists if deadlines
are missed?

SKY MOTT: Again, this is Skyler Mott, Manager of Safety Management Systems Program Development.
As we have internal audits that are done by RubinBrown, and that was something that was identified.
However, when we looked back at those late reports, we were able to determine, through coordination with
the Public Utilities Commission, that they did not have a detrimental impact to what the actual event was.
Meaning, where I'm going with that is that they were more concerned that we were actually addressing and
mitigating the immediate hazard, whether it be to the environment, people, or whatever. But we were
making sure that we were addressing that.
And when that's happening, due to the complexity of our system, the widespread nature of it, there's not
usually just one event happening. And I'm not saying a negative event, but there could be a parade or other
things going on. And through control, they're getting that information and to the best of their ability, routing
it to the street supervisor that's in the field, safety staff that's out there, whoever is supporting that particular
event.
That said, the Colorado Public Utilities Commission essentially works with us to help us and help them
better understand what our constraints are and how we can provide information in a more streamlined
fashion so that we don't repeat those delayed reports.
But then to more of your question, I believe, was what are the, I guess, the mitigations or the corrective
actions as a result of missing those deadlines. What would actually happen is that we would probably
receive a corrective action through an audit. So when they do their audits every other quarter or even
through our internal safety reviews, if that happened to be a checklist that we were reviewing, that would
be an opportunity to identify those gaps in our processes, and then through that corrective action, come up
with a continuous improvement effort to actually address it.
That's to the best of my ability answering your question. I don't know if I hit everything. If I'm missing
something, let me know, and I'll provide clarity.
TIMOTHY TYRAN: And if I could just follow up with that real quick. So I have been here for six weeks, and
I come with a lot of experience in SMS and working in multi-modes across the industry, mostly aviation. But
I'm very much committed to making relationships with our regulators my priority, because working with the
regulators on safety is going to make us safer, and it's going to make us better.
So things that have happened in the past I cannot speak to. But I promise that going forward, we are going
to ensure none of that ever happens again by myself and my team working closely with the regulators on a
professional basis, regular basis, ensuring that the information that they need is getting to them in the right
amount of time, with the right amount of information.
Now, remember what I said about SMS. SMS is about preventing accidents and incidents, and that's really
what my focus is going to be as the new Chief Safety Officer is, I'm going to come in with a fresh perspective.
I'm going to look at everything. I'm going to look at policies, procedures, the system. I'm going to establish
relationships. I'm going to work with everybody to improve.
And that's what it's about. It's about going forward, making sure that we constantly assess and make
improvements. And that's what this new 2026 PTASP is about. And I look forward to giving that training to
the Directors in a couple of weeks, because it is my favorite subject. I'm so passionate about SMS, because
it works.

And there are different levels of SMS. You have a very immature to a mature SMS. And I'm going to get
RTD going in that direction of a mature SMS as quickly as I can, but it's going to take some time. But you're
seeing that we do have challenges, but I'm coming in with a fresh perspective. And once I get that
experience and comfort in the system, looking forward, you can expect to have more communication from
me, and I will ensure that we're improving every day. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Great. Thank you, Director Tyran.
For our second and final discussion item is for the System Optimization Plan, the 2025 review and
recommendations. I would like to ask Doug Monroe, Manager, Corridor Planning, and Jessie Carter, Senior
Manager, Service Development, to present this item.
DOUG MONROE: All right. Thank you, Chair Harwick. Let me get the presentation up here.
OK. My name is Doug Monroe. I'm the Manager of Corridor Planning. And joining me tonight is Jessie
Carter, the Senior Manager of Service Development available to answer questions at the end of the
presentation. This presentation complements the extensive report that is included in the Board packet, and
covers the System Optimization Plan that was adopted by the Board in July of 2022.
What we're going to be covering tonight is some background on the System Optimization Plan, key
implementation themes, analysis and findings, and summary and recommendations.
Background on the System Optimization Plan. It began in the fall of 2019 as part of the Reimagine RTD
study. We had a five step process that's outlined at the bottom of this slide to develop service
recommendations. And the Board adopted the System Optimization Plan, the SOP, on July 26 of 2022.
And as part of that adoption, there was an amendment that required a three year review and update. And
this report and presentation is that three year review and update.
The goals of the System Optimization Plan were to increase transit utilization, improve service performance
and efficiency, operate within RTD's budget, address travel needs post 2020, and improve service quality.
The key SOP implementation themes have been post 2020 transit utilization. So things with return to office,
people continuing to work from home. Those evolving trends over the last five years or so after the
pandemic have certainly impacted how RTD delivers service and how our customers use it. People power,
especially in terms of operators for buses and trains, has been a continuing theme for implementation.
Our asset renewal projects, especially concerning our rail system, have impacted the way we deliver
service, especially over the last couple of years, and have certainly impacted how our customers are using
those services. And then the 16th Street reconstruction in downtown Denver has been a big, consistent
change or just a consistent challenge in downtown Denver as far as how we deliver service and how people
travel around downtown Denver.
Our trends. Starting in April 2020, we reduced our weekday service by 40% and began to restore service
in September of 2020. Our lowest system utilization was in the January 2021 service change period. So
that was the January to May 2021 service change period, where we were down 69% from our early 2020
ridership.
And then in July of 2022, the System Optimization Plan was adopted by the Board, and we began a phased
implementation with the August 2022 service change. From April 2023 up until May 2025, we had asset
renewal projects especially concerning our rail system and a new asset renewal project actually kicking off

in the last week or so in downtown Denver as well. So that's going to be continuing to be a theme. And then
from September 2022 to August 2025, the 16th Street reconstruction has been ongoing as well, with that
scheduled to reopen in the next month or so here.
The graph on the right shows RTD's ridership or our transit utilization over the last five years or so by our
service change periods for the weekday, Saturday and Sunday services that we offer.
The transit utilization trends and how they impact how our customers use our service and how we deliver
service. One of those themes can be illustrated with the two charts on the left of this slide. You can see that
the proportion of our utilization in the peaks has gone down and the utilization in the midday has gone up.
And that's a trend that's reflective not just in transit, not just in Denver, but in travel in general with people
not traveling as much during the peaks. And that certainly impacts the way that we need to provide service
to the customers.
And then on the right side of this shows how other transit agencies' annual boardings have been impacted
since 2017. You can see RTD with the orange line, of course not unlike other agencies, but has been
leveling out more than some others in the few years since the pandemic.
So to summarize, what we've seen through the implementation of the System Optimization Plan, we do
continue to see transit utilization increase, especially on our bus system and hopefully we will see that turn
around on the rail system as those asset renewal projects wrap up as well.
Remote work trends continue to evolve out there, so we're seeing more of that all day travel versus the
peaks, especially because we don't have those large peaks of people traveling into offices and home in the
morning and afternoon. And then our focus areas are going to continue to be leveraging that transit
utilization, focusing on route performance and route connections, and focusing on faster travel times. Our
future focused recommendations are to continue to leverage the transit utilization and build on areas where
we're seeing growth and then working or adapting our services to the evolving travel patterns and customer
needs.
And then our continuing efforts are to align with the five year financial forecast. And then in the near term,
we'll continue the phased SOP implementation, focusing on the current conditions, evolving travel patterns,
customer feedback, and demand, and then improvements in frequency route alignment-- improvements in
frequently and route alignment to improve reliability and service connections.
And then in the mid-term, I think as this Board is well aware, we will be undertaking a comprehensive
operational analysis commencing in 2026 through 2027 to look at all of our services and have, I guess, a
clearer picture of where things stand in the post 2020, post 2022 world and how we can best deliver services
to our customers in the district. So with that, Jessie Carter and I are available to answer any questions
about the presentation or about the report.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson, Dr. Nicholson, just yeah-CHRIS NICHOLSON: I know.
IAN HARWICK: Go, go.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I've been waiting for this one all night long. Sorry, I'll turn my video back on. I was
eating dinner. So one thing I noticed when reading this report was that you had a list of projects that were
part of the SOP that had not yet been implemented, and they appeared-- I can find the page. They appeared

as just a generic list. There was no order to them. There was no we're going to do this one first and this
one second and this one third and this one fourth.
And I think that if there's one thing that the public has asked me for is where are we bringing back service
next? What's the priority? And so I'm wondering, first off, do you not have a priority for those projects? Do
you not have those projects in a list somewhere or do you and they weren't included in the document?
DOUG MONROE: I think I'll ask Jessie Carter to step in on this one.
JESSIE CARTER: Chair, if I may.
IAN HARWICK: Please.
JESSIE CARTER: Director Nicholson, that's a great question, and I know you are earnest in explaining that
situation. We get asked that question all the time. When is this particular route coming back? And it's not
one that's easily answered, because we are looking at both our opportunity and the resources that we have
available to do certain things.
So in looking at, let's use an example, looking at the downtown where we're calling it now the free ride,
which used to be the 16th Street Mall, it has not been completed yet. And the next proposal is to take that
to a three minute headway frequency.
Would we consider that a higher priority over, let's say, a route coming from Longmont to downtown Denver,
if we're looking at limited resources? To that, we really have to weigh it and see how our resources line up
with our ability to provide that service, how the roadway, the completion of the project allows us to do all of
that.
So we do have things that we have in a list, and I have my own private little list of what we would like to see
in the next coming run Board. But it's more about opportunity to provide that service with the resources that
we have available, looking at the built environment in which we're going to operate in. Does that answer
your question?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Mr. Chair.
IAN HARWICK: Does that answer your question?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No. [LAUGHS] So I only want to push you back on this, because it's really important,
and I think it's something that many, many Board members-- so it sounds like the planning department does
have a prioritization for the unfinished pieces of the SOP. Can we see that list in order?
IAN HARWICK: Please.
JESSIE CARTER: And I'm just going to reiterate again that there is no list in order of importance. It's a list
in order of our ability to actually pull together and provide that service change. I'll ask, is that clear or do I
need to go more into that?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Can we see that list?

JESSIE CARTER: I will say that for each year, so far I've worked on 2026, it's an evolving document. So
that is something I can share if it's OK with-- I'm going to ask that my CEO and General Manager make
comment to whether or not that's something that she would want to share with you at this point in time.
IAN HARWICK: GM Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, thank you very kindly. Thank you, Mr. Carter. Thank you, Secretary Nicholson,
for the question. I think there's a couple of factors. Recognizing when we look at the service relative to
where we sit and what the resources are available, we had a discussion last night at the Finance and
Planning Committee where we talked about our financial outlook.
As we look at bringing service to certain levels relative to using what we have branded as a System
Optimization Plan, we have to look at it as a network. As Mr. Carter knows, a couple of months back, I want
to ensure that we're being intentional, utilizing the SOP with the intention in which one is designed and
looking at something more than just service changes on a triennial basis, but looking holistically at what our
plan is to return whatever service or expand service.
Where we currently sit in reference to our budgetary constraints, we are going to be having discussions
with this Board, and at this juncture, we would be remiss to put forward different elements that may be
optimal that have not gone through an equity analysis. As we look at the entire service area as a whole and
the connectivity relative to ensuring runtimes, or how we add blocks and trips into the schedule for the
betterment of the services that we should be providing relative to optimization with the resources relative
to cost per boardings and revenue service hours, considering where we are with the budget.
I provide that context to say that we can have a broader discussion around that, recognizing that we have
to ensure that we have a plan and this Board needs to be in a position, and I've had conversations with
many of you relative to what those trade offs may be, in reference to capitalizing on what services are
efficient relative to the overarching network.
So I have not seen a prioritization, for lack of a better term, and I will be working with my service planning
staff, in addition to the COO and the modal leaders, to make informed decisions about what we will present
to the Board, as this is operational in nature. But recognizing you all represent a constituency and need to
have an understanding of that, it needs to be done in a holistic fashion.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. I have a few questions and a few comments. I will start with my question.
On page 765 in the packet, I think this is the list that Director Nicholson referenced. It says the 20th Avenue
should eliminate service pattern to NREL and truncate route at Denver Union Station. That's concerning.
From first read, it makes me think that they will be no longer servicing NREL. Is that the case under the
eventual SOP?
DOUG MONROE: That was the recommendation in the SOP that was approved. Yes.
BRETT PAGLIERI: OK. My comment on that, and I might do more follow up, is NREL is especially important
to provide alternative transportation options given its importance to the region's renewable energy and other
alternative options. And I have seen proposals to potentially modify the 17 to accommodate NREL
passengers. But I will follow up on that, because it's just something I wanted to flag.

And then the other comment is related to the G line, and I cannot emphasize enough. I understand the
complications around the holistic prioritization, but we need to return 15 minute frequencies as soon as
possible. That is a high priority. It's high priority for myself and to speak for them who I share the route with,
Chair Harwick and I share the route with, Director Guzman. And I think we'd all agree that it's very important
to us, but I'll just leave it at that. And I would really hope to see that included at least next year. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: I'm going to give you one more question.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Roads are not all created equal. We have a variety of surfaces and
streets and expressways on which we run our buses in a variety of different cities, some of which are more
friendly to transit than others in terms of creating spaces, in terms of dedicated lanes, transit signal priority,
in terms of working with you to implement benches and other things.
My question is very simple. To what degree currently do we prioritize working, running transit in places that
offer high quality transit infrastructure? Or to what degree we basically say, we're going to run it regardless
of how difficult you make it for us?
DOUG MONROE: I'll add something to start and then see if anybody else wants to jump in. But I think we
provide transit based on where our customers need to go to and from, not necessarily based on what street
is the best for-- I mean, would provide the fastest trip or something like that. So we cover a very large
service area and try our best to get our customers from point A to point B. And yeah, I don't know if Mr.
Carter or GM/CEO Johnson has anything more to add to that.
JESSIE CARTER: I'm going to defer to CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. So thank you very kindly. So there's a couple of elements. When you recognize
what our charge is, is to deliver transit services. And quite naturally, just by virtue of the way this transit
agency is set up, we don't have auspices over the arterioles, and we want to ensure that we are providing
equitable, accessible, and cost effective mobility options.
With that as a backdrop, we are working with various municipalities, considering that there is a myriad of
them which are included within our service area. In doing so, there's a lot of different intelligent
transportation systems that can be leveraged. Mr. Monroe, in particular, is very familiar with the pilot
program we were doing with the City and County of Denver. And so when we look at transit signal
prioritization, a myriad of different elements, vehicle to vehicle infrastructure, looking at different street
treatments, all of that is critically important when we think about the throughput of the services that we are
providing.
More to the point is looking along the Colfax corridor, as we are having the first true bus rapid transit project
here in the state of Colorado. When you think about the infrastructure's going in to support the efficiency of
the service, you can clearly see that there are some critical investments that need to be done. And when
you think about the service area being 2,345 square miles, in some instances, we haven't been able to put
forward service because infrastructure is lacking, i.e. no bus pads, curb cuts, and things of the like. So we
work with the jurisdictions.
And one incident in particular I'm thinking of, when Mr. Carter and I were engaged several months ago,
looking at services that one municipality wanted. While we were willing to provide it, there is work that needs
to be done by that jurisdiction to ensure that we can provide those services in the manner in which we
would like to provide them. So it's really a partnership going forward, working with the departments of

transportation or public works or engineering or whatever the applicable department would be for whatever
jurisdiction is going forward. Mr. Carter, anything else?
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you. The only thing that I would add is, and I believe both Doug and CEO Johnson
mentioned it, and I'll go a little further in the example. The route 15, 15L services along Colfax, for example.
We probably have, and I'll just say this, a more cooperative relationship as far as signal timing with the city
of Denver than we have historically with the city of Aurora.
However, we have higher levels of new ridership coming out of the city of Aurora. So the area east of
Colorado going all the way to the Aurora boundary, we are seeing higher ridership there. So it's our duty in
order to make the network work best for the most people, to make sure that we are investing in the same
way that we invest with Denver, with the city of Aurora, as far as that service is concerned. And that's true
of any other service.
A lot of our larger services serve more than one municipality and go through different road types, as you
described. And yeah, there are some certain challenges that are built in to areas. And we do our best to
work through those. But the overall goal, I think Doug did say it very well, and we're going to do our best to
serve the customer need, regardless of the municipality that it's in or the roadway that it's on.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Awesome. Thank you. And I'll just say the document was great. Really appreciated
this report in particular. It was incredibly enlightening.
IAN HARWICK: OK, I'm going to strike while the iron is hot. Moving on, are there any other matters to
discuss? Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I don't know if this is an appropriate time, but I just wanted to mention that along
with the horrible situation that happened at Evergreen High School, a good friend of mine, Charlie Kirk, was
murdered today. And I don't know if we-- I just wanted to remind ourselves that we are RTD district, and I
appreciate the non-partisanship of our Board and how we work in collaboration.
And I find it disheartening the amount of violence that's in our society today. And I just wanted to bring that
above Board that there's just a lot of things going on, and I really appreciate the collaboration of the staff,
the collaboration of the Directors. Even though we disagree, I think that we are very respectful and
collaborative, and I appreciate that. And with that said, I would ask that we just continue to try to work
together even more and just keep the excessive amount of violence and those that are perpetrating it, those
that are victims of it in our prayers.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Director Chandler, and I'm sorry for your loss. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I will be really quick and brief. I do not know if Chair Bouquet is still on tonight with
us, but a recommendation that I would ask of our Executive Committee members that are present. Last
year, the Board had the opportunity to work with our fine RTD Police Department with how we operate
within the Board room and at Blake Street, and I would request that we revisit those recommendations on
what to do.
We are elected officials. We are fulfilling a duty to our constituencies. Given the heated debates that we
have overseen for the last almost year regarding certain aspects of our service, and very much to Director
Chandler's point, we're a nonpartisan Board trying to serve everybody, which means that we're not always
going to get it right, and we're going to have a few people that are very angry with us.

I want to request in this committee, because of safety and security for ourselves and for the public that are
often present for our meetings, that we take a moment, please, I would appreciate it sooner rather than
later, to go over some of those safety protocols that newer Directors may not be aware of. And also as a
reminder to all of us, because practice builds the muscle, and the muscle is what we need to be able to
protect ourselves and our constituents in those situations and each other. Thank you. That's all I have to
say.
IAN HARWICK: GM Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Director Guzman, for broaching
that matter. I wanted to state that a conversation had already ensued with Chief Martingano, and we have
this slated to take place. So not trying to usurp what you said, but no need to have it for the Executive
Committee, because that has already been coordinated. So thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. And thank you for that, GM Johnson. I'm not seeing any other hands. So the
next Operation Safety and Security Committee meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, October 15, 2025. At
that meeting, we will take action on the PTASP update discussed tonight and hear a discussion on a draft
customer MOU led by Vice Chair Chandler.
And seeing no other discussion, this meeting is adjourned at 9:15 Mountain Standard Time. Everybody
take care. Appreciate you all.

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Attachments:

Mary Henneck
Chris Nicholson; JoyAnn Ruscha; Michael Guzman; Chris Gutschenritter; Matt Larsen; Kathleen Chandler; Julien
Paulding Bouquet; Patrick O"Keefe; Karen Benker; Vince Buzek; Troy Whitmore; Ian Harwick; Brett Paglieri;
Peggy Catlin; Lynn Guissinger; RTD.Directors
Access on Demand counterproposal
Monday, August 11, 2025 4:01:14 PM
AOD counterproposal.pdf

Dear Directors:
Although neither RTD staff nor the Finance and Planning committee have produced any credible,
transparent accounting to demonstrate that cuts to AOD are truly necessary, many board members
have accepted this without scrutiny.
If the Board proceeds down the path of pursuing cuts to any part of paratransit, it has a responsibility
to first examine alternatives that do not adversely impact the riders who depend on it.
The following counterproposal would reduce paratransit costs by $6.3Meven more than CEO
Johnsons proposed 40% cut to AOD.

Regards,
Mary Henneck
Disability Advocate

Counterproposal: Smarter Paratransit Strategy Through Rider
Transition to Access On Demand
Executive Summary
RTD CEO Johnson requested a 40% funding cut to its most efficient paratransit option, Access On Demand
(AOD). Instead, we propose a pilot initiative that transitions a portion of Access-A-Ride (AAR)
ridersspecifically those who do not require wheelchair-accessible vehicles or door-to-door supportinto
AOD. This could maintain service, reduce complaints, and save over $6.3 million, meeting cost-saving goals
without cutting programs.

Cost-Benefit Snapshot
 AAR average trip cost: $106
 AOD average trip cost: $22
 Savings per transitioned trip: $84
 15% shift from AAR (75,000 trips) = $6.3 million in savings
This savings is equivalent to the $6.1 million that would result from a 40% reduction to AODwithout
eliminating rider options.

Why This Makes Sense
 Participation would be entirely voluntaryriders would be offered the opportunity to try Access On
Demand if it suits their needs.
 This is not a reduction or removal of AAR services, but an expansion of choice for riders who may
prefer a faster, more flexible option with reliably consistent pick up and drop off times.
 The pilot would respect rider autonomy and ensure that those who require the higher level of AAR
support, such as a door-to-door personal attendant, or those requiring WAVs, continue to receive it.
 Most AAR riders are unaware of AOD as a viable alternative (as highlighted by a speaker in the last
public meeting).
 AOD offers same-day, flexible service at a much lower cost.
 Education, outreach, and travel training could empower numerous riders to use AOD insteadmost of
which can be funded through existing waivers or grants (see Addendum for funding sources).

A Holistic Vision: AAR On Demand
By reducing strain on AAR:
 We create capacity to improve service for high-needs riders.
 Possibility of piloting AAR On Demandsame-day AAR trips for those requiring a higher level of
support or WAVs.
 We address the top AAR rider complaints: long trip durations and late drop-offs.

Proposal
Lets launch a 12-month pilot program:
 Target 15% AAR-to-AOD rider transition.
 Include communications, education, and travel training.
 Measure cost savings, rider satisfaction, and trip timeliness.

Closing: Why Wouldnt We?
This plan does not take away services from those who need them.
It enhances equity, efficiency, and access.
If we truly value our riders with the greatest needs, why wouldnt we improve their serviceand save money
doing it?

ADDENDUMFunding Sources

This pilot could be funded through a mix of available sourcesincluding federal FTA Section 5310
funds, Medicaid waiver-supported travel training, and aging innovation grantswithout drawing from
RTDs general fund. We urge the agency to pursue these resources before cutting existing programs.

Federal Sources
1. FTA  Mobility for All/Mobility Innovation Grants
 Purpose: Support innovative coordinated transportation projects for older adults, people with
disabilities, and low-income individuals.
 Administered by: Federal Transit Administration (FTA)
 Good fit because: This pilot aims to reduce costs and improve choice through rider education and
system innovation.
 Example program: Accelerating Innovative Mobility (AIM)

2. FTA  Section 5310 (Enhanced Mobility of Seniors & Individuals with Disabilities)
 Purpose: Funds capital and operating expenses that improve mobility for seniors and people with
disabilities.
 Often administered through state DOTs or MPOs.
 Use cases: Travel training, outreach, mobility management, purchase of service (such as AOD trips).

3. CMS  Medicaid Waiver Programs (e.g., HCBS)
 Purpose: Fund transportation as a part of home- and community-based services for people with
disabilities or older adults.
 May cover: Travel training, non-emergency medical transport, or even AOD service for
Medicaid-eligible riders.
 Colorado has multiple waivers under which this could be explored.

4. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services  ACL Grants
 Administered by: Administration for Community Living

 Focus: Community living, aging in place, and transportation coordination.
 Example programs: Innovations in Nutrition, Alzheimers Disease Programs Initiative, etc.

State and Local Sources
5. Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT)  Transit Grants
 Administers Section 5310 funds
 Also offers: Multimodal Transportation & Mitigation Options Fund (MMOF), Human Services
Transportation coordination funds.

6. Colorado Department of Health Care Policy and Financing (HCPF)
 Administers Medicaid and waiver programs in Colorado.
 May support transportation innovation through care coordination, case management, or telehealth
access support.

7. Area Agencies on Aging (AAAs)
 Administer local Older Americans Act funds, which can be used for transportation services or rider
outreach.
 Often fund travel training, mobility managers, and transportation vouchers.

8. County Human Services or Mobility Coordination Programs
 Some counties (e.g. Jefferson, Denver) may have funding or staff for mobility innovation pilots, often
through Community Services Block Grants or Aging & Disability Resource Centers (ADRCs).

Philanthropic or Private Sources
9. Colorado Health Foundation

 Has funded mobility, aging-in-place, and equity-focused projects across the state.
 May support a pilot that improves independence, access to care, or equity in paratransit.

10. The NextFifty Initiative
 Colorado-based foundation focused on older adults and aging-related innovation.
 Open to pilots that improve mobility, health access, or social connection.

11. Transit Tech/Health Innovation Partnerships
 Companies like Via, Uber Health, or Modivcare have co-funded pilots or partnered with agencies for
transportation access and innovation.
 May provide in-kind support, discounted rides, or data-sharing tools.

September 2, 2025
Director Karen Benker
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake St
Denver, CO 80202
RE: Access-on-Demand Program Recommendations
Dear Director Benker,
On behalf of the City and County of Broomfield, I would like to express our strong support for the RTD Boards amendments to
the proposed Access-on-Demand (AOD) program changes. The staff-recommended program changes presented at the July 29
Board meeting would have a significant impact on Broomfields most vulnerable residents, and we greatly appreciate the
Boards responsiveness in considering community input and working to mitigate those impacts.
In particular, we are grateful for Director Nicholsons amendment to maintain the current Access-on-Demand boundary rather
than restricting it to align with the Access-a-Ride (AAR) service area. Maintaining the broader service area is critical, as much
of Broomfield (approximately 10 square miles) lies outside the Access-a-Ride boundary due to limited fixed-route coverage,
making Access-on-Demand the only viable option for many residents. Keeping the current boundary would allow anyone who
qualifies for paratransit services within the RTD service area to use AOD, regardless of where they live. This is especially
critical for Broomfield residents, who are most limited in their access to this essential service.
While Access-on-Demand is a premium service offered in addition to the federally mandated Access-a-Ride, feedback from the
Broomfield community and testimony shared at the July 29 Board meeting make it clear that the program is essential for many
residents with intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDD). Without it, residents, especially future residents of The Grove
at Cottonwood, a new IDD housing community that is currently under construction, located just 500 feet outside the
Access-a-Ride service limits, would face a significant reduction in mobility and independence.
We acknowledge RTD staffs concern that many trips requiring wheelchair-accessible vehicles (WAVs) are provided by RTDs
Access-a-Ride fleet, and that serving trips outside the Access-a-Ride boundary can place additional strain on that program. At
the same time, it is important to recognize that the majority of Access-on-Demand trips do not require WAVs. For this reason,
reducing the Access-on-Demand boundary does not appear to be the most effective strategy for ensuring Access-a-Ride vehicle
availability. Instead, Broomfield encourages RTD to explore alternatives for providing WAV service within the Access-on-Demand
program through its contracted vendors.
Taken together, the amendments reflect the Boards thoughtful consideration of public feedback and its commitment to
protecting access for vulnerable riders. Specifically, Broomfield strongly supports the following amendments proposed by the
Board:
1. The Access-on-Demand service area shall include all areas that lie within the Regional Transportation District
(Broomfields top priority)
2. Reduce base fare from $6.50 to $2.50
3. Reduce LiVE fare from $3.25 to $1.25
4. Explicitly state that there is no waiting period to begin using AOD
Although not a formal amendment, Broomfield also supports the Boards request that staff and the OSS Committee revisit the
proposed trip subsidy reduction and continue to advocate for maintaining the subsidy at twenty-five dollars.
Finally, we must also reiterate Broomfields ongoing concern about the roughly 10-square-mile gap in Access-a-Ride coverage in
central and north Broomfield. Transit access in Broomfield is already limited, nearly 80% of Broomfield lies beyond a half-mile
of fixed-route transit, and our residents pay a premium to RTD. Yet those who rely on transit the most, individuals with

disabilities, remain without Access-a-Ride service. Closing this gap is critical to ensuring equitable service across the district
and to upholding RTDs commitment to its most vulnerable riders.
Broomfield values the RTD Boards leadership in shaping policies that reflect the needs of RTD customers and equally
appreciates the dedication of RTD staff in implementing them. We understand the Boards amendments have been referred to
committee for financial review, and Broomfield would like to affirm our support for the essence of these amendments and
encourage their adoption. We sincerely appreciate the Board and staffs commitment to keeping Access-on-Demand a vital
source of mobility and independence.

Sincerely,

Guyleen Castriotta
Mayor of the City & County of Broomfield
CC: 




RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager, CEO
Jessie Carter, Senior Manager, Service Development
Erin Vallejos, Acting Deputy Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
Michael Davies, RTD Government Liaison

Page | 2

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Jennifer Ramon
RTD.Directors
Please don"t change the fees and subsidy
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 5:18:45 PM

We disabled people rely on that benefit for so many reasons, one being that it's more reliable
than taking the actual access a ride bus
If I need to be at a drs appointment in town, they'll still pick me up 2 hours before time and
drop me off after the ride actually really takes 25 minutes.
You wait over the allowed time for them to pick up as well. I once waited 4 hours at a grocery
store for the bus.
Jennifer Ramon

From:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Date:

Kori & Tracy Gonzales
RTD.Directors; Ian Harwick; Kathleen Chandler; Vince Buzek; Chris Nicholson; Patrick O"Keefe; Brett Paglieri;
Troy Whitmore
Karen Benker; Kori & Tracy Gonzales
Protect AOD service and expand AAR service - Broomfield
Monday, September 8, 2025 5:12:55 PM

Dear RTD Operations, Safety and Security Committee and RTD Board of Directors,
As the mom and caregiver of my 32-year-old paratransit user, her only means of transportation, I
want to give input into the scenarios for AOD services being considered at the OSS meeting
Wednesday.
Ive included my previous email communication to refresh your memory of the impact of the
decisions being made.
I implore you to support the scenarios that maintain the AOD service area to be the entire RTD
service area. If you dont, my daughter, and many others like her, will not be able to live where they
will receive the supports needed to live independently.
Ive heard a lot of talk about the LiVE program helping defer some of the additional costs being
evaluated. I researched the LiVE program and according to Peak Colorado; to qualify for the
program, you must live in the RTD service area. RTD Districts include parts of Broomfield. If the
RTD Board chooses one of the scenarios that doesnt maintain the entire RTD service area, youve
also taken away her ability to qualify for the LiVE program.
Because Broomfield lacks in RTD service  80% of our population is not within  mile of an RTD stop
and we only receive $0.37 in services for every $1.00 paid to RTD IF RTD chooses to limit AOD service
to be the same as AAR, I ask you to include a process for property owners and service providers to
request a point of deviation beyond the  mile AAR boundary. The Grove at Cottonwood in only 500
feet outside the current AAR service area. Making an allowance to include both AAR and AOD at this
location will have a profound impact on the lives of some of our most vulnerable.
I ask for your support so my daughter can live a better life.
Thank you,
Kori Gonzales

From: Kori & Tracy Gonzales
Sent: Tuesday, July 29, 2025 2:07 PM
To: Karen.Benker@rtd-denver.com; RTD Board Office;
RTD.Directors@rtd-denver.com
Cc: Kori & Tracy Gonzales
Subject: RE: Protect and Expand Access-a-Ride and Access-On-Demand for Broomfield Residents

Dear Members of the Board of RTD,
As a mom and caregiver of my 32-year-old daughter who has an Intellectual and
Developmental Disability (I/DD) Im writing to urge RTD to keep the current Access on Demand
service without modification. AOD has become a safety net for my daughter when AAR fails to
provide timely service, or she needs same day transportation.
Imagine, youre the parent of my daughter and she has the opportunity to move to a planned
community that will provide the supports needed for her to live independently. But you
overhear a couple of parents in your same situation mention this planned apartment complex
is not within the  mile boundary required for Access-a-Ride  something that hasnt crossed
your mind because you live in the metro area. You do some research to see if theyre correct
and you find that central Broomfield  the town your daughter was born and raised in and has
lived in her whole life, doesnt have RTD service at the location of the Grove at Cotton at 14th
and Cottonwood  where the apartments are being built. You give up hope. And then, start to
search for solutions to another obstacle  because thats what you do because youve done it
her entire life. Then you remember theres Access on Demand. Your dreams of a safe and
secure environment for your daughter have been answered and shell be able to move to the
Grove and youre at peace knowing once youre no longer alive, your daughter will have a safe
place to call home that will provide the additional supports she needs.
With AOD my daughter can now travel to her chiropractor for same day appointments. She
can make last minute plans to get together with a friend. She can get to work close to being on
time when AAR fails to show up during her pickup window. Just last week half of her
scheduled pick-ups were past her pick up window and the other half the driver went to the
wrong location.
If the proposed changes take place an entire area of central Broomfield is now inaccessible for
those who rely on the AOD program they qualify for because they qualify for AAR. My daughter
needs AAR and AOD because her work and her doctor and dentist are outside of Broomfield
making Flex Ride not an option.
The solution to this problem faced by my daughter and many others like her is to:
Establish a fixed-route RTD service through central Broomfield
Expand or waive the  mile boundary requirement for Access-A-Ride
Keep AOD as is because it gives those who need it an opportunity to have the
freedoms many of us take for granted

Thank you,
Kori Gonzales

From:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Date:

Kristin Hyser
RTD.Directors; Ian Harwick; Kathleen Chandler; Vince Buzek; Chris Nicholson; Patrick O"Keefe; Brett Paglieri;
Troy Whitmore
Sue Myers; Mike Myers; Kori & Tracy Gonzales; Susanne Eck; Gina Coufal; Amanda Ropek; Allison Baxter; Sarah
Grant; Guyleen Castriotta; Karen Benker
Urgent: Ensure Equitable Access in AOD Program Modifications
Monday, September 8, 2025 10:45:47 AM

WARNING: This email originated from outside of the RTD organization. The sender could not be validated and may
not match the person in the "From" field. Use caution with any information or links contained in this email.
Dear RTD Operations, Safety and Security Committee:

As you consider the proposed modifications to the Access-on-Demand (AOD) Program this
Wednesday, I urge you to include a process allowing property owners or service providers
to request a point of deviation beyond the -mile ADA boundary. Without this change,
some of Broomfields most vulnerable residents will be left without the very service this
program was created to provide.
The Broomfield Housing Alliance, the independent housing authority serving our community,
is building 40 units of deeply affordable rental housing at The Grove at Cottonwood. This
community is specifically designed to support independent living for individuals with
intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDD). The site, located at 1355 Cottonwood, is
a mere 500 feet outside of the current AOD service areaa technicality that would have
devastating, real-life consequences for future residents.
If the proposal moves forward as written, these individuals will be denied access to AOD
services, cutting them off from transportation to jobs, vital medical care, service programs,
and community participation. A service meant to promote independence and inclusion
would instead create unnecessary barriers and inequity.
I strongly urge you to revise the proposal to include a clear, fair process for
requesting a point of deviation when a community like The Grove is directly
impacted. This is a small, reasonable adjustment with a profound impact: ensuring
that AOD truly fulfills its purpose to enhance residents' ability to travel
independently and perform daily tasks by offering more flexible and on-demand
options.
This decision will set a precedent. Lets ensure it reflects RTDs vision to be a trusted leader in
mobility, delivering excellence and value to your customers and community.

Thank you for your leadership and consideration.
Sincerely,
Kristin Hyser

Kristin Hyser
Executive Director



www.broomfieldhousingalliance.org

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Sue
RTD.Directors; Ian Harwick; Kathleen Chandler; Vince Buzek; Chris Nicholson; Patrick O"Keefe; Brett Paglieri;
Troy Whitmore
RTD Board of Directors
Monday, September 8, 2025 1:29:24 PM

RTD Board of Directors
As parents of a 36 year old paratransit user, we wanted to give input into the scenarios for
AOD services being considered at the OSS meeting Wednesday evening.
We urge you to support the scenarios that maintain the AOD service area to be the entire RTD
service area. Many paratransit riders live or work or have appointments more than 3/4 mile
away from an RTD bus route including our son who lives in Superior. Currently he is able to
use AOD independently and successfully to go to work. If that service is restricted to 3/4 mile
boundary, he will not have any safe and doable way to get to work. It seems unfair to restrict
some paratransit eligible riders from this service due to the 3/4 mile boundary.
We also support looking at ways to promote AOD services over the more cumbersome and
less flexible AAR services that cost RTD significantly more than AOD services on a fixed and
per ride basis
Finally in the program report from Ms. Johnson in August she introduced a program cost
called WAV which we had not heard of before and yet 12- 16 million is being forecasted for
that element. We would strongly suggest that the WAV program be described and contrasted
as it was not included in the June report to the board nor the most recent board meeting.
We ask for your support on no boundary for AOD. We appreciate your consideration and look
forward to the explanation of the WAV program.
Regards,
Suzan and Michael Myers

Sent from my iPad

September 9, 2025
Director Karen Benker
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake St
Denver, CO 80202
RE: Access-on-Demand: Cost Updates
Dear Director Benker and Director Nicholson,
Thank you for sharing the recent August 27, 2025, memorandum from General Manager Johnson outlining projected costs for
the various Access-on-Demand (AoD) program scenarios.
After reviewing the scenarios presented, the City and County of Broomfield must express concern with Scenario 2, the current
staff recommendation. Restricting the service area to the 3/4-mile Access-a-Ride (AAR) boundary would have too great a
negative impact on Broomfield residents with disabilities. For many of these individuals, AoD is the only viable form of
transportation available. Limiting the program in this way would sharply reduce mobility and independence for some of
Broomfields most vulnerable residents.
The City and County of Broomfield would like to express our support for Scenarios 4 or 6, which preserve the full RTD service
area, offer 24/7 availability, and provide affordable fare options for both standard and LiVE customers. We believe these
scenarios best reflect the Boards intent to prioritize equity and ensure mobility and independence for residents with
disabilities throughout the District.
At the same time, we recognize the fiscal challenges identified in the memo, particularly with respect to the increased costs of
providing wheelchair-accessible vehicle (WAV) trips. To help balance these concerns, we suggest that WAV service under these
scenarios be limited to the existing 3/4-mile Access-a-Ride (AAR) boundary. However, if WAV service is restricted in this way,
we request that RTD allow point deviations or coverage of designated high-need housing sites in Broomfield, such as The Grove
at Cottonwood, to ensure that residents who rely most on accessible transportation are not left without service. This 100%
income-aligned housing development, currently under construction, serves as a lifeline to the IDD community and lies just 500
feet outside the current Access-a-Ride service limits.
We also recognize that additional cost reductions may be necessary. If that becomes the case, Broomfield would support raising
the standard and LiVE fares to $4.50 and $2.25, respectively, and reducing the service window, while maintaining the full RTD
service area. We believe these adjustments would strike a more equitable balance than restricting the service area itself.
In addition, Broomfield encourages RTD to fully leverage its negotiating power with transportation network company (TNC)
providers to secure the best possible price and value for trips. RTD is uniquely positioned to deliver a consistent pipeline of
customers who would not otherwise be able to afford these services, creating a mutually beneficial partnership. By ensuring
that contracts with TNC providers reflect both the scale of demand and the public service mission of the program, RTD can
help stretch limited resources further while maintaining equitable access for riders.
Broomfield values the RTD Boards leadership in weighing both the financial realities and the essential mobility needs of our
most vulnerable residents. Thank you again for keeping us informed and for your continued commitment to equitable
transportation options across the District.
Sincerely,
Guyleen Castriotta
Mayor of the City and County of Broomfield

CC: 




RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager, CEO
Jessie Carter, Senior Manager, Service Development
Erin Vallejos, Acting Deputy Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
Michael Davies, RTD Government Liaison

Page | 2

From:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Date:

Ross Starritt
RTD.Directors
Karen Benker
Transferring between lines is broken in Longmont
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 8:35:21 PM

RTD Board of Directors,
The August service change broke transfers between the local bus service and regional bus
service in Longmont. Historically, all busses stopped at 8th and Coffman, and schedules were
written for a half hourly pulse from that station. Coffman St has been under construction, and
for that construction, all busses were moved to 8th and Bross, a quarter mile away, and across
a park. In the August service change of this year the regional busses now serve 8th and
Coffman again, and the local busses were left at 8th and Bross.
Today was my first trip to Boulder from Longmont of the new schedule, and my first bus, 326,
ran 5 minutes late. This is typical. Normally this wouldn't be an issue, but RTD moved the
regional routes to the other side of a park, a quarter mile away, and there's only 10 scheduled
minutes to make that transfer. The most direct route requires walking through a parking lot
without any sidewalk to bypass walking through the lot. This is going to turn my hour and a
half commute into a 2 hour commute, at least some of the time. I was able to make it today,
but that was luck and hustling across the park. There is no dignity in running across a park and
through a parking lot, carrying a backpack, trying to catch a bus.
This is all the more shocking because BOLT and LD were not originally included in the
service change. I have attached a photo of the public comment poster. It was displayed and
photographed today.

I predict that this change will negatively affect ridership in Longmont. Traveling to Boulder is
now much more inconsistent, and makes continuing to choose RTD for my commute difficult.
Coming home from Boulder, my bus was 12 minutes behind schedule, and the 326 was
already halfway to my home based on bus tracking. I may have to start using LD1 for some

intra-Longmont trips, instead of 326.
This is just another example of how RTD doesn't put any effort into transit in Longmont. They
then turn back at us and say "we don't see the ridership we need to support you." Most routes
end service by 8 PM, which synergies horribly with the added difficulty in transferring.
Thank you,
Ross Starritt

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

tkeenan
RTD.Directors
Public Comment for Sept 10 OSSC Meeting
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 8:31:06 AM

Dear Members of the Operations, Safety & Security Committee,
I'm writing to urge you to recommend Scenario 4 from staff's August memo and to ask pointed
questions about the suspicious accounting changes that have suddenly inflated program
costs.

My Story
I'm a blind Access-on-Demand user who works night shifts at Amazon in Aurora. Some of my
shifts start at 2:30 AM, others end at 12:30 AM (sometimes flexing to 1:30 AM). Under staff's
preferred Scenario 2, I'd lose access to subsidized transportation for all these shifts. When I
have to pay the full $30 Uber fare home after a midnight shift, that's nearly three hours of
wages at $22/hour - a devastating hit to my paycheck. I'm not alone - at least three other blind
workers at my Amazon facility work these same overnight shifts, and undoubtedly others
throughout the system depend on 24/7 service.

The Broken Promise
Ten months ago, RTD asked Denver voters to approve Ballot Measure 7A to avoid refunding
excess revenue to taxpayers, explicitly promising to "maintain the availability of services for
people with disabilities." Sixty-nine percent of voters said yes, including endorsements from
the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition based on that promise. RTD now keeps at least an
extra $50-60 million annually that would have been refunded to taxpayers. Yet they want to
break their promise to retain services in order to save 2.4% of RTD's budget. This isn't fiscal
responsibility - it's a betrayal of voter trust.

The Suspicious Numbers
Staff's August memo contains glaring problems that demand scrutiny:
1. Manipulative Accounting: Staff suddenly includes $12-16 million in wheelchair
accessible vehicle (WAV) costs that were never counted before, nearly doubling program
costs overnight. Yet the Access-a-Ride budget remains unchanged at $53.4 million. Where
were these WAV costs previously budgeted? If they're shifting from AaR to AoD accounting,
why isn't the AaR budget reduced correspondingly? This appears to be double-counting
designed to inflate AoD costs.
2. Basic Errors: Scenario 2's assumptions reference "18 trips per customer per month based
on a lower per month trip cap" - but Scenario 2 has 60 trips, not a reduced cap. This is copied
from Scenario 1's text. If staff can't get basic parameters right, how can we trust their cost
projections?
3. Unsupported Claims: The memo claims Access-a-Ride on-time performance dropped
from 90% to 86% and attributes this decline to AoD WAV demands. But this is pure

speculation with no evidence provided. Staff offers no data showing causation between AoD
usage and AaR performance problems. They're essentially guessing and presenting it as fact to
support their predetermined conclusion.

The Math Doesn't Add Up
Even staff's inflated numbers show the program represents a tiny budget impact:
Current AoD cost: 1.9% of RTD's $1.3 billion budget
Scenario 4 (reasonable compromise): 2.4% of budget
Scenario 6 (most generous): 2.8% of budget
Staff threatens to cut 3.3% of bus service if they don't get Scenario 2, but that same amount
could fund the most generous AoD scenario twice over. This isn't about fiscal crisis - it's about
staff manufacturing reasons to decimate a program that for some reason they seem hellbent
on cutting.

Why Scenario 4 Makes Sense
Fair pricing: $4.50 matches Access-a-Ride fares - we're not asking for special
treatment
Preserves essential service: Maintains 24/7 access and full service area for people
who depend on it for work and independence
Reasonable cost: At 2.4% of RTD's budget, this is hardly breaking the bank
Honors voter promises: Maintains the paratransit services voters specifically funded
through 7A

Hold Staff Accountable
Ms. Johnson has a pattern of giving non-answers to direct questions. When you ask about the
WAV cost accounting, the errors in assumptions, the unsupported claims about performance
impacts, or anything else, don't accept evasive responses. Keep asking until you get straight
answers. You deserve accurate information to make informed decisions.

The Bottom Line
Access-on-Demand isn't broken - it's RTD's most efficient paratransit service. Staff is
manufacturing a crisis to justify cutting a program that enables disabled people to work, live
independently, and contribute to the community. We're willing to pay our fair share with a
$4.50 fare, but we shouldn't pay premium prices ($6.50) for what staff admits is RTD's most
cost-effective service.
Scenario 4 represents a reasonable compromise that maintains essential services while
addressing legitimate fiscal concerns. More importantly, it honors the promise RTD made to
voters just ten months ago.
Thank you for your consideration and your commitment to serving all RTD customers.
Sincerely,

Tim Keenan
Access-on-Demand User

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Derek Selbo
RTD.Directors
Regarding tonight"s meeting and the manipulative changes, Rtd are attempting to portray related to AOD.
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 9:36:31 AM

To the Board of Directors

This letter addresses a critical and deeply concerning discrepancy in the recent cost
analysis provided to the Board regarding the Access on Demand (AoD) program. The
recent memorandum has introduced an accounting manipulation that appears to be a
blatant attempt to justify predetermined cuts to a highly successful and necessary
service.
Specifically, the sudden inclusion of Wheelchair Accessible Vehicle (WAV) costs
ranging from $12 to $16 millioninto the AoD program budget is an act of deceptive
accounting. These costs were previously and should still be budgeted for under the
Access-a-Ride (AaR) program. By adding them to the AoD budget without any
corresponding reduction in the AaR budget, staff has effectively double-counted a
massive expense. This is not a legitimate discovery of new costs; it is a financial
maneuver designed to artificially inflate the apparent cost of the AoD program.
The timing of this change is particularly suspicious, coinciding with the Board's
pushback on restrictive staff recommendations. The memorandum provides no logical
justification for this unprecedented shift in accounting. The evidence suggests that a
successful, well-functioning program is being targeted by staff who are deliberately
making it appear financially unviable.
This brings us to a fundamental question that demands a direct answer: Why is a
program that is not broken and works exceptionally well being manipulated and
attacked from within, and for what ulterior motive that has not been disclosed to the
public? Has this undisclosed motive, whatever it may be, been communicated to the
Board of Directors?
We urge the Board to reject this flawed analysis, restore fiscal integrity, and protect a
vital service from what appears to be a deeply manipulative campaign.
Thank you to the various board members that have chosen to look deeper into this
issue, and whom are willing to accept all the facts as presented by the AOD uses.

Sincerely,

Derek Selbo

A Blind user of access a Ride and also access on demand.

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the
RTD Operations, Safety and Security Committee Meeting, September 10th, 2025.

September 10th, 2025
Ian Harwick
Operations, Safety and Security Committee Chair
Regional Transportation District (RTD)
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Chair Harwick,

Access-on-Demand Program Modifications
RTDs Paratransit program is a lifeline for riders whose disability prevents them from using traditional transit.
GDT remains extremely curious as to why the majority of RTDs efforts have focused on studying and reducing
the costs from approx. $15M to $10M per year of the popular AoD program which now carries the bulk of
eligible ADA customers. This is in contrast to the AaR program which is predicted to cost $53.4M in 2026, is
roundly criticized by ADA customers and advocates for its shortcomings, and yet disappointingly, has so far
escaped major attention directed toward the way it operates, despite it clearly being involved in the Paratransit
Peer Review.
GDT would like to question why in the Memorandum sent by GM & CEO Johnson on August 29th, an
apparently new and fiscally unapproved practice of using RTD owned wheelchair accessible vehicles (WAVS)
to provide AoD service has emerged which suddenly adds approx. $12-15M and effectively doubles the costs
of the AoD program. We urge Directors to ask searching questions of staff as to why this important piece of
operational and financial information was withheld for so long.
As it appears now possible to provide a WAV-on-Demand service, with RTD fully accessible vehicles using
the 21st century on-the-fly dispatching technology that powers AoD, major improvements should be possible
to AaR that eliminate many of the long waits, long journey times and requirements to book in advance. This is
precisely the sort of scope the Paratransit Peer Review should have looked at, rather than wasting everyones
time tinkering with the service that generally worked well.
GDT acknowledges that RTDs Access-a-Ride (AaR) program is subject to many Federal requirements, but
has found nothing in the DOT/FTA Guidance prevents modernizing AaR with modern dispatching technology to
improve service up to the level provided by AoD. In time this could and should lead to a single, combined
Paratransit offering, which offers the entire Disabled Community a high level of service.
GDT absolutely deplores the scare tactics being used in the Memorandum of August 29th, that implies that if
cuts are not made to AoD, service cuts to some of RTDs most popular fixed-bus routes will be necessary. As a
group that is mainly composed of able-bodied transit advocates, GDT has taken the decision to firmly join the
Disability Community on this issue, despite the implied threats to cut the transit services that GDT members
primarily use. Once again, why does the agency obsess over cutting things that are popular?

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

It is clear that the Board of Directors needs to step in and take full responsibility for righting this sham of a
Paratransit Peer Review, and commission a genuine study on how 21st century dispatching technology can be
provided for AaR to improve its objectively poor service product. Only after this is done, will it be possible to
provide expected costs for the entire ongoing Paratransit program and submit financial figures for approval.
In addition, GDT fully supports the Disabled Community in calling for RTD to:
 Commit to a Paratransit impact study, independent of RTD, for future analyses that incorporates both
financial efficiency and equity impacts.
 Publish corrected AoD and AaR trip data, broken out by month and by mobility aid use.
 Provide a clear accounting of WAV-on-Demand service, separate from AoD and AaR.
 Withdraw or revise any projections based on unrealistic perpetual growth assumptions.
 Retain or improve for customers all current aspects of Access on Demand, meaning no change in
fares, subsidies, trip caps, service hours, or service areas.
 Reinstate the multi-stop option as a cost-savings measure.
Thanks for all you do,


James Flattum




Emma Griffin 
CC:













Richard Bamber













Joe Meyer

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO
Angel Pea, RTD Deputy CEO

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Jo Elizabeth Pinto
RTD.Directors
Please Support Access on Demand
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 2:01:49 PM

Hello, Board Members:
I am a blind author and mother from Brighton, Colorado. As someone who lives in one of the
outlying areas, I rely on Access on Demand to get into the city for a wide variety of reasons. I
use Uber and Lyft to travel to medical appointments for myself and my daughter and to events
where I sell my books. Especially at book events, Access-a-Ride is not a good option for me
because I need to be seen as an equal participant in the event and not an author with a
disability, an object of pity. Image is crucial in the world of sales.
Flexibility is important, especially for riders in outlying areas of service. Before Access on
Demand, I had serious transportation issues because bus service was very limited from
Brighton to Denverreally from Brighton to anywhere. Now, because of my ability to use ridesharing services, I can get my daughter to therapy in Lafayette, attend a protest in Hudson, sell
books in Centennial, or have lunch with a friend in Broomfield. Please dont take away the
freedom people like me have come to love and depend on.
Please vote for flexibility and freedom at your board meeting tonight, and keep Access on
Demand intact!
Best regards,
Jo Elizabeth Pinto
Please visit my author Website at
https://www.brightsideauthor.com

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Susanne Eck
RTD.Directors; Ian Harwick; Kathleen Chandler; Vince Buzek; Chris Nicholson; Patrick O"Keefe; Brett Paglieri;
Troy Whitmore; RTD Board Office
Access on Demand Scenarios
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 3:12:51 PM

Dear Operations Safety and Security Committee,
After attending and speaking at the July 29th Board meeting, I was encouraged when the
Board members heard and responded positively to the public comments from the disabled
population concerning proposed changes to the AOD program. The amended proposal sent to
the Operations committee included a reduction in fare from $6.50 to $2.50, expanding the
service to the entire RTD service area rather than limit it to the minimum required 3/4 mile
boundary, elimination of the waiting period and requested a review of multi stop trips.
I have reviewed the six proposed scenarios. I opt for number 4 which has a $4.50 fare, keeps
the amended proposal of service in the entire RTD service area and keeps the amended
proposal of a no waiting period. By the way, none of the scenarios address the multi stop.
My understanding is that RTD is favoring Scenario 2, which mirrors the July 29th proposal
before public feedback shared. Going back to the $6.50 and the 3/4 boundary are the exact
issues that the disabled community spoke up against. RTD is making a popular and life
changing program a financial burden for a population that, in general, has limited resources, as
well as eliminating a transit option for all disabled individuals living in the RTD service area.
You are not listening to your constituents and not valuing their needs. Transportation is a
need, not a want. AoD is a successful program, addresses a need, and should be expanded.
One of RTDs stated goals is to expand ridership. Why are you doing just the opposite to your
disabled riders?
I also want to bring attention to your inconsistency regarding the data you have made public
regarding the cost of AoD. Prior to the July 29th board meeting, the WAV program was not
included in the cost of AoD. Now since there has been feedback for the need to expand the
successful program, RTD has added the cost of WAV, which falsely inflates the cost of AoD.
Why hasnt the WAV program been mentioned in any previous discussions? How does RTD
justify including the WAV expenses now. I hope this was an innocent oversight rather than an
attempt to skew the data.
Thank you for your consideration AoD affordable and accessible to all disabled residents in
the RTD service area.
Sincerely,
Susanne Eck
Parent Advocate

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Tess Rittenberg
RTD.Directors
9/10 Access on Demand Comments
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 3:55:40 PM

Hello,
My name is Tess Rittenberg and I am a frequent user of Access on Demand. After moving back to Denver with my
physical disability, I wasnt sure about my level of independence with my inability to drive. Access on Demand
increased that independence tenfold. With the nearest RTD bus a 30 minute walk away from my house, Access on
Demand allowed me the independence to go to doctors appointments and to commute to work successfully. Taking
this away would squash that independence for me and several other disabled Coloradans that rely on this service for
their freedom. I strongly suggest that no further cuts are made to this program.
All the best,
Tess Rittenberg
Access A Ride and Access On Demand user

