2025-04-09
Operations, Safety and Security Committee
IAN HARWICK: Operations-- the Wednesday, April 9th, Operations, Safety, and Security Committee will
now come to order. We are convened as of 5:40 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would-- are we in Standard?
Ah, whatever.
I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to
speak. Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via
Zoom and will be audio and video-recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of
the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who'd like access to a live transcript of this meeting in
Spanish. A livestream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. I would like to call the roll
of the committee members. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'm here.
IAN HARWICK: Director Pagliari.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present.
IAN HARWICK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
IAN HARWICK: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Chair Ruscha is present.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Chair Ruscha. Sorry. God, I'm so bad at that. And I am here, Director Harwick.
For the record, I see that we have all seven directors present.
Now we'll move on to public comment. And I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like
to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and

immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your
virtual hand or press star-9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like
to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com. And I see our esteemed Chair Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Chair Harwick. I just wanted to state, for the state of record, that I am
present. I believe Director Catlin is also present as well.
IAN HARWICK: Oh.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Sorry about that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: You're OK.
JACK KROLL: And Director Larsen.
IAN HARWICK: OK. All right. With that in mind, Mr. Kroll, do we have any public comments?
JACK KROLL: Good evening, Committee Chair Harwick. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board
Office. At this time, there was no one present who has raised their hand in desire of providing public
comment.
In anticipation of your subsequent question, one emailed comment was submitted to the board's
rtd.directors email address, so you all should be in receipt of that. That email is in relationship to paratransit
program modifications discussed at last month's committee meeting. And so I'm going to consider that as
submitted as public comment for tonight's meeting.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Now we're going to move on to-- Chair Ruscha, just checking to see where you're at.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I need about 30 seconds, sir.
IAN HARWICK: So do you want me to just take this, or do you want to go?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think it's awkward not having my-- carry on and-IAN HARWICK: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If you want to go ahead and just maybe work with Mr. Kroll regarding our timer, I'll be
on before the time-- before you're finished.
IAN HARWICK: OK. OK. So just for everyone's awareness, when we move on, later on, to our discussion
items, we're going to have the 90-second-- oh, there you are, Chair Ruscha. There you go. I'll let you-- you
go ahead. You do your thing.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. Thank you, everyone, for your patience as well. Just as a note, my
external camera is not mounted to anything. So if you see a crash, I'm fine, it just fell.

And thank you, Co-chair Harwick, for kicking us off. So, as we had discussed last month, we are going to
work with a timer, not to cut anyone off, but just to ensure that everyone has a chance to speak and that
we are sharing space.
Last month, we considered 45 seconds. But we didn't have the actual timer, so that didn't work. I did get
some feedback that 45 seconds might be too short.
So we referred back to transcripts and realized that people time out at about a minute, but we're going to
go ahead and grant 90 seconds. All right? Now, again, 90 seconds does not mean you cannot have another
chance at another conversation, or potentially a follow-up, but we want to make sure that we're sharing
space for everyone.
So during our discussion items today, which includes our special presentation from Mr. Lee, everyone will
have that clock, and that includes myself and my co-chair, Ian Harwick. The only time chairs will go outside
of that clock is if we are handling chair matters, as I am right now. Obviously, staff is exempted from that
clock because they need the time that they need to be able to present and to answer our questions.
Additionally, in our agenda today, we're going to change the order a little bit to accommodate some other
folks's needs and respect some time. And we're going to hear from RTD-PD first, and then if-- GM/CEO
Johnson, can you just please-- I just want to confirm with you, because this is your staff time, are you OK
with RTD-PD first-- and I would say this is after Mr. Lee's presentation-- and then we do Safety and then
Title VI? Does that feel like it would work for you and your staff?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam-- Chair Ruscha, excuse me-- yes. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. I just want to confirm. So we are going to change our order for
discussion items. I recognize our packet is 1,300-ish pages, and we'll also be patient and kindly remind
each other of where you can find it on the agenda packet. So let's give everyone grace, including myself,
because I need to flip screens and get back to our general order of business and script that my co-chair
was just using.
I don't-- oh, also, I'm sorry, Chair Harwick will be also managing the queue and alerting me when we have
folks' hands raised. Now, I know, traditionally, we go in order of who put up their hand first, and we might
start that way for our first presentation. But you won't necessarily be called on in that order as we move
along, because we want to give people a chance to speak if they have not had a chance to speak.
Rest assured, though, you will be called on. And again, that 90-second timer is just about efficiency, sharing
space. And for those of you who know me well, or even just a little, you know I'm not here to curb speech.
And with that, I genuinely don't know if I have missed something. So flag it for me, Mr. Kroll. [LAUGHS] I
believe we are ready for Mr. Lee's presentation. Is that-- am I getting a yes?
IAN HARWICK: You're correct.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. I have never had the gavel handed off, and so it took me a moment.
Mr. Lee, I think I see you online. Are you present with us? And, staff, are you also able to allow Mr. Lee to
share his video camera as well? Is he a panelist?
JACK KROLL: He is indeed. Mr. Lee, can you hear us, and can we hear you?

EARL LEE: Yes, I can hear you. Can you hear me?
JOYANN RUSCHA: We can hear you. It's a little bit quiet from my end, but being hearing impaired,
everybody is a little bit quiet.
EARL LEE: I'll see if I can get any more volume to it.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'll just need the help of, perhaps, Chair Harwick, if you can tell me if other persons are
able to hear Mr. Lee. I'm relying on CART.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah.
EARL LEE: Well, I'll speak up a little bit, and hopefully, we'll get through this OK.
IAN HARWICK: Yeah, we can hear you, Mr. Lee.
EARL LEE: Thank you. Thank you, Chair Ruscha. I'd also like to thank General Manager and CEO Johnson
and all of you for allowing me the time to speak tonight about the ACPD and the disability community.
Before I start, I will apologize in advance if I say anything that makes anyone uncomfortable. It's just in my
nature. I can assure you of two things.
One, nothing I say is said in anger or meant to hurt anyone. Just the opposite. Two things-- anything that I
talk about, there is research behind it, and I'm here to help and promote RTD in a good light.
For those of you who don't know me and wonder what qualifies me to speak with you tonight, my name is
Earl Lee. I'm a 74-year-old white male, retired, sort of. I'm busier now, I think, than when I was actually
working.
I've been using a wheelchair since 2018. While I'm not confined to my chair, I do depend on it and RTD for
my independence and to allow me to live most of my life without having to rely on someone else. This
freedom gives me dignity, and I'm sure you would get a similar answer from anyone else that you spoke
with.
Currently, I chair the RTD Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities, the ACPD. And although I have
termed out for participation, I have been asked to remain on the committee as chair until the end of 2025
when a replacement is recruited.
My interaction with RTD goes back more than 20 years in executive management for Cain T-Square doc
services, located at 1625 Blake Street, right across the street for many years. I worked with RTD as a prime
supplier of document printing, including oversized printing of bus shelter schedules-- we had the first
oversized color plotter in Denver-- and all the engineering printing for the W Line, plus much, much more.
So I'm intimately familiar with RTD.
RTD has also been a sponsor of our Transportation and Construction GIRL, a program of the HOYA
Foundation, which I'm the executive director of. Transportation and Construction GIRL began in 2017. So
again, we have a strong relationship with the RTD, going back to the days of Phil Washington.
The mission of the ACPD is to advance the agency's efforts to serve travelers who are living with disabilities.
It is made up of two types of members-- general, or voting members, and organizational, non-voting

members, which has been extended to local advocacy groups. The makeup is up to 13 general and 6
organizational members. General members serve terms for two years.
The ACPD meets four times a year. We have met virtually for the past several years, but for 2025, we have
included two in-person meetings. The next one is on May 6 at 2:00 PM at 1660 Blake. And I remember
when it was 1600 Blake, until they built a building in front of it.
We meet jointly twice a year with our companion group, the Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee,
or APAC, virtually, to promote crossover discussions that affect both groups. As I'm sure you can all
imagine, Access-on-Demand has been a key topic of these meetings.
Gabe Christie, Manager of ADA Civil Rights Division, is the RTD liaison for both groups. In 2025, to
encourage more member participation in the ACPD group, Gabe has established six projects, or goals, for
ACPD members, and then requested volunteers for each of these projects. The projects are-- downtown
rail reconstruction support and feedback, adopt a resolution of support for renaming of the Civic Center
Station, 35th anniversary of ADA programming and support, review and recommendation remediation for
public information accessibility-- which is a very interesting program, if you're not familiar with it. I'm just
starting to learn about it myself, as a matter of fact-- formal process recognition for elevator outage
communications-- and I can tell you, as a wheelchair user, when an elevator is out of service for RTD, it is
a major issue for someone with a wheelchair-- and then development of timely communication procedures
and practices for regarding barrier removal.
And this one is a committee that I worked on along with Gabe and another person who works for an
engineering firm, and this is going to be a very interesting one as we try to identify many of the barriers that
do interfere with people traveling on the RTD system. And if you simply get on a bus and travel, and you
begin to look for some of the things that impact people with wheelchairs, walkers, canes, that sort of thing,
you will be surprised.
I'm going to kind of throw down an anatomy of what our meetings look like. Typically, Gabe will send out
email requests approximately two weeks in advance of a meeting. He puts together a preliminary agenda,
which he sends to me for comment and review-- review and comment.
He then, based on what we come up with, the agenda, he will invite members of the RTD staff that he feels
can speak to the issues that we have on the agenda. And of course, he sends out the final agenda to all of
the members. Then we meet at the designated time.
Unfortunately, the object, in my opinion, would be for us to have an open discussion about some of these
issues, and we rarely have a discussion about these issues. It seems that the people on the RTD side either
come in very defensively, or they come in with a pat answer and there's no real discussion. One of the
things that I hear all too frequently is, well, we have a strict policy on that. And if you have a strict policy
that was being followed, these subjects wouldn't be brought up at these meetings.
So I would really like to see more of a discussion format, where we can bring something up and we can
openly discuss and try to find some sort of a resolution for issues that we bring up. And for myself, when I
bring something up, I'm not-- one of my problems, one of [LAUGHS] the flaws that I have is that I'm not only
looking for things that occur for me, but I'm always looking for how it impacts others around me. I'm old
enough and cantankerous enough that I'm going to get through just about anything, and I can fight for
myself.

But there's a lot of people that can't. They can get into situations where they may not be able to get out of
it. They get to a stop that-- what do they do if they can't board a bus, if they can't-- if they have no other
way to get around? I'm looking for a lot of those kind of things. So we need to do a better job of discussion,
negotiation, finding solutions, that sort of thing.
People with disabilities face challenges that others just simply don't recognize. I personally did not realize
the barriers that exist for people with disabilities until I began using a chair, and began listening to others.
There are some people that I've become somewhat close to within the blind community, and I cannot
believe some of the stuff that they have to deal with.
Damaged sidewalks is a huge issue. Cracked or depressed sidewalks can be difficult to traverse with a
wheelchair or a walker or a cane. It's not like, in a wheelchair, I can simply step off the curb and go around
a damaged sidewalk. If I can't get through there, then I have to go back and come around. If I'm trying to
get a bus or I have a time issue, it's very difficult to get around.
Flagstone, that is so popular downtown, that's very rough on wheelchairs. It loosens bolts, and it can cause
damage or repairs that need to be done. No sidewalks, or insufficient-width pathways, that pretty much
speaks for itself.
And again, if you drive, or even walk, you may not think much about it. But if you rely on a wheelchair or a
walker or a cane, these all become very major barriers or difficulties for people with a disability of some
sort. And it doesn't have to be a major disability. It simply becomes difficult.
And the ever-popular truncated domes, the little pads that have all the dimples on them that you see around,
this is an interesting one. The truncated domes, that are supposed to be for blind people to know where
they are, is bureaucracy at its best. The FTA requires them to be on the edge of all transit platforms. ADA
and PROWAG require them to mark the safe crossing areas at corners.
So does this create any conflict? How do you know, you know, if the truncated domes at one point tell you
not to go, and at other places, it tells you where to go, which can be a little bit confusing? It's just
contradictory, and again, it's government at its finest, which I don't quite understand.
So I challenge-- and with the domes, there is no consistency within the RTD system as to how they're used
even on their light rail platforms. So I challenge you to get on a light rail train and sit where you can see the
platforms and look how those truncated domes are distributed. On some platforms, they run the entire
length, one row, the entire length of the platform.
On others, those truncated domes are only placed where there is a door to board the trains. On others,
there is a row that runs the entire length of the platform, with a second dome-- or a second pad that's placed
where the doors are. So there's no consistency, even within the RTD system, as to how they are actually
used.
So I challenge you to do that sometime. It's very interesting. And I'd be glad to ride with anybody that wants
to go take a look at this stuff and discuss it.
The other thing that I see that concerns me-- and again, it's not me-- whether it's a bus, whether it's the
mall shuttles, in particular, when I go to board any of these conveyances, I pull up, they lower the bus, they
drop a ramp, and I board. But again, I challenge you to get on a bus and watch when somebody gets on
that maybe has a walker or a cane, or just somebody that's elderly, that has difficulty stepping up to get into

these things, particularly on the mall shuttle-- on the mall shuttles, the second and third doors, and watch
the difficulty that these people have boarding these vehicles.
I've seen them have a great deal of difficulty sometimes. And the drivers don't necessarily lower the vehicles
so that everybody can get on. And you can kind of understand-- I don't know if you really understand how
the mall shuttles work.
There's three gears, and they go from-- in one gear, the buses ride 17 inches from the street. In one gear,
they ride 14 inches from the street. And one gear, they ride 11 inches from the street. I believe those are
the right numbers. It's right in that vicinity.
So, you know, they typically will ride in second gear, which makes them about 14 inches from the street,
giving them about a 10-inch step up from the mall, from the 4-inch-high curbs on the mall. Try stepping up
10 inches. Then try to do it if you're arthritic or elderly. So, you know, that's just something that I look at and
I think there's got to be a better way for people to board.
The other thing, one of the things that I brought up at one point in one of our meetings was I ride the 0 and
0B quite a bit, and I question why the drivers don't lower the bus when an elderly person or someone with
a walker boards the bus. And I asked that in a meeting, and they supposedly brought someone from Bus
Operations to answer that question. As it turned out, it wasn't someone from RTD Bus Operations-- and
RTD does run the 0 and 0B. They brought somebody from Transdev, and they couldn't answer the question.
But somebody who is not affiliated with RTD pointed out that the 9300 Series buses, when the doors open,
they cannot lower the bus. So it's very difficult, when somebody walks up after the door is open, to slam
the door on them to lower the bus. So there's just-- so my suggestion there is, OK, understand. Now, the
next time, when the 9300s need to be replaced, that needs to be something on the purchase list, on the
specs.
So anyway, these are the kinds of things that I kind of look for. You know, we can't solve everything right
away, but we can certainly look for the next round. We have the same issue with the mall shuttle ramps.
We have 31-- the mall shuttle ramps are 31 1/4 inches. Wheelchairs today are getting up in the 31, 31 1/2,
32-inch wide. And I've seen people almost go off the ramps because their wheelchairs are riding up on the
lips or slightly over the lips.
Well, you're not going to be able to fix it today. And I got a very snappy answer when I brought that up.
"Well, you know, our ramps are beyond ADA standards. There's 31 1/4 inches."
OK. But how about for the future? You know, in the future, shouldn't we look at ramps that are wider? That's
all.
This is my frustration. That's why I say, if I come across a little snappy or-- you know, I don't want you to
think poorly of me. But these are the kind of things that I think about and the things that I would like to
discuss in these meetings in more detail, rather than just get cut off with these preconceived notions.
So the power of these-- and hopefully, you see some value of some of this information. The power of these
citizen advisory groups can be enormous if it's channeled properly. First of all, we have to have clearly
defined purpose and goals, such as our 2025 projects for the ACPD data, set up.

We need to establish timeline and milestones. We can't have it just open-ended. You know, you never get
anything accomplished if you don't have a timeline.
You've got to have the right people. We have to have skills, knowledge, or abilities, and they have a desire- they have to have a desire or interest. And that's one of the challenges I think that we have, is trying to
find people who are really wanting to participate. And I don't know how we change that.
If it's a project, one of the things-- I've worked on the 16th Street Mall-- you have to engage people early in
the project. You can't wait until you're half done and then say, Well, what do you think of this? You need to
engage people with disabilities early, and say, This is what we're thinking, do you see any potential
problems?
And then, you have to inform these people regularly, especially if there's any kind of modifications, whether
it's a new bus-- you know, you're going to get you're going to get pushback from the manufacturer saying,
oh, this is too expensive to do this. Or if it's a building, you're going to get pushback from building
departments saying, well, you can't do this.
And you have to rely on our lived experience. You can't just rely on, well, in ADA, it says this, and so this is
going to work. OK. You have to live on-- you have to rely on our lived experiences to help find the happy
medium.
Nobody's going to be a hundred percent, you know. But let us help you find what works for everybody. So
that's really-JOYANN RUSCHA: I think-EARL LEE: That's really all that I have. And I know that Director Ruscha wanted some time. If there's any
questions, I'd be-- if I have time left, I'd be happy to answer any questions or hear any thoughts that any of
you have. I am open. And I don't take anything personally.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Thank you, sir. We really appreciate you taking your time and sharing your
experiences with us.
I think this is the first time that ACPD has addressed a subcommittee and has been able to have open
dialogue. So we will also offer the same opportunity for other advisory committees. But thank you, Mr. Lee,
for giving your time.
We are a little bit over time, but if anyone has any quick comments or questions, please go ahead and raise
your hands. Mr. Lee also shared his contact information as well as the information on how to attend the
next ACPD meeting, in his written testimony, which is in your inbox. And with that, Co-chair Harwick, are
you ready to manage the queue and the clock?
IAN HARWICK: Yes, and I see Director Nicholson, Secretary Nicholson, has his hand up.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. Well, then you are hereby granted one half of my gavel to run it. I turn it over
to you, sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you very much, Chair Ruscha. Mr. Lee, I just wanted to ask, when you look
at the collaboration that ACPD has done over the last year-- and I'm obviously new to the board. I just joined
back in January, so this is the first update that I've seen from your committee. You know, give me a sense

of, like, where do you see opportunities for engaging with additional groups, whether that's senior centers,
whether that's universities, whether that's community organizations?
You know, what are the most significant opportunities that you think have presented themselves, and then
what are the ones, if any, that you've been working toward? And I say this understanding that it's not
specifically within the immediate purview of ACPD, but I think it's really-- you know, in the same way that
we engage with a number of other groups, I think it's really important for us to be doing that type of outreach.
So if you can address it, I'd really appreciate it. Thank you.
EARL LEE: Certainly. Well, I think one of the things that Mr. Christie has started is a program he calls
Gabbing with Gabe. And the week before last, I believe it was, we did a-- we went to Boulder, to a center
that works with people with disabilities. And we had about an hour, a little over an hour meeting up there
where we discussed several subjects with the people in that community.
And I think that is a-- you know, we're trying to get out into the community, into centers, into these little
areas where there are a lot of people with disabilities, and trying to find out what they mean, what triggers
they have. I think that's a very positive move, and I would like to see more of that. So, yeah, I think that's
good.
And I really-- the more I think about these barriers, the sort of thing that we're working on, you know, I really
would like to see us take on a full-blown project where we identify the accessibility of every single bus stop
in the system. Now, that's a big undertaking. That's not something we're going to do even probably in a
year. There's so many bus stops. But my ultimate goal would to be able to look, when I go to RTD, the site,
I can find out if a bus stop-- when I do a plan, when I plan a route, I can see if a bus stop is or is not handicap
accessible, you know, some of those kind of things.
So, but, yeah, I think anything we can do to reach out into the community and find out what people-- what
people have issues with, number one, and number two, I think, just talking to the community. Everybody
out there, if RTD touches it, it belongs to RTD. And as we all know, that's not true.
Englewood elevator is a big one. Englewood elevator is not RTD. It's the City of Englewood.
So when the elevator is out, which it is right now and has been for two years, it's RTD's elevator, and why
doesn't RTD fix it? So being able to communicate that to the public in those kind of forums, I think, is
beneficial.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Do you mind if I follow up on that very quickly?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Sure. Go ahead, Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Appreciate it. I should mention, by the way, that I am actually sitting, as we speak, in
the entryway of the community room at Windsor Gardens, which is a community that I visit on a very regular
basis and used to go pretty much every month. And for those of you who are not familiar with District A, it
is the largest senior living facility in Denver, and I believe it may be one of the largest in the entire state.

And I think you're absolutely on point that every community is going to face different issues. The concerns
of the senior communities-- there's another senior home downtown on 17th Street, just a couple blocks up
from where I live, that's aimed at, you know, more indigent and low-income seniors. You know, they're not
concerned about the frequency of their buses because they're literally living on the most bus-heavy area in
the city.
You know, here, there's one bus, and it comes once an hour. And it's-- you know, when it's not reliable and
when it's hard to find, they have a real trouble getting-- two things. I hear about the senior ride that has
been discontinued every month, and they really, really want to bring back the senior ride, which, as you
know, takes seniors out to the Botanic Gardens and that kind of thing.
So I think you're absolutely right, that we need to do more to bring in those [LAUGHS] communities-- this
is like being played off-- to bring those communities in and get an understanding of what each one is looking
for, because they may be very, very different. That was hilarious.
EARL LEE: Well, please, if you would like to discuss it further, please contact me. And I'd be happy to meet
with you, talk on the phone or meet with you someplace. And I'm familiar with Windsor Gardens, so I know
exactly where you're talking about.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you so much, Mr. Lee, again, for coming and presenting to us tonight and
sharing your lived experience. You know, many of us are paratransit advocates. But you don't know until
you know, and that lived experience is really important for us to understand.
And I'm very appreciative of the time that you spent in pre-meetings and also presenting to us this evening
as well. Again, a kindly reminder, Mr. Lee's contact information and how to join ACPD meetings is in your
inbox.
And so seeing no other hands in the queue, we will move on to the next item in our agenda. We've already
taken care of committee chair updates, and there are no recommended actions for this evening. However,
we do have discussion items.
We are going to-- everything on our agenda will be discussed. But for administrative purposes, we are
changing the order. And so the first item for the meeting-- excuse me, for discussion items, will be our RTDPD departmental update.
So I would like to ask acting Chief of Police and Emergency Management Steve Martingano to present this
item. Sir, welcome back. We missed you. And you may proceed when ready.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Just a moment, Madam Chair, if I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh. Yes, of course.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, serving as the executive liaison, just wanted to provide some context as we go
forward, before acting Chief Martingano begins his presentation. So to all members, good evening. Debra
Johnson, General Manager and CEO. As Co-chair Ruscha introduced, acting Chief Martingano will provide
this presentation.
I wanted to share that while we are presenting information within this presentation that you'll see
momentarily, there are various statistics that are provided to the general populace by virtue of a web page
that we have, that was recently introduced two weeks ago, that contained information relative to all the work

that has been done within the Transit Police Department under acting Chief Martingano's leadership. For
those of you that are really active and engaged, the Federal Transit Administration, just on Monday,
acknowledged RTD's efforts in reference to reducing calls for service. Additionally, there's been yeomanlike
efforts to foster and maintain a welcoming transit environment.
So I wanted to provide that context, because while you'll see some data relative to the overarching
performance of the police department, this information can be further found on the web pages that I have
just called out. So with that, I will yield the floor to acting Chief Martingano.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: And then-DEBRA JOHNSON: Excuse me? Acting Chief Martingano-- oh, I believe Director Nicholson may need to
go on mute.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Nicholson, are you-CHRIS NICHOLSON: I was [AUDIO OUT] I stepped out for a second.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Would you mind, kindly, muting yourself, sir? Thank you. I think we can-- I think
we can proceed now. Acting Chief Martingano, the floor, the screen is yours when you're ready, sir.
JACK KROLL: Chief Martingano, if you're speaking, we cannot hear you at this point in time.
STEVE MARTINGANO: How about now?
JACK KROLL: Now I'm able to hear you.
STEVE MARTINGANO: I apologize. For some reason, my computer keeps switching to a different
microphone. So if you can't hear me, please-- I could hear everyone here, and I'll just switch back to the
one-- and can you see my screen?
JACK KROLL: We can see your screen.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
STEVE MARTINGANO: All right. Well, I was going to start off my presentation for saving the best for last,
but I will now have to give that to Carl Green, since I am going first. So again, everyone, Steve Martingano,
the acting chief of police and emergency management. I know we gave everyone an update in February,
so some of this might be a little repetitive, but hopefully, you'll get some new information as we go.
But the outline today is going to be strategic implementation, data-driven policing and tactics, strategic
priority alignment, as well as performance metrics and progress. So with our strategic implementation, our
initiatives for 2024 and 2025 are back to basics-- people power, welcoming transit environment, and our
customer and community connections.
So back to basics, really, back in July, we started with a high visibility, so we're going to continue to maintain
a regular presence out in our district, on our alignments, our trains and buses. We're going to enforce the
customer code of conduct. I apologize, I should also put "educate" as well on here. So it's going to be an
education to our customers, to begin with, and then, obviously, enforcement if needed.

And then, we're going to continue our fare sweeps and enforcement that we get from our crime data analysis
in regards to spots that we need to go ahead and do more fare sweeps. A lot of that, we get from our
operators, so they're a huge part of our operation plan.
On people power, we're still currently at 86 POST-certified officers, and we have one in the recruit academy.
They should be graduating sometime in May.
Increasing our number of K-9 units-- so we had two. We received a grant. We went up to four. We're back
down to three.
One of the officers wants to go to a department that's more municipality-based. I really credit him with
coming forward and telling us ahead of time. So now we just posted a new K-9 position, so we will get that
fourth one here soon.
And then, the detective bureau, we had two detectives. One was a individual with a lot of experience, came
over here and then, after a couple of weeks, realized that he would rather spend his time more in retirement.
So he has left our organization, and that position is posted right now. But we're also budgeted for two more
for 2025.
Welcoming transit environment-- we continue with our bus and train live look-in cameras. Our elevator
program is going to-- we're looking to expand that. We'll talk about that later in the slides.
And then our customer and community connections-- again, our officer-initiated responses, I'll explain that
later in some of the slides. We continue with our Transit Watch promotion.
And then, our coordination with other police jurisdictions-- one thing I will definitely bring up here, and I did
it for more for Co-chair Ruscha-- Central Park Station is within her district-- I just reached out to Denver
Police Department. They got me their most updated stats on Central Park. From 2023 to 2024, they had a
reduction of 63% of stolen vehicles within that area.
That's been a lot of the initiatives that we've been working with them, putting our officers in collaboration
with their officers. And in the first quarter, they're down another 8% from the numbers of 2024. So again,
that collaboration with other police jurisdictions, when we have a problem that affects both that municipality
and RTD and we work together, it's showing some huge increases-- I'm sorry, decreases, but increasing
the ability to have our officers and stop some of the criminal incidents in those areas.
So data-driven policing and tactics-- again, high visibility at our busier transit hub stops and stations, the
fare enforcement sweeps, like I discussed. So we continue to go around our district, in our bus stops, our
platforms, our areas. We look at our cameras to see where we might have issues of no visibility. So we
continue to change those. I think it was mentioned earlier, 360 cameras were changed, again, utilizing our
partnerships and coordinating our efforts.
Our health issues, our mental health conditions, we currently have one clinician with WellPower, and we
have one clinician with the Jefferson Center for Mental Health. I just met with the Jefferson Center for
Mental Health on Monday. They've had people in the background. They just have not been able to pass
their background standards to become co-responders. But one thing that we are finding is our homeless
outreach navigators-- our unhoused navigators, we went from one to three, and we have another person
that is going to be starting here in July.

So in regards to that aspect of our ridership, we're doing really well. They're going to break up. We are
going to have one that's going to be Denver-centric. One is going to be Boulder, Longmont-centric, and
then one is going to be on the west side of town, working with Lakewood, Arvada, and all the way up into
Evergreen and such. And then when this person gets hired in July, they're going to be working-- assisting
the Denver one, because Denver, right now, they're doing Denver and Aurora, but we're going to have
someone that's going to be more focused on Aurora and the southeast part of town as well.
And then, our victim advocate position, it's supposed to be posted this week. That's really going to help us
with the assaults. And also, our operators helping them through the judicial system, that's one of the things
we sorely need to have.
Whenever our operators may be victimized, you know, they have trouble sometimes coordinating with the
courts. And this victim advocate is going to be a huge position to make sure that our operators are being
represented in court, making their court dates, and a criminal incident doesn't get thrown out due to a lack
of being present at a court hearing, so.
Vehicle enhancements and facility upgrades-- again, the live look-in, we have them on all the buses, and
we continue to do it on the light rails. It allows our dispatchers to look at everything in real time, but it also
allows our officers-- they now all have VPNs on their laptop computers, so they could look into cameras
while they are driving-- well, not so much driving, but before they drive to areas, especially at Park-n-Rides
and such, and our platforms.
It's really been helpful for them to decrease patrol time. They can look at-- like, say, for the W Line, if there's
nobody at the Perry Station, why drive 20 minutes to go there? So they've been focusing on where there's
areas that they want to be more visible and present, so that's been a really good upgrade for us.
Again, upgrading our lights at stations and transit facilities, we continue doing those. Our cleaning crew has
been amazing cleaning up. We continue to get good customer feedback that areas are being cleaned. So
they're on top of that. And then, you know, this is more bus, but we work with bus to look at the barriers for
the entire fleet, to limit any incidents for our operators.
Again, our elevator pilot program is now a full program. The six stations that we have them at have seen a
really good reduction in individuals using the elevators as encampments overnight, also a lot less graffiti
and damage to the elevators themselves. And again, we're going to expand those.
We're working right now with Facilities to identify, I think, three more stations. As soon as we identify them
and get them up and operational, that will be, obviously, on our next report as well.
This year, I give full credit to our communications team and Stuart. They put together the security web page.
I recommend everyone going to it. It's a really great information. It gets updated constantly, and it really
gives our customers as well as our internal employees a good web page to go to and understand what
we're doing within the police department and all the efforts that RTD puts towards people's personal safety.
The priority alignment-- again, community value-- we built strong community partnerships. We continually
go out. We just did the Rockies home opener. A couple of our staff members are going to go to-- I apologize,
I don't have the name of the church in front of me, but they are going to go to a church that they go with a
lot of our-- some employees from Bus Operations.
And they're going to hand out food and converse with the individuals that utilize that church for their needs,
and also try to see if they maybe fall under our LiVE program or any other programs to try to get discounted

fares. So it's a great collaboration when we go to those type of events. And then, now, with the summer
coming up, we get constant appearance visits to go to different venues that are within our district and that's
close to a light rail, commuter rail, or bus stops.
So again, our customer excellence-- a lot of our customer complaints have really gone down in regards to
issues that they see, and we're getting a lot more commendations for our officers and our security being
more visible, checking fare. So a lot of those programs that we put in place since July have really been
working. Again, employee ownership-- we continue to try to attract highly skilled workers. We currently have
applications for detective, sergeant, K-9, and lateral police officers as well as our public-- I'm sorry, our
police communications dispatchers as well.
And then, we take seriously, obviously, our financial resources. We continue to look for ways to integrate
technology to limit costs on others' parts. So for example, our staff today is being trained-- we're doing a
trainer. We're going to have virtual training.
So it's kind of like that Meta system where you put it over your face and then we will give our officers
scenarios. That's going to help us out, obviously, to be able to do stuff like that in house, but it's also going
to help on risk liability and making sure our officers are better trained out there. So again, that's financial
resources there as well.
Again, community value, I kind of jumped on. I'm talking a lot more about it. Here's a great picture of Dinger.
He did high-five our officer, thankfully didn't hurt him, because that is a big dinosaur there. But that was a
great photo op. And again, it just shows our involvement within, within the areas that we service.
Our cadet program-- we have another cadet that is, right now, almost through backgrounds. She will be
starting here, hopefully, in May. So it'll be a great summer, you know, the cadet program during the summer.
I think she has one more year of school. So, hopefully, after she's done with the program, she might want
to come on board as a police officer. That's really what, hopefully, this program is intended for.
And I'm actually working with Metropolitan State University. I have a meeting with their dean to try to see
how we can incorporate RTD's policing into some of their curriculum to try to get us visibility. But also, they
want to look at changing their program a little bit more because they're having less and less students that
are applying for the criminal justice program, and they want to see how we could help them get more
students. So I feel very honored to be asked on that and be part of that.
We continue to do our Park-n-Ride checks. Actually, we haven't been doing them more for the public. We've
been doing internally. We did it over at Platte Street and District Shops to make sure our employees are
locking their doors, closing their windows, and not leaving something of value that someone could walk
through one of our fences and break in to their vehicles. So we've targeted our employees, and then we're
going to go back out to the public here starting in April and-- I'm sorry, more in May.
And then, again, transparent policing-- the interactive sector map emails go right to our commanders on
that, and then we are going to do a breakdown. We're going to put on social media, giving our customers
an understanding of how many calls of service we have, how many criminal incident reports we take, and
then just really giving a detailed thing. We're going to try to use LinkedIn and some of our other social
media, reaching out just in case people don't come to our web page.

Career development-- we've had two corporals, and four of the five sergeants were internal. We did hire a
sergeant externally, and two of our lieutenants were also promoted internally. We're starting to get a really
good base and a really good amount of experience and leadership qualities to hire internally. Every now
and then, though, we do have to go outside if someone doesn't pass the promotional exams that we put in
place.
We sent several of our female officers to a women-in-policing conference to get them more associated and
reaching out to different women in policing, especially in the metropolitan area. And in homeland security
training, we continually do APDA. Our Security and Emergency Management Roundtable's in San
Francisco this year, and we're going to send a representative there.
We continue with our FBI-LEEDA. It's a three-step system-- supervisor, command-level, and executive
training programs. All of our commanders and lieutenants and above have gone through that, that program,
and we send our new sergeants and new lieutenants to those programs as well.
And then, Northwestern Command College is a great program. We currently have a commander that's in
that program right now. And so when he comes back, obviously we're going to utilize his experience from
that to help us become better.
And then, performance matrix, we saw 52% year-over-year decrease in security-related calls. Our customer
reports on drug activity decreased as well between February of last year and this year. Here's our security
incident reports.
So these are actually reports. And I apologize, next time, I'll put this differently. So I'm just going to go one
slide down, because these are our calls of service. So we received 2,134 calls of service in February, but
out of those 2,134 calls of service, that only equated to 122 actual reports.
So if you look at that, I mean, that's a lot of calls of service, number wise. But, really, it was a very small
percentage that actually became a criminal incident report. So that's some of the stuff that we want to make
sure individuals understand, when they see these numbers, so that they're not alarmed by a number that
may be higher, when, in realization, a lot of it didn't lead to anything that needed to be an actual report for
the system.
Denver Union Station, again, they continue to decrease month to month. We have two officers that are
stationed there along with our security. Right now, Denver's doing an initiative for the downtown area. You
know, if anyone didn't see that, they're going to put more officers on the mall. They're going to have their
mounted unit, more park rangers.
One thing we definitely want to be looking at is to see, we want to make sure that Denver-- and we're going
to work closely with them, but we don't want their officers trying to get them off the visibility of the mall and
then sending them down to our bus terminal. So we want to make sure that we're working in collaboration
with them, making sure that if an individual has need, that we get them to the proper areas of need. So
we're going to-- that's just started. That initiative is just starting. And we're working really closely with District
6 to make sure that we're working together and we're not causing issues for each other.
Again, our Transit Watch app continues to be used. Again, I believe Stuart, "see, say, and solve" instead
of "see something, say something." And we're working with our vendors to see if we could maybe change
that.

I think it's a lot better, I think, overall. And just like anything else, we've talked about this in prior trainings,
it seems like, three words, everyone understands that-- run, hide, fight; stop, drop, roll; see, say, solve. So
we want to try to stay within that system.
Again, the incident reports by Transit Watch continue to drop as well each month. I think, again, with our
high visibility, our officers being out there, our security officers being back on our vehicles checking fare, I
think all that puts less emphasis on our customers telling us things that they may see because we're already
out there seeing it and handling it in real time.
And Narcan again, we're part of the White House initiative for the national effort. Those numbers continue
to drop as well. Right now, we're at 29, year to date, but from 2023 to 2024, that dropped. And then,
hopefully, by the end of the year to date, that 95 number will drop for us as well.
And, yeah, that's all I have. I did want to just go back to one thing. Some of this-- one of the things we're
going to change will be in the next one. But just to give you context, in January, we had almost 5 million
riders-- well, 5 million boardings-- for our system. If you look at the calls of service, that equated to 1 to
every 1,787 boardings.
So when you look at those numbers, you really do see that a lot of this is perception based. We are a very
secure and safe mode of transportation. So, and we're going to really start emphasizing that more to the
public, so that they better understand, rather than seeing a number without too much context for them, so.
And now I yield to questions or if anyone else from the leadership team or anyone has questions.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Co-chair Ruscha, you're on mute.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh. Well, unfortunately for everyone else, someone advised me, and now I'm off mute.
[LAUGHS] Co-chair Harwick, I'll go ahead and let you manage the queue. But recognizing that Director
Whitmore might need to leave early, I'd like us to call on him first-IAN HARWICK: Yup, that's-JOYANN RUSCHA: --and let him go ahead and dialogue if needed. But I'll go ahead and turn it over to you,
Director Harwick, to manage the queue, and you may also recognize people as you see fit. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Mm-hmm. No problem. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, co-chairs, and thank you, acting Chief Martingano. A couple of thoughts,
and mostly kudos, and then one question. You know, I spend quite a bit of time at the Capitol on behalf of
RTD as one of the two liaisons for legislative matters.
And obviously, we've had a bill that we've been shepherding through the process for a number of months.
But I just wanted to reiterate the importance of our safety programs and its impact on us at the Capitol and,
certainly, at city halls throughout our service territory. It comes up often, and it is a high priority.
So I do want to offer kudos on us-- and this is work of Stuart and Debra and others-- publicizing the call
diminishment, the 52% reduction. We did have a little traction with that out in the public, and I think that's
wonderful that we did that. But that does not happen without action.

So I appreciate the transition that we've been making under your leadership, acting Chief, to make our
transit environment more welcoming. I think it is working, and I'm very pleased to see the ongoing efforts in
that regard, whether it's cameras or more K-9 crews or whatever the case may be.
I appreciate the cadet program and the work with MSU. Really important that we grow that workforce. We
not only needed it at RTD, but we need it in policing agencies all throughout the metro area and the state
of Colorado. So kudos to you to be working with the folks at MSU on that program.
One question, kind of a silly one, but I know that our K-9 corps, our four-legged officers, have been
ambassadors over the years and good outreach with the public. I'm just curious, the top three or four
purposes for the K-9 corps-- and obviously, we're trying to add to that-- what are the three or four main
purposes for the K-9 corps? I'm just curious. I think it would be good to know publicly all of their different-or at least some of their priorities in policing, Chief Martingano.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yeah, so our K-9s are. Oh, I apologize, Chair. Sorry.
JOYANN RUSCHA: You may proceed, sir.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yeah, thank you. So our K-9 team, really, they have one main function. They're
drug-- oh, I'm sorry, they're explosive detection dogs.
So they are not drug dogs. They are not tracking dogs. You know, they're not the dogs utilized sometimes
by municipalities where, a suspect's hiding, they send a dog in.
We do not use them for any of that. I'm sorry. So they have the one main function.
Now, in regards to that, they do a lot of training interagency-- I'm sorry, inter-city-wide, they go to a lot of
different trainings. So for an example, one of our K-9s, Max, who had to be put down recently for medical
reasons, but he had gone to a-- Englewood Police Department had a shooting. They could not find the
suspect's round that shot at the officers.
They brought out their teams, their Crime Scene, everything else. Our K-9 went out there to assist and was
able to find it based off of the residue that was still on the case shell for the-- obviously, with, you know, a
firearm having ammunition that's explosive in nature. So our K-9 found that for them, really helped
strengthen their case. Max actually won K-9 of the year for that and was represented.
So what they do for RTD, obviously, they go around, do sweeps at all of our main stations. If we get
suspicious packages, based off of how that comes in, they might be the first team to get there to look at
this package. But if it's, obviously, to a point where we need a bomb explosive team to come in, we're not
going to put the dog in harm's way.
So again, that's really what they do. We are looking at bringing in one of the K-9s to the board, in a future
in-person board meeting, to hide-- through the federal government, all of our K-9s are grant funded, so it
didn't cost RTD any money in relation to the K-9s. But we also have explosive materials that are very low
in density, and we use those for training.
So we want to have them come in at a future board meeting. We'll put the explosive detection item
somewhere within the T and D, and we can have our K-9 show in person on how they work so you guys
have a better understanding. But other than, like you had said, community relation, there's nothing better

than a dog, so when they're walking through Union Station or these different areas, you know, it is a great
customer service piece for us as an agency as a whole.
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, just one comment to close, and I appreciate being able to speak. This
goes to a lot of staff members, but I'm in kind of an emotional state with the situation at home. And I think
it bears saying over and over again, we appreciate the loyalty and the stability of those folks on our staff
that have been with us through thick and thin.
And certainly, I'm looking at one of them on my screen, so thank you, acting Chief Martingano, for your
stability at RTD, at not just the force, but as a leader in our organization. So with that, I will go back to mute.
Thank you very much.
IAN HARWICK: Chair Ruscha, do you want to go, or do you want to wait?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'll go ahead and yield to-- you know what? I'll go ahead and go next. I will say-- do we
have our timer going?
IAN HARWICK: It is now.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. OK. So thank you, acting Chief Martingano, for this informative presentation.
Just a few comments. First, I'm really excited to hear about hiring a victim advocate.
So as a former victim advocate when I was in college, and as someone who has personally experienced
serious crime, I know how much of a difference this role can make. We don't have to get into it tonight, but
I would love maybe a follow-up memo or update, when possible, to learn more. I think some of my
colleagues might like to learn more as well about this initiative. But I do thank you and recognize you and
the team for that.
Additionally, as you and I spoke last year, I just want to put this in the public record, in a meeting, in
expressing my hope we can get Narcan into as many hands as possible, including our security agents.
Narcan saves lives, and perhaps that's also something we can follow up at a later date. If you have any
information to share, we're happy to take it. But I also want to recognize, as my colleague did, your work at
the agency.
And I also want to recognize that I know that you have been an individual who has driven initiatives that are
not just security related, but also public health, because they do intertwine. So thank you very much. And I
will hand the floor back to you, if you have comments. I like the music.
IAN HARWICK: I'm trying to figure how to turn it off. [LAUGHS]
JOYANN RUSCHA: No, keep it on. It's, like, Disney or Star Wars, but it's great.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yeah, Chair, just in regards to Narcan, right now, we go through a program, so it's
free for us to get it all. We do want to expand it to security officers. One thing we do find, though, is they
are-- you know, they might work on a contract for a week or two and then leave, and what we don't want to
do is lose those Narcan packets for ourselves.
So we do give it to-- you know, we put it at all of our populated transit hubs. We give it to their mobile units.
We are looking at ways that we might be able to have it more readily available, you know, just maybe within

our system, in case someone goes somewhere, maybe within our bathrooms that we use for the operators.
But that's a broader conversation.
But giving it to the security officers, we found very quickly that they weren't returning them when they were
returning stuff back to Allied Universal, and to lose those and then go back to the state and explain why we
need another 200, we just did not want to lose it for our officers that are out there and really handling these
calls.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I appreciate that. I'll turn it back over to you, Co-chair Harwick, to
manage the queue. And that is the end of my questions. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: All right. Next we have Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you very much, Chairman Harwick. My question is to acting Chief
Martingano. What MOUs are there, and what cities do you have those MOUs with, so that we can get an
idea of how well other groups are working with you guys? Because, living in Aurora, the penalties for a
crime committed in Aurora are far different than the penalties, let's say, committed in Douglas County. And
so I want to know how we can help you in maybe having some standardization, or what you might need for
us to help facilitate those MOUs. Thank you.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Chair, if I may?
IAN HARWICK: Go ahead.
STEVE MARTINGANO: OK. Yeah, so MOUs, we really don't have any set MOUs. You know, we are
recognized by the State of Colorado in regards to our police powers throughout the state. We do have
secondary employment MOUs more so with-- you know, Aurora is one of the agencies where we hire their
officers.
On their days off, they come and work for RTD. They take an RTD vehicle. They listen to our radio and go
to calls based off of that.
We also have a bus team where we have two Aurora officers at different times of the days, different days
of the week, and they ride our buses to assist our operators at problem locations within the routes of Aurora.
So we have a pretty good program. We also have a program with Denver, Thornton, and Lakewood.
In regards to the overall, our commanders have done an amazing job of reaching out to all the jurisdictions
within our 2,300 square miles, so we go through eight counties and 40 cities. You know, they have a really
good understanding of what our capabilities are. We have 85 officers, which for a city itself is a lot, but when
you have to spread that over 2,300 square miles, it's not a lot overall.
But again, whenever we do go to a-- let's say, for example, Lakewood, if we're going to do an operation
more so in Lakewood, we'll call Lakewood PD and tell them, hey, we're going to be here, if you have officers
available to assist. And they do a really good job of sending us an officer or two.
And we do a really good-- just recently, it was asked-- a lot of the SWAT teams in the metropolitan area,
they ask us for training because they want to know how to get on a bus, they want to know how to get on a
train in certain situations. We give them all of our information in regards to, you know, if a train-- to make
sure that they don't get electrocuted or something of that nature. So we work with them on a lot of training
to make sure their officers are safe when they come on our properties.

So we work really, really well with that. Technically, an MOU, the only one we really have is with Amtrak,
just because of their-- being statewide, they just don't have somebody here in Denver at all times. So
between them and Burlington North, we do have MOUs to assist them if something comes up, and we
could-- you know, especially since we parallel them at a lot of places on the tracks.
But the other cities, they do a really good job of helping us. And if there is ever an issue, that's when I then
reach out to their chief of police. And knock on wood, we haven't had a situation where our officers and
their officers haven't been able to collaborate on any scene that we've been on.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Co-chair Harwick, if I may?
IAN HARWICK: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, I just wanted to add-- Chief Martingano was talking about the MOUs with BNSF
and with Amtrak. But just for everybody's edification, we do have intergovernmental agreements with other
police forces within the service area, and I think that's what you were referencing at the outset with your
question.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes. It was really more a question of, How are the agencies working together?
Because I see-- you know, if there is a crime that happens in Lakewood, how is that facilitated if there
happens to be a Lakewood police officer there? What happens?
Same thing, if a person commits a crime on an RTD bus and they hop off, what happens if they run into the
community? Those are the kinds of things I'm more concerned about, because it affects the agency.
I've been speaking with people in Douglas County, and frankly, they don't like RTD, not because it doesn't
provide transit, but because they think it brings crime. And so I want to assure them that we are working on
how we can help them in that policing role. So that's probably more what I was looking for.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yeah, in relation to that, the investigations team and our police communications
dispatchers, they work very, very closely with all the agencies. They're able to speak to them directly. So
for example, if something happened in Lakewood, they would reach out to us to get video from our
platforms, our trains, and everything else. And we would work with them to find out how that arrest
developed.
Or if there was, let's say, a situation where someone left and it's a warrant, they send us all that information,
say, hey, we're looking for this individual, based off of whatever situation occurred, and we send that out to
our officers. So again, really good collaboration, and we work closely in different measures to make sure
any incident gets finalized on our property.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you. Can I ask a follow-up question, Director Harwick-- Chair Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Sure.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: And so with that, you talked a lot about recruiting of staff. And how are you, other
than going to police academies around the state or-- how are you recruiting additional staff? Because I
think that's a huge issue for all agencies, but specifically, I think, for police agencies these days.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yeah, so we go to a lot of recruitment efforts. Our HR team does a really amazing
job. We have a recruiter that assists us directly with our policing.

So they do a really good job of pushing it out there. Almost every person in our staff-- when I say "our staff,"
our police personnel that has a LinkedIn account, puts up any time there's a job opening on there, to reach
out to anyone that follows them.
And again, the colleges, we go to the colleges. We go, actually, even all the way down to high school.
Jefferson County has a really good program, a criminal justice program. I've gone to speak with them as
well to hopefully to persuade them in their career to become police officers.
And then, and I'm going to-- you know, the support of CEO has been extraordinary in our recruiting efforts,
I mean, our recent FOP contract as well. All that shows the support and how much our police department's
needed at RTD. And a lot of these individuals come over to us because they don't feel that same support
in their cities and their current agencies. And when they come here, that's usually the first thing we hear
from them, that the support of the board, the CEO, and everyone in the organization has driven them to
come here and want to stay here.
IAN HARWICK: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Sorry about that. I have three questions, Chief.
First of all, if you could just briefly describe what the detective division does? Secondly, if you could also
expand a little bit on your characterization of the relationships between RTD Police and the local police
jurisdictions you viewed as positive and good? And the third question relates to the K-9 coming to the board
meeting, if ahead of that meeting, you could tell me what the command is for "attack." Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may interrupt. Mr.-- excuse me, Director Buzek, it has already been decided the
explosives will be placed near your person. Oh, I ruined the surprise.
VINCE BUZEK: Good, good.
JOYANN RUSCHA: [LAUGHS] OK. Carry on, Chief.
STEVE MARTINGANO: OK. Yeah. I'm sorry. This is the same thing we kind of do at the local schools,
when our K-9 goes to the schools and everything else, just to kind of-- I'm sorry, I'm answering question 3
first. But whenever our schools ask to see our K-9 officers, this is kind of the demonstrations we do as well,
to kind of show what our K-9s do, and also, hopefully, it'll be beneficial for everybody.
In regards to the detective unit, so our detectives, right now, they have worked-- so kind of going back to
maybe the prior question, we don't-- our officers write our citations and everything into-- and arrests into
the counties, not the municipalities. So right now, our detective units are working with all the DA's offices
for all the counties we go through. They've already established six of them to make sure that we have
everything we need for proper case filing to go to that jurisdiction, and then, obviously, win the case, in
relation to what the police involvement on that was.
They're also working on developing the possibility of doing our own arrest warrants as well, so going back
to, if a customer was to do something on a bus and leave, if we're able to identify that individual, we want
to be able to write our own arrest warrants and then send it out to our jurisdiction. One thing that we kind
of find is we'll sometimes get information from a bus operator, hey, this person's on our bus every day
Thursday at 3:03 PM. We try to work with those agencies so they'll have someone available to be there.
So we want to make sure that we're available to be there to make sure that that incident doesn't continue
to occur.

So that kind of goes back to the collaboration. We reach out to those agencies. We support them in any
way that we can.
We handle all of our cases-- right now, we're not able to handle the felony cases, just because we are in
the midst of finishing our evidence room. Once we get that all established, then we could start putting
evidence in there. So right now, the DA's office has recommended we utilize the jurisdictions for felony
cases until we're a hundred percent compliant, because they don't want something getting thrown out in
discovery or something of that nature.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Pagliari.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair Harwick, Co-chair Harwick. Good evening, everyone. This is Director
Brett Pagliari. I just want to say, first of all, thank you for your service and the service of everyone on the
transit police and in the organization.
I wanted to give a quick update. Actually, Director Peggy Catlin and I, yesterday, were at the Jefferson
County Economic Development Corporation meeting, where we talked to the business leaders who are
investing in the county of Jefferson County. And among other concerns from RTD, it was a common theme
to talk about personal security, safety.
And by far, the most popular thing was fare enforcement. And echoed from many people I've heard, but
most especially these business leaders, who themselves sometimes ride RTD, they want to pay, but they
don't have their fares checked on the light rail in my district, and it really discourages them from riding.
So, good news, in the last CEO and General Manager update, I was told that you got-- the transit police or
security officers are now carrying fare enforcement. So my question is kind of related to that. If you could
give us any more information on how officers have been using the fare scanning-- not a fare enforcement
device, but, like, a fare validator device, and then if you have any information on how fare enforcement
might have increased this year over last year? Thank you.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yeah, so in the past, we relied on security officers to do the fare enforcement on
our systems. We all sat down one day-- and again, this is a collaborative effort with our command staff.
You know, our officers are out there riding. So we were like, well, if they're going to be out there riding our
vehicles and our buses, let's get them in tune with what all of our fare media is and then have them start
utilizing the devices that we have to check fare.
So our officers, now they do it as well. So when they go out there on their patrols, they have the fare
enforcement device-- it's a phone that has apps on it that could check your fare to make sure that anything
you buy mobilely, to show it's validated correctly. And then, obviously, paper, it's just the concept of reading
to make sure the date and time matches up with the date and time they're contacting somebody.
So with all those initiatives in place, we've definitely seen an increase in our fare checks. We were also
getting monthly fare enforcement data from Allied Universal. We've asked now for that to become weekly
to see how we're seeing those numbers increasing on a weekly basis.
And then, again, going back, the way we used to utilize our security officers, we put them in zones along
our system. You know, through our alignment, there was different zones that we utilized. And we'd have a

security officer go from, let's say, Broadway all the way up to Lone Tree and back. That'd be a fare checking
zone.
Now, previously, you know, there were decisions made to take them away from those zones. But very
recently here, we put them back on the zones. We've been hearing the same information from customers
in regards to not being-- not getting their fare checked or seeing people on the vehicles. So that has
changed, and hopefully, you'll get positive feedback on that.
And then, again, going back to the data point where-- you know, the one for every 1,700-plus boardings,
those are things that we want to continue to tell the public. Hopefully, these business meetings, please let
them reach out to me if they want. We do it a lot with the downtown businesses.
When they're trying to bring their employees back, we go to their HR meeting virtually and talk to all their
employees to show all the efforts, the cameras, the policing, staffing levels, the security officers,
cooperations with all the local law enforcement, all these things that we do for their public safety, because
what we have been finding is, and I'm not going to say it's everybody, but there's no better excuse not to
come back to work if you say the train isn't safe, I don't feel comfortable coming to the office. So we try to
not so much to say that's not true, but it's a philosophy of, you know, let's talk about it with that individual
employee or employees and find out what we could do better on a system to have them come back to work
and revitalize downtown and everything else, so.
And one thing I want to also say, I forgot to mention it earlier, but a lot of kudos has to go to Greg Smith
and his team. I think a lot-- we do a lot of de-escalation training with our operators, and I think a lot of that
has also contributed to the incidents going down. They do a really good job, and a lot of our operators are
doing extraordinary in regards to their encounters. So that needs to be a kudos to his team with that, too.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Co-chair, may I add something?
IAN HARWICK: Sure.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you very much, and I 100% agree. I forgot to mention, at this EDC meeting, we
did echo that there were tons of recent advancements and improvements in security in the system. And
now we've changed our messaging, and I ask the rest of the directors to do this as well, to show what
changes have been done, like you just told us, and then also encourage people to ride again to see the
changes for themselves and feel the changes in security, because that's what I've been doing in my
personal capacity. So thank you very much.
IAN HARWICK: All right, Chair Ruscha, I see no more questions.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. I do not see any other hands raised. Going once, twice? All right. Thank you,
acting Chief Martingano, for your time, for letting us put you up first, and for being patient with our questions.
As always, we appreciate when you come and visit us. And please also extend our gratitude to your officers
and staff as well.
Next up on our agenda-- and I do believe we have-- we had said Safety, if I'm not wrong, and if you'll just
give me a moment, because I need to move upward in my notes here. Or if someone could kindly remind
me who we have presenting for our safety report today?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Co-chair Ruscha, if I may do the introduction?

JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, yes, absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Co-chair. So, committee members, this evening, we have the pleasure of
having a presentation before us that Nathan Marx will basically provide. He serves as a Safety Management
Systems and Program Development Specialist within our Safety and Environmental Compliance division.
And basically, what you'll hear are some critical elements associated with regulatory aspects both on the
Federal Transit Administration side as well as the Federal Railroad Administration side, recognizing the
Federal Railroad Administration has auspices over our commuter rail and that FTA has auspices over our
transit, being both light rail and bus, but more specifically relative to the delegation by the Federal Transit
Administration via statute regarding the Colorado Public Utilities Commission serving as the state safety
oversight agency. So Mr. Marx will go through orienting you to those entities, talking about our safety
management system and different critical factors and various federal targets and benchmarks associated
with our safety programs. So without further ado, I will yield the floor to Mr. Marx. Thank you.
NATHAN MARX: Thank you, General Manager and CEO Ms. Johnson. Again, my name is Nathan Marx,
and I am a safety management systems and program development specialist here at RTD. So today, we'll
be presenting RTD's 2024 Safety Performance Review.
Over the next several slides, we're going to walk through how RTD performed across various safety targets,
highlighting key trends in incidents and risk, and most importantly, share the steps that we're taking to
continue to strengthen our commitment to safety of our employees, our customers, and the communities
we serve.
This is more than just a report. It's a reflection of our values and our accountability to each other. It's also
an opportunity to look forward, to build on what we have learned, and to ensure safety remains a foundation
to everything that we do.
All right. So we're going to start off the presentation by first looking at our federal targets and benchmarks.
These are nationally established safety performance measures that transit agencies are required to align
with, as outlined by the FTA through 49 CFR 673, which is also known as the Public Transportation Agency
Safety Plan regulation.
Next, we'll take a look at our state targets and benchmarks. These give us a sense of how we stack up
against others in our region and also show us how the state is choosing to apply federal guidelines in
practice.
From there, we'll shift our focus to the agency's performance. We'll take an honest look at our numbers,
see what's going well, and where we have room to improve. This is a key part to identifying gaps and
building our strengths.
Finally, we'll wrap up the presentation by looking at next steps. This will include action items, upcoming
deadline and opportunities-- upcoming deadlines, and opportunities to further strengthen our safety
management system.
Before we get into the numbers, I want to take a second to talk about why this review matters. At RTD, our
focus is pretty straightforward. We're always working to make our system and services safer for every
employee and every customer. It isn't just a box we check. It's something we live every day, manage
consistently, and keep pushing forward.

We track and report our safety performance not just for ourselves, but also to meet the expectations of the
Federal Transit Administration, the State of Colorado, and align with our own internal goals and targets.
We're also guided by the Public Transit Agency Safety Program, also known as the PTASP-- this falls under
the FTA-- and, for our commuter rail system, the System Safety Program Plan, which falls under the FRA.
Those frameworks give us a structure and keep us accountable. They help us stay proactive with risk and
make smart decisions using data and make sure safety stays a top priority at every level of our system.
Before we go any further, I want to take a pause and walk through some key terms you'll see pop up
throughout the presentation. The first one, C-A-P, or CAP, stands for Corrective Action Plan. These are
formal plans we create to address specific safety concerns or findings.
The next is CPUC, which is the Colorado Public Utilities Commission. They're our state safety oversight
agency and provide oversight at a state level for our light rail system. Then we'll see Directly Operated. This
refers to buses directly operated by RTD employees.
Next, we'll see FRA, which stands for the Federal Railroad Administration. They oversee our commuter rail
safety at a national level. And following that is FTA, which is the Federal Transit Administration. They're our
main federal partner for transit safety and compliance.
Continuing on, we have NTD, which stands for National Transit Database. This is where we report
performance and safety data at a national level. The NPTSP is our National Public Transportation Safety
Plan. It's the federal roadmap that helps guide safety strategies across the country.
When we say purchased transportation, this refers to bus services or train services that are operated by
third-party contractors but still managed under RTD's oversight. SMS stands for Safety Management
System. That's our internal framework for identifying risk, monitoring safety performance, taking proactive
steps to improve, and finally, system reliability.
In this context, it means the mean average distance a vehicle travels between major mechanical failures,
also known as MDBF. It's a key indicator for how well our fleet is performing. Again, there's no need to
memorize all these. Feel free to refer back to this slide if you need a quick reference later on.
With that background in place, and now that we've defined some key terms in our guiding agencies, let's
begin by looking at how our safety performance compares to federal targets and benchmarks. These
federally established metrics give us a standardized way to assess our progress and ensure we're aligning
with national safety priorities under the FTA's Public Transportation Safety Program.
So this first slide here is our 2024 bus fatalities, injuries, and safety events. First and foremost, it's important
to acknowledge that when it comes to safety, even a single life loss is one too many. Our goal is always
zero, because behind every data point is a person, a family, or a community.
That said, based on safety thresholds set by the federal agency standards, we remain within the expected
range for fatalities across all service modes in 2024. While that may indicate progress from a regulatory
perspective, we know that statistics alone don't capture the real, human impact.
When we shift to injuries, we do see a slight overage in our direct-operated services, even though we met
the target in other areas. This is something that we're looking at more closely to understand the root causes
and identifying where adjustments may be needed. Whether it's training, scheduling, or procedures, we're
trying to dive deeper to make sure that we figure that out.

Now, when it comes to safety events, we're over the target in both direct-operated and purchased
transportation. That tells us there's room for improvement in our hazard identification, risk mitigation, and
perhaps how we communicate expectations across modes and providers.
Lastly, our system reliability is an area where we fell short, specifically in direct-operated and non-fixedroute services. This includes things like missed trips or breakdowns that affect our ability to deliver safe and
dependable service. So in summary, we're making strides, but these data points give us some clear
direction on where we need to focus in the year ahead.
Moving on to our next slide, this is a graphical representation kind of going over what we just had talked
about previously. So the red cells here are a visual cue where attention is needed, and the green cells show
where we meet our targets. We should never become complacent, especially when we know people's lives
and well-being are at stake.
So let's begin with our most serious measure, fatalities. Across all service types, we stayed within our
established PTASP targets while the [AUDIO OUT] PTASP targets. While that might show alignment with
performance thresholds, I want to pause here and clearly say, even one fatality is too many. This is not just
about meeting targets. It's about lives and our ongoing responsibility to do better.
When we look at injuries, we see direct-operated services were slightly above our target. There were 75
reportable injuries, compared to the target of 74. It's a small margin, but one we do take seriously, especially
considering the injury rate per 10 million vehicle miles also exceeded the goal. In contrast, purchased and
non-fixed-route services stayed within those targets.
When it comes to safety events, we do see areas of concern. Both direct-operated and purchased
transportation exceeded targets for reportable safety events in both cases. The rate per 10 million vehicle
revenue miles also was over. This points to potential system-level trends or process issues we need to
analyze further.
Lastly, when looking at system reliability, this was below the target for direct-operated and non non-fixedroute services. While our purchased transportation exceeded expectations in this area, we clearly need to
examine asset condition and maintenance practices more closely, and especially where our internal
operations are concerned.
Moving on to our next slide, the 2024 light rail fatalities, injuries, and safety events, we're proud to report
that no fatalities occurred, a milestone that meets our target and aligns with our agency's deep commitment
to Vision Zero. But let's be clear, Vision Zero isn't just a slogan. It's a framework that holds us accountable
to the idea that no fatality is acceptable. We take that to heart. Every safe trip, every shift that ends without
incident, is a reflection of that mindset in action.
We also saw strong performance on injuries, with totals and rates well below the target. This suggests our
training programs, hazard controls, and operator initiatives are paying off. Still, we know that the past
performance doesn't guarantee future safety, and we must keep anticipating risk.
One area we truly excelled in this year was system reliability, where we far exceeded our targets. This
means there were fewer breakdowns, fewer service disruptions, and most importantly, fewer situations
where safety is compromised by mechanical failures. However, we did fall short in the category of safety
events, which includes incidents that may have not caused injury but signal there is a risk, such as things

like close calls, unplanned stops, or equipment anomalies. Under the FTA's recent Safety Advisory 24-2,
we're being encouraged-- and, frankly, expected-- to dig deeper into these kind of events.
The advisory reminds us that it's not just the big incidents where we need to respond to. It's the near misses,
the patterns, the leading indicators. These are the things that tell us something isn't right.
So moving forward, we're enhancing our internal reporting culture, improving analysis of minor and
nonreportable events, and using our safety management system to proactively address risks before they
escalate. All of this reinforces our long-term commitment to safety as a system, not just a scorecard. And
while we're proud of our light rail team's performance, we know the work of protecting our riders, employees,
and the public never ends.
So looking at the light rail safety data, there are several important takeaways. First, and most critically, we
had zero fatalities. This means we not only met our test target, but we took meaningful steps forward in our
Vision Zero journey.
On the injury side, we performed very well. Only one reportable injury was recorded, and our injury rate per
10 million vehicle revenue miles came in at just 1.3, well below our target of 1.2. This is a strong indicator
that our operating practices, training, and controls have had the intended effect.
We also saw exceptional results in system reliability, with a performance of over 76,000 miles between
major mechanical failures. That's more than double our target. But there is one area where we must
continue to focus our efforts, which is safety events.
We recorded 18 events, which is above our PTASP target of 14. The rate per vehicle revenue miles also
came in high at 23, well over our target of 14.6. These numbers highlight the need for enhanced mitigation
strategies.
This ties directly into the FTA Safety Advisory 24-2, which urges agencies to take a closer look both at
reportable and nonreportable safety events, and to treat near-misses as valuable indicators of risk. We're
actively responding by improving our event investigation process, encouraging more frontline reporting, and
applying safety management system tools to uncover root causes, not just the symptoms.
Looking at our next slide here, our next slide summarizes our 2024 safety performance for the commuter
rail operations. Overall, we saw some encouraging trends. Rule violations and trespasser incidents were
both down systemwide, which reflects improved compliance and possibly more effective fencing, signage,
or community outreach.
Specifically, trespassers, which refers to an unauthorized individual accessing the railroad property, this
drops across all lines, with the biggest improvements seen on our A-Line. Rule violations, which include
failures to follow operating or safety procedures by personnel, were also down compared to 2023, especially
on the A and B lines. That's a testament to improved training, supervision, and maybe even more
communication between crews and leadership.
On the other hand, near misses, which is defined as an incident where a collision or unsafe event was
narrowly avoided, did go up. We saw increases particularly on A and our N line. This is something we're
taking seriously as near misses often signal underlying risk that hasn't resulted in an incident, but it could.
Finally, FRA-reportable events saw a slight uptick across most lines. These are incidents that met the
federal threshold for injury, property damage, or system disruption, and must be reported to the Federal

Railroad Administration. The volumes are still relatively low, but they are important indicators that warrant
monitoring and follow-up action. So while there's progress in some areas, the rise in near misses and
reportable events reinforce the need for proactive safety management.
All right. And here is a graphical representation showing how those numbers broke down from 2023 to
2024. Next we'll look at our 2024 FRA inspections. And before we dive into the data of this slide, I do want
to define a few key terms that we may have not covered earlier.
So a defect is any condition-- whether involving equipment, track, signage, or operations-- that does not
comply with the Federal Railroad Safety Regulations and may pose a risk to safe railroad operations. This
includes not only major mechanical or structural failures, but also seemingly minor issues such as faded,
unreadable, or missing safety signs or labels.
Under the current FRA requirements, all identified defects must be documented, regardless of whether they
are corrected immediately, ensuring accountability and promoting a proactive safety culture. So a defect
will become a violation when it's not corrected, or when safety rules are knowingly ignored.
So think of it this way. A defect is a condition, and a violation is an action or inaction. So action-- the violation
turns into-- the defect turns into a violation if we choose not to do anything about it.
So, example of this is something like our track gauge. If the track gauge is measured at 57.75 inches, that's
just over our FRA limit of 57.5 inches. It's a defect because it exceeds the allowable limit.
But if it's a defect and a slow order is put in place immediately, it's not a violation. The violation occurs if we
choose to do nothing about that and keep running trains at the exact same speed with no kind of restrictions
or anything of the sort.
So let's take a look at our FRA inspection findings across our commuter rail lines, broken down into the
defects and violations, that we just reviewed. So for our defects, which are the noncompliant conditions that
are not yet violations, for the A Line, we had the highest number of defects in both years combined, with a
noticeable increase from 2023 to 2024.
In 2023, we had roughly eight defects, and that number jumped to 15 in 2024, signaling a need for closer
attention to reoccurring maintenance issues. On the B Line, this had the lowest number of defects, staying
below five in both years. This is encouraging, but we still need to ensure those numbers stay low through
proactive inspections.
For the G Line, we saw moderate defect numbers in both years. There was a steady increase from '23 to
'24, suggesting we may need to evaluate whether we're addressing root causes. And for the N Line, we did
see a drop in defects in 2024 after a higher count in '23. That's a positive trend we're seeing-- that's a
positive trend, and we're seeing improvements from previous efforts.
Moving on to our 2024 bus and light rail assaults, I want to take a moment to talk about our performance
data for this area. In 2024, reported assaults increased from 371 in 2023 to 496 in 2024. That's about a
33% jump. It is important to understand why this jump happened.
The increase is largely driven by two things-- new reporting requirements under the FTA's General Directive
24-1, and our agency's proactive efforts to raise awareness and improve reporting accuracy. Under the
FTA's updated guidance, an assault is now defined as any circumstance in which an individual is harmed
or threatened with harm while performing their duties for the agency. This includes physical assaults-- such

as things like hitting, spitting, pushing, verbal threats-- and acts of intimidation or harassment that cause
fear of injury.
The National Transit Database aligns with that definition. It states that an assault includes any intentional
act or threat of force directed towards a transit employee or passenger, that results in physical harm or the
risk of fear of harm, even if no physical contact occurs. What this means is nonphysical assaults now count
and must be reported. The majority of reported assaults involved bus operators, which isn't really surprising
given their daily interaction with the public.
So while the increase in numbers might look alarming at first glance, it actually tells us that we're getting a
more accurate picture of what our frontline employees are experiencing. More reporting equals better data,
and better data helps us target protections, training, and enforcement efforts.
So let's dive deeper into the '23 and '24 bus and light rail assault data. With a breakdown of physical assaults
versus nonphysical assaults, as stated previously, in '23, we had 371 assaults. 177 of those were physical,
and 194 of those were nonphysical. In 2024, for total assaults, this rose up to 496. 182 were physical, a
slight increase from the year before.
But look at the nonphysical assaults, 314 incidents, which is a significant rise. So again, what is that
increase from? That's from some of our ongoing efforts from having to comply with the FTA's General
Directive 24-1.
They've expanded the definition, and explains that the jump in nonphysical assault reports between-- and
explains the assault reports between '23 and '24. The bottom line-- the rise in the reported results reflects
reality more accurately, especially the daily experiences of our frontline employees, who often face threats
of verbal abuse that previously went unrecorded. While the numbers are higher, this gives us better data
to act on and ensures we're providing support and protections for our workforce.
As we continue improving safety across all of our modes-- bus, light rail, and commuter rail, and even our
maintenance and inspection programs-- we've established several foundational strategies that are
announced systemwide. We've strengthened our training programs not only to meet standards but to build
a more capable, safety-aware workforce. These efforts ensure our operators, technicians, and frontline staff
are better prepared to prevent and respond to issues in real time.
To keep our equipment reliable and reduce risk, we've prioritized routine maintenance and inspections.
Regular, proactive servicing helps us avoid mechanical failures and improve service continuity. We're also
applying root-cause analysis consistently. Every reportable incident is examined in detail so we can address
the underlying issues, not just the surface symptoms.
Our Safety Management System, also known as that SMS, is now integrated across the agency. This helps
us shift from a reactive approach to one that identifies risks and prevents them before they escalate. Finally,
we've enhanced internal oversight and audits, giving us stronger assurance that safety practices,
maintenance standards, and operational protocols are being followed consistently across all teams. These
are the pillars of our safety culture, and they're helping us build a safer, more reliable transit system across
the board.
Now that we've gone into that assault data, let's talk about what RTD is doing to protect our employees. So
the increase in reported assaults in 2024 is due to those key factors that we talked about before, from
expanding the definition of assault from being physical to also including nonphysical, as well as our outreach

that we've been doing for our workforces, through crew meetings, safety committee meetings, and just
being out and present in the system.
In response, we've made several key changes. First, we've standardized reporting systems, increasing
visibility, and expanded outreach to ensure consistent and accurate reporting across all divisions. We've
implemented live look-in camera systems on all buses, with installations underway on the light rail system.
These allow transit police-- this allows the transit police and supervisors to monitor in real time when support
is needed.
We reached a major milestone by installing operator barriers on a hundred percent of our buses, helping
prevent direct confrontations and reducing the risk of physical assaults. Our police presence has expanded
systemwide, including onboard and in key transit hubs, which not only improves our response time but acts
as a deterrent. Finally, we've launched our employee-- we've launched employee-focused and public
awareness campaigns that reinforce expectations for rider conduct and promote all types of-- and reporting
of all types of assaults.
These combined actions are both prevention and support-- are about both prevention and support, creating
safer conditions for our frontline staff while ensuring immediate visible response when an incident occurs.
And this is an ongoing effort. We'll continue working with employees, union partners, and the riders to
provide safety at every level of the system.
Next, we'll be looking at our state targets and benchmarks. Now, let's start by reviewing the corrective action
plan performance as of March 6, 2025. The Corrective Action Plans, or CAPs, are issued to address
identified safety concerns, correct deficiencies, and prevent future risk. These actions are central to how
we demonstrate continuous improvement under our safety management system.
To date, we've issued a total of 116 CAPs based on audits, inspections, investigations, and safety reviews.
Of those, 71% have been closed, meaning corrective actions have been implemented, verified, and the
issue is considered resolved from a safety assurance perspective. 27 CAPs, which is roughly 23%, still
remain open, but these are being tracked with defined responsibilities, timelines, and status updates. Seven
CAPs, approximately 6%, are currently under review by the Colorado Public Utilities Commission.
It's important to note that the Federal Transit Administration has delegated oversight authority to the CPUC,
which ensures RTD's designated-- which serves RTD's designated state safety oversight agency as part of
that role. The Colorado Public Utilities Commission must review and formally approve the closure of certain
CAPs, particularly those tied to reportable events, findings, or investigations. We're working closely with the
CPUC to move these items forward and ensure full alignment with the FTA expectations.
Across the board, we continue to focus on closing CAPs effectively and efficiently, improving quality and
clarity of our corrective actions, and verifying that each fix is sustainable and reduces risk in practice, not
just on paper. CAPs aren't just compliance. They're a feedback loop to build a safer system for employees
and passengers alike.
Here's that visual representation of our CAP progress. So in total, since we started doing this, we've had
116 caps. 71% is closed. 23% is open. And 6% are currently under review.
All right. So let's take a look at our reportable event performance for 2024 for FTA and CPUC reportable
events. This includes accidents, hazards, and red signal violations as defined by both the Federal Transit

Administration and the Colorado Public Utilities Commission, which, again, is that SSOA, or State Safety
Oversight Agency.
So some of the key trends that you'll see here is, first, FTA and CPUC-reportable accidents rose from 24
to 36 events. These involve injuries, asset damage, or environmental impacts. The increase reflects not
only more incidents but also identification and more timely reporting.
Next, the CPUC-reportable hazards increased from 80 to 109. These are situations where there was a risk,
whether people or equipment or the environment-- whether to people, equipment, or the environment, even
if there no actual harm occurred. These must be reported within 24 hours. And the rise shows we're getting
better at catching and flagging issues earlier. That's a strong step forward in risk awareness.
Lastly, looking at red signal violations, this rose from 24 to 30. These occur when a train passes a stop
without authorization. These are critical safety events that require immediate review and root-cause
analysis.
What we've learned from that analysis is that most of these involve new operators. A new operator is defined
as an employee operating in a light rail vehicle with less than one year of service. In response, every
operator involved in a red signal violation is retrained, and we're evaluating procedures for additional
improvements.
While the numbers are up, the key takeaway of this is we're improving compliance, documentation, and
responsiveness. And more importantly, every event gives us a chance to learn and improve. Our goal in
2024 isn't just accurate reporting. It's driving these numbers down through better training, smarter
mitigation, and stronger monitoring. All right. And here is that graphical representation of the numbers that
we just reviewed in terms of the FTA and CPUC-reportable events.
All right. So proactive actions supporting the CAP and regulatory event management-- so as we wrap up
this section, I want to highlight the proactive steps RTD is taking to address both corrective action plans
and the rise in regulatory reportable events. We've made significant progress, again, closing 71% of CAPs,
and our focus is shifting to closing out the remaining open items. That means finalizing documentation,
verifying effectiveness, and coordinating with oversight bodies, like the Colorado Public Utilities
Commission, where we need them.
But closing a CAP isn't just the end of the story. We're implementing follow-up monitoring to ensure those
actions are actually reducing risk long term. At the same time, we're tackling the increase in reportable
accident accidents, hazards, and red signal violations.
The rise reflects reporting and oversight but also points to areas of focus. So we're strengthening the-- so
we're strengthening event-tackling root-cause analysis to get to the "why" behind the issue, expanding
training to reinforce safe operations and rule compliance, prioritizing preventative maintenance to mitigate
potential failures, and launching ride and field checks across all modes to spot issues before they escalate.
All of this fits in within our safety management system approach, where we don't just react to data, we use
it as a guide. We use it to guide continuously safety improvements across the organization. This is about
building a culture that's proactive, informed, and accountable, something we're fully committed to in 2025
and beyond.
Now that we've reviewed how RTD aligns with both federal and state safety benchmarks, let's shift our
focus to our own internal performance. This next section will take a closer look at how we performed in

2024 across key categories such as fatalities, injuries, safety events and system reliability within each of
our service modes. These are the numbers that reflect our day-to-day safety outcomes and the real impacts
of our employees, policies, and programs.
All right. So in 2024, RTD took a significant step by establishing the Safety Management System and
Program Development work group. This group was formed to lead the charge in aligning our operations
with principles of SMS outlined by the FTA, focusing on risk management, data-driven decision-making,
accountability, and safety promotion. Here's what we focus on.
Proactive strategies-- we're moving away from reactive safety and towards anticipating risk before they
become incidents. That means improving how we assess hazards, manage change, and communicate
expectations across the organization.
Systemwide coordination-- safety can't live in a silo. The SMS group is working-- the SMS work group is
helping to align safety efforts across maintenance, operations, capital programs, and oversight so that
strategies are consistent and effective throughout the agency.
And finally, we're investing in the ongoing buildout and overall SMS framework. That includes the
development of policies, training, performance monitoring tools, and stronger reporting systems.
This isn't just a compliance exercise. It's a cultural shift. Our long-term vision is a transit system where every
employee, from frontline staff to leadership, plays a role, an active role, in identifying and managing safety
risks. The steps we took in 2024 are laying the foundation for that transformation.
So I want to highlight some of the tangible accomplishments that we made in 2024, and all are rooted in
our commitment to systemwide safety and continuous improvement. Here's what we delivered. We're
implementing a formal policy for event notification, reporting, and investigation, standardizing how we
document and how we respond to safety events across the agency. We introduced pre-job safety briefings
for high-risk and nonroutine work to ensure everyone understands the hazards and the controls before they
begin that task or before they begin that job.
We developed and delivered HIRA training. HIRA stands for Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment.
This is to help staff better recognize and evaluate risk in real time.
We launched monthly safety crew meetings across all bus divisions, including maintenance, facilities
maintenance, and servicing and cleaning teams. And importantly, we make direct contact with employees
on all shifts. This includes our AM, PM, and our overnight employees, to ensure every team has access to
the same information, support, and two-way communication with Safety. And we successfully met our FTA
General Directive goal of, from 24-1, requirements for transit worker assault-- assault reporting, excuse me,
building out both our processes and our awareness around these important issues. Continuing on, in 2024,
we strengthened our-JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, just, excuse me, Mr. Marx, if I may? You are doing a fabulous job. This is
extraordinary.
And I was wondering, if you wouldn't mind, we typically take a break around 7:30 to allow our transcriber a
break and to give us a break. I know you still have some slides left. Would you be comfortable if we broke- took a 10-minute now, and then we'll come back, finish, let you take a breather, and then continue on with
Q&A? Would that be all right?

NATHAN MARX: That's totally fine.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. Again, you are doing a fantastic job, and this is extraordinary work. So
with that, we are adjourned, and we will return at 8:00-- what am I looking at? Oh, 8 o'clock, we'll say 8
o'clock. Thank you.
NATHAN MARX: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: --and our break. Oh, let me restart. [LAUGHS] It is now 8:00 PM. We are back from
recess and our break. Mr. Marx was and is doing a fabulous job with his safety presentation. So, Mr. Marx,
when you are ready, you may proceed.
NATHAN MARX: Perfect. Thank you, Chair Ruscha. Can everyone still see my screen and hear me?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, sir.
NATHAN MARX: All right. So moving back in to the 2024 SMS accomplishments, so in 2024, we
strengthened our continuous improvement efforts across all four pillars of the safety management system.
Each action on this slide represents a shift from reactive compliance to proactive risk reduction.
So under safety insurance, we implemented monthly facility inspections at every division. These aren't just
checklist audits. They help us catch systematic issues before they escalate.
Under safety promotion, we've expanded safety skills training for both leadership and employees,
reinforcing that safety is everyone's responsibility. We've also made those trainings practical and role
specific, focused on real-world risk scenarios. Under policy and risk management, we rolled out our safety
and security certification policy and framework, bringing structure and accountability to how we track
certifiable elements across our system. We also upgraded our data systems, enhancing our ability to detect
trends and proactively target risk clusters using data instead of waiting for the next-- [CLEARS THROAT]
excuse me-- instead of waiting for the next incident.
These accomplishments are more than procedural. They represent progress in SMS maturity. They
strengthen our infrastructure and move RTD closer to high-performing, risk-informed safety culture.
Our next slide here shows our operational safety risk register status. This will show the change from 2023
to 2024 and how we're performing. So our operational risk register is an area which we capture all of our
different risks from all over the agency. Whether it's a risk-- whether it's a risk that is brought up by an
employee, it comes through a safety committee, or if it's discovered while we're out in the field, all of our
risks are captured here, and they're tracked until they are fully closed out.
You'll notice a sharp increase in the numbers of reported hazards in 2023 to 2024. In 2023, there was 184
hazards reported, and in 2024, there was 328 hazards reported. That's a 78% increase. This rise in
reporting is a direct result of simplifying the reporting process through RTD's intranet, making it easier for
employees to report hazards from any location.
We've also expanded our QR code signage, which we have posted in break rooms, on safety boards, and
our operating areas. This allows employees to be able to scan that code and be able to report a hazard
from wherever they're at. And consistent safety outreach across all shifts and divisions has helped with
encouraging staff to speak up and making them feel empowered to say something when something doesn't
look right.

So what does this mean? The increase tells us that employees are more aware of risk and more engaged
in reporting it. That's a win.
We've also closed out more hazards in 2024 compared to 2023. In '24, we've closed out 243 hazards,
where in 2023, we closed out 172 hazards. But our closure rate fell from 93.5% to 74.1% due to the type
of risks that have long lead times and the quantity of hazards reported.
What does it mean for a hazard to be closed out? A hazard is considered closed when it's been formally
evaluated, mitigations have been identified and completed, and the responsible team has verified that the
risk is now at an acceptable level. This isn't just an administrative step. It's a risk-informed decision to
confirm that the issue has been addressed and will not result in harm.
Why the drop in closure rate matters, the drop in closure rate tells us that we're surfacing more risk but
we're not resolving it as fast as we're discovering. This is a challenge, but it's a good one. It tells us that our
system is maturing.
The next step is to prioritize hazards by risk, not by when they're submitted; assign clear ownership for
resolution; and use safety data to ensure high-risk items are closed out first. We're committed to improving
both our hazard awareness and our hazard resolution here in 2025.
Let's take a look-- let's take a quick look at our on-the-job injury trends for 2024. This slide gives us a monthby-month snapshot of where we're seeing progress and where we still have work to do. So where are we
seeing some of this improvement? We have seen really encouraging movement.
Injuries were down in several months, and that's a sign that our safety efforts are starting to stick. What's
working? Things like targeted outreach, safety briefings, and more visible leadership presence out in the
field is making a real difference.
Our best months were April, August, and December. Those months stood out with noticeable drops in
injuries. During those times, we saw safety teams spending more time in the field, clear communication
around nonroutine tasks, and fewer repeat injuries, which shows we're addressing root causes better.
Those months showed what's possible when safety is consistently reinforced and not just talked about.
But where did we struggle? We did see some clear spikes in our safety numbers and in our injury numbers
in September and October. Those were our toughest months.
What's behind all that? Early indicators point to heavier seasonal workloads, fatigue building up during long
work cycles, and some gaps in PPE and following task-specific protocols. We're digging deeper into the
data, but these patterns have already given us clues.
What we're doing about it-- in response to this, we're stepping up a few key areas. We've doubled down on
pre-task risk assessments during peak periods. Injury reviews now focus more on what led to the event,
not just who was involved. And we've sharpened our safety messages to directly target the most common
issues, like slips, line of fire, or overexertion injuries.
Here's the big takeaway. Injuries haven't vanished, but we're starting to see a shift-- we're starting to see
the shift-- shift the trend in the right direction, excuse me. Now, the challenge is consistency, taking what
worked in those best months and turning it into the new normal, using those tough months as a lesson to
help us build a stronger, more resilient safety culture moving forward.

So let's take a look at how we did with on-the-job injuries in '24. So this chart is that comparative from '23
to '24, giving us a clear picture of where we improved and where we need to step up. The good news is, as
stated previously, April, August, and December were our strongest months.
April, we dropped by nine injuries, and August and December, we each saw a six-point improvement. These
wins align with-- these wins align with where we increase field presence and focus more communication
and reinforcement of key practices. It's clear that when we stay proactive, we see real results. November
held steady, identical to 2023, and that shows some consistency but is an opportunity to push for better
outcomes.
Now, where we struggled, in September and October, September spiked from 43 injuries to 58. October
jumped from 50 in 2023 to 70 in 2024, which is the highest all year. We're digging into why, but early signs
point to things that we were talking about earlier such as workload, fatigue, safety briefings not being as
sharp as they should be during that stretch. So the big picture is, when we're visible, when we're engaged,
and when we're intentional, injuries go down. Now it's about building on what worked in those strong months
and making it the standard for all year long.
This slide breaks down our top injury causes across the system in 2024. The numbers speak for
themselves. The top three categories that we're seeing in 2024 was absorption, ingestion, and inhalation,
with 279 injuries; slips, trips, and falls, at 95; and strains or bodily reactions, with 94.
What jumps out here is that absorption and inhalation injuries made up of more than half of all reported
injuries last year. This isn't about typical workplace hazards. It's largely due to exposure of illicit substances
like fentanyl, and these exposures are happening on bus and rail vehicles.
To address this, we're actively partnering with RTD Police to identify areas where this is happening,
increase law enforcement presence, and take steps to better protect our operators and frontline teams. We
also saw struck-by and vehicle-related injuries continue to be a concern, especially among our bus, yard,
and facilities teams. These are often preventable with better awareness, visibility, and clear communication
in areas with moving equipment.
The takeaway here is simple. These aren't rare, edge-case injuries. These are ones happening the most
often.
So in 2025, we're asking everyone to stay present and aware. Think about what you're expected-- what
you're exposed to, where you're stepping, how you're moving, because those small moments of attention
can make all the difference.
This slide really backs up what we've been hearing from frontline employees. The top injuries, especially
those related to inhalation and absorption, aren't just numbers. They reflect real exposures happening out
on our bus and rail system, often linked to illicit drug use, not traditional workplace hazards. That's why
we're focusing efforts with RTD Police to track where these exposures are happening and increase
presence in those areas. It's about keeping our people safe.
But we also can't lose sight of the physical injuries. Slips, strains, and contacts with vehicle equipment
continue to be a common-- continue to be common, and those are preventable.
These are aren't rare, one-off events. They happen during normal, everyday work tasks. So the message
we're pushing across the agency is simple-- make sure that you're being intentional.

Take a second to scan your environment. Check your footing, your posture, your PPE. It's those small,
everyday choices that help prevent injuries and keep our people working safely instead of recovering from
something that could have been avoided.
On our next slide, this highlights our overall employee injury rate performance for 2024. And while we're
seeing some movement in the right direction, there's still some work to do. Let's first acknowledge the
progress of our overall injury rate-- let's first acknowledge the progress.
Our overall injury rate did improve. This dropped from 30.04, in 2023, to 29.19 injuries per 100 employees
in 2024. That's a meaningful reduction, especially given the size and complexity of our workforce and
operations. It's the result of ongoing prevention efforts, safety campaigns, and stronger alignment between
frontline teams and safety leadership.
Another area of progress is the illicit substance exposure rate, which decreased thanks to targeted
awareness efforts, improved PPE compliance, and faster incident response in collaboration with RTD Police
and Operations. These exposures, especially on the frontliners, have been a growing concern across the
transit industry, so this is a step in the right direction.
That said, we must also stay grounded in reality. Our injury rate still exceeds both OSHA's urban transit
average and the national benchmark. So while we're trending better, we're not there yet where we need to
be. Our safety management system framework will continue to guide our actions using leading indicators
and workforce feedback to drive down risk and build a truly resilient safety culture. It's about continuous
improvement, making sure every employee goes home safe every day.
Our next slide gives us a look at bus accidents in 2024, and there are some concerning trends that we need
to address. Overall, bus accidents increased year over year.
The biggest jump came from preventable accidents, which rose from 404 in 2023 to 616 in 2024. That's a
52% increase. This is a clear signal that we need to double down on operator support when it comes to
safe driving habits, hazard awareness, and decision-making on the road.
Nonpreventable accidents, where our-- nonpreventable accidents, which is where our operators were not
at fault, like being rear-ended or sideswiped, remained relatively steady, moving from 749 to 772. While
these incidents are harder to control, they still affect service, safety, and public confidence.
When you look at both trends together, they reflect a growing challenge for operators. Traffic is heavier,
routes are more complex, and there's more factors in play, like added bike lanes, new intersections, and
changing infrastructure. All of that puts more pressure on operators and narrows the margin for error.
The reality is the environment is changing. And while we may not be able to control traffic or city design,
we can absolutely control-- can control how we train, equip, and support our operators.
These findings are already shaping our response. We're conducting route-specific safety audits, expanding
simulator and defensive driver refreshers, focusing more on fatigue and post-incident coaching. We're also
using data to strengthen partnerships with city planners and traffic engineers because safety needs to be
a part of every conversation about transit, transit design, and not just an afterthought.
And here is the graphical representation showing how we did for between 2023 and 2024 related to our
preventable and nonpreventable bus accidents. This slide pulls together three key bus safety performance

indicators from 2024. And while the picture is mixed, it's helping us zero in on where our attention is most
needed.
First, we met our target for lost time days due to on-the-job injuries. We saw a 12.8% reduction, which
reflects improvement in our return-to-work programs, better ergonomic support, and early injury intervention
strategies. That's a meaningful win, and it tells us some of our occupational health initiatives are making a
difference.
However, we saw a concerning trend in our preventable accident rate, which rose significantly. As we
discovered earlier, this is being driven largely by complex road conditions, increasing traffic, and the need
for stronger support and retraining of our operators. This ties directly to our proactive response plan in
alignment with the FTA's Safety Advisory 23-1, which calls for targeted retraining, route risk assessment,
and data-informed interventions.
Lastly, we noted a slight increase in "slip, trip, and fall" and strain-related injuries. While not large spikes,
these types of injuries tend to reoccur if not addressed systematically. That's why we've doubled down on
prevention through footwear policy enforcement, improved housekeeping protocols, and PPE refreshers.
Together, these metrics paint a clear picture of progress in some areas and persistent challenges in others.
As we move forward, these insights will continue to guide our safety management system decisions, shape
our operator support strategies, and ensure our resources are directed where they'll have the greatest
impact.
This table provides a snapshot of our 2024 performance across several of our bus safety indicators,
comparing results to both '23 and our internal targets. So let's start with what needs attention. The most
significant variance in our preventable accident rate, which increased by nearly 46%, rising from 2.35 to
3.43 accidents per 100,000 miles-- our goal was to stay below 1, so this is so this clearly did not meet the
target. And it reinforces the importance of our targeted retraining, route audits, and our alignment with the
Safety Advisory 23-1.
We also saw an increase in both "slip, trip, and fall" injuries and injuries from strains, up by 17% and 1.5%,
respectively. While the latter is a relatively small increase, both categories missed their 5% reduction goals
and remain on our watchlist for additional ergonomic and environmental controls.
Now, on the improvement side, we're pleased to report that lost-time days due to on-the-job injuries
decreased by 12.8%, exceeding our 5% goal, and that's a strong indicator that every intervention, returnto-work effort, and the injury prevention strategies are having measurable impacts. Total OJIs also declined
slightly, but not enough to meet our target of a 5% reduction. So while the trend is in the right direction, it
reinforces the need to double-down on proactive hazard mitigation and employee engagement.
Altogether, this table gives us a balanced, clear view and progress in recovery time and injury management
alongside ongoing challenges in accident prevention and musculoskeletal safety. These insights will guide
our priorities moving forward as we continue to build a safer, more supportive operating environment for all
employees.
This slide here is going to focus on our light rail operations. The results highlight both meaningful progress
and some clear opportunities for improvement. First, a major win, our preventable accident rate improved
by 33.3%, successfully meeting our target of fewer than one accident per 100,000 miles. That's a strong
indicator that our operator training, oversight, hazard recognition programs are producing real results. This

performance improvement not only reduced risk but also helped maintain public trust and operational
continuity.
However, we didn't meet our internal targets across other key areas. This includes metrics like total on-thejob injuries, lost time, and other injury categories, where we have aimed for a 5% reduction. The data shows
that despite operational improvements in some areas, employee injury risk, especially during day-to-day
activities, remains a concern.
Specifically, "slip, trip, and fall" and strain-- "slip, trip, and fall" and strain injuries increased significantly, and
those will be the focus of our next wave of interventions. These are often preventable with the right
environmental controls, ergonomic support, and situational awareness training. They also tend to affect
frontline personnel the most-- operators, mechanics, field staff-- so this is where we'll be directing our
additional support and education. So while we're encouraged by the drop in preventable accidents, we're
using the broader results to guide a more comprehensive approach to workforce safety, one that supports
employees in every role and every environment.
This table provides the detailed view of how light rail performed across their key safety metrics in 2024, and
helps us celebrate what went well and where to zero in on where we need to improve. We'll start with the
most positive, our preventable accident rate of a hundred thousand miles, which improved by 33.3%.
Dropping from 0.12 to 0.08, this not only met our-- not only met but comfortably beat our goal of staying
under one per 100,000 miles. That's a testament to the work of our operators and our safety teams to
promote driver safety, behaviors, and situational awareness. However, the rest of the indicators did not
meet the target-- did not meet the targets, though some showed minor improvements.
Lost-time days due to on-the-job injuries increased significantly, by 32%, pointing to both injury severity and
recovery duration. This tells us we need to focus prevention, but not on injury, but total management and
return-to-work progress. Total wages dropped slightly, by 2.22%, but not enough to meet our 5% reduction
goal. We'll continue refining our approach to early intervention and root-cause analysis.
More concerning are the increases in slip-and-fall injuries, which jumped nearly 70%, and the strain-related
injuries, which rose by 29%. These are categories represented by most frequent and preventable injuries
in our system, especially during vehicle ingress and egress and maintenance operations. Each of these red
indicators now has a corresponding action item attached to it, from ergonomic reviews, PPE reinforcement,
and safety coaching and environment-specific hazard assessments.
This performance profile isn't just about pointing fingers. It's about focusing attention. And what this slide
tells us is when we apply targeted strategies, like we did with preventable accidents, we can move the
needle. Now we just need to expand the success to the other risk areas.
Our 2024 systemwide proactive actions taken-- this slide brings together the key proactive safety efforts
we've implemented across the entire system, from bus, rail, and facilities, in response to performance
trends, emerging risk, and frontline feedback. For training and education, we expanded training across all
modes to focus on preventable accidents, hazard awareness, and injury-specific scenarios.
This included hands-on refreshers for common risks like slips, trips, manual handling of equipment, and
line-of-fire hazards. Field oversight and engagement-- we increased our field visibility and day-to-day safety
oversight. Supervisors, safety staff, and leadership are now more active in the field, conducting ride checks,

observing tasks, and engaging real-time coaching-- and engaging in real-time coaching to reinforce safety
practices and support employees on the ground.
Communication and outreach-- we launched targeted safety campaigns during high-risk periods and in
high-risk locations, reinforcing critical behaviors like PPE use, safe movement, and situational awareness.
These messages, we pushed through multiple channels, including operator bulletins and safety huddles
and digital communications.
Data-driven action-- we move from reacting to predicting. Using injury and accident trend data, we're
identifying hotspots, repeat contributions, and risk clusters. That information is guiding targeted
interventions, whether it's retraining, infrastructure feedback, or adjusting operations.
And cross-functional collaboration-- we're working more collaboratively with bus, rail, operations, training,
RTD Police, and even local municipalities, to address everything from traffic pattern changes to
environmental risk. This collaboration is key to closing safety culture gaps and building a more resilient
system. At the heart of this approach-- our commitment to safety management system principles, learning
from the data, engaging in our workforce, and taking preventative action before incidents occur.
Continuing on, with our data-driven action, we've moved from reacting to predicting. Using injury and
accident trend data, we're identifying hotspots, repeat contributors, and risk clusters. That information is
guiding targeted interventions, whether it's retraining, infrastructure feedback, or adjusting operations. For
a cross-functional or our collaborative risk mitigations, we have been working more collaboratively with
those different groups that we had mentioned before, from bus, rail, RTD Police, and our training.
Now that we've reviewed safety performance across all modes, it's time to shift our focus to what comes
next. We'll walk through key actions already underway and strategic steps we're taking to strengthen
prevention, reinforce frontline support, and stay aligned with both internal goals and FTA expectations. Let's
take a look at where we're heading from here.
As we wrap up today's presentation and 2024 performance review, it's important to take a step back and
look at the bigger picture, and, more importantly, where do we go from here? RTD has made meaningful
progress. From reducing preventable accident rates in light rail to strengthening outreach to increasing
transparency in our reporting culture, our safety team has evolved to be more data-informed, more
proactive, and more engaged in day-to-day challenges that our employees face.
But we're also being transparent and accountable. We know that slips, strains, preventable bus accidents
are still too high. We know that fatigue and operational stress continue to pose risk. And we know that
delivering on safety isn't about one report or one year. It's about every person, every shift, every day.
Our path forward is clear. We want to continue investing in training, and field engagement to prevent
incidents before they occur, strengthen our state of good repair-- strengthen our state of good repair to
reduce infrastructure-related risk. We'll improve recruitment and retention to alleviate staffing pressure and
combat fatigue. We'll hold ourselves to the highest standard of transparency and share accountability,
because that's what our employees, our customers, and our community [AUDIO OUT].
This isn't the end of the conversation. It's the beginning of the next chapter to our safety journey. And
together, we'll keep moving forward. As we look ahead, our vision for safety and service continues to center
around a few key pillars.

First, we're going to go back to basics, with a renewed emphasis on state of good repair. Maintaining
reliable, well-functioning equipment and infrastructure is one of the most important ways to prevent
incidents, support operators, and build trust with riders.
Second, we're doubling down on people power, which means hiring the right people, keeping great people,
and giving the workforce the support they need. That includes upgraded equipment, targeted training, and
a culture that values safety and professionalism.
We're focused on creating a welcoming transit environment, one where both employees and customers
feel safe, respected, and supported. Increasing transit police presence isn't just about enforcement. It's
about connection, visibility, and creating a space that feels secure for everyone. To achieve that, we're
investing in community and customer connections, ensuring our riders see us as a trusted partner of their
daily lives, and that of our system, and that our system reflects their needs and priorities. That also means
listening more, communicating clearly, and working with intention across departments.
And finally, we're committed to formal, ongoing updates so that safety isn't just something that we report
annually, it becomes part of our regular rhythm, our shared responsibility, and our commitment to
transparency and improvement. This is where RTD is headed-- a system built on strong infrastructure,
dedicated people, and a culture of safety that welcomes everyone.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Sir, that was amazing. And just a kindly reminder, if you're still with us and
you are a member of this committee, please turn your camera on, if you can, just to show staff that we are
present.
I did not take roll after break, just for the sake of time, but if we were in person, then there certainly would
have been a visual check. So to that end, Co-chair Harwick, are you ready to manage the queue and the
clock?
IAN HARWICK: I am. Right now, we have Director Chandler.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Carry on.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Chairman Ruscha and Chairman Harwick. I have a question. Thank
you very much for the very thorough presentation. I have to admit, that was way more than I was ever
expecting to hear, so that's terrific.
But my question is kind of-- I have two questions. One is, how many people, how many employees are
considered part of this? Because I don't know that this would necessarily be stuff you would be measuring
if you were an administrator. So how many employees are considered that?
And then, also wanted to know how-- sorry, it sounds like I'm too quiet? Am I OK? Can you guys hear me?
IAN HARWICK: You're good.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: All right. I'm getting a little "too quiet" message on my thing. Anyway.
JOYANN RUSCHA: It sounds-- just one moment. It sounds like our CART transcriber isn't able to hear you.
I think some of us can. Why don't we just pause for a minute. Staff, are you able to communicate with our
CART provider? Mr. Kroll, are you still here?

JACK KROLL: Yes, I'm here. We are not having any issues hearing you, Director Chandler, on our end. I'm
sure Jillian is in communication with the representative, with Lindsay from Visible Voices. I'm not sure what
the challenge might be.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sure. Sometimes, it just happens. Director Chandler, why don't you-- I mean, unless I
hear something else from Ms. Nabrodes, why don't you go ahead and continue? And then, if we get another
alert, we'll take care of it then. But you're absolutely permitted to speak, and you are recognized. Let's just
try again.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: OK. Thank you. I'll just carry on, as they say. [LAUGHS]
OK. My question is, How many employees does this kind of cover? As I was saying, I'm not sure that you
necessarily incorporate administrative numbers in this, because, you know, their environment is completely
different. So how many employees?
And then my other question is, have you ever considered that a lot of the-- maybe some of the issues have
to do with the condition of our roads? I mean, there are so many potholes and other obstructions. I think
that might be part of this whole situation.
You know, if I was a bus driver-- I mean, I've ridden a lot, and it's like, ka-thunk, ka-thunk, ka-thunk, kathunk. So is there anything that we can do to help facilitate that? And do you consider that part of the
problem?
NATHAN MARX: Yes, thank you, Director Chandler. To answer your first question, so here at RTD, on our
base side, we have approximately 3,000 employees, which does include our administrative staff. I believe,
when we're looking at just our represented staff, that would be about 1,800 of our employees. And I'm not
100% on those specific numbers, but I believe that's what it is around.
And so when we're looking at this, this does take into account everyone from all those different areas. And
so that's what it does fall under there. To answer your second question, yes, 100%, road conditions has a
direct impact on our preventable bus accidents. And it is something that we do need to dig in deeper and
we do need to consider when we're looking at different mitigation strategies.
IAN HARWICK: CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. And thank you, Mr. Marx, for your presentation. That was
well done. Appreciate you leaning in.
And I just wanted to share, prior to answering the question that Director Chandler presented, that the
progress that we've made basically is all geared toward the collective engagement of employees, basically
feeling comfortable in a collective environment whereby they can put forward hazards, and the training has
been instrumental.
So to answer your question regarding the infrastructure and things of the like, I'll give you a clear-cut
example relative to safety, that really is on the bus side. And Greg Smith is present as well, so he can
correct me if I misstate something. But recognizing that there's been various surface treatments within the
downtown core, for instance, whereby there's sharrows and there's bollards and various different aspects
to provide a safe environment for pedestrians and cyclists, it's very difficult for a 40-foot bus to clear those
parameters-- not parameters, those new treatments, considering that a 40-foot bus needs, you know, a 23foot turning radius.

And so with that, as context, staff has been engaging with the City and County of Denver's Department of
Transportation and Infrastructure. I can tell you specifically that I had a conversation with the executive
director myself as it relates to some of these elements that we have to mitigate, recognizing that we want
to ensure that there is a safe environment, but we have to be engaged in the conversation from the front
end. So we've had additional accidents which would be deemed unpreventable due to the fact that one
can't clear.
And also, when you think about turning signals and the buses, for all intents and purposes, from an on-time
performance vantage point, may have to wait through two cycles of a traffic signal because if a car is
parked-- and I'm just thinking specifically here at Blake and 17th Street, for instance. If a car is parked on
the corner and you have somebody in the bike lane, then that bus cannot turn successfully.
So I just wanted to reiterate that, yes, the teams are engaged, and from a transit service-delivery vantage
point, our bus operations team have been well clued in, having engagements, talking about real-life
experience relative to where we are. So those things are ongoing. I just wanted to iterate that.
And then, just a point of clarification, as it relates to our workforce, basically, we have close to a little over
3,400 budgeted positions, and 2/3 of that headcount are represented employees. And to the point that Mr.
Marx raised, safety is all of our responsibility. And so, collectively, this is applicable as we go forward,
because if we see something, then we need to ensure that we're doing something for the betterment of
providing a safety-sensitive culture. So with that, I'll yield the floor. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Co-chair Harwick, are there any other hands raised?
IAN HARWICK: Yep, Director Buzek, just jump right on in.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Go ahead, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. I just wanted to say thanks for that comprehensive presentation. The packet
material was fantastic. And I always appreciate it when someone doesn't simply read back to the slides to
me but goes into them and explains them, and you did a great job of that.
I really appreciate it. It was thorough and very informative. Thanks so much.
NATHAN MARX: Thank you. I appreciate that.
IAN HARWICK: I'm not seeing any other questions, Dir-- Chair Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Good catch, sir.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right, well-IAN HARWICK: I'll get it by the end of the year.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I neglected to raise my hand. Start the timer, if you would. Mr. Marx, are you still with
us? My screen moved. [LAUGHS] Oh, I see you.
So for your edification, this is the first time in two years and four months-- that's how long I've been a
director-- that I have not had a question during a safety presentation. So that is kudos to you because you

did such an excellent job. And maybe your colleagues could fill you in. I think, yeah, an honorary ribbon is
worthy at the moment.
But really, you did a great job. Thank you. We appreciate it. And thanks for hanging on with us.
NATHAN MARX: Absolutely. And thank you for the kind words. And I do want to acknowledge my team,
because without them, none of this would be possible, so I want to put a shoutout to them as well.
IAN HARWICK: You're muted, JoyAnn.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I was saying thank you and this was wonderful, and give them a shoutout as well.
Great job, everyone on safety staff and everyone who participated in this amazing presentation. So with
that, we are going to move on to the final item in our discussion item section.
And Mr. Carl Green, I believe, will be presenting. And if I am wrong, I apologize, because my script is out
of order. Or is it Mr. Romero?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Chair Ruscha, if I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, ma'am.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so we have the Director of Civil Rights, Carl Green Jr., with support from Martin
Romero, who serves as the Transit Equity Manager, and they will be providing the presentation this evening
as it relates to the Title VI program, a proposed program for 2025 serving a triennial period. And so with
that, I will yield the floor. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I wanted to make-- I wanted to make sure that my notes also matched our
packet. And with that, I yield the floor. So whoever is on tap, you may go ahead and proceed. Thank you
and welcome.
MARTIN ROMERO: Thank you, Board Chair Ruscha. Good evening, board members. As GM/CEO Debra
Johnson said, my name is Martin Romero. I'm RTD's transit equity manager. This evening, I'll be presenting
the proposed policy changes for our 2025 to 2028 Title VI program update.
This update was developed by the Transit Equity Office team, including Dani McLean and Lorena Gonzalez,
and I do want to acknowledge all the hard work that they put into this program update and all the long hours
and all the fun we had putting it together. So, and I also want to thank Carl Green, Jr., director of civil rights,
for his support and guidance through the process.
So before we begin our presentation, I'd like to provide you some background. So the Transit Equity Office
is currently updating our Title VI program. And so we have worked and are still working through various
sections and components of the program. Some of those sections that we are making updates to include
the public participation plan that was put together by Communications and Engagement in collaboration
with the Transit Equity Office, the Language Access Plan, along with other sections. Today, I want to take
the time to cover our 2025 to 2028 Title VI program update proposed policy changes. Next slide, please.
So in this presentation, we will cover an overview of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, specifically Title VI
requirements. And then we will cover the proposed policy changes and cover, in detail, the proposed
updates to our major service change, disproportionate burden, specifically the low-income definition, and

our updated definition to our fair equity policies. And then we'll cover public feedback efforts completed to
date, and we'll take a look at our timeline and next steps. Next slide, please.
OK, so why are we making these updates, right? So RTD updates its Title VI program every three years to
comply with FTA requirements and ensure our policies reflect current and projected service conditions,
shifting demographics, and the advancement of our transit equity goals. So this update strengthens
equitable transit access by reviewing our policies, which include the major service change, our
disproportionate burden, and our fair equity policies.
Additionally, ongoing monitoring and compliance efforts ensure we meet federal Title VI standards and so,
through this process, RTD builds a more fair and equitable transit system that aligns with both regulatory
requirements and community needs. Next slide, please.
I think we skipped the slide. One back, Carl. Title VI of the Civil Rights Act. There we go.
So at the foundation of our requirements is Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which RTD must comply
with as a recipient of federal funds. Title VI prohibits discrimination based on race, color, national origin,
and ensures fair and equitable access to RTD services and programs. And we also follow the guidance
provided in the FTA circular, which outlines how transit agencies, including RTD, must implement Title VI
to prevent discrimination and maintain compliance.
And then, our board-adopted 2022 Title VI program reflects RTD's commitment to equity by establishing
the policies and processes we follow to ensure compliance and fair transit access. It's also important to
note that the board is responsible for reviewing, considering public comment, and ultimately approving the
Title VI program update to ensure compliance with federal requirements and uphold RTD's commitment to
equity and federal civil rights law. Next slide.
OK, so let's review our timeline and where we've been. So the proposed policies began to take shape
between July and September of 2024, leading to the final proposed change that I will cover shortly. And
then, you'll see this slide throughout the presentation as I walk you through the key developments in each
phase. Next slide, please.
OK, so now that we've covered the background and foundation, let's move on to the proposed policy
updates. So the Transit Equity Office developed these proposals through extensive research, including a
review of 22 transportation agencies, to understand how they addressed equity, and an assessment of
RTD's own service to identify gaps.
Some of those transportation agencies include TriMet, Bay Area Rapid Transit, Chicago Transit Authority,
Dallas Area Rapid Transit, King County Metro, and LA Metro. The full list will be provided on the May 14
OSS Board packet material. And so through this review, our goal was to create a more robust and
comprehensive approach positioning RTD as a leader in transit equity among other agencies. Next slide,
please.
OK, so our first proposal is an update to our major service change to expand the criteria for what constitutes
a major service change. Next slide. OK. So as briefed in the March 12 OSS meeting, during the May service
change equity analysis, RTD currently defines a major service change as a 25% additional reduction in the
service hours of any route or line that would remain in effect for more than 12 months. And so we are
proposing updates to our major service change policy to ensure a more comprehensive approach to service
change equity analysis.

Under the proposed change, a major service change will be defined as any 25% increase or decrease in
service hours, route miles, service span, or frequency. And this threshold applies to changes made all at
once or cumulatively over a 36-month period, removing the 12-month limitation. Additionally, the policy will
now cover the implementation, elimination, and discontinuation of a route or line. The goal here is to-- the
goal here of these updates is to broaden the criteria for equity analysis and account for smaller, incremental
changes over time that may have significant cumulative impacts on our communities, specifically the
underserved populations. Next slide, please.
OK. So let's walk through some visuals, some visual examples of the proposed change and how it will be
monitored and actually what it looks like. So take a look here at Route 8, for example. In September of
2025, there was an increase to, say, let's just say, revenue hours.
In January-- so in January 2026 and May 2026, there were more increases, so 10% and 16%, respectively.
So this adds up to 31% within 36 months. And therefore, in May of 2026, we have to complete an equity
analysis because it has surpassed that 25% threshold.
Route B, for example, we have an increase of 10% in September 2026, another increase of 14% in January
2027, and then a decrease in May 2027, so a net total of 14% so far, and then, finally, a 15% increase in
September 2027, where the threshold is reached at a total of 29%. And this would trigger an equity analysis
here.
Route E-- a 24% increase in September of 2025 and then a 1% increase in January of 2029. And although
this totals to 25%, no equity analysis would be required here because the 1% was increased outside of the
36-month window, at which point the count for Route E resets for revenue hours. And so we will track each
criteria for a major service change independently in the same way. Next slide, please.
OK, so to provide clarity on what route miles will look like, let's take a look at this example depicting a
reduction of a route by 5 miles, so, essentially, a route that is 20 miles in length is truncated by 5 miles.
That's a 25% decrease, which means that meets the threshold.
Inversely, if we start with a 15-mile route and add 5 miles, for a total of 20 miles, that's a 33% increase, also
exceeding the 25% threshold. And so in equity analysis would be required for both scenarios. Next slide,
please.
OK, operating hours, also referred to as service span of hours, so to give you a visual example here, let's
say a route begins its day at 6:00 AM and ends at 3:00 PM, and then we want to-- and then we decide to
increase the span of hours by three hours, to 6:00 PM. This is also a 33% change, and therefore, this would
be subject to an equity analysis. Inversely, taking three hours from a route and reducing from 12 hours to
9 hours is a 25% change, and that also meets the threshold as well. Next slide, please.
OK, so in terms of frequency, this example here shows the frequency of a route to be every 15 minutes, or
four buses per hour. If we reduce frequency to every 20 minutes, that is a 25% difference, and equity
analysis would also be required. Next slide.
OK. So the next update we are proposing is to adjust RTD's definition of low-income households by
increasing the threshold from 150% of the federal poverty level to 200%. Next slide. So, currently, a
household is classified as low income if its total combined income, meaning the income of all individuals
living in the household, is at or below 150% of the federal poverty level.

We are proposing to raise this threshold to threshold to 200%, allowing more households to be recognized
as low income. And this change is important because it expands the number of households included in
RTD's equity analysis for service and fare changes, allowing for more comprehensive and inclusive
evaluation of equity impacts on low-income individuals and families.
To the right here, you'll see a chart from the US Department of Health and Human Services, showing the
income threshold for different household sizes to be considered low income. For example, under the current
150% federal poverty level threshold, a household of four earning $48,225 or less is included in our analysis.
And with the proposed increase to 200% of the federal poverty level, households earning up to $64,300
would now qualify. Next slide, please.
OK, so here we have another visual representation, a bar graph comparing the number of low-income
families under the 150% versus the proposed 200%, by county. So focusing our attention for City and
County of Denver, we see that under the current policy, approximately 20,000 families qualify as low
income. And with the proposed increase, this number would rise to approximately 30,000 families.
You'll see increases noted all across, all across, in every county. And so, again, this change means that
more low-income families are included in our analysis. It's also important to note that under the new
definition, at 200%, the district average would now be 20.3%. And that's a 6-point increase above the
current definition, which is 14.1% for the district average. Next slide, please.
OK, so fare equity policy, the proposed change here is a clarification and expansion of what constitutes a
fare change and when an equity analysis would be required. Next slide. So our current policy ensures that
fare changes do not disproportionately burden BIPOC-- that's Black, Indigenous, People of Color-- or lowincome customers, compared to the overall ridership. Specifically, any fare price change, changes or
averages of multiple fare changes, must not negatively impact these groups by more than 5%.
So in addition to fare pricing, the policy also addresses fare payment methods. For example, if a payment
method such as passes, electronic payments, vending machines, or online options are changed or
discontinued, then RTD conducts an equity analysis to assess how these changes may affect customers'
access to fare options. Next slide, please.
So the proposed policy builds on this foundation by providing a more clear and a more comprehensive
definition of what constitutes a fare change. It expands the scope to include any changes in fare prices;
types of fare medium, such as cash or electronic payments; fare products, like the day or monthly passes;
different fare levels, like the standard versus the airport pricing; and then customer categories, senior and
youth; and access to ticket vending machines. So again, the goal here is to clearly establish when an equity
analysis is required and to ensure that changes to fare payment methods do not disproportionately impact
BIPOC or low-income populations. Next slide, please.
So as part of the Title VI program update, RTD is required by the FTA circular to conduct public outreach
when making major changes, including updates to the Title VI program and proposed service or fare
changes. And this ensures we gather meaningful input from all communities, especially underserved
populations, to assess potential disproportionate impacts by-- essentially, by engaging the public, RTD can
make more equitable decisions that consider the needs for all customers. And the board can refer to packet
pages 77 and 78 for a more detailed overview of all the public feedback activities, as it relates to our Title
VI program update, aside from what I will cover shortly. Next slide, please.

OK. So here's our timeline once again. So after drafting the proposed policies, highlighted in red, we moved
into the next phase. So from December to January, we presented to various groups, gathered public
feedback, and incorporated relevant input into our Title VI program. From January to March-- incorporate
the feedback from January to March 2025. So now let's walk through how we shared this information during
that time frame with the public.
OK, so, so far, our outreach efforts have included a press release on January 2-- that was created in
collaboration with Public Relations-- and a Read-n-Ride article on January 9. And both of these releases
informed the public about the proposed changes and directed them to a dedicated web page where the
feedback forms were housed.
Each policy had its own survey, allowing customers to either agree or disagree with the proposed change,
and then provided a text box for additional feedback. The surveys were available in Spanish and English,
with other languages available upon request. And we also created a communications toolkit for our
community partners, which included an email template and graphics to help spread the word. Next slide,
please.
So in addition to announcements and materials, the team also conducted five presentations to the Denver
Regional Mobility Access Coalition, the Boulder County Mobility and Access Coalition, to the CAC, and the
ACPD. We also hosted our presentation-- we also hosted our very own presentation at our very first
Community Partners Initiative, where we had the presence of 12 community-based organizations, among
them the National Organization for Youth and Safety, Servicios de la Raza, Organization of Chinese
Americans, Fortaleza Familiar, Boulder Housing, The Dolores Project and The Action Center, Denver Street
Partnerships, My Father's House Denver, The Empowerment Program, the Spirit of Christ Church, and the
Aurora Mental Health and Recovery.
We also attended three resource fairs in an attempt to inform the public, at Holidays en la Comunidad,
hosted by Servicios de la Raza; Village Exchange Center Resource Fair; and then Black and Brown Parents
United Foundation. Next slide, please.
So in addition to our broader outreach efforts, we directly engage with the Denver NAACP, Earthjustice
Conservation Colorado, Black and Brown Parents United Foundation, and Green Latinos to help share
information with their communities and gather public feedback as well. So we selected these organizations
because they were identified as experts in policy advocacy. And as we know, policies can often be complex
and difficult for community members to fully understand. But these groups have the expertise to represent
the priorities of the communities they serve and act as key grassroots and advocacy leaders.
And lastly, we promoted changes to the Montbello MUSE-- we promoted changes in the Montbello MUSE,
the Servicios de la Raza newsletter, through the Denver Streets Partnership socials and through our
contracted partners CREA Results. And all in all, these agencies helped to shape and inform the proposed
policy. Next slide, please.
OK, so overall results, so we had over 150 attendees across the five presentations. The news release was
distributed to 672 subscribers and opened by 196 subscribers. The Read-n-Ride article reached 979
subscribers, and it was opened by 547 subscribers.
In addition to direct feedback received from the presentations and community partners, we received 75
survey responses, with 73% of respondents agreeing with the proposed changes to the major service
change, 86% supporting the disproportionate burden policy, low-income definition change, and 89% in favor

of the fare equity policy updates. Our website received 1,141 views. And in regard to the 75 survey
responses received, while that may seem like a modest number, gathering feedback on policy changes,
especially from underserved communities, can be challenging, just due to the complexity of the material
and the length of the document. The average person may not be able to fully engage with the intricacies of
a 25% major service-- you know, major service trigger.
Although we attempted to simplify the policies during our in-person engagement, customers found it difficult
to follow-- well, follow the more complex material. And so as a result, we shifted our focus to more easily
digestible policies such as the low-income definition. And so the Transit Equity Office adapted our approach
and ensured that the proposed policies were reviewed by the groups who served these communities and
have the expertise to analyze and provide valuable feedback, advocacy organizations with policy
experience, which we found to be more effective. Next slide, please.
OK, so now returning to our timeline, after gathering public comments on the proposed policies, we are now
in the March/April phase, where the Title VI Program-- the Title VI Program Update draft, has been posted
for public comment, as of this Monday, on its dedicated web page. I do want to encourage all board
members to share the link with their constituents to gather feedback on any portion of the draft, really.
You know, it could be the public participation plan, the language access plan. Any section would be valuable
feedback. And we can provide you with the link. We'll provide the link to the board office and include any
materials to facilitate sharing.
And then, looking ahead, in May, the board of directors will review the final Title VI program for adoption.
By the end of May, we will submit the approved program to the FTA and then publish our final version on
our website. Next slide, please.
OK, so there's still work to be done before finalizing the program update. And so there will be more
opportunities for public comment and feedback on the draft of the Title VI program. We've released another
round of news stubs, and we'll also do a Read-n-Ride article.
So the news stub actually went out this Monday. And then the Read-n-Ride articles will be-- it'll be planned
for middle of this month as well. And all this is, again, to engage with the public and gather that public
feedback.
And then we'll continue leveraging our community partner newsletters and send targeted emails to our list
of over 1,000 community-based organizations and direct service providers. We also plan to engage with
existing RTD programs such as the LiVE program customer base, and then the TAG program recipients.
And we'll run a social media promotion through the end of May 14 to ensure wide participation in our
feedback process. And then we will also deploy our community-based organization contractors to focus
outreach efforts in high density BIPOC and low-income communities.
Next slide, please. That is the end of the presentation. We'll gladly take any questions.
IAN HARWICK: Director Pagliari.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. This is Director Pagliari. Thank you, Mr. Romero. I have a few questions.
Basically, my overarching question is, Why do we want to implement a system that makes it more difficult
to do service changes? And then I have a follow-up after that. Thank you.

CARL GREEN, JR.: Chair Ruscha, if I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, sir. And just to kindly remind our directors, let's try to keep decorum. Go ahead,
Mr. Green.
CARL GREEN, JR.: Yes, great question, Director Pagliari. Just to take a step back and to ground us in the
intent and purpose of Title VI and as it relates to FTA requirements, with respect to conducting service
equity analyses, this is not necessarily creating a stop sign to say-- or taking a more in-depth approach to
the way in which we conduct service equity analyses or providing a roadblock to the way in which we
implement service changes.
This is more so, again, to make certain that when we make these changes, we are assessing the impact
on historically underserved populations, i.e. Black, Indigenous, people of color, and low-income
populations. So it's not putting up a stop sign. It's more so providing the opportunity, which is also a board
of directors responsibility, as it relates to policy, to ensure that we are not creating adverse impacts with
respect to Title VI.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. My follow-up, then, was I see some flaws with this, that I don't want to go
into detail about. But essentially, I'm concerned that if we expand the criteria for requiring equity analysis
too large, then we will actually tie our hands for doing overall better good in the system.
For example, when we increase the number of people who are affected by this, and it turns out we just
have made it into impacting the whole system, it seems like-- maybe I'm misunderstanding how this process
works, but we'd have to do a service analysis on every single change, or way more than we do today. And
that just seems really resource intensive when we already trust our staff to make decisions that don't
negatively affect communities with disproportionate opportunity. I think that was more of a comment, so I'll
just leave it at that, thank you, unless there's a response.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, one of the Chairs?
IAN HARWICK: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much for-JOYANN RUSCHA: Uh.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry. I'm not sorry. I'm going to take Chair's privilege for a moment here and ask,
before we get into this conversation too deeply-- Director Paglieri, you're still with us, right? OK.
We did permit you a follow-up. And I would like to understand, so that perhaps everyone else here can
understand, if there is a part-- I say this with the best intentions, and I assume you have the best intentions,
sir. Is there something about the Civil Rights Act that you do not concur with or you feel we are going outside
of? And if that was the intent of your question, that might help with the framing and the answers.
And then, if you'd like to answer, you may. If you would like to just yield to our general manager, that is
more than appropriate. I don't want to put you on the spot. I am, again, just asking us to remember decorum
in the language that we use in this committee. Thank you.

BRETT PAGLIERI: I would like to hear the response from General Manager and CEO Johnson, please.
Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Co-chair Ruscha, and thank you, Director Pagliari. So what
I was going to do is just provide some context relative to the optimal word, and what we do is service
delivery to the public.
And as we think about those that are most transit reliant, especially those that are below a certain income
level and things of the like, we are not trying to place stop signs and limit what we can do. What we're trying
to do is ensure that there is equitable access to public transport, and in support of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 in doing that. That's the intent that we are putting forward, so there is a broad-brush understanding.
And more specific to the point, what we're trying to do here with the proposed modification to the Title VI
program is to ensure that we're not unintentionally creating a disparate impact by making changes via
service change in a fragmented way, where we're not looking at the sum of the impacts within a certain
period of time. So I just wanted to provide that context. So thank you so much.
CARL GREEN, JR.: And I'd like to provide a additional response. One thing that I-- if I may, Chair Ruscha,
one thing I would like to highlight as well, knowing that we do not make decisions in a vacuum, and a key
partner in the development of the proposed policy changes as it relates to service equity analyses was in
part and parcel with service development and scheduling, and knowing the left and right parameters of the
way in which that we would be-- that if this is approved, the way in which we would be conducting this
analysis, i.e. What type of data will we need? What is the calculus to making this assessment?
And they provided this feedback with knowing that this is a step in the right direction, because currently,
right now, all we're looking at is revenue hours, right? That could include a multitude of different things,
which includes frequency and the items that we are presenting here today. But it's taking a deeper dive to
get a better understanding of the nature of impacts, right?
So whether we're looking at frequency reduction to route miles, increase to route miles, it gives us a better
understanding to know the nature of impacts, versus just saying, oh, there was a 25% change in revenue
hours. There's no way of understanding, How does this impact, A, if we think about various personas-- and
as General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson noted, right, historically underserved communities, i.e.
BIPOC or low income, they are more transit reliant, right, so we need to ensure that we are putting in
safeguards to ensure that we're not getting too far over our skis and making unintended consequences or
adverse effects for these populations. But we're also centered on all of our customers to the suite of
changes that we are recommending. Hopefully, that helps.
IAN HARWICK: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'll go ahead and yield. I see Director Nicholson's hand is up. Thank you for re-joining
us. But why don't we go ahead and call on Director Chandler? I think she's been waiting patiently.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Sure. Thank you, Director Ruscha, Chairman Ruscha. My question is, What is
the justification for the increase in a lot of these things? I think that's kind of what Director Pagliari is getting
at. The proposed disparate burden policy based on income, what is the justification from raising it from that
150% of poverty to the 200%?

And I think also maybe Director Pagliari's point is, pretty soon, we're just going to have death by analysis.
Right, there's going to be so much analysis on every single thing we do that we actually aren't going to be
able to provide the transit, which this agency is supposed to be providing for everyone, not just certain
populations. So I think that's his point more. But I just want to know, What is the justification for the increase
in a lot of the things that you're doing?
CARL GREEN, JR.: Chair Ruscha, if I may? So an additional point, before I get into the questions or the
responses to your question, Director Chandler, I do want to highlight, taking a step back, reflecting to 2022,
where the board of directors adopted proposed policy changes at that point in time.
When we initially did the analysis, it was only looking at route-level changes. Taking a leap and step in the
right direction, we also added system-level analysis to get a better understanding the nature of changes
across the service area in an aggregate form, to better understand what the suite of recommended changes
that would come three times a year, What is the level of impact? What's the distribution of our service, or
our service distribution, for Title VI populations or equity populations versus non-equity populations? And
then we also added key activity centers, because it's not just about where people live, but it's about where
people are going and are we increasing access.
So as Martin mentioned, during the time period from July to December 2024, we took a step back, knowing
some of the public comment and feedback that we received, knowing some of the comment and feedback
that we received from board of directors during our presentations, during board meetings, regarding service
equity analyses or the fare equity analysis associated with the systemwide fare study and equity analysis
project. We wanted to make certain that we are not, again, creating unintended consequences.
So to answer your question with respect to disproportionate burden, why the justification for increasing to
150% at or below, to 200% at or below, is, when developing-- as it pertains to the FTA, right, when we're
developing policies, and especially the low-income definition, we want to localize it specifically to the area
in which we are providing service. So we know, based off of the American Community Survey, there has
been a reverse trend of at or below 150%-- at one point it was, I want to say, 20% to 24% in the, what is it,
2009 to 2013 ACS, and it has decreased ever since, so, right, 10 percentage points to the 2019 to 2023.
So I mentioned all that as a backdrop because we really need to get a better understanding of what low
income means for the Denver Metro Area. So the justification to increase is we want to make certain that
we are not missing or miscounting folks that could be disproportionately burdened by potential changes.
So the reason why we increased only to 200%, that solely rests in the available data of the American
Community Survey, where there are specific ranges or thresholds that they have within that particular data
table.
And that is the only table that allows us to analyze geospatially for low income, which is 200%. So that's
why we're moving-- the reason why we're moving up to 200 is because that is a more localized and inclusive
definition of low income for the Denver Metro Area. This is different from our means-based testing for our
low-income fare program right, for our LiVE program, which is 250%. So that's why there's a difference
between the two, because it utilizes different data sources for different purposes.
And with respect to the major service change policy and whether it's the 36 cumulative impacts or breaking
it down from just revenue hours to route miles, frequency, and so on and so forth, is so we get a better
understanding of, when we recommend a service change, we are looking at it individually, so to speak, not
just looking at revenue hours. Knowing that it's not a monolith when we're making changes, we want to

make certain that we're able to ground-truth the nature of impacts that it may have on historically
underserved populations.
And as we think-- you mentioned the analysis paralysis. We took-- there are so many different variations.
If you look at the number of agencies that we researched, there's a spectrum in the way in which folks are
conducting analyses.
I will say, as we think about our people power in order to conduct these analyses, this proposed policy
changes is right-sized, within our ability to be able to conduct this analysis within the time frame that we
have. So we took a measured and balanced approach to the proposed changes that we are recommending,
with knowing that we went out to the public, we ground-truthed it with staff internally, as well as making
certain that we are honoring Title VI with respect to the way that we conduct our analyses.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: May I ask a follow-up question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Go ahead.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: OK. My question to you, then, would be, What happens if we don't hit these
targets? What is the repercussion?
CARL GREEN, JR.: What I-- Chair Ruscha, if I may? So what I will say is the-- so the major service change
policy is more or less a-- it's the gate. If you recall back to our May 2025 service equity analysis presentation,
there's more or less a flow chart.
Step 1 is looking at if it hits a major service change. And I'll be pretty frank. Even though we're breaking
down and not just saying 25%, and we're looking at frequency and route miles, it still may hit the 25%
threshold by just using revenue miles. We're just breaking it down a little bit further.
So we're just getting a better understanding of whether we would conduct an equity analysis or an
assessment with respect to our disparate impact and disproportionate burden. So it's not necessarily if we
don't meet the threshold. This is just saying, Are we conducting the analysis?
We will still follow suit with respect to step 2, which is evaluating the nature of impacts in accordance with
our disparate impact and disproportionate burden policy, which is set at 10%. So we're still going to-- it's
still going to follow the same process as we have done previously. We're just looking at the nature of
changes a little bit more intimately compared to just solely looking at 25% plus or minus revenue hours.
IAN HARWICK: Director Ruscha.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you. I don't want there to be silence, but thank you for that clarification.
CARL GREEN, JR.: You're welcome.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Chandler. I'll go ahead. I have a couple of comments, but I'll break
them up so we can also allow Director Nicholson to speak as well. So, first, great job, Mr. Romero, Mr.
Green, and everyone else who worked on this policy initiative.
And, directors, you might also remember that I sent a link with the proposed changes last month. But again,
as noted, be on the lookout for additional information from the agency and that link, again, and please do
share that with your network so we can get more feedback.

I do want to-- I am in support of these policy changes, and I'm really pleased to see that we are going from
150% of FPL to 200% of FPL. As stated, a lot of agencies have done the same.
I will respect the timer. I'm not sure if it's running. It is. I still have a minute left.
A household making $65,000 a year still can't qualify for a two-bedroom rental in most areas of the metro
area. So for those that may question this change, please consider that this FPL increase change is, again,
based on a poverty level, and such change is going to positively impact our service planning standards,
processes, et cetera, across the entire RTD region. Just a heads up, I may go over time.
So right now, about 10% of the population of Lakewood, for example, is considered to be living in poverty.
But under our current and proposed policy changes, these individuals, many of whom are disabled seniors
or are working families who are dependent on us from A to Z, aren't going to benefit.
This is not a game of winners and losers. It's equity driven, which is also expressly stated in the RTD Act
as the goal and one of the purposes of this agency. It's also part of our strategic plan and board-approved
agency values.
And so, again, I just would like to ask us to be-- I can respect the minority opinion, and I understand this is
very complex and niche. And I won't speak for Director Chandler. I'm not sure where your question was
coming from.
But you said something about, What if we don't meet targets? I don't know if you're asking about a liability,
but under Alexander v. Sandoval, there is no private right to action. We essentially self-police.
And for many communities who are low income or BIPOC, they have suffered because they don't have
protections as originally intended in the Civil Rights Act when it was passed. What this agency is doing is
showing leadership, as many other agencies have, just recognizing, again, that ultimately the responsibility
is on us. The FTA is not going to come knocking on our door.
And as far as analyses and all of the metrics that we run when we do service changes, we already do that,
and we do that for a reason, because we want to make the best use of our dollars and provide the best
possible service to our customers and our community. So this isn't extra work. It's just taking a different
look at the math. Mr. Green and his team looks at these numbers all year long.
I've gone over time. That was Chair's privilege. Thank you, I will yield.
I have no more questions or comments. I will turn it back over to you, Chair Harwick, and you are free to
call on the next person in line. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you very much. The chair took liberties with the amount of time she spoke-or, they spoke, so I think I might do the same. [LAUGHS]
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sir. Do you-- you are not the chair of this committee. You are on the clock. Thank you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. I will speak for as long, and if you want to interrupt me, Chair, then you can,
though you're not acting as chair at the moment. I will-- here's my thing.

JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, point of order. I'm sorry. That's a violation of decorum. Sir, would you like to restart
and maybe reframe? And we will let you continue. I'm asking you, would you like to restart?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I will.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And you just ask-- and you just ask your question.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And you do not disparage other members. Or you speak directly to the chair.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I believe you are speaking with staff. OK.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK, my understanding is, on a committee, I'm supposed to address the chair. But I
will go into my question, if that's helpful to you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Well, Director Harwick was kind enough to pause the clock.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: He will restart the clock.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Mm-hmm.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And you may proceed.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. I appreciate very much the work that staff has done on these updates. I
believe that they are going in precisely the wrong direction.
You know, what is proposed here will make it harder for us to make service changes that are in alignment
with the short-term goals that we passed earlier this year. I believe that staff, planning staff, is trying, is
working to make changes to our goals-- sorry, to our service schedule that is trying to accomplish those
goals, that is in alignment with our strategic plan.
These are, by definition, limits on that. These require, this Title VI analysis requires us to take a step back
to pause and say, Are the service changes being proposed by staff legal?
The current guidelines are legal. The ones that we have operated under right now are legal. I believe very
firmly that more lenient guidelines would also be legal, because we have other agencies that do the same
thing, that do not take as prescriptive an approach.
I would like to see us move in that direction and enable our service planning team to try to expand service
as they think will benefit the agency, and I think it is reasonable for us to ask the question of, Are we trying
to implement Title VI here, or are we going beyond, well beyond, what is legally required under Title VI
because we think that we should?
And I guess my claim here is we shouldn't. We should not go beyond what we are legally required to do
under Title VI, because our responsibility is to put our resources where they will serve the most people.

IAN HARWICK: OK, Chris.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: That's-JOYANN RUSCHA: I-CHRIS NICHOLSON: That's one piece. I have a follow-up, but I'll let Mr. Green-JOYANN RUSCHA: Sir? Sir? Sir? We're going to let General Manager and CEO Ms. Debra Johnson have
the floor right now. Thank you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Understood.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. Thank you, Director Nicholson, for offering your perspective
relative to the Title VI program. First and foremost, I would just say, for everybody's edification that as staff
at RTD, we work with the "one RTD" mindset. And so when we think about what our core function is at this
agency, it is transit service delivery, and everything else is done in support of that.
With that as a backdrop, as we move forward, recognizing that what we are collectively trying to do is
ensure that we can provide services, if you were present for the presentation that Mr. Marx gave when he
talked about the various aspects of our safety program and what we're doing, we had a laserlike focus on
the whole aspect of state of good repair. And so recognizing your comments relative to expanding service,
that'll be for naught if we are not investing in the agency's assets so we can ensure that that basically is
sustained for decades to come.
The reason why I broached that is that, once again, is about "one RTD." So when we talk about short-term
goals, let's be clear that we do have a strategic plan. Hence, when there were modifications made to set
goals, that's why I offered up my more or less discontent with some of the aspects, because these other
elements weren't taken into consideration.
But I am committed to working in a collective fashion to ensure that we're providing as much equitable
service as possible within our budget confinements. And so while I recognize that some may be taken
aback relative to what we're trying to do collectively, I believe, if anything, just like with Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, while there is a floor of which we meet, that does not necessarily dictate the ceiling
where we're going.
And so I just wanted to have the opportunity to put that in perspective, because I'm certain that your
comments weren't intended to be taken in a negative way, but I would be remiss if I did not say it seems as
if the nature of the comments did infringe upon those that are most reliant on transit would be mostly
impacted. And we have a responsibility, in being recipients of federal dollars, to ensure that we are adhering
to the guidance that's prescribed by the Federal Transit Administration with its circular. So thank you very
much for the opportunity to allow me to share those comments. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Co-chair Harwick. This is Jack Kroll, executive manager of the board office. I'm
just chiming in with a time check. In six minutes, or a little less than six minutes, you all will hit a four-hour
mark.
Per your bylaws, at that point, you would conclude the conversation on the agenda item at hand and then
either adjourn the meeting, or a member could bring forward a motion to extend the meeting either to a
certain time or through a certain agenda item that you have left. I believe, after this, all you would have left

is other matters, and that would be about it. So five minutes left here before you all would need to take
further action. Although, the bylaws do indicate you would conclude the discussion on this item before
needing to take action to extend the meeting.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Kroll, I have a follow-up. All right, sorry, I have a question for you, a clarification.
JACK KROLL: Sure.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Given that we are not in a debate, this is not an actionable item, under
Robert's Rules of Procedure, a chair can close discussion. Obviously, that should be used just very
judiciously. Is that something-- I guess I'm trying to understand, is that something that's possibly on the
table because we are hitting that four-hour mark? There would not be a vote to close discussion, because
there's not an action item. Does that make sense?
JACK KROLL: Yeah. I-JOYANN RUSCHA: We can't call a question. And so I was wondering if, not to put you on the spot, if that
was also something that you thought was on the table.
JACK KROLL: You know, generally speaking, I don't think that this bylaw was put into place as a way to
limit the conversation on something, which is why it includes language to state, you know, at the conclusion
of the agenda item under consideration. And so my assessment of that, and my advice to you and Co-chair
Harwick on this matter, is to allow the conversation to run its course and then make an assessment at the
conclusion of that conversation as to whether the meeting should continue or be adjourned.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir, because if this were an action item, someone could call the question
and then the item-- you understand. We would be able to proceed. So I think what we will do, just out of
respect for time, is for those who have-- I think everyone-- my hand is raised and it's not meant to be-- I
think everyone has had at least two passes.
So I see we have Director Nicholson, and Director Chandler's hand is still raised. Are there any other
directors who might have questions? And we also might have directors not on this committee who haven't
had a chance to speak. I can't see everyone on the screen.
IAN HARWICK: There's nobody else. It's just those two.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. All right. So Director-- or, excuse me, Chair Harwick, I'll turn it back to
you. You can go ahead and call our remaining directors. I'm not here, again, to silence the minority, or
actually anybody. I do also have to note our bylaws.
And so let's go ahead and proceed, and just remember that this is coming for a vote next month. And there
is still time for board feedback, discussion, and conversation with staff. This is a discussion item.
Chair Harwick, I turn it back over to you. Thank you. And thank you also, Mr. Kroll, for that explanation.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you very much. So having addressed the larger issue of whether or not this is
a good idea, I want to address a much smaller issue, which is how we do this analysis. And I've emailed
with GM/CEO Johnson about this, but it's my very firm belief, having read the circular, with relation to Title

VI, that was provided to me by GM/CEO Johnson, and having read Title VI, that we are allowed to use
ridership data as a part of our Title VI analysis.
And as far as I can tell, when it comes to measuring disparate impact, we don't do that. And when I've
reached out previously about this, when it comes to the automatic personnel counters, which is a measure
of ridership, we don't make use of that data to understand not just where a route runs but where people are
getting on and off.
An example of this-- the A train runs through a number of different neighborhoods, but the majority of its
ridership goes from DIA to Denver Union Station. So it strikes me that we should be incorporating not just
where a route runs and what the geography is, but, Where are people getting on the buses? Where are
they getting off? Same thing with the trains. Help me understand why we don't do that right now and why
we have, as far as I understand, no ridership data incorporated into our current disparate analysis.
CARL GREEN, JR.: Chair Ruscha, if I may?
IAN HARWICK: Please.
CARL GREEN, JR.: So-JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, Mr. Green, and thank you for your patience. Again, just as a kindly reminder to
directors, it's fine to ask questions. Let's try not to ask leading questions. Mr. Green, you may.
CARL GREEN, JR.: Thank you. So great question, Director Nicholson, and I've seen some of the
correspondence between yourself and GM/CEO Johnson. And just to clarify, with respect to the ridership
data, that's generally captured. The utilization of ridership data is the inclusion with onboard customer
surveys.
So as I noted previously, we just completed our onboard survey. I want to say it wrapped up in the month
of December. And we're currently assessing that data right now so we can then, in turn, be able to leverage
that data for service equity analyses. So we are on target to incorporate ridership data to the way in which
we conduct our service equity analyses.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So just to clarify-- my apologies, Chair. May I just follow up very briefly?
JOYANN RUSCHA: That's up to Chair Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Go.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So just to understand, I get that you're saying we have a form of ridership
surveys that we're calling ridership data. Even, I'll grant that is. Are you are we legally allowed to use actual
APC counts or farebox scans, like not just surveys but hard numbers that we're getting from our data
sources? Could we factor that in under Title VI? Are we legally allowed to do that?
CARL GREEN, JR.: Chair Ruscha, if I may?
IAN HARWICK: Yup.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yup. Yes.

CARL GREEN, JR.: So taking-- or, Co-chair Harwick, if I may?
IAN HARWICK: Sure.
CARL GREEN, JR.: So, so just to provide more clarity, Director Nicholson, so one factor that we really need
to ground ourselves or consider is the way in which, How are we assessing the impacts, whether it be
BIPOC populations or low income populations?
What I will say is, APC data, if we have the available data, we can use it as a supplement. But it's difficult
to tie that to population or data surrounding equity populations. So we wouldn't be able to ground-truth or
better or understand the nature of impacts for those said populations in accordance with our disparate
impact and disproportionate burden. So we can provide it as supplemental, where it would be-- we may be
looking at on-offs or ridership counts for a particular stop at the stop level or route level, but there's no way
to marry the two together to make the assessment within the framework of our service equity analysis.
So to answer your question directly, we could, in theory, and there's nothing legally saying that we cannot.
But it would be supplemental, too, and when we're presenting the data in the form of a service equity
analysis-- so for example, for the upcoming September 2025 service change recommendations, the board
of directors, in accordance with the FTA circular and 49 Code of Federal Regulations part 21, it's really
centered on assessing impacts for historically underserved populations. So it could be something that's,
here's an aside where we're looking at counts at the stop level or route, but it's not necessarily tied together.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson, I'm going to have-- you're going to hold till next month for any-CHRIS NICHOLSON: I was just going to follow up with a quick comment. But it's fine. I can wait.
IAN HARWICK: Yeah. Yeah. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I just have-- oh.
IAN HARWICK: Oh, actually, GM/CEO Johnson, go first.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right, I just wanted to add a little more clarity. What Mr. Green said is spot on.
Recognizing that some people may not be familiar with the surveys in which he's referencing onboard and
offboard surveys. Those specifically ask demographic information, recognizing that an automatic passenger
counter is merely counting the movement of people getting on and off a vehicle via sensors.
We have no understanding of what the demographic characteristics are. That is one of the elements as
prescribed by the guidance. Hence, while it states that the two data sources that are acceptable are US
Census data or American Community Survey data, in addition to onboard-offboard surveys, for those
surveys to be eligible to be submitted, as a form of the equity analysis, one has to ask certain qualifying
information pertaining to that customer's demographic profile.
I just wanted to add that for clarity, to the point that Mr. Green raised about meshing that data, because we
have no source to identify whether the entity getting on the bus was a six-legged polka-dot alien versus
being an individual who identified as BIPOC, living in a household of four that had an income of only
$80,000. Thank you for the opportunity to allow me to share that bit of information.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler.

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Chairman Harwick. I just have a comment overall. Conflict in
conversation is healthy, and so I would ask that when we have a question, that it not be misinterpreted as
negative, but that it would be addressed in the manner in which it was intended, that we are here to discuss
these things, and that it is healthy for us to rub each other and talk with each other and ask good questions.
So I would just ask that we extend each other grace but we also understand that our intention is to get to a
good conclusion, and that might rub people the wrong way. And there is no intention at all from anyone to
rub somebody the wrong way, but that conflict is OK. And I just I have to spell that out because I feel like,
a lot of the time, that conflict is received poorly, and that does not necessarily bring about a good decision.
So thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, Chair Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. So thank you, Director Chandler. I appreciate that feedback. We all do.
Conflict is not necessarily a bad thing. Being in the minority opinion is OK. I've certainly been there myself.
We certainly don't disparage folks when we have disagreements. My request was also that we assume best
intentions of staff and we are careful in how we speak to staff and about their work. So I apologize if I did
not clarify that previously.
But that being said, I do see that Chair Bouquet has his hand raised. I'd like to recognize him. I have a
feeling he's about to say what I was going to suggest. But, Mr. Chair, welcome. Thank you. You are
recognized.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Ruscha. I was just going to add in my two
cents that this committee currently is in a discussion item. We are past time when it comes to it, and in
respect of our staff, in respect of all of you as well, I would highly recommend Co-committee Chairs Ruscha
and Harwick collect information that has been gathered.
And obviously, this is a conversation with tension, which is totally fine, but I'd highly recommend collecting
information and comments from committee members via email, because when this becomes a formal action
item in your next monthly meeting, it'll be good to have some background and discussion to know the topic's
not only raised tonight, but also future topics as well. As it comes down to a vote, I want to make sure just
everyone comes to a consensus.
So my recommendation would be, you know, open it up, collect feedback from committee members based
on the conversation not only that we've had tonight, but also future conversations, as you lead to May. And
again, it's a conversation that will continue into May. Those are my two cents. So thank you very much.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So I concur. How do you feel Co-chair Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Well, I see Mr. Kroll. So I feel good, but I'm going to heed to him.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Thank you all. The board office has been partnering pretty effectively with the executive
office and staff on soliciting and receiving feedback on a number of policy topics coming before you. In fact,
at the conclusion of this meeting, you'll see an email from me soliciting some feedback on some of the
conversations from last night. So the board office would be happy to partner with the executive office and

structure a feedback email that would go out very quickly here in the next day or two to solicit your feedback
on this item as a collective policy board.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think that's a great idea. And also, just make sure to include co-chairs as well so that
we're apprised of what is feedback and what we're getting. But I trust that you and the executive office can
sort out the procedural piece.
And so with that, we are going to close discussion on this item for now. It doesn't mean we're closing it
permanently and more follow-ups can ensue. I do not have anything on my list for other matters.
Does anyone have anything under other matters? And again, we need to look at the time. Or, Mr. Kroll, do
I need-- do we need to vote to extend the time now?
OK. Well, so, Mr. Kroll, you might have to help me out with the language, because I might make this-- this
would be the first time I've made this motion or raised it. So we are at time, per our bylaws. And in order for
us to extend time to get through something like other matters and adjournment, we will need to vote to do
so. And, Mr. Kroll, can you remind me, is it a simple majority?
JACK KROLL: It is a majority of present and voting members.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, so present and voting members. We currently have two absent, and I believe
we have five present. So we could just call for the vote, sir. And-JACK KROLL: I think you need a motion-- you need a formal motion to extend the meeting through other
matters.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Or we could-- I'm sorry, could we also-- OK, what does the yes vote mean?
Is it that we're voting yes to extend to the end of the regular agenda, no means we close the meeting now?
I should have clarified.
JACK KROLL: Correct.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. I also don't want anyone to vote one way when they meant the other way. It has
happened to me when we get into the particulars of bylaws. OK, so first, do I have a motion, which is also
required under our bylaws, [LAUGHS] for us to-- Director-- or, excuse me, Mr. Kroll-- to extend the meeting,
is that it?
JACK KROLL: To extend the meeting through the conclusion of the agenda.
JOYANN RUSCHA: To extend the meeting through the conclusion of the agenda. Perfect.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I move that we extended the meeting to the conclusion of the agenda.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you, Director Chandler. And do we have a second?
BRETT PAGLIERI: I second.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Pagliari, as a second. So we will go ahead and take a vote. I might
go out of alphabetical order because it is almost 10:00. So I'm going to go by my screen, OK? Director
Nicholson, how do you vote?

CHRIS NICHOLSON: I vote to extend.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I have Director Pagliari.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes, but I promise to keep it short.
JOYANN RUSCHA: It's all right.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Chair Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Normally, I'd vote no. But I'm going to lose, so sure.
JOYANN RUSCHA: [LAUGHS] I'm sorry. And I am Chair Ruscha, and I say let's go for it and wrap this
meeting up.
So we shall continue through the end of our regularly scheduled agenda. The previous discussion item has
been closed, and we are on other matters. Are there any other matters to discuss?
IAN HARWICK: We have Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. This is hard for me to say, but I try to be straight up. Chair, I believe you
abused your privileges as chair tonight, and you acted against your commitments that you made when you
took over the chair in the first meeting.
I think it's irresponsible. I think it's unacceptable. And I think you should ask yourself very seriously whether
you are living up to what you have said you are going to act like when you ran for this position.
You imposed a time limit on us and then couldn't find it in yourself to follow your own time limit when asking
questions. I don't think that that is what leadership looks like, and I think it's offensive. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you for your feelings. Who was next in the queue?
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Chairman Harwick and Chairman Ruscha. My question is, Director
Pagliari and I have been working on a project, and it was supposed to be on the agenda and it is not.
And so I just wanted to maybe give an update, and I know that Director Pagliari and I have been excited
about this project, so I will defer to him to give that update. But I wanted to bring it up because it was
supposed to be on the agenda, and then I was told that it would be brought up under other matters. And so
I'm bringing it up under other matters.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Chandler, you may continue. To be clear, it wasn't on the formal agenda. I'm
not sure which agenda you were speaking of. But yes, you may go ahead and speak to this under other
matters. Please continue.
IAN HARWICK: You're muted.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yeah, I'm going to defer to Director Pagliari, since he has really been
spearheading this project.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. May I, Co-chairs?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Yeah, go ahead.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. Yes, so we were tasked and took up the responsibility, and I have to
commemorate Director Chandler for stepping up and wanting to partake in this, and I myself was asked by
Co-chair Ruscha to talk about the Customer Bill of Rights, also known as, by some people, the Rider's Bill
of Rights.
And so here's kind of just a very brief update. I'll promise to keep it brief. If you want the dates, I can follow
up later, but Director Chandler and I met.
With some prerequisite work happening in the background, we met to talk about what we wanted to see
from this project. And it was a very fruitful conversation. From there, we presented the ideas that we
produced during that conversation to executive board staff-- sorry, Mr. Jack Kroll and GM and CEO Mrs.
Johnson-- or Ms. Johnson, and they have given us feedback.
And so in brief, we are currently working through the feedback they've given us, which was from Director
John-- sorry, not Director Johnson-- GM and CEO Johnson, to look at a memorandum that the board
produced a couple of years ago on customer expectations and board expectations. And that's basically
where we are at. So what you'll see from us coming forward is our recommendation to the OSS committee
on how we can make a similar resolution, with a little bit more teeth in it, to provide a public notice of saying
customer expectations with the theme of the Bill of Rights. Apologize for the confusion, but thank you for
your time.
IAN HARWICK: And, Director Nicholson, we've already-- Secretary Nicholson, we've given you one bite of
the apple, man. Can we go to bed?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Very quickly. I didn't speak-- I did not speak very much this meeting, so.
IAN HARWICK: It doesn't matter, man. I want to go to bed.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK, I understand.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, Director Nicholson, you have spoken more than any other director in this
meeting, and you were absent for 3/4 of it. Sir, we do need to move on.
I have a follow-up question, though, for your colleague, so that we are all under the same understanding of
our retreat item. So with that, Director Pagliari-- oh I still see you on the screen. Sir, so just to-- if I

understand, the Customer Bill of Rights-- which, I think we're changing the name-- is this-- I heard
something about a reference, I think, to what was our previous resolution about a welcoming transit
environment.
Do you also envision this is going to include things that the agency is expected to provide, like as it relates
to, you know, equity, participation, that sort of thing? Or are we just only focusing on security?
BRETT PAGLIERI: It will be pretty broad, thank you, and basically being a reiteration of the social contract
that riders and the agency make whenever you choose to ride RTD. And I'm being broad because we're
still refining it, but it'll cover safety, security, operations, things like that.
And I don't know the name of the memo. I don't have it in front of me. I apologize.
But similar to what was done two years ago, just to reiterate the board's focus on making it an exceptional
agency without putting an undue burden on the agency by basically doing unfunded mandates, saying that
agency has to do this or that, which is hard to do without also providing the resources and explanations on
top of it. Thanks.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you so much, Director Pagliari, and also Director Chandler, for taking the
lead on this important project. Again, it was a committee-initiated item, and I know it's a lot of work. So we
really appreciate your work.
My understanding is that we might have either some draft language or a kickoff discussion in May. I will
confirm offline on that time frame, and then everybody will be informed. If you need any support from myself
or staff, please reach out and ask. We're here to help you. And again, thank you for taking on this
responsibility.
And with that, we're going to close other matters, as previously noted. The next meeting date is Wednesday,
May 14, 2025. We will be meeting at 5:30. At that meeting, we'll tackle discussion items related to the
following-- real-time data and-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Excuse me, Madam Chair?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Can you-CHRIS NICHOLSON: I've been waiting to raise a point of information, and I believe you weren't willing to
recognize me for that.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sir, you have violated decorum enough in this meeting that I do need to continue. SoCHRIS NICHOLSON: Pardon me. Mr. Kroll, I believe I'm allowed to raise a point of information at any point
in the meeting.
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Ruscha, you know, I think, is about to wrap this meeting up. Director
Nicholson, my encouragement to you is to leave the matter for another day. At this point, I think the read of
the room here is we've exhausted a lot of energy from both staff and directors, and I would say you are in
your rights to raise it but might reconsider given the circumstances.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: It'll take 10 seconds to ask.

JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm-- going to continue. And that is my decision. You also don't need to be recognized
if you have a genuine point of order. So I also suggest to take a-- maybe review Robert's Rules.
We are trying to get out of here. I also have a seizure disorder, and I would like to take medication, OK, so
that I don't end up in the emergency room tomorrow.
And so with that, I need to exit this meeting. I will turn it over to Co-chair Harwick. Thank you for being here.
And I do need to exit the meeting. So if you're interrupting to raise a point of order, sir?
IAN HARWICK: Let's adjourn. I'm adjourning the meeting.
JOYANN RUSCHA: We are adjourned.
IAN HARWICK: Adjourning the meeting.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thanks, all.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.

