1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
GM Executive Search/GMOC Committee 2020
Monday, August 10, 2020
Remote
2:00 PM
Conference Dial-in # 720-443-6193
Conference ID: 210 088 488#

Executive Search/GMOC Committee 2020
Chaired by Peggy Catlin

A. Call to Order
B. Executive Session
Executive Session pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(f)(I), C.R.S., for consideration of
personnel matters regarding interviews of GM/CEO candidate finalists; and § 24-6402(4)(e), C.R.S., for determining positions relative to matters that may be subject
to negotiations, developing strategy for negotiations, and instructing negotiators
regarding GM/CEO compensation and contract.

C. Reference Check
D. Schedule Moving Forward
E. Outreach Plan
F. Updates

G. Other Matters
H. Next Meeting Date - August 19, 2020
I. Adjourn

• GMES Packet Attachments

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.I.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date:

From:

Barbara G McManus,
Board Office

GM

Executive

Manager,

Date:
Subject:

Board Meeting Date: August 10, 2020
GMES Packet Attachments

ATTACHMENTS:
•

RTD GM-CEO Finalist Stakeholder Process Revised

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

1.I.1.a

RTD GM/CEO Recruitment

General Public Stakeholder Engagement
When finalists are announced on August 7th a notification will be sent to RTD’s stakeholders announcing the finalists and
indicating that resumes and cover letters are available on RTD’s website. We will also inform stakeholders that video
presentations by candidates will be recorded on August 19th and 20th and posted to RTD’s website along with a survey that
can be taken to provide RTD with input and feedback on the candidates resumes/presentations.

During the finalist interviews (scheduled for August 19th and 20th), each candidate will present a 15-minute
presentation consisting of:
1) Introduction of themselves
2) A 1, 3, 5-year vision for RTD.
Each candidate’s video will be recorded and will then be uploaded to RTD’s website and a notification will be sent
to RTD’s stakeholders along with a survey to respond to so that public feedback is obtained on the finalist candidates.
Stakeholders must complete their review and survey by 9am on August 20th. At that time, the survey will close.
Critical Stakeholder Engagement
After finalists are announced, an email is sent to a pre-determined list of critical stakeholders with the same information
listed above. A separate survey will be prepared which will not be limited in responses and will allow these critical
stakeholders to provide open-ended response to the candidates cover letters/resumes and presentations. Their feedback will
also be due no later than 9am on August 24th.
Timeline
GMES Meeting: July 30th
First Round Interviews: August 5th and 6th
Selection of Finalist and Press Release: August 7th
A GMES Meeting to discuss final round of interviews: Week of August 10th
Candidate PowerPoint Presentation released to general stakeholders on August 20th along with a limited response
survey. Responses due by 11:59pm on August 23th.
Candidate PowerPoint Presentation released to general stakeholders on August 20th along with a the same
response survey sent to the general stakeholder audience, but with an added open ended question asking for
feedback and input on the cover letters, resumes and presentations made by candidates. Responses due by
11:59pm on August 23th.
Stakeholder feedback compiled and provided to Directors on August 24th.
Board Executive Session to select RTD’s next GM/CEO followed by a public meeting to vote on RTD’s next
GM/CEO on August 25th

Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: RTD GM-CEO Finalist Stakeholder Process Revised (4292 : GMES Packet Attachments)

Public Engagement Process

