2020-08-10
GMO-GME
PEGGY CATLIN: --an executive session pursuant to 24-6-402 paren 4 paren F paren L Colorado
Revised Statute for consideration of personnel matters regarding interviews of GM/CEO candidate
finalists, and 24-6-402 paren 4 paren E Colorado Revised Statute for determining positions relative
to matters that may be subject to negotiations, developing strategy for negotiations, and instructing
negotiators regarding GM/CEO compensation and contract. Do I have a motion to adjourn into
executive session?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
SHELLEY COOK: Second.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger moved, and Director Cook seconded. Any objection? So
we are hereby adjourned into executive session. We will return to this meeting upon conclusion of
our executive session. So now, I know that you can keep this meeting open, and just reduce it, and
then call into the executive session.
I do not see Director Buzek yet. We'll give a minute. It's 3:30. We are rejoining the general session
that was called to order at 2 o'clock.
We are on agenda item number C, which is a process for reference check. Gregg? You need to
unmute.
GREGG MOSER: Thank you. I am in the process of doing background checks on the three
candidates. Those are in the process of being run right now. They typically take 10 to 14 days to
be fully completed. Sometimes they go a little quicker, sometimes they take a little bit longer, but
that's been my experience.
I don't see any significant delays or any reason why there would be delays on those, so I will keep
you posted on those as I go through them. I am also in the process of conducting references and
really trying to get a better perspective from a 360 degree approach of someone they've worked
for in the recent past, worked directly for, someone who's worked directly for them, and then either
a peer, or someone at a union level, or someone like that to give you a perspective of what they're
like to work with as well. So I'm in the process of conducting those. I probably did about six of
them already today. I've got a number of ones to go and follow-up with as well that I'm in the midst
of doing.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there any questions with regard to the process? I don't see any
hands raised, and I don't have any text from those who don't have a digital hand that they can raise.
So I'd appreciate it if you could keep us apprised, particularly if something is unearthed that would
come as a surprise. That would be better for us to know that sooner than later.

GREGG MOSER: Absolutely.
PEGGY CATLIN: Great. D, schedule moving forward. Barbara, do you want to take that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we mostly discussed that with all of the elements in executive
session. As I said, what we'll do is we'll send a reminder of the schedule up. We'll update the
document that Gregg initially put together with all the additional elements.
We'll add the 17th on the calendar. We'll take the 20th off, because the 19th is when we'll be doing
all of the interviews, and just fine tune that, and get it out to all of the Directors. As I said, all of
the invites are already out there.
They went out about 45 minutes ago. So if everybody would just accept those, we will probably
poll for it as well. Some folks don't respond to these because of their technology.
And then hopefully, everybody will be set with the full schedule of how we're moving forward. In
terms of the outreach, I think Pauletta just joined us, and the timeline on the outreach we'll go over
right now with Gregg and Pauletta. So, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: So Pauletta, for the record, is your number ending in 1546?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, that's correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, good. I saw that pop up. I was getting ready to ask.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, that's me. That's my work stuff, yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Pauletta. Item number E, the outreach plan. Gregg, do you want to
start, and then Pauletta?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, sure.
GREGG MOSER: Sure. I remembered to unmute this time. Thank you.
So we are going to do the candidate video recordings on August 17. We're going to make those
available after the final interview, approximately around noon, on the 19th. Those will be open
and available through midnight on the 23rd for the public to comment on.
There is going to be a survey that goes out that's going to be made available for public input and
public comment. That survey is going to be available to be received back by RTD through midnight
on the 23rd, Sunday night, the 23rd. Paula, do you want to add anything?
PEGGY CATLIN: Pauletta.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. Yeah, that's all correct. And we'll just have everything ready to go
so that as soon as that last interview is over we will put those videos in the online survey up.

There was a desire to have a separate link for the key stakeholders that you guys have been
engaging with. I think that's still part of the plan, unless maybe that's changed. But that would be
a separate link that Gregg would then send to the 30 folks, I believe it is, who could then give their
comments.
And we recommend it be in the same survey so that it's an apples to apples comparison. And so
that if Board members wanted to see, for instance, how the stakeholders answered compared to
the general public and employees, that would be able to happen based on the breakout of the
results. So is that something that you guys are still wanting to do?
PEGGY CATLIN: Pauletta, if I might, I think that we didn't really talk about that today. But I
think that a number of directors wanted to have that separate survey, even though the questions
would be the same, sent to the key stakeholders but with an additional question that was more
open-ended for them to provide comments. Because these surveys were more easily tallied
numerically, the questions that were asked, but that we do provide an opportunity for some of these
key stakeholders to provide additional input.
Am I correct on that? I recall having that discussion with the Chair Rivera-Malpiede and also
Director Guissinger. Would you like to add anything to that, either of you?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, that's-LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, sorry, Angie.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Pauletta, you and I talked about this, and I am a little confused. You had
said the survey would be the same for everyone, but that there are spaces for comments for the
public too. Is that right?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, that's correct. And there is room for comment. The instruments that
we have now as a draft-- and I send it to Gregg and Barbara to take a look at. And I'm happy to-we can have them share it with you guys.
But the way it's set up right now is there's a little intro and just saying that all the answers will be
anonymous and so on. And then it has the first finalist's name, and it gives them a ranking of 1 to
10 on based on what you know about this finalist. How qualified do you feel this person is to be
RTD CEO, and it's a ranking scale on 1 to 10.
And then there's a comment field where they can answer a question saying, if you have anything
else you'd like to add about this finalist, do so here. And then it goes to finalist B, same thing, and
the finalist C, same thing. The reason we set it up that way is because on Monday morning, after
the survey closes from the Sunday night at midnight, that Monday morning it's much easier for my
research folks to compile the results that way. And it does give everybody a chance to weigh in
and provide any other comments.

If there is any kind of a different survey for the key stakeholders, if that's a group of about 30, it's
not as difficult to compile. But it takes more time to then go through in any other comment fields,
because then they have to bundle those answers. Or maybe you guys just want the verbatim dump
of the comments if there's an additional comment field for the stakeholders. But that would be only
for that stakeholder group because of the time it takes to compile the results to put them in some
kind of a fashion for you guys that'll be easy to review.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that clarify it, Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, it sounds like we need to make a decision for you, Pauletta, whether
we want to have a separate sort of questioning for the stakeholder group. And I don't have a strong
opinion on that as long as people have a space to give comments. Did you have thoughts on that,
Gregg? Or do others?
PEGGY CATLIN: Go ahead, Gregg.
GREGG MOSER: Sorry, the mic wasn't turning off. I don't have any particular comments. Really,
whatever works for the directors, and what works for Pauletta in terms of being able to pull it
together to get you the information back, I think I'll work with and support.
PAULETTA TONILAS: And, Chair, if I could just say one more thing.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure.
PAULETTA TONILAS: I think the idea was that we want to be able to get you guys the results as
early as possible on Monday so you have time to review them amply before you guys meet on
Tuesday the 25th. So I think if we kept them the same, given that both the public, and employees,
and then also the key stakeholders, have opportunities to weigh in on comment fields, I really do
think the same instrument can work. It would just be a unique link that Gregg can then send to the
stakeholders. And then that is a separate captured batch of results that you guys can then see how
the stakeholders felt and then how the rest of the public and employees felt.
PEGGY CATLIN: That sounds great. I noticed that Director Lewis has her hand up, and then
Barbara McManus would like to make a comment. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I had a question. Well, first, I wanted to ask if
Pauletta could send us the language for the survey. It would be helpful to just see that.
And then the second question or the second comment I had was in reference to Pauletta asking if
we wanted to send separate links. I personally, as one single director speaking for myself, would
prefer that we just send the same link to our patrons, to our riders, and to all stakeholders. I would
hate for us for the perception to be that one constituency opinion is valued over another. I know
that's not our intent, but that could be the perception. And so I prefer that we send the same link to
everyone.

And then the last question that I had, Pauletta, I received a number of concerns, or comments, or
input, inquiries, from constituents about a Q&A. I understand that historically when we've chosen
a general manager that there has been a Q&A for which folks could ask questions directly to our
semifinalists. And so I wanted to inquire about being able to do that either via Zoom, or Facebook
Live, or some kind of platform for which stakeholders could have the opportunity to hear directly
from our semifinalists.
PEGGY CATLIN: Pauletta, would you like to respond to that?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, sure. Absolutely. So Director Lewis, thank you. I think, again,
we're here to do whatever the committee's purview is.
If you want just the one link and it goes-- Gregg sends it to the stakeholders, and then, of course,
we put that on the website, and it's all just one batch of results, we can do that. Or if the committee's
purview is to separate those, we'll do whatever you guys want. The other item about the questions
for the community to ask to the finalists, I think, Gregg, there was going to be a process for which
there would be some stakeholders that would be asked if they had anything they wanted to be
considered for the people who actually view the finalists' presentations when they're being taped.
Is that correct, Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: I think we actually decided with that open-ended question on the survey to
provide feedback on the responses.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: If I may clarify the question?
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: So the question-- so I appreciate that. And I think that's valuable. At least
as it's come to me, is that folks that are-- so stakeholders, or patrons, or riders, stakeholders of
many kinds, would prefer to have or be interested in having a forum of some sort. So I recognize
that we can't necessarily have a large forum in-person. So my suggestions is to have an online
forum where questions can be submitted and are semifinalists can respond to those questions in
real time to provide an opportunity to get to know our semifinalists beyond the presentations that
might be posted online.
PEGGY CATLIN: So Director Lewis, this is Peggy Catlin. Are you thinking more in terms of
something like our telephone town halls?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yes, that's close. Yes, absolutely.
PEGGY CATLIN: Logistically, I'm not sure. I don't know. I'm not saying we can't. I don't know
what that would take. So I think before we have a final answer, we [DINGING].
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I didn't hear the end of that, because there was a sound. Can you tell me
what you said at the end of your sentence? I'm sorry.

PEGGY CATLIN: I said, I'm not saying we can't do it. I just know that there will be some logistics
involved, and I want to understand what those were.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I know that Gregg and Barbara were going to see what-- and probably
Pauletta we're going to see what is in the realm of possibilities. So Barbara, I don't know if you
wanted to respond to that. And then I see Director Menten has her hand raised as well.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So it's interesting that we're bringing this up now. This was discussed
in the accountability committee this morning about public outreach in the process that they're going
through. And part of the discussion was, how do you do it fairly?
You have to limit the time. It's first come first serve. If that's the case, how do you make sure that
the full constituency is being heard, and it's not just one particular area that's more organized than
another? I think that part of what Director Catlin was saying is, how logistically do we do that?
Do we just have it, and we have it from 5:30 to 7:30, and we take questions for two hours, and
folks get to be able to listen to those questions and answers published on the website? I'd be
interested in hearing some of the directors' comments on what they would see that looking like.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: If I may, Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: So that's exactly what I was envisioning. I don't think we can plan to make
sure that every voice is heard or every question is answered. And I think we just manage those
expectations upfront.
This is two hours of Q&A. We won't be able to get to all of the questions. We'll do a good job of- or we'll do our best at getting all the questions that we're able to answer. If we could have folks
presubmit those, I know at the beginning or when we did our last general manager for the interim,
there was an inquiry from each director to bring questions forward from their constituencies. And
so that might be an opportunity for us to engage with our constituencies to say, are there two
questions that we might be able to key in on?
I don't know. I'm making this up. But I think just saying, we have two hours where we can hear
from the three semifinalists. Once the two hours is up, we thank you for your time, for your
participation. And maybe think about how we might be able to put some protective factors in place.
And when I say protective factors, I'm thinking about folks who have been able to Zoom in, and
bomb the Zooms, and maybe aren't coming to participate or to hear. And so we might think about
how we can do that safely. But I do think, because we are making such a large decision, that having
our constituents see our semifinalists in real time and ask questions would be beneficial. And it
would also provide an opportunity for us to at least provide some transparency in our process to
get to know candidates.

BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. I think that looks great. I just wanted to
make sure that we were on the same page. Because there just are some challenges with getting
everybody to feel included.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah, I do think, Barbara, that there are going to be folks who are going
to say that it's not enough, it's not good enough, and that's kind of the expectation. But I think we
could also say that we gave something, like it wasn't-- that it was better to give two hours that was
not enough time to then to not give any hours, because that's, for sure, not going to be enough time.
And if we front load the conversations and the expectations at the beginning, it's an opportunity
for folks to engage in a different way.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, there are a couple of other hands that are raised, and I'd like to have
a hard stop at 3:00 out of respect for everyone's time.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Sure, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: But I also do believe that part of our process of reporting these interviews or
recording these presentations with some questions and answers and making those available to the
public along with a survey is an attempt to try and get participation across the board. But I'm open
to having a discussion about how we might do something more. I noticed that Director Menten has
been patient and has had her hand raised. And then Chair Rivera-Malpiede has something to add.
NATALIE MENTEN: I am full of patience. So my question is actually related to the timeline and
whether we can or have already planned just to alert the RTD employees as to having this option
to also weigh in through whatever I think of as somewhat of an anonymous portal. But I am in
support of that.
I don't know if it requires first name or what that looks like on that survey. But we can time
something for employee dispatch on the 17th since we have such a tight window. And then can we
make sure that something is playing on PIDs at the different divisions, since that's just almost like
RTD Channel 8 kind of a thing, rotating messages over and over? So, Pauletta, could you maybe
comment on those employee outreach things that are really already set up?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, sure. So Madam Chair, this is Pauletta. can I go ahead and answer
that question?
PEGGY CATLIN: Absolutely, please.
PAULETTA TONILAS: So employee engagement and employee education about the process and
the finalists is, of course, one of our biggest priorities. We definitely want to keep our employee
family engaged. In fact, the employee email Friday went out to all employees before we sent the
news release out, and that was by design.
So it's definitely a priority for us. And, yes, we will put information on the PIDs We'll see what
we can do with taped presentations, given that each of them would likely be about 15 minutes
long. But the Monday morning dispatch, and emails, the hot sheet that we sent out, we send out

every week for managers and supervisors to share info with their crews and their staff, in employee
meetings, we will, of course, continue all of this.
The employees will have the same access as the public to watch the video presentations and weigh
in through the online survey. But, of course, we'll promote those opportunities to them in the
various ways that we utilize right now through employee communication.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, it does. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I'm glad to hear-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
--exhausted. Barbara McManus, you have your hand raised.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just want to let everybody know that I just forwarded the PDF of the
questions for them to review.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede, you took your hand down, but I would
like to give you an opportunity to comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I did take my hand down. I think this
has been some great conversation. And I think one of our biggest successes during the Interim
General Manager was being inclusive in doing the survey and allowing the community to give us
their points of thought, which I thought were really great.
This morning in the accountability committee, the other suggestion that came up is one of the
municipalities has public hearings. And people can ask questions, but they have to submit their
questions 24 hours in advance so that they know how many people are speaking, because they just
give it a finite amount of time. And I'm wondering if we don't institute something like that as well.
So then our candidates can prepare as well. And I think that that might be a good way to provide
input and to allow our candidates to really think about what the community's asking. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Guissinger, your hand is raised.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I guess I'm not sure if we're going to try to move forward with
Shontel Lewis's suggestion, but I like it. And I'm happy to help continue to talk about it with
Pauletta and maybe others.
It's a lot to fit into a very short time, but I do think if we put the videos up, we get the survey out,
and then we have some sort of-- whether it's a town hall with everybody in it, or shorter ones with
questions, or whatever. I think since it is a short time period, the more we can do to get feedback
from all our different stakeholders, riders, employees, everyone, is a good thing.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Gregg, I'm thinking-VINCE BUZEK: Buzek is here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Pardon me? Oh, Director Buzek? I apologize, I didn't see a hand. Your
comments?
VINCE BUZEK: I'm on the phone, so I can't raise my hand.
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, that's OK. Thank you. And I think that some manner of Zoom or whatever
it might be that has these candidates acting on their feet and responding to questions is appropriate.
And in fact, we talked about this very early on in GMES process about doing it and how we could
do it. So it's not a new idea. We've talked about it before.
And I think the best way to do it is to have each director talk to their constituency, and that director
come forward with two questions that represent their constituency. Then that way, you don't get
any one constituency taking over and monopolizing. I think that would be the way to do it. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg, I guess that what we're left here is, if we were to do that, that would
have to take place that Friday. And since we consolidated the interviews into Thursday all day,
that only leaves Friday for some sort of a live discussion.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I think the interviews are Wednesday, is that right?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. I'm thinking one thing we haven't discussed, and I think if anybody has
an idea on this also, one reason we shied away from this and went for the videos-- but again, I'm
open to all ideas-- was that we couldn't figure out a forum where we would make it fair for the
candidates, where the first candidates spoke and the second and third didn't hear them speak or get
input from other people who might be on the phone to say, make sure you address this.
And then it positioned someone unfairly by being the first person or the second person versus the
third. I think that to open it up to stakeholders but find a way to restrict it so that access wasn't
getting back to the candidates and everybody was on equal playing field, I think that was the
problem we ran into where it was going to possibly position someone, meaning the third person
potentially being at the most advantage. Because even if they didn't watch the video of the other
two, somebody theoretically could text them and say, hey, by the way, this hasn't been addressed
yet. You should really raise this during your comments. And I think that was something we were
trying to work around.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's right. Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So wouldn't we be able to have all three candidates up at the same time,
and just have a list of questions, and rotate through them so that each one of them is answering in

rotation and no particular question, just the list of questions that's decided from the constituency,
and just rotating through each of the candidates? That way no one is really favored.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, that's my point about having it on Friday, was because we will have
already conducted the interviews with the candidates independently and privately.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Peggy, I think our interviews are Wednesday, and we could do it Thursday.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, you know what? I think you're right. OK, thank you. I was looking at the
wrong date.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: And I would say, Peggy, I'm sorry to interrupt, I will say that I am still
holding the 19th and the 20th, because this is the conversation we're having. And so others might
be still holding these two dates as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: I see that Director Cook and it says two others-- I don't know who else has their
hands raised. Oh, Director Cook and Director Menten, are you still in the queue? Director Cook,
go ahead, please. We'll figure out who-SHELLEY COOK: Well, I just wondered if Gregg had any comments about that approach where
they were all in the same session, and seeing each other's responses, and whose questions, and so
forth along the same lines, as he commented previously about the problems with this.
GREGG MOSER: They're all competing against each other, and I think that we have to just
balance out what we're trying to accomplish. I think for the third person, a lot gets said. And the
question, are they restating and sounding-- I get the point.
We rotate. And if the first time the third person goes third, the next time they go first. So I think it
works well to try to balance it out. But I also recognize that by the time you get to the third person
in a question, there's a bit of redundancy there.
And so when we've done these sessions with the big, broad audience in the room, what we did was
we had the candidates each introduce themselves in about five minutes at a podium. And then they
walked around the room, and shook hands, and chatted with folks. So they weren't in a position
where two of them or three of them were all sitting around a group of people at the exact same
time. So it was a little bit different.
And again, I'm not saying that we shouldn't do this. It's just a matter of, what do you get out of it
by the time you go to the third person? It's a little different than the town halls or some of these
other things, because, again, you're not trying to compete against someone else for something. But
again, I'm open to the idea. I'm just trying to flush it all out in my mind.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, it kind of makes me an easy. For some reason, I can't quite put my finger
on. But what about breakout groups?

I've seen some virtual meetings where you have the ability to go into breakout groups. So kind of
patterning after that, where each gets introduced, and then go into a breakout, one breakout session
with a group of diverse constituents to ask questions or something. That's an idea.
PEGGY CATLIN: So three parallel meetings? I think maybe we need to probably have a
discussion with Pauletta, and Gregg, and maybe Lynn, you and me, just about the logistics of this
in the next day or two. Would that be OK, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: As long as you all agree to report out. I'd be really interested in this
discussion, and it's also what I do in my day job. And so I'm more than happy to offer the logistical
support if you all would like some consulting.
PEGGY CATLIN: I appreciate that. I think the logistics-- it's not so much the logistics as being
mindful, as Director Cook pointed out, that we're fair to all of the candidates, and that they would
be comfortable in that kind of a setting.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I will say, Director Catlin, that this is the format that was used to select
the Denver Public Schools superintendent. And so maybe we can reach out to them and ask some
of the questions or the inquiries that you all might have.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, that's helpful. Thank you. Dr. Walker, did you have something you wanted
to add.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, thanks. I was wondering what process is used to select CDOT? I know
he's a political-- or he or she would be a political appointee, but is that level of-- is this level of
involvement that we're talking about exercised there?
PEGGY CATLIN: Lynn was on the transition team, and so what happened this time, she might be
more aware of. I know in the past, it wasn't necessarily that way. It was more of an autocratic
selection. Go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: They're cabinet positions, so the Governor may have been doing some
outreach separately. He had a transition team for each department that reviewed the resumes and
all of that. But I don't know of any big public process. But since it's a governor's appointment, it's
kind of a different process, yeah.
JEFF WALKER: And so, Mr. Moser, what types of introductions or outreach, I guess, do you see
at other transit agencies?
GREGG MOSER: Generally, this is the most extensive of the transit agencies around the country
in terms of stakeholder engagement. I've seen surveys go out. I've seen public forums. But, again,
it's been one where there's been sort of a town hall type meeting, where the candidates go up and
give a presentation, and then have an opportunity for an hour or two hours to meet and greet with
the community in a large room. So they're-JEFF WALKER: [INTERPOSING VOICES]

GREGG MOSER: --often different-- yeah exactly. I was just quickly googling the public schools- and I'll do more diligence as well, and I'm sure everybody will. And if there is someone we can
reach out to, we should certainly do that. It looks like, Director Lewis, is this from about a year
and a half or two years ago, or was it more recently than that?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Maybe a year, maybe a year and a half. It's Superintendent Cordova, and
she's pretty new.
GREGG MOSER: It looks like it was-- at least what I'm reading online was that she was the sole
candidate and was given an opportunity for the community to ask questions of her individually
versus a group of two or three candidates at the time.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah, that's true, but that's because the other candidates had dropped out,
but that was the process with the semifinalists. But the candidates ended up dropping out, because
their names were leaked.
GREGG MOSER: So I'm not saying we don't do the suggestion with the three candidates, but
another option, just putting it out there now that I googled this-- and again, we can do whatever
the directors feel comfortable and the Board. But maybe with the final candidate, we have a town
hall, or a session to answer questions, or what not, just similar to what they did with the finalist
for-- with this individual for the superintendent. I'm sorry, I don't have the name right in front of
me while I'm talking to you-- just another idea to explore brainstorming ideas.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think those were good suggestions.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I think the concern with that, with having the finalists, was that the
community didn't feel like they had the opportunity to know who the finalists-- to have the
opportunity to get to know the other candidates before making a final decision. And so it kind of
felt like it was after the fact. Unless the information that you were collecting is somehow going to
guide the strategic planning for the new general manager that might be coming in, for community,
it didn't feel like as though they were actively participating in the selection and providing feedback
to their elected representatives. But instead, that they were just being presented to the finalists and
had no input into the process or into the selection.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. See, part of me feels that this is-- it's extremely extensive, and I'm not
necessarily opposed to that. But part of me thinks that this person will be the Board's employee.
Interface with the general public is going to be somewhat limited. There'll be some events where
they go out there, but day-to-day, most of the contact will be with contractors, elected officials,
things like that.
I think that we were elected to perform this job, to select that, along with other things that we have
to do. And I'm fine with pulling back some of the extensive interaction that we're talking about
now, because that's really our job. And we're the ones who do it.

Everybody's searchable. There's a ton of stuff even about me on Google. So I think anybody who
wants to know anything about these candidates can find and then forward questions to us.
But trying to provide that level of public engagement in this compressed time, although admirable,
I don't know how reasonable or practical it is. That's it. I'm not opposed to it. I'm just concerned
that we won't be able to get the full extent of what we're looking for. And then there'll be some
disappointment, because we didn't get everything we wanted.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Dr. Walker. I think we do need to have a follow-up discussion
about this, number one, logistics and fairness to the candidates. But I also concur with what
Director Walker said. And it's the Board's responsibility to select the next general manager. That's
what we were elected to do, and we will be doing it.
And we do need to get input from our constituents, but we have to make sure that we manage the
expectations out in the public, that they are not making the decision. So I just want it to be fairly
emphatic about that. And that we want to hear what they think, but that they are not participants
directly in the process. Director Menten, your hand is up.
NATALIE MENTEN: Going to that point, what Ms. Tonilas stated, it sounded like there would
be a survey. And out of a scale of 1 to 10, here's where you rank the candidates. And we potentially
have a case where the survey results come in for candidate B, and the Board chooses candidate C.
These are all-- the survey results are public. Does it show those as people go in, and when they
exit the survey they see results? Would it be posted later? I just bring it up, because we could be
choosing somebody differently than the public is mostly raising their hand for too.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Madam Chair? Madam Chair, this is Pauletta. I can answer, just provide
somewhat of a context of the survey results. The Board will be getting the survey results that will
showcase not only the 1 through 10 on each finalist, but then what the comments are that apply to
each finalist.
In the interim CEO survey, that was just shared with the Board members. That information was
kept confidential with the Board members, and that was by design. So I think that would have to
be something that Board members would want to be thinking about what the ramifications would
be, if, for instance, the public wanted finalist A, but the Board really felt strongly about candidate
or finalist C, how that gets managed. I do think that keeping them confidential I think is something
that the Board should consider. It really is for the Board's purview, and to help you as a piece of
information, and what you'll consider in making your decision.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that, Pauletta. I tend to agree, because I think I can conceive of
a fairly weighted process based on who is encouraged to fill out the survey. And I think that, again,
it's the Board's decision. So I would prefer to keep those results confidential and not make them
available to the public so that it's not perceived as a voting process in the community. It really is
something that this Board has the responsibility of doing.
NATALIE MENTEN: May I respond back? This is Menten.

PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't think it-- I'm going to take a guess that I would say that this is a open
record, in case anybody asks.
PEGGY CATLIN: I would like to check with our legal counsel on that. Any other comments
today? I had hoped for a hard stop at 4:00, and I didn't make it.
I think we've covered the outreach plan. Are there any other matters today? Director Menten, your
hand is still up. Did you have another-- oh, you just went down.
Seeing none, our next meeting date is August 19, at which time we will be interviewing the Board
members. But I do believe we have a few things to discuss pertaining to this outreach in the interim.
So there may in fact be another meeting scheduled, just a heads up that that may happen. With
that, at 4:13 PM, we stand adjourned. Thank you all for your help.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.

