Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, July 6, 2010
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

July 7, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on July 6, 2010 at
6:16 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Vice Chair O’Boyle, Directors Bagley, Busck, Daly, James,
Malpiede, Martinez, O’Boyle, Pulliam, and Tobiassen
Directors Brohl, Christopher, Cohen, McMullen, and Tayer

Staff Present:

Rolf Aspaugh, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Terry Howerter, Caitlin Magee, Anthony Menendez, Paula
Perdue, Teresa Sedmak, John Shonsey, Henry Stopplecamp, Sirois,
John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Bob Wilson, Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Brian Middleton
****

Call to Order
I.

Committee Vice-Chair O’Boyle called the meeting to order at 6:16 p.m.

Recommended Actions:


Authorization to Accept SB1 Funding for the Table Mesa Pedestrian Bridge
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to receive Senate Bill 1 grant funding in the amount of
$3,500,000 from the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), Division of
Transportation Development for the Table Mesa pedestrian bridge, and pay the
required local match in an amount of $3,500,000. Funding for the project is
included in the 2010 Adopted Budget for the US 36 BRT Phase 2 project.
Directors Bagley and Kemp spoke about how this project is a great example of
cooperation between CDOT and RTD and also advancing the FasTracks program.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, July 6, 2010
Page 2



MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the July 20,
2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Resolution No. _____, Series of 2010 authorizing the issuance of Tax-Exempt
Private Activity Bonds, Series 2010 (Denver Transit Partners Eagle P3 Project)
– Rick Clarke introduced this item and referenced the June 29, 2010 update
the Board received. Teresa Sedmak said this authorizes the issuance of
private activity bonds for the Eagle P3 project. These are tax exempt bonds
which have generally been prohibited for use by private developers. The tax
code was modified several years ago to allow for certain projects to receive
the benefit of these bonds. USDOT gave approval to RTD for an allocation of
up to $1.1 billion in private activity bonds. It is not anticipated that the
District will use anywhere close to this amount for the Eagle project. Staff is
anticipating commercial close on the project between now and the end of the
week and will be going to market immediately after Board approval next
week. Markets are very volatile so we are anxious to get to market while we
know what it looks like.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number ___ (the “Bond
Resolution”), authorizing the issuance of tax-Exempt Private activity Bonds,
Series 2010 (Denver transit Partners Eagle P3 Project).
Director Kemp noted that since this is a fixed guideway improvement we
must have a minimum of 10 Board members to approve it at the Special
Board Meeting.
Director Busck knew that this didn’t obligate the District in any way but he
asked about a time in Thornton some private activity bonds were in danger of
going into default and the city picked them up because they didn’t want to
damage the City of Thornton’s reputation. Mr. Wisor said that city felt it was
in its financial interest to make the bond holders whole in order to protect
their credit circumstances with the market. If something goes wrong with
the concessionaire on the Eagle project, RTD has not financial obligation on
the bonds unless they choose to do so.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, July 6, 2010
Page 3
Director Bagley spoke of his concern about Amendment 61 and how would
the passage of that amendment affect this. He thought that if 61 passes we
wouldn’t be able to issue private activity bonds. Mr. Wisor said that is
correct.



MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the July 20,
2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Authorization for the Transfer of Land Sale Proceeds – Denver Union Station
– Rick Clarke introduced this action. This action provides a mechanism to
transfer the proceeds from the North Wing sale to DUSPA.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer to the Denver Union
Station Project Authority (DUSPA) land sale proceeds from parcels sold by
RTD at Denver Union Station (DUS) and Market Street to be used for the DUS
Project construction funding.
Director Daly asked about Market Street Station. The City and County of
Denver has agreed to purchase it for $11 million. Once that happens, RTD
can use the property without having to pay for it.



MOTION:

Director Bagley made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the July 20,
2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director James seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Resolution Regarding Property Acquisition, Exchange of Property and
Indemnification of Claims for Union Pacific Railroad’s Burnham Lead and
sections of Moffat, Greeley and Limon Subdivisions - Rick Clarke brought this
item forward. Still pushing for late July 2010 to sign this agreement. This
Board action is a key part of the negotiation process. This is an agreement
that affects rail property for the West Corridor, East Corridor, and Northwest

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, July 6, 2010
Page 4
Corridor.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the attached resolution.
The resolution authorizes the
General Manager or his designee to enter into Purchase and Sale Agreements
for (i) portions of the Union Pacific Railroad’s (UPRR) Burnham Lead for RTD’s
West Corridor; (ii) portions of the UPRR Limon and Greeley Subdivisions for
RTD’s East Corridor; and, (iii) portions of UPRR’s Moffat Subdivision for
RTD’s Gold Line. It further authorizes the General Manager to transfer
exchange property needed by UPRR or to authorize payment to UPRR for
exchange property UPRR has acquired directly for its relocation, and to enter
into Relocation and Construction Agreements (Relocation Agreements) for
relocation of existing track and facilities and construction of new facilities
necessary to restore functionality to the UPRR. The General Manager is also
authorized to enter into Operations and Maintenance Agreements (O&M
Agreements) for the East and Gold Line Corridors. The resolution authorizes
capital expenditures for these Agreements in an amount estimated at $84.5
million (eighty four million five hundred thousand dollars). Funding for the
agreements is included in the 2010 Amended Budget for the FasTracks
capital program.
RTD by the attached Resolution waives sovereign immunity to the extent it
may be applicable up to the amount of available insurance and agrees to
indemnify the UPRR for claims arising out of RTD’s ownership and/or use of
the acquired property, and obligates RTD to purchase insurance for various
types of claims. Liability insurance in an amount up to $200 million (two
hundred million dollars) during construction and $400 million (four hundred
million dollars) after commencement of operations is required, as is
automobile liability insurance in similar amounts. Railroad protective insurance
is required on the East and Gold Line Corridors. Pollution liability insurance in
the amount of $5 million (five million dollars) per claim is required along with
other insurance applicable to construction projects or required by law. The
resolution acknowledges that indemnity and insurance requirements may
increase based on changes in law or market conditions.
MOTION:

Director Busck made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the July 20,
2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Kemp seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, July 6, 2010
Page 5
II.

Updates


Change in term for Eagle P3 concession agreement – Brian Middleton gave this
presentation. A copy of this presentation is available in the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee Meeting minute notebook.
A change to the Concession expiry date
from Dec. 31, 2056 to Dec 31, 2044 is being proposed. This would result in no
changes to technical requirements, only a change to O&M requirements that is
very slight. The concessionaire is also proposing an amendment to handover
provisions that staff is not recommending. DTP is will to revert with an
amendment to the financial proposal. In addition, with the revised expiry date
approximately coincident with life cycle of the rolling stock, it is proposed RTD
would be responsible for the procurement of rolling stock (the District is already
responsible for the cost of the procurement).
Vice-Chair O’Boyle wondered what the rush was to approve this. Mr. Middleton
said this has a direct effect on issuing the Private activity Bonds. The financial
impacts to RTD will be slightly positive to RTD.
Director Busck wants to see the numbers to make sure we are doing this right.
Rick Clarke responded that the Board report will have the complete numbers. A
common approach in P3 is to tie the term to the life of the rolling stock.
Chair Kemp wanted Directors McMullen, Pulliam, O’Boyle to review this action
thoroughly prior to the special Board meeting on July 13, 2010.

III.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

IV.

Next Meeting – The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is
scheduled for August 3, 2010.

V.

Adjourn – Committee Vice-Chair O’Boyle adjourned the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee at 6:55 p.m.

