Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
October 24, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Debbie McDonald – Material Management Application Administrator – 16 years
Jason Steinmetz – Quality Control – 20 years
Special Recognition – Bus Roadeo
RTD Fixed Route Operator Winner
1st Place – Jimmy Romero – Platte
RTD Fixed Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Ryan Gill, Matt Johnson, Randall Peterson – East Metro
RTD Service and Cleaning Winner
1st Place – Ralph Gonzales – Platte
Private Contractor Fixed Route Operator Winner
1st Place – Jose Ek Chan – First Transit Denver
Private Contractor Fixed Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Bor Baatar, Gerardo Cabrera, Curt Sarinopoulos – First Transit Longmont
Paratransit Operator Winner
1st Place – Jack Rowland – MV Transportation

Special Recognition – Light Rail Rodeo
Light Rail Operator Winners
1st Place – Robert Dennis
2nd Place – Narciso Garcia, Jr.
3rd Place – Diane Chavez
Light Rail Maintenance Winners
1st Place – George Sweeney
2nd Place – Mike Hubbard
3rd Place – Matt Jackson
Special Recognition – Snow Plow Rodeo
Single-Axle Snow Plow Truck Winners
1st Place – David Waite and Raymond Wendt
2nd Place – Leo Dowd and Jusef Robinson
3rd Place – Chip (Richard) Seedroff and Mark Weifenbach
Tandem-Axle Snow Plow Truck Winners
1st Place – David Johnson and John Prather
2nd Place – Carlos Hernandez and Martha Guzman
3rd Place – Randy Wagner and John Oldham

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 26, 2017

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

2018 Salaried Benefit Contribution

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the 2018 Plan Year Salaried Benefits plan and authorizes the General
Manager/CEO or his designee to enter into agreements with the insurance carriers.
B.

Approval of 2018 Access-a-Cab Agreements

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to extend an Agreement with Metro/Yellow Transportation, Northern Yellow,
and Union Taxi Inc., to provide Access-a-Cab services. In addition, it is recommended by
the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors authorizes the
General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to add Green Taxi
Cooperative as a new provider for the Access-a-Cab program.
C.
Approval for Budget Transfer to Accommodate Demand Shift of Access-a-Cab
Service
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize a budget transfer in the amount of $505,000 from Yellow Cab Accessa-Cab service to Metro Taxi Access-a-Cab service and Union Taxi Access-a-Cab service in
the amounts of $340,000 and $165,000 respectively to adjust for the shift in customer
demand for these services in 2017.
D.

Approval to Extend Travel Training Contract

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to exercise option years one and
two of the Via Mobility Services Contract 16DH048 for the provision of Travel Training
services. The cost of the two one-year option years shall not exceed $265,700. The
total cost of Contract 16DH048 shall not exceed $399,740.
E.

Purchase of Platform Hyrail Truck

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract for
$612,700 dollars with Geismar MTM for purchase of a platform Hyrail truck (Contract
Number 17DR002).

XII.

Recommended Action
F.

Salaried DB & DC Contribution

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopt a 2018 contribution of $5.1 million to RTD’s Salaried Employees’
Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a specified monthly benefit at
retirement. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2018

contribution of 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation to the Salaried Employees’
Defined Contribution Plan (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified amount to the
plan for each year of employment.
G.

Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopts the 2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and the 20182023 Annual Program Evaluation (APE).
This action item meets policy requirements and the General Manager’s goals of Fiscal
Sustainability by effecting current and long-range budgeting in a timely manner.
H.

Adoption of the Long Range Financial Plan

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopts the Long Range Financial Plan.
This action item meets the General Manager’s goals of Fiscal Sustainability by effecting
current and long-range budgeting in a timely manner.
I.

January 2018 Service Change

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 2018 Service Change package as summarized in
Attachment A and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.
J.

Approval of Budget Transfer between Access-a-Ride Service Providers

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to transfer budgeted funds
totaling $1,120,030.00 from MV Transportation (Contract 13-DH-053) and Via Mobility
Services (Contract 13-DH-055) to All Aboard Transit (Contract 13-DH-054) and Transdev
On Demand (Contract 13-DH-035) to account for changes in Access-a-Ride service
delivery during the period of January 1, 2017 through September 30,2017. Funds will be
transferred from the MV Transportation fuel line item ($240,000.00), from the Via
Mobility service line item ($672,030.00) and from Via Mobility fuel line item
($208,000.00) and will be transferred to All Aboard Transit (290,000.00) and TransDev
Mobility on Demand ($830,030.00).

XIII.

Executive Session
Negotiations with Denver Transit Partners concerning change in law claims. Negotiations
with Regional Rail Partners concerning construction claims. CRS 24-6-402 (4) (b)
(Conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purposes of receiving legal
advice on specific legal questions); CRS 24-6-402 (4) (e) (I) (Determining positions relative

to matters that may be subject to negotiations; developing strategy for negotiations; and
instructing negotiators).

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

